404 LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN DURING THE EARLY PART OF THEIR LIVES. ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS, &c. BY A. F. WILLICH, M. D. (Continued from p. 446.) 4. Expectorants, or Pectoral Remedies, Are usually administered with the view of relieving cough, and procuring an easy discharge of mucus: but, as children have, not sufficient muscular strength to pro- mote the evacuation of matter from the vessels of the breast, it will be readily conceived, that the numberless preparations of sweet and oily substances given to them vvith that intention, must load their tender stomachs, and occasion infinite harm. Besides, it is excessively ab- surd to meddle with such remedies, when it is certain that cough, and consequent stricture of the chest, may arise from a great variety of causes. Of these, I shall enumerate only the principal; namely, an inflammatory state of the organs of respiration; spasms in the exhalent orifices of the arteries; too great an acrimony, or visci- dity, of the particles to be evacuated ; and an accumula- tion of peccant humours in the lungs and windpipe, together with the want of strength in the patient to dis- charge them by expectoration. How, then, can it be reasonably expected, that in such a variety of causes the same remedies should answer an uniform purpose ? And yet all cough-medicines are given to children with a design to resolve and attenuate thick mucus or phlegm. It would be needless to refute the prevailing popular error, that such medicines are calculated to promote the expectoration of stagnating matter, or actually to dissolve viscid mucus. Their operation consists chiefly in exciting the activity of the lymphatic system; and hence they may be said to dilute incrassated humours. The consequence of such dilution, however, is, that by this stimulating process, the secretion of matter is necessarily increased; and as children are not vigorous enough to expectorate, thence arises wheezing and rattling of the breast; the expansion of the lungs is rendered progressively more difficult; respiration is impeded; and, at length, suffoca- tion terminates the scene. Besides, pectoral remedies, in the least dangerous cases, if long continued, always weaken the stomach, and thus prolong the cough, which