Singular Cures of the Gout, fyc. 37 physic, was desirous to cure his friend; and when he was in one of his fits, directed two of his domestics to give him fifty-two blows on the soles of his feet. The servants, who were not so learned as their master, asto- nished he should be treated in a manner that had so little the appearance of friendship, imagined the infidel must have given some affront, and executed their orders with a severity, of which they made their boast.—" What, (said he) rascals! have you dared to treat the man who is my friend with disrespect? The fifty blows were in- tended as a remedy; but the insults you have added, must not go unpunished." The Pacha immediately or- dered that each should receive a hundred blows for their presumption; and went himself and apologized to the merchant for the insolence of his domestics, who had dared to render his remedy more violent. The European, though he would willingly have dispensed with the admi- nistration of the medicine, found it deserving of praise, for it soon effected a perfect cure. Gaudanone, Grand Duke of Muscovy, was tortured by the gout: he invited, by great promises, such of his subjects as were acquainted with any remedy for this complaint, to communicate it to him. The wife of a Bayard, desirous of being revenged for some ill usage she had received from her husband, bethought herself of the same stratagem made use of by the woman in Moliere's M6deciri Malgre lui. This woman repaired to the prime-minister, and ac- quainted him, that her husband was in possession of an infallible remedy for the gout, but that he had not sufficient respect for his majesty to communicate it to him. The Bayard was sent for; in vain he protested his ignorance ; he was committed to jail, and severely flogged in order to induce him to communicate his nostrum. At length he was informed, that unless he would reveal his secret, he must prepare himself for death. The unhappy man, seeing his destruction inevitable, thought it best to acknowledge that he did possess a remedy for the gout; but that he was afraid of using it in the case of his majesty, lest it should not succeed. He required fifteen days to prepare his remedy, which were granted. He demanded that they should send to Czirbaul upon the Occa, two days' journey from Moscow, whence they were to bring him a waggon loaded with all manner of herbs, which he never either saw or knew; of