Housekeeping and Husbandry. 379 Another.—Cuttle-fish bones, four ounces; cream of tarter and orrice root, of each two ounces ; burnt alum and rose pink, of each one ounce. Another.—Magnesia, orrice root, rose pink, prepared chalk, of each two ounces; prepared natron,six drachms; oil of rhodium, two drops. lardner's prepared cfiarcoal. Chalk coloured grey with charcoal: used as a tooth- powder. (See Secrets of Trade, p. 376). itotigefceepmg; ana ^uafimnnrp.—No. VII. Housekeeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood ; The wife too must husband, as well as the man ; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. ROASTING POULTRY, GAME, &c. A fowl and a turkey, require the same management at the fire, only the latter will take longer time. Many a Christmas dinner has been spoiled, by the turkey having, been hung up in a cold larder, becoming thoroughly frozen; Jack Frost has ruined the reputation of many a turkey-roaster. Let them be carefully picked, &c, and break the breast-bone (to make them look plump), twist up a sheet of clean writing paper, light it, and thoroughly singe the turkey all over, turning it about over the flame. Turkeys, fowls, and capons, nave a much better ap- pearance, if, instead of trussing them with the legs close together, and the feet cut off, the legs are extended on each side of the bird, and the toes only cut off, with a skewer through each foot, to keep them at a proper dis- tance. Be careful, when you draw it, to preserve the liver, and not to break the gall-bag, as no washing will take off the bitter taste it gives, where it once touches. Prepare a nice clear brisk fire for it. When you first put a turkey down to roast, dredge it with flour, then put about an ounce of butter into a bast- ing ladle, and as it melts, baste the bird therewith. Keep it at a distance from the fire for the first half hour, that it may warm gradually, then put it nearer, and when it is plumped up, and the steam draws in towards the fire.