Sewets of Trade. 70 of Fore-street, London, has introduced a narcotic prepa- ration, which it is generally supposed owes its efficacy to the acetate of morphia ; on being kept, however, it was found that it underwent some important change, during which so much air was disengaged, as to blow out the cork from the bottle with violence. This is an insupera- ble objection to its admission, says Dr. Paris, into prac- tice. beaume de vie. (Balm of Life). The compound decoction of aloes resembles the well- known Beaume de Vie, and is a scientific preparation, constructed upon the true principles of medicinal combi- nation. Aloes is the base, to which are added, 1st, sub- carbonate of potass; 2dly, powdered myrrh; 3dly, ex- tract of liquorice; 4thly, saffron; and after the decoction is made; 5thly, compound tincture of cardamoms. By the first ingredient, the aloes is rendered more soluble ; the second and third suspend the portion not dissolved, and at the same time disguise its bitterness; the fourth imparts an aromatic flavour; and the fifth not only ren- ders it more grateful to the stomach, but prevents any spontaneous decomposition from taking place. Its taste is improved by keeping. It is a warm gentle cathartic. black drop, ( Or, the Lancaster, or Quaker's Black Drop). This preparation, which has been long known and esteemed, as being more powerful in its operation, and less distressing in its effects than any tincture of opium, has, until lately, been involved in much obscurity; the papers, however, of the late Edward Walton, of Sunder- land, one of the near relations of the original proprietor, having fallen into the hands of Dr. Armstrong, that gen- tleman has obliged the profession, by publishing the man- ner in which it is prepared : e. g. Take of sliced opium, - " ~ a pound. Good verjuice, (juice of the wild crab), 3 pints. Nutmegs, . - - 1| ounce. Saffron, - - - - 4 ounce. Boil them to a proper thickness, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two spoonsful of yeast. Set the whole in a warm place near the fire, for six or eight weeks, then place'it in the open air until it becomes a syrup ; lastly, de- cant, filter, and bottle up, adding a little sugar to each bottle. One drop of this preparation is considered equal to about three of the tincture of opium, of the London Pharmacopoeia. brouum's nervous cordial. This empirical preparation consists of the tinctures of