166 Remedy and Directions to Short-sighted People. 4. When the letters of a book run into one another, and become double and treble: 5. When the eyes are so fatigued by a little exercise, that we are obliged to shut them from time to time, and to relieve them by looking at different objects. When any of these things come to pass, it will be pru- dent as well as necessary, to confess honestly that our eyes, the thermometer of age, require assistance from art, and without apology, to get the optician to suit a pair of spectacles to the proper focus. For those who live far from large cities, the following methods of calculating the proper focus of glasses may prove convenient. Rule for calculating the Focus of Convex Glasses. Multiply the distance at which a person sees distinctly, by the distance at which he wishes to see, and divide the product by the difference between the said distances; the quotient is the desired focus. Rule for Concave Glasses to read and write, for a Near- sighted Person. Multiply the greatest distance at which the short-sighted sees distinctly with his naked eye, by the distance at which it is required he should see distinctly, by a concave glass, and divide the product by the difference between the said distances. If it is to see remote objects, the focus should be the same as that required for the distance of distinct vision. In the choice of spectacles, less attention need be paid to their magnifying power, as to the circumstance of their agreeing best with our sight; that is, when they enable us, clearly and without exertion, to see at the same dis- tance, in which we formerly were accustomed to read or work. Remedy and Directions to Short-sighted People. In the choice of spectacles, short-sighted people should choose a second glass, magnifying a little more than the other, but somewhat less distinct, yet so that it may not obscure the object. This is unpleasant at first, but the eyes in time become accustomed to it, and daily improve. If, after sometime, less concave glasses be used, there is no doubt, that in the course of a few years, according to particular circumstances, the defect of short-sightedness may be gradually improved.