THE WINE CELLAR. MANAGEMENT OF FRENCH WINES. The first object to be attended to previous to laying in a stock of French wines, is to provide a good cellar. The exposition ought to be to the north if possible; it should be properly ventilated, and, as repose is a grand requisite in the preservation of French wines, a cellar under the house ought always to be preferred to one under the street; it must be kept constantly clean, free from cobwebs, and care must be taken that cats cannot enter and deposit their" filth in it. Any unpleasant smell in the cellar when French wines are bottling, is calcu- lated to spoil them, so delicate are the finer kinds, and so susceptible of combining with any offensive odours in the atmosphere. The cellar ought to be of an equal temperature all the year round; if damp, it is very inju- rious to their quality; in this case they ought to be ranged in the bins, at least three inches from the wall, and the first layer on pieces of wood, so as not to touch the ground ; and, if the cellar be very damp, the roof and walls ought to be covered with lead, (that of the tea chests will do), so that all the humidity may be collected, and a channel ought to be made to carry it off out of the cave. Choice of a Cellar. Count Chaptal, in his Art of Making Wines, thus ex- presses himself in the care to be taken in the choice of a cellar. 1. The exposition ought to be to the north, as the tem- perature is then less variable than when the openings are towards the south. 2. It ought to be deep enough for the temperature to be always the same. 3. The humidity ought to be regular without being ex- cessive. When too damp, the paper, corks, and casks become mouldy; if too dry, the casks will give way and the wine will exude. , 4. The light ought to be moderate; a strong light dries too much, and absolute darkness, or nearly so, rots every thing. 5. The cellar ought to be free from all shocks. Motion, or sudden agitation, or the shaking by the passage of carriages in the street, stirs up the lees, which incorporate