t7(> To prevent Hares and Rabbits barking Plantations-. hay, as ratorial tithes, being enumerated under the elm racter ofhay, and are titheable in the same manner; but as an opinion often prevails, that tares cut green and con- sumed by the grower's own horses are exempt, it is neces- sary to remark, that such is the case only where it can be proved that no other sustenance of that nature can be ob- , tained. But before I conclude my observations upon this article, I think it requisite to remind the growers, that as the mode of cutting them green, and making them into bundles for the London markets, seldom admits of more than a load per day, it is proper that the tithing-man should be apprized of that intention: and it is his duty to be present, and take his tenth bundle or bundles, every morning, or at any other time you may think proper to cut. Wood—under twenty years growth, is titheable; but a full description of the nature and quality of such as are exempt, would be much too extensive for my present limits; I therefore refer you to Totter, p. 62, 98, 100— 118. Method to prevent Hares and Rabbits barking young Plan- tations. By William Patterson, Esq. of Iborden, in Kent. Hares, rabbits, and fats, have a natural antipathy to tar; but tar, though fluid, contracts, when exposed to the sun and air for a time, a great dryness, and a very binding quality; and, if applied to trees in its natural state, will occasion them to be bark-bound. To remove this difficulty, tar is of so strong a savour, that a small quantity, mixed with other things in their nature open and loose, will give the whole mixture such a degree of its own taste and smell, as will prevent hares, &c. touch- ing what it is applied to. Take any quantity of tar, and six or seven times as much grease, stirring and mixing them well together; with this composition brush the stems of young trees, as high as hares, &c. can reach ; and it will effectually pre- vent their being barked. I believe, if a plantation of ash (which they are very fond of) were made in a rabbit- warren, this mixture would certainly preserve it. They do great mischief among flowering shrubs, are particularly fond of Spanish broom, scorpion senna, and evergreen cytesus. I have had those shrubs cut down to a stump ; but, as the mixture Cannot be conveniently