Knowledge of making a Will. all this be reconciled with the vanity of mankind, and with their desire to obtain and perpetuate a good report among- their fellow creatures ? Is it not strange, that a man who had for a long life so demeaned himself as to obtain (what surely it is the wish of most men to obtain) the character of a just, kind, and wise member of society; we say, is it not strange, that such a man should at once, with a few strokes of his pen, destroy all this reputation, and cancel every obligation which his friends or his fellow citizens owed to him? That a miser should leave his possessions to build an hospital, or a wicked man to found a religious seminary, are things not to be won- dered at. The former may have thought that he can do more good by one great act of munificence, than by the usual mode of periodical or casual charity; and the latter may imagine, that if the last of his actions demonstrate a regard for the interests of piety, his former failings may be buried with him. But when we find a man, who has enjoyed an excellent reputation for justice, affection, generosity, and wisdom, make such a will, as is not con- sistent with any of these qualities, nor even with common sense, we must acknowledge ourselves to be at a loss how to reconcile his latter with his former conduct, upon any known principles which usually guide mankind. In such cases, indeed, it may be said, and perhaps it is all that can be said, that these men have delayed the writing of their wills to a period, when the anguish of a sick bed impaired their memories and their intellects. It is not certainly easy to suppose that any man, in the full possession of reason, would stab his reputation any more than his person. But the fact, in whatever manner it may be accounted for, is not to be denied; nor will it, indeed, be disputed by any person whose profession puts it in his way to see many wills, and who will often see much that he may wonder at, without being able to re- solve. Knowledge of making a Will. The privilege of making a will, however grossly abused, is perhaps the very last of which we would consent to be deprived. Custom is second nature; it would not be possible to persuade a man that he has not a natural right to bequeath his property, because it is a right which he knows his ancestors have enjoyed time immemorial. Blackstone informs us, that when property came to be