Diagnostic Signs preceding or accompanying Diseases. .27.1 IPECACUANHA LOZENGES. Each lozenge contains half a grain of ipecacuanha. JAMES' POWDER. This is the pulvis antimonialis of the London Pharma- copoeia, 1788, which is an imitation of James': crude antimony in gross powder, hartshorn shavings, of each, two pounds ; roast in an iron pot until they form a grey powder; put this into a long pot, with a small hole in the cover, keep it in a red heat for two hours, and grind it to a fine powder. 2. Dr. James' Powder. The pulvis antimonialis, or powder of antimony of the London Pharmacopoeia since 1809; crude antimony, one pound; hartshorn shavings two pounds : proceed as above. 3. Chenevix's Antimonial Powder. Precipitate obtained by pouring butter of antimony into water, and phosphate of lime obtained by dissolving burnt bones in spirit of salt, and precipitating the solution with an equal weight of the spirits of hartshorn ; dissolve these in spirit of salt, and pour the solution into water alkalized with spirits of hartshorn. Its virtues are febrifuge and diaphoretic, three grains to eight grains; in larger doses, ten grains to a scruple: it is emetic and purgative. It is also used as an alterative in cutaneous diseases. DIAGNOSTIC SIGNS, OR SYMPTOMS, PRECEDING OR ACCOMPANYING DISEASES. (Continued from ,p. 181). Sight, extremely indistinct, in fevers, the pa- tient being much exhausted, shows considerable danger. When the eyes become uneasy and hot, after reading, &c. the eye requiring to be removed farther for the examina- tion of any minute object that it has been accustomed to do, indicates the convexity of the cornea to have become morbidly lessened, and that the use of convex glasses is positively pointed out. The eyes affected by dark spots and streaks appearing on the objects viewed, shews a serious affection of the eyes; but this is not, as has been supposed, a sign that blindness must inevitably follow, since it is an affection that not unfrequcntly admits of being removed by proper measures. Skin, cold, whilst thirst and internal heat are expe- rienced, is a bad symptom in a fevev. When the skin is m m