Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 311 dry asthma, barrenness, &c. Internally as well as ex- ternally, it is deemed extremely useful in rheumatic and scorbutic complaints, gout, pulmonary affections, and a variety of other complaints; in all of which, for its efficacy, we are by no means bound to vouch. The late Dr. Denman, who appears to have bestowed some consideration on these waters, deems it a more active remedy than is generally supposed; and dissuades from the use of it in all inflammatory and feverish com- plaints 5 and he observes that, in cases where it is effica- cious, commonly two glasses, each containing about one third of a pint, are as much as ought to be drank before breakfast, at the distance of forty minutes from each other; and that one or two of the same glasses between breakfast and dinner, will be quite sufficient. As regards bathing, Dr. Denman recommended it for invalids between breakfast and dinner, as the fittest time; and also that the prescribed or usual exercise should be taken before going into the bath ; and that the water should never be drunk immediately before bathing. Besides the hot water on the other side of the Wye, which is here an inconsiderable brook, and opposite to the Hall, is a chalybeate spring, of a rough irony taste, which, being combined with the former, proves agreea- bly purgative. The Hall being near the Wells and Pump-room, and containing many apartments, is a favourite residence with invalids. Here are the baths, six in number, viz. three for gentlemen, of which two are private ; three for ladies ; and one for the poor, who are not orily exempted from any charge, but also meet with assistance and support from the charitable contributions of the company. The springs supplying the baths are calculated to discharge about sixty gallons of water every minute ; and the time, at this rate, to fill the baths, is two hours and fifty mi- nutes. The almost invariable temperature of the water, as it rises at the baths, is 82° of Fahrenheit's thermome- ter, but is about half a degree lower at St. Anne's well; an elegant little building, where it is usually drunk. r r