Head-Ach. 470 degenerated into ulcers, they may be healed, if the con- stitution be good, with safety; but when ulcers are a consequence of some chronic disease, or are substituted for them, they must be healed with proper caution and consideration, lest they bring back the original disease in a more virulent and daugerous form : and, if any ulcer conduce to the patient's health, "Which the healing of it up would be likely to molest, it ought not to be healed; but, on the contrary, if it exhaust the patient, by con- suming his strength in a slow fever, it should be healed as soon as possible. Lime-water has frequently been of singular service in the cure of obstinate ulcers, given both internally and used as in gravel; and externally as a lotion : or, to ill- conditioned ulcers, the following may be applied often : Take Muriate of ammonia, - ~> Sulphate of magnesia, - >of each, \ drachm. t. soda, J Spring water, - - - - 4 ounces. Make a lotion : to be applied often during the day—a bread and milk poultice at bed-time. The hard and callous sides and bottoms of ulcers may be sprinkled twice a-day with a little red precipitate, and afterwards dressed with basilicon. The best diet for promoting the cure of ulcers, is to avoid high-seasoned food, strong liquors, and to use a smaller quantity of animal food than usual. The body should be kept gently open ; and the patient should use moderate exercise, and be kept as cheerful as possible, in an airy situation. HEAD-ACH. There are various kinds of head-ach, proceeding from different causes, such as hard labour, emptiness of the stomach, obstruction of the blood through the vessels of the head, &c. It may also arise from too great a flow of blood towards the head, as coldness of the extremities, hanging down the head for a long time, tight neckcloths, stoppage of a running at the nose, repelled humours or diseases, fumes of noxious metals, &c. Treatment of Head-Ach. When head-ach is occasioned by great heat, hard labour, or violent exercise of any kind, it may be allayed i>y cooling medicines, as Epsom salts, small dottes of 3 p