Housekeeping and Husbandry. Veal Sweetbread—Trim a tine sweetbread, it cannot be too fresh, parboil it for five minutes, and throw it into a bason of cold water : roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of an egg, and prepare some fine bread crumbs. When the sweetbread is cold, dry it thoroughly in a cloth, run a lark spit or a skewer through it, and tie it on the ordi- nary spit: egg it with a paste brush, powder it well with bread crumbs, and roast it. For sauce, fried bread crumbs round it, and melted butter with a little mush- room catsup, and lemon juice, or serve them on buttered toast garnished with egg sauce, or with gravy. LAMB Is a delicate, and commonly considered tender meat, but those who talk of tender lamb, while they are think- of the age of the animal, forget, that even a chicken must be kept a proper time after it has been killed, or it will be tough picking. Woeful experience has warned us to beware of accepting an invitation to dinner on Easter Sunday, and unless commanded by a thorough bred gour- mand, our incisores, molares, and principal viscera, have protested against the imprudence of encountering young tough stringy mutton under the misnomen of grass lamb. To the usual accompaniments of roasted meat, green mint sauce or a salad is commonly added; and some cooks, about five minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a little minced parsley. Grass lamb is in season from Easter to Michaelmas.-^- House lamb from Christmas to Lady-Day. When green mint cannot be got, mint vinegar is an acceptable sub- stitute for it. Hind-quarter—of eight pounds, will take from an hour and three quarters to two hours; baste and froth it. Fore-quarter—of ten pounds, about two hours. It is a pretty general custom, when you take off the shoulder from the ribs, to squeeze a Seville orange over them, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt. lag—of five pounds, from an hour to an hour and a half. Shoulder—with a quick fire, an hour. Ribs—about an hour to an hour and a quarter; joint it nicely; crack the ribs across, and bend them up to make it easy to carve. Loin—an hour and a quarter. Neck-~a,n hour. Breast— three quarters of an hour.