(59 Secrets of Trade. be found to consist principally of paregoric elixir, -very strongly impregnated with the oil of aniseed. *** Opium is the quack's sheet anchor. The various nostrums advertised as " cough drops," for the cure of colds, asthmas, catarrhs, &c." are preparations of opium, very similar to paregoric elixir. The pectoral Balsam of Liquorice, and Essence of Coltsfoot, are combi- nations of this kind. Grindle's cough drops, are a pre- paration of the same description, only made with recti- fied, instead of proof spirit, and consequently, more highly charged with stimulant materials. " The mischief," observes Dr. Folhergill, that " has proceeded from the healing anodynes of quacks, can scarcely be imagined; for in coughs, arising from suppressed perspiration, or . an inflammatory diathesis, opiates* generally do harm." Barclay's antibilious pills. Take Extract of colocynth, 2 drachms. Extract of jalap, - - 1 drachm. Almond soap, - - \\ drachm. Guiacum, - 3 drachms. Tartarized antimony, - 8 grains. Essential oils of juniper, caraway, and") _ ^ drons rosemary, of each, j ^ Syrup of buckthorn, as much as will be sufficient to form a mass, which is to be divided into 64 pills. BARK, ESSENTIAL SALT OF. This is merely an extract prepared by maserating the bruised substance of bark in cold water, and submitting the infusion to a very slow evaporation. %* The public ought to know, that the preparation sold under the above empirical title, has no relation whatever to the late discoveries of M. Pelletier, a cele- brated French chemist. BATEMAN'S PECTORAL DROPS, consist principally of the tincture of castor, with portions of camphor and opium, flavoured by aniseeds, and co- loured with cochineal. bates' anodyne balsam, consists of one part of the tincture of opium, and two of opodeldoc, or compound soap liniment. battley's sedative ltquor of opium. (Liquor Opii Sedativus ). Under the name of liquor opii sedativus, Mr. Battley, * The operation of opium is not unfrcquently attended with an itching, or a sense of pricking of the skin, which is sometimes terminated by a species of miliary eruption.