Singular Cures of the Gout, &r. 38 these he prepared a bath, in which he immersed the Grand Duke. The miserable Bayard would have considered himself as but too happy, had the bath done neither good nor harm. But what was his astonishment, when he found that, on the third or fourth application of the bath, his majesty found his pains relieved ; and after he had used it six times, he was perfectly recovered! He was again interrogated concerning his secret, of which he no longer pretended ignorance, but rather boasted of his success. He expected a handsome recompense, which he in fact received ; the Czar granting him a pension of 400 crowns per year, and eighteen peasants: but he again received a severe chastisement for not having revealed his secret earlier. History has not acquainted us how the husband and wife accommodated this awkward business. Lord , labouring under a severe fit of gout, had a person warmly recommended to him, by some friends, as possessing a specific for this complaint. In compliance with their recommendations, he sent for him. On his being announced, his lordship demanded of his servant, "Does this famous doctor come on fjbot, or in his car- riage ?" " On foot," was the reply. " Send the scoundrel about his business. Did he possess the secret which he pretends to, he would ride in his coach and six, and I should have been happy to entreat him to deliver me from this horrible disease." To credit this tale, a man must have experienced the tortures of this horrible malady. Theophrastus has said, that music cures the gout; nor is that surprising, as melodious notes are known to suspend many painful affections. In the third volume of the Lessons of Guyon, it is affirmed, that a lady, a great invalid, and a sad victim to the gout, sent for an individual who played incomparably well on the drum and flute, and performed with so much vehemence, that she fell on the ground in a swoon, deprived of speech and voluntary motion. Recovering from this trance, she complained of intense pain: the musician again had recourse to the succours of his art, and commencing again to play, this second dose of music, produced so good an effect, that in a short time the patient was freed from all her pains, and perfectly cured. When Philip the Second, of Spain, had the gout, his first physician, Mercatus, a man of learning and much experience, tried a great variety of experiments without