Dr. Bur/tan on Cold Sea-Buthing. 397 (see p. 264-5) promises relief, and must be considered the most powerful auxiliary in the cure of those disorders, although there is no class of disorders in which cold sea- bathing has been so improperly, though so universally recommended. In this opinion, we perfectly concur With Sir Arthur Clarke, and in this he is also borne out by the opinion of Dr. A. P. Buchan '.e.g. Dr. Buchan on Cold Sea-Bathing, in Cutaneous Diseases, fyc. In his excellent Treatise on Sea-bathing, Dr. Buchan says, that persons suffering under cutaneous diseases are not benefited, but in general rendered worse, by bathing in the sea. As many people, however, with complaints of the skin, either of their own accord, or by the advice of others, do resort to the sea, I have omitted no oppor- tunity of enquiring among those persons who were likely to afford me information on this subject; and although some have observed that bathing in the sea must do good in eruptive complaints, because it makes them come out (that is, it makes them worse), I have not discovered any grounds to induce me to alter the opinion here stated. In almost every species of cutaneous disorders, there is more of less of inflammatory action, or increased cir- culation in the affected part: hence the cold bath must act as a repellent, forcing the circulation, and that matter which the vigour of the constitution has thrown upon the skin, to some internal part, thereby producing a conges- tion in the liver, the lungs, the brain, or some other vital organ. Eruptions repelled by the cold bath, have been knoWft to produce a brain fever, which ended in madness $ and several cases are on record, of repelled eruptions havihg produced liver complaints, asthmas and dropsies; parti- cularly in the feeble periods of infancy and old age. Such cases should render us watchful at all times, to avoid repelling eruptive diseases. In slight eruptions, which sometimes itch so violently as to prevent sleeping, the cold bath has been very generally recommended, but without any advantage. Ill Several cases of this kind, in which cold sea-bathing has been continued for a. fortnight, three weeks, or a month, and the itching by its tt&e aggravated, the warm medicated bath gave immediate relief, and in a short time removed everv appearance of the complaint. p p 2