248 Observations on the Baths of the Ancients. removed all impurities and disagreeable smells. The modern practice of wearing linen, does not equally effect these purposes, though we change our shirts ever so often. The observation will appear true to every one who considers, that a very frequent shifting of our linen will not clear the scurf from the skin, which can only be done by water, and the common practices attendant on the ancient mode of bathing. Before offering any remarks on our own baths or water- ing-places, we shall premise the subject with some HISTORICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE BATHS OF THE ANCIENTS. Among the numerous large and pompous buildings of the ancients, were the structures erected for the purposes of bathing. Baths made a part of the ancient gymnasia, though they were frequented more for the sake of plea- sure than health. Roman Baths. The most magnificent baths were those of Nero, Titus, Paulus iEmilius, and Dioclesian, of which there are some ruins still remaining. It is said that at Rome there were 856 public baths. Fabricius adds, that the excessive luxury of the Romans appeared in nothing more visible than in their baths. Seneca complains, that the baths of plebeians were filled from silver pumps; and that the freedmen trod on gems. Macrobius tells us of one Ser- gius Oratus, a voluptuary, who had pendant baths hang- ing in the air. According to Dion, Maecenas was the first who made a bath at Rome ; yet there are instances of public baths prior to this; but they were of cold water, small, and poorly decorated. Agrippa, in his asdilate, built 160 places for bathing, where the citizens might be accommo- dated either with hot or cold, gratis. After this example, Nero, Vespasian, Titus, Domitian, Severus, Gordian, Aurelian, Maximian, Dioclesian, and most of the em- perors who studied to gain the affections of the people, erected baths laid with the richest marble, and wrought according to the rules of the most delicate architecture. The rich had baths at home, and frequently very magni- ficent ones, especially after the time that the practice of pillaging the provinces had begun 5 but they only used them on extraordinary occasions. The great men, and ipven emperors themselves, sometimes bathed in public