162 History of Emetics. of Generals Washington and Lincoln, by disturbing the mud in a river, and collecting the gas thereby evolved, which, with the conclusions deduced, we shall reserve for another article on the subject of yellow fever, when some important remarks will subsequently be made, re- lative to the prevention and treatment of this formidable disease, for the benefit of those who may be about to change climate. Tn the mean time, may " Tom's " bones rest in peace, be they either in the possession of Cobbett, or, what is still more probable, silently imbedded in that soil which, in the language of his eulogistic friends, "is indebted for almost every blessing she knows, to his labours and exertions." HISTORY OF EMETICS. Substances capable of exciting vomiting, indepen- dently of any effort arising from the mere quantity of mat- ter introduced into the stomach, or of any nauseous taste or flavour, are called emetics. The susceptibility of vo- miting is very differently modified in different individuals, and is often considerably varied by disease. Emetics are employed in many diseases. When any morbid affection depends upon, or is connected with, over-distention of the stomach, or the presence of acrid indigestible matters, vomiting gives speedy relief. Hence their utility in impaired appetite, acidity in the stomach, in intoxication, and when poison has been swallowed: they are serviceable in jaundice, arising from calculi ob- structing the course of the bile in the biliary ducts; in catarrh and phthisis, their utility is obvious; in dysen- tery ; at the commencement of different varieties of febrile affections. They are useful in nauseating doses, in stop- ping hemorrhages, in dropsies, &c. &c. The operation of emetics is dangerous, or hurtful, in the following cases; namely, where there is a determi- nation of blood to the head, especially in plethoric habits; in visceral inflammation; in the advanced state of preg- nancy; in hernia, and prolapsus uteri; and wherever there exists extreme general debility. The frequent use of emetics weakens the tone of the stomach. An emetic should always be administered in the fluid form. Its operation may be promoted by drinking any