34 Practical Observations on Domestic Econmity, be. .•> children 4 children 5 children <i children 7 children -110 -19!) - i 4 <; 1 6 3 and so on. - 0 15) for contingencies. 0 1!) 3 as per estimate. Reserving 1 - 12th, or Remarks.—This, with other similar low estimates, may serve to direct a numerous class of industrious mechanics and others, in large manufacturing towns and districts, to whom it may be advantageous to know how to save as well as how to get money; a knowledge which, when habitually practised, must infallibly tend to the improve- ment of their morals, and their future advancement in life. As regards bread, which, in families of the middling classes, is the principal article of consumption, the pre- ceding calculation is founded on the price of good house- hold bread in London, viz. from seven farthings to two- pence halfpenny per pound. Barley, rye, or oaten bread, is also eaten in such families, and many of them bake their own bread, which is a considerable saving; so that, should this calculation be too high for the country, it is an error on the right side. The other articles of food are as correct, and as generally applicable, as it is possible for them to be. Should, however, any of the items here enumerated, not prove sufficient, as the income will not afford more, recourse must be had to potatoes, rice, oat- meal, and other wholesome and nutritive articles of food for children, which will save bread, and should be con- stantly given to them, as proper and economical substi- tutes for this and other expensive articles of diet. It is better to buy large loaves than small ones; and bread two or three days old, is not only more wholesome than that eaten at one, but is more economical, and will go nearly one-fourth as far again. The quantity of butcher's meat in the above estimate, is rather too low, we apprehend, at least for the present state of the mar- kets; although certain, and far from indifferent pieces (not prime) may be bought at that price; but at all places, on or near the sea-coast, fish are cheap and plen- tiful to supply its place. Even in London, mackerel, herrings, cod, flounders, eels, and other kinds of fish, may be had much cheaper, in proportion, than meat from the shambles. The price of good beef aud mutton is now from 6d. to 8|rf. per pound; the average for common joints is 7ol. to 8d. Much, however, may be saved by the mode of cooking: meat roasted, baked, or broiled, loses