45G Plain Directions for Family-h ewing. draw off one or two pails full, and pour it back again into the mash-tub, to refine again till it runs clear. In summer it will be necessary to put a few hops into the vessel which receives the liquor out of the mash-tub, to prevent its turning sour, which the heat of the weather will sometimes endanger. Let your second mash run as before, and let the liquor stand an hour and a half, then run it off; but never let your malt stand dry : keep lading fresh liquor over it till the quantity of wort you wish to get is extracted, always allowing for waste in the boiling. The next consideration is boiling of the wort. The first copper-full must be boiled an hour, and while boiling add the ingredients, except ginger and cocculus berries, men- tioned in the receipt. The hops are now to be boiled in the wort, but to be carefully strained from the first wort, in order to be boiled again in the second ; eight pound is the common proportion to a quarter of malt, but in sum- mer, the weather being hotter, the quantity must be varied from eight pound to twelve pound, according to the heat of the air. After the wort has boiled an hour, lade it out of the copper and cool it, keeping it as thin as possible to cool it quicker ; in summer it should be quite cold before it is set to work; in winter it should be kept till a small degree of warmth is perceptible by the finger. When properly cooled, set it to work; add yeast in proportion to your wish to bring it forward. If you want it to work quick, add from one gallon to two; but observe porter should be brought forward quicker than any other liquor except twopenny; let it work till it comes to a good deep head, then cleanse it by adding the ginger. Your liquor is now fit for barrelling, which must be done carefully; fill your barrels full, and let the yeast work out, adding fresh liquor to fill them till they are quite full and have done working; then bung your barrels, but keep a watch- ful eye upon them for some time, lest the beer should suddenly ferment again, and burst them, which is no un- common accident where due care is not taken: heat of summer, or sudden change of weather, will occasion the same misfortune, if your barrels are not watched and eased when they require it, by drawing the peg. The only part which now remains to complete your brewing, is fining your beer; to understand which, it is necessary to remark, that porter is composed by brewers of three different sorts of malt—pale, brown, and amber: the reason of using these three sorts, is to attain a peculiar