417 ®6e toilette.—No. IV. ROUGE. French chalk, prepared, four ounces; oil of almonds, two drachms; carmine, one drachm. 2. Safflower, previously washed in water until it no longer gives out any colour, and dried, four drachms; prepared kali, one drachm; water, one pint: infuse and strain; add French chalk, scraped fine with Dutch rushes, four ounces; precipitate the colour upon with a sufficient quantity of lemon juice. PERFUMED POWDER FOR SCENTED BOXES. Coriander seed, orrice root, rose leaves, white flag root, of each four ounces; lavender flowers, eight ounces; musk, one scruple; wood of rhodium, one drachm. ODORIFEROUS WASH-BALLS. Starch, twenty ounces; orrice root, twelve ounces; oil of rosemary, oil of lavender, of each a drachm; musk seed, two ounces. PEARL POWDER. Magistery of bismuth, French chalk, scraped fine by Dutch rushes, of each equal parts. VACCINATION. The Empress Dowager Mary of Russia, and several foreign potentates, sent gratulatory addresses to Dr. Jenner on his discovery of vaccination, which has rapidly gained ground in every quarter of the globe. A few in- stances of this kind are worthy of being recorded. When Dr. Wickham was made prisoner in France, Dr. Jenner was applied to as the fittest person for addressing to Bonaparte a petition soliciting that physician's libera- tion. This was at the time of Napoleon's greatest ani- mosity to this country. It happened thus: the Emperor was in his carriage, and the horses were being changed. The petition was then presented to him. He exclaimed, " Away ! away!" The Empress Josephine, who accom- panied him, said, " But, Emperor, do you see whom this comes from ? .Tenner!" He changed his tone of voice that instant, and Said, " What that man asks is no t to be refused;" and the petition was immediately granted. The Emperor also liberated many others, even whole families, from time to time, at the request of Dr. Jenner. Indeed, he never refused any request made by Dr. Jenner, who, of course, observed proper delicacy in not applying too often. 3 c 2