Treatment of Indigestion, kc. measures calculated to avert the cause which may have excited the disease. The tone of the stomach never fails without some assignable reason, which strict enquiry will detect, and the knowledge of which will point out the proper means of relief. Nor is it often that these will fail of success, provided the patient will have suffi- cient firmness to submit to them, and afterwards remain sensible that his health is in his own hands. The assist- ance of the physician, however, is very often required, where the patient either cannot or will not submit to the measures which prudence dictates. In such circumstances, we must endeavour to aid the digestive process by medi- cines ; but I would wish to impress upon the mind, the impropriety of trusting to them in dyspeptic cases. It should be remembered, that almost any drug will injure digestion in a healthy state, and we should learn there- fore, to be sparing of medicine when the stomach is weakened by disease." Treatment of Indigestion, &c. In every form of this complaint, attention to diet is indispensable, and the patient must have regard, not to its quality only, but to its quantity. In a weakened state of the stomach, it must have little given to it to do. The body is strengthened, not in proportion to the quan- tity of food taken in, but to that which is thoroughly digested. Differences in the habits of life will, of course, lead to important differences in the kind and quantity of diet which should be permitted to a dyspeptic patient; but the followingmay be regarded as rules of very general application: it should consist in a due mixture of animal and vegetable food, but the former should be eateu only once a day. It should be thoroughly masticated. Great varieties of food at any one time should be prohibited, as leading to an indulgence of the appetite beyond the wants of the system. Articles of difficult digestion should be carefully avoided; such as all kinds of smoaked, hard, dried, salted, and long-kept meat; all those dishes where too much nutritious matter is collected in a small space, eggs, for instance, potted meats, strong soups, and pre- parations of suet, fat and butter; lastly, all raw vege- tables whatever, with the exception of ripe fruits. Regu- larity in the hours Of meal3 should be rigorously enjoined, and the patient directed to abstain from food at all other times.