On the Physical Education of Children, $c. 375 and to depress the most innocent of human beings, by superstition and tyranny! The Hindoos are the most gentle race of mankind. They intentionally injure nothing that breathes; they respect every thing that has life, and subsist on the most innocent food, such as milk, rice, and the nutritious plants and fruits that their country affords. In shape, says a modern traveller, they are straight, slender, and elegant; their limbs are well proportioned; their fingers long, and endued with great accuracy of feeling; their countenances are open and benign: the features of the females display the most delicate lineaments; those of the males, manly tenderness. Their whole deportment is in the highest degree graceful and attractive. The legs and thighs/ which in all the north-eastern countries are mis-shapen or shortened like those of apes, are here lengthened, and bear the stamp, of germinating human beauty. Even the Mongolian form, when intermingled with this race, is lost in noble benignity. The original disposition of their mind is consonant to the frame of their body. So indeed is their manner of life, when con- sidered free from the yoke of slavery and superstition. Temperance and quiet, gentle feelings, and peaceful meditation, are conspicuous in their labours and enjoy- ments, in their morals and mythology, in their arts, and even in their patience under the severest tyranny. Inno- cent lambs! why could not Nature feed you careless and "undisturbed on your native plains! Of the Greeks. Lastly, the perfect human form found a site on the coast of the Mediterranean, where it was capable of uniting with the intellect, and displaying all the charms of terrestrial and celestial graces to the mind, as well as to the eye: this was triple Greece, in Asia and the Islands, in Greece proper, and on the shores extending to the west. Gentle zephyrs fanned the tree, gradually transplanted from the heights of Asia, and breathed life into every part. Time and circumstances assisted in refining its juices, and crowning it with that perfection which still excites universal admiration in the models of Grecian art and wisdom. Here were conceived and exe- cuted, figures which no admirer of Circassian beauty, no Indian or Cashmirian artist could have invented. The human form ascended Olympus, and clothed itself in di- vine beauty.—(To be continued),' 3 b