116 Position of the Writing-Desk. ness of sight, than the series of letters and words we read. Sight with regard to an Apartment or Sitting-Room. Refracted rays afford an unpleasant light, and oblique rays are particularly painful. When we take exercise in a long irregularly lighted apartment, we feel insensible vibrations in the pupil of the eye. The most suitable apartment, in this respect, is one forming an irregular square, with large windows to the east, in which there is an uniformly divided light, or still better by means of sky-lights. Garret windows afford a bad light, it being generally introduced, as it were, by a funnel, and illumin- ing only one part of the room, whilst the rest remains dark. A sitting-room is best adapted to preserve the eyes, the walls of which are pale green, without paintings; two or three uniformly high windows, so as to give an equal light; (yet so contrived as to prevent its being too strong), close and moveable green blinds; a green carpet on the floor; and lastly, such shutters as may occasionally leave the upper part of the window uncovered, in order to admit sufficient light. Position of the Writing-Desk. To sit with one's back to the window, occasions a shade which forms a disagreeable contrast to the sur- rounding light. The writing-desk, therefore, ought to be placed so, that the last window may be on the left hand, and that the right hand may throw no shade on the paper, and not too near a corner of the room, as this generally receives an unfavourable light. A space sufficiently broad between two windows, is a still more convenient situation for a desk; but we should not sit too near the wall, a custom which is excessively hurtful to the eyes. The oblique position of the desk is the most proper; for it presents to us the writing materials in that position in which we are habituated to place a book, when we hold it in our hand, and from which the rays of light di- verge more gradually than from a horizontal table. It is less hurtful to the breast, to the abdomen, and also to the eyes, to use a desk of this form, and to write stand- ing rather than sitting, provided that the height of the desk be proportionate to the length of the body, that it be firm, and that both arms rest upon it, without being fatigued by raising them too high. In standing before a