0 Housekeeping and Husbandry. 381 than an old cock or hen, which is only fit to make broth. The meridian of the perfection of poultry, is just before they have come to their full growth—before they have begun to harden. GOOSE. When a goose is well picked, singed, and cleaned, make the stuffing with about two ounces of onions*, and half as much green sage, chop them very fine, adding four ounces, i. e. about a large breakfast cupful of stale bread crumbs, and a very little pepper, and salt, (to this some cooks add half the liver, parboiling it first), the yolk of an egg or two, and incorporating the whole well together, stuff the goose; do not quite fill it, but leave a little room for the stuffing to swell. Spit it, tie it on the spit at both ends, to prevent its swinging round, and to keep the stuffing from coming out. From an hour and an half to two hours will roast a fine full-grown goose. Send up gravy, and apple-sauce with it. GREEN GOOSE. Geese are called green, till they are about four months old. The only difference between roasting these, and a full-grown goose, consists in seasoning it with pepper and salt instead of sage and onion, and roasting it for forty or fifty minutes only. This is one of the least desirable of those insipid pre- mature productions, which are esteemed dainties. DUCK. Mind your duck is well cleaned, and wiped out with a clean cloth: for the stuffing, take an ounce of onion, and half an ounce of green sage, chop them very fine, and mix them with two ounces, i. e. about a breakfast cupful of bread crumbs, a very little black pepper and salt, (some obtuse palates will require warming with a little Cayenne, and the yolk of an egg to bind it; mix these thoroughly together, and put into the duck. From half to three quarters of an hour, will be enough to roast it, according to the size: contrive to have the feet delicately crisp, as some people are very fond of them: to do this nicely, you must have a sharp fire. For sauce, green * If you think the flavour of raw onions too strong-, cut them in slices, and lay them in cold water for a couple of hours, or add as much apple or potatoc as you have of onion.