156 Practical Remarks on the Diseases of Tradesmen, When this apparatus is properly made, the draught of ai* is very great, and it seems scarcely possible for those employed to be at all subjected to the fumes of the mer- cury ; and we believe that it very rarely happens that the workmen become disordered where it is used. It is some- what unfortunate, that the same plan cannot be employed in toy-gilding, or that it is not; for we confess we are not ourselves aware of any real well-founded objection to it. Even, however, when the old method is employed, there is great reason to believe that the serious evils attending, arise, for the most part, from the carelessness of the gilders themselves. "As some corroboration of this opinion, we may state, that we have just seen a gilder, who has now been in the business for thirty-eight years, and the greatest part of this period he worked at a common stove, but without experiencing a single inconvenience during the whole time. His appearance was remarkably cleanly; and being an intelligent man, we asked him the principal source of the mercurial iremors ; and he answered, the careless and uncleanly habits of those employed. He himself had always been accustomed to frequent ablu- tions, and had never eaten without this precaution. This instance does not, of course, prove that the evil efFects of the mercurial vapours can always be avoided by these means; but the observation of most manufacturers might be cited, in proof of the workmen usually neglecting them." Diseases of Gilders described— Cases recorded— Cvre effected by a Decoction of the Roots of the Burnet, Saxifrage, &c. Ramazini, a physician of Padua, who wrote a book on the diseases of artificers some seventy years ago, draws the following frightful picture of the diseases to which gilders are liable. " If we turn our view," says he, " from the mines, and the heating, melt- ing, and refining work-houses, to towns and cities, here we also meet with workmen who suffer hy the influence of minerals. It is well known what dis- mal calamities are inflicted by quicksilver upon goldsmiths, and chiefly those who are employed in gilding silver or brass work ; for, as this gilding cannot be performed without amalgamation, so, when they afterwards come to dislodge the mercury by fire, though they turn away their faces, they cannot possibly avoid receiving some poisonous steams at the mouth ; and accordingly we find that this sort of workmen quickly become asthmatic, paralytic, and liable to vertigoes ; and their aspect becomes cadaverous and ghastly. Few such work- men continue in that way to old age ; or, if they do not die soon, their condi- tion becomes so miserable, that death is preferable to life. Their neck and hands tremble, their teeth fall out, their legs are weak, and afflicted with the scurvy."