102 ON THE PROPRIETY OF MAKING A WILL. Of all the duties incumbent on men to perform, as members of society, we can scarcely name one in which they err more egregiously, than in the disposal of their property by will. From the great number of absurd wills, that are every day produced at the Bank, and other pub- lic offices, for the transfer of testamentary property, one would be tempted to imagine, that beside the sentence " to die," there was a time appointed for all men to play the fool, and contradict every opinion of their wisdom or common sense, which had been formed during their lives. In most nations men enjoy, as a sacred right, the privi- lege of disposing of their property by will; and it is very singular that men of acknowledged, or supposed good understanding, should do so much to bring into disrepute a privilege, which the common consent of the public has fully recognized. Yet this they do in various ways. Different Species of Wills. Of wills properly made, it is not necessary here to speak: of those which come under another description, there are several kinds. There are cruel wills, and whim- sical ones. In the first, a total disregard is paid to the obligations of kindred, affection, and merit: a family that have lived in splendour, and who consider themselves as in part heirs to the continuation of it, are left very often destitute of the necessaries of life, and very ill provided with any means, or resources, to enable them to support such a reverse of fortune, or to re-enter the world in a different character from that in which they appeared be- fore. In whimsical wills, we find that property, which might have been usefully extended among the circles of industry and indigence, left entirely to some worthless, and perhaps, to some inanimate objects: a dog, or a cat have often inherited what would have assisted a distressed family, and sums have been left to erect monuments, which perpetuated the vanity of those on whom they could confer no fame. Consequence of Unjust, or Whimsical Wills. But when we consider the nature of wills, in which cruel, unjust, and whimsical or absurd divisions of pro- perty arc made, a question very naturally arises; how am