78 Housekeeping and Husbandry. throughout, which causes what is commonly called a thief, from its wasting the tallow in its descent down the candle; now the effect of steel is such, that if you lay any piece of that metal, as the snuffers, on the opposite side of the candle to that on which the thief is, in such a manner that it may touch the candle, where it meets the candlestick in the socket, it will not only stop the progress of the thief down the candle, but will cause it to be taken up and con- sumed in the flame itself. To banish Rats and Mice. A plant which grows in great abundance in every field, the dog's tongue, Cynoglossum Officinale of Linnaeus, has been found to possess a very valuable quality. If gathered at the time when the sap is in its full vigour, bruised with a hammer, and laid in a house, barn, or granary, or any other place frequented by rats or mice, these destructive animals, it is said, immediately shift their quarters. To prevent Flies from settling on Pictures, Picture Frames, or other Furniture. Soak a large bundle of leeks for five or six days in a pail of water, and then wash or sponge the pictures, &c. over with it. To make Cheap and Wholesome Bread. To every five pounds of flour, add one pound of rice previously boiled over a slow fire, until it becomes like a jelly. Then, when lukewarm, add the yeast, and mix up for bread. Should the sponge be too thick, a sufficient quantity of lukewarm water may be added. By this method, thirty pounds of flour and six pounds of rice, will make eighteen quartern loaves, of four pounds and one quarter each. N. B. The five pounds of flour make eight pounds of bread; but when mixed with a pound of rice, twelve pound and a half. Singular Improvement in Preserving Potatoes, by M. Parmentier, of Paris. To preserve a quantity of these roots sufficient to last till next crop, it is necessary they should first be partly dressed; and after they have been peeled, sliced and dried in a stove or oven, they acquire the transparency, hardness, and dryness of horn; they break clean, and the fracture has a glassy appearance. Some in this state