SG Indian Remedies. throw off the tophous injury which I may have suffered by wine and wit, too hard lor the virtue of a devotee upon a holy festival; but fail not thy humble supplicant, who needs thy friendly help to keep his tottering tenement in order; fail him not every vernal and nocturnal equinox. 1. The gout gives a man pain without danger. 2. The gout is no constant companion, but allows his patient lucid, joyous intervals. 3. The gout presents you with a perpetual almanack. 41 Gouty persons are most free from the head-ache. 5. The gout preserves its patient from the great danger of fevers. 6. To crown the honour of the gout, it is not to be cured! Thegout defies all your gross Galenical methods, and all your exalted chemical preparations. For the conjunct causes thereof lie in parts so very remote, that the virtues of medicine can never reach them; and Hea- ven be praised for it: for why would you cure the gout, which gives pain without danger, a better taste of health by an acquaintance with pain, a knowledge of future things, free from the head-ache, and from fevers? INDIAN REMEDIES. The common people in the East have several very simple remedies : For a megrim they take the powder of a dried pomegranate rind, pounded with four grains of pepper, as if it were snuff. For a common head-ache, they smell to a composition of sal ammoniac with lime and water, tied up in a rag. For a deafness proceeding from cold, they let fall one drop of lemon juice into the ear. For the tooth-ache, they apply to the tooth a sort of paste, made of the crumb of bread and the seed of stra- monium, or the thorn-apple, which gives instant relief. For a colic proceeding from wind, they give the patient four spoonfuls of water in which aniseed has been boiled, till half the water is consumed. They also pound a raw onion with some ginger, which they apply cold to that part of the belly where they feel any pain. For a liente- ria, or looseness, which discharges the food before it. is altered, they roast a head of garlic in the embers, which they take going to bed, and hold it in the mouth. For stoppage of urine, a good spoonful of olive oil is taken, mixed with an equal quantity of warm water. For a common looseness, they toast a spoonful of white cum-