Useful Memoranda. 185 among some of the members. Professor Davy has ex- plained this on galvanic principles. This peculiarity arises from pewter being formed of dissimilar metals, which are known to communicate the influence of the galvanic fluid. Water has also a different taste in a pew- ter vessel from what it has in glass or earthenware. Volta found, that if a cup made of tin, or what is still better, ziric, be filled with water, and placed upon a silver stand, and the point of the tongue applied to the water, it is found quite insipid, till we lay hold of the silver support with the hand well moistened, when a dis- tinct and strong acid taste will be perceived. From the same cause, Professor Robinson found that snulf taken from a box of tin plate, which has long been in use, so that the tin coating has been removed in many places, is extremely different from that of snuff taken from a new box, or one lined with tin foil. List of Taxes, Postage of Letters; Newspapers; Franks, fyc. &c.—■ Letters, pay if single, from any post-office in England, to any place not exceeding 15 measured miles from such office, 5c?.—Above 15, and not exceeding 30 miles, 6d.— Above 30, and not exceeding 50 miles, 7c?.—Above 50, and not exceeding 80 miles, 8c?.—Above 80, and not ex- ceeding 120 miles, 9d.—Above 120, and not exceeding 170 miles, lOd.—Above 170, and not exceeding 230 miles, lid.—Above 230, and not exceeding 300 miles, 12c?.— Above 300, and not exceeding 400 miles, 13c?.—Above 400, for every 100 miles, or part thereof, 1c?. Letters between England and Ireland pay, over and above the commom rates, a packet postage, viz. for every single letter, 3c?. — Double, 4c?. — Treble, 5c?.—Ounce weight, 9c?. Packets of one ounce weight are charged as four single letters.—If a single sheet exceed one ounce, itis charged according to its weight. Packets or covers, containing patterns or samples only, not exceeding one ounce, 1c?. extra. Newspapers between England and Ireland, in covers open at the end, pay one penny each. No franks pass unless the member of parliament write the full direction, the day of the month, the year, and tbe name of the post from whence it goes: nor does any B b