&3 Exerpise and Disease. walk too long at a time. Short efforts, with intervening repose, should be the maxim of the nursery. When the bones are at least too soft, it is incredible how much mischief is done, by keeping the limbs much on the stretch. Healthy children, indeed, of two or three years of age, have became indisposed, by walking about a mile, without even being hurried. Their own feelings are the best criterion how far they are enabled to con- tinue such exertions; circumstances which demand all the vigilance of an affectionate mother and an attentive nurse. Advice to Invalids, Convalescents, Valetudinarians, and Hypocondriacs. In acute diseases, notwithstanding the doctrines to the contrary, rest is absolutely necessary; but when sickly people get into a state of convalescence, exercise, under a proper system, is essential for their recovery. They are apt, however, to be alarmed at the pain and incon- venience which often accompany their first attempts to take exercise, at least to any extent; they ought therefore to desist as soon as they begin to find themselves fatigued ; but every day they will feel enabled to bear it longer; and the more they persevere, the stronger they will become. Gentle exercise and good air, afford such surprising relief to convalescents, that their friends and medical advisers ought to insist on a trial being made, disregard- ing all objections to the contrary, which the languid state of their mind and body may occasion. Exercise in a cot or hammock, when the patient is exceedingly weak, by swinging it from side to side, will afford an excellent sub- stitute, when other means are not attainable. When invalids return from exercising, should they find them- selves chilled by the cold air, they ought, instead of warming themselves by the fire, to sit down, well clothed, in a remote part of the room, until their feelings are gra- dually reconciled to the temperature of the place they are in. By adopting this precaution, all the hazard of rush- ing from one extreme to another, may be avoided. Not a day should be allowed to pass without taking a certain degree of exercise, accommodated to individual strength. And as few persons, more especially invalids, can long enjoy health under a state of indolence, the latter, when confined at home by bad weather, should adopt some kind of active domestic exercise, like that of shuttle-cock, or any similar amusement, several times in