2ir2 Wellsy Waters, and Watering-Places. ready for us. On waking after a gentle slumber, we were presented each with a lighted pipe and a dish of coffee. We arose much refreshed, and, as the ladies of the Aga or Turkish Governor were expected there, hastened away. The common Turks and Greeks pay a very small gratuity for the use of the bath, which they frequent once a week or oftener. I have sometimes been regaled, while in the inner room, with ripe fruits and slierbet, and with incense burning to scent the air. One of my companions repeatedly partook with me in this innocent and wholesome luxury at Smyrna. WELLS, WATERS, AND WATERING-PLACES. MARGATE Lies on the acclivity of two hills; on the top of one stands the church; it is situated on the north side of the parish of St. John the Baptist, and is considered as the metropolis of the Isle of Thanet. The constant resort of genteel people to this place, for pleasure, as well as bathing, soon rendered an increase of houses for their accommodation necessary; and a new town has risen, to the southward of the old one, on the side of the hill near the church; while the latter has been greatly enlarged and improved. Bathing-rooms and Machines. Near the harbour, are situated the bathing-rooms, on the western side of the High-street; and though they are seven in number, and several machines belong to each, company are frequently obliged to wait some minutes before they can be accommodated with a dip. Each per- son on his arrival enters his name, that he may have his regular turn; in the mean time, if he chooses, he may read the newspapers, thrum a piano, or gossip with his fellow expectants. By careful guides, these machines, which are on a very commodious construction, may be driven to any requi- site depth in the tide. There are also several marble salt-water warm-baths, rilled from the sea, which may be procured at any degree of temperature, on giving a short previous notice. Terms of Bathing. For a lady bathing in a machine, guide included, Is. 3d- Two or more ladies together, guide included, 1*. each. Child in a machine, guide included, Is. 3d. each.