341 Hinff Worm*. *ion of the stOinaeh, alter even moderate eating, gene* rally proceeds from weakness of the stomach. Stools,—of a white clayey appearance, shewan obstruc- tion in the gall-ducts, which is the cause of the yellow- ness of the skin in jaundice.—Black Stools, with sudden relief from violent pain in inflammation of the bowels; shew great danger, as it is probable mortification may have taken place.—Slimy Stools, streaked with blood) with griping pains, are symptoms of dysentery, or bloody flux. Stupor,—after wounds or blows on the head, shew great danger, and requires particular attention. Swallowing, difficult, and acutely painful, with swelling and redness of the back of the mouth, or upper part of the throat, with fever, marks inflammatory sore throat. And not extremely painful, with swelling and redness of the back of the mouth or upper part of the throat, and a low fever, point out, especially if a scarlet eruption ap- pear on the breast, arms, &c. that the sore throat is of the ulcerated malignant kind. Coming on gradually, and without pain or fever, gives reason to apprehend a con- traction is taking place in the gullet. Endeavours for its cure are only to be made, with a prospect of success, during the commencement of the disease. Difficulty and inabi- lity in swallowing liquids, and dread of water, constitute the disease termed Hydrophobia. Difficulty of swallow- ing liquids, however, occurs sometimes in cases that are> plainly hysterical. Sweat, general and profuse,—occurring in cases Of inflammation, is a favourable symptom. Profuse perspiration succeeding to hectic flushes, with difficulty of breathing, cough, and spitting of purulent matter,, distinguish consumption. Sweat, breaking out gradually, and continuing for some time, is, in general, a favourable* symptom,, in fever; almost always put an end to the paroxysm of an intermittent. Cold perspiration breaking about the face and neck, in fever, shews great weakness and danger. RING WORMS. , . / Of those diseases which do not endanger life, nor de- stroy any part of the animal trrganrratiou, few are of more importance than that which is well known by the popular