77 fgougefceeputg ana ^uatmntirp.--No. I. House-keeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood ; The wife too must husband, as well as the man; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. COOKERY, fed • Cheap and palatable Receipts in Cookery. 1. To make Beef Potaqe.—Take three pounds of gravy- beef, eleven quarts of water, boiled gently two hours, then add four pound of Scotch barley, and boil it gently four hours more with six pounds of potatoes, half a pound of onions or leeks, with some parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt; half a pound of bacon, cut in slices, makes it more savory, and any other vegetables may be added : this produces three gallons of potage, and requires no bread. It gave a plentiful meal to twenty persons. 2. Beef Stew.—Two pounds of beef, one pound of tur- nips, half a pound of onions, half a pound of rice, parsley, thyme, pepper and salt, and eight quarts of water. Cut the beef in slices, and when it has boiled some time, mince it small; the vegetables may be minced before they are put in. 3. Shin of Beef Stew.—Shin of beef, bones broken, barley, onions, and potatoes, one pound each; six pounds of cabbage, carrots, and turnips, and salt and pepper; water, eleven quarts ; produced three gallons. 4. Baked Shin of Beef—A shin of beef, six quarts of water, a pint of split peas, one leek, four or five sliced turnips, baked in an earthen pot. To stew Mutton Chops, and make good Mutton Broth. Put a pound of chops into a stew-pan with cold water enough to cover them, and half a pint over, and an onion; when it is coming to a boil skim it, cover the pan close, and set it to simmer gently over a very slow fire, till the chops are tender: if they have been kept a proper time, they will take about three quarters of an hour to do. Send up turnips, which may be boiled along with them, in a deep dish, with the broth they were stewed in. This makes an economical, comfortable, and wholesome meal. To remove the Thief from tJie Candle. There is a fault in most candles, viz. that of not having the cottons properly disposed, and of the same length