Means to Destroy the Turnip-Fly, or Beetle. 173 the best corn and fair water; but malted or sprouted barley has occasionally a good effect^ whilst the hens are kept on solid corn; but if continued too long, they are apt to scour. Cordial horse-ball is good to promote lay- ing in the cold season, and toast and ale, as every house- wife well knows.—Moubray on Poultry. Virtues of the Potatoe. In 1807, Mrs. Morris, of Union-street, near the Mid- dlesex Hospital, discovered* that the liquor obtained in the process of making potatoe starch, would clean silk, woollen, or cotton goods, without damage to the texture or colour. It is also good for cleaning painted wains- cots ; and the white fecula, the substance of which potatoe starch is made, she says, will answer the pur- pose of tapioca, and will make a nourishing food with soup or milk. It is known to make the best souffles, and has within these last few months been introduced at the foreign oil-shops as a new article, under the name of Fecule de Pomme de Terre, for which they modestly charge four shillings per pound. Potatoes boiled down to a pulp, and passed through a sieve, form a strong nu- tritious gruel, that may be given to calves as well as pigs, with great advantage, and saving of milk. A size is made from potatoes, which has great advantages over the common size, for the purpose of whitewashing, as it does not smell, and it has also a more durable whiteness. The most simple, and perhaps the most wholesome way of boiling potatoes, is in an untinned iron pot or sauce- pan ; when boiled, pour off the water, and let them con- tinue over a gentle fire; the heat of the fire will cause the moisture to evaporate, and dry the potatoe fit for the table. Means to Destroy Turnip-Fly, or Beetle. For the destruction or putting to flight of this voracious insect, the old remedy of lime, it seems, has lately been revived, and it is said with success. The method is, to repeat strewing of fresh slacked lime upon the young plants daily, or even twice a day. Upon drilled turnips this may be easily enough practised, and the lime may not only preserve them from the fly and slug temporarily, * For this discovery, Mrs. M. obtained the gold medal from the Society of Arts. '