88 Legacy Duties. procure a handsome shape to their children or pupils, as also those who are not rich enough to alter the stays in proportion to the growth of such children, or having neg- lected the means to do it. The above dissertation shall be distributed gratis, and dispersed among the public ; the more so, as whole nations, unacquainted with the use of stays, bring up a race of children remarkable for the healthiest constitutions." The above edict was caused to be published by the Em- peror Joseph II. LEGACY DUTIES. The following rates of duty are payable on all lega- cies, annuities and residues of the amount or value of 20Z. or upwards, (see stat. 55th Geo. III. cap. 148,) namely, To the children of the deceased, and their descendants, or to the father or mother, or any lineal ancestor of the deceased, out of his (the deceased) personal property, 11. per cent. To brothers and sisters of the deceased, and their de- scendants, |/. per cent. To brothers and sisters of the grandfather or grand- mother of the deceased, and their descendants, 67. per cent. To any person in any other degree of collateral con- sanguinity, or to any stranger in blood to the deceased, 101. per cent. The husband or wife of the deceased is not chargeable with duty. TWO REMEDIES FOR LOVE. Love, it has been said, is not merely a passion of the soul, but it is also a disease of the body, like the fever. It is frequently in the blood, and to be cured, it may be treated as methodically as any other disorder. Great perspirations, and copious bleedings, that carry away with humour the inflammable spirits, would effect a recovery. The Great Conde having felt a violent passion for Ma- demoiselle de Vigean, was constrained to join the army. While his absence lasted, his passion was continually nourished by the tender recollections of love, and by the intercourse of a correspondence, till the conclusion of the campaign, when a dangerous sickness brought him to the most imminent danger. To the violence of his illness