180 DIAGNOSTIC SIGNS, OR SYMPTOMS, PRECEDING OR ACCOMPANYING DISEASES. (Continued from p. 128). Palpitation op the Heart—may proceed from some disease originating in the heart itself; or it may be a symptom of general debility :—when accompanied with quick and difficult breathing, after moderate exercise, and sallowness of the complexion, it marks chlorosis, or green sickness:—with irregular pulse, extreme anxiety, and frequent fits of suffocation, dropsy of the pericar- dium, or membrane enveloping the heart. Paroxysm, febrile, returning repeatedly, after twenty-four hours intermission, distinguishes the quoti- dian, or daily ague:—returning after an intermission of forty-eight hours, the tertian, or third day ague:—and after an intermission of seventy-two hours, the quartain, or fourth-day ague. Pulse.—Quick pulse, succeeding to cold shivering, and accompanied by heat, shews the existence of fevers a quick, hard, and strong pulse, accompanied with a greater degree of heat than is natural, points out inflam- matory fever, or inflammation of a particular kind.—Hard, small, and quick pulse, is generally found with inflam- mation of the stomach and bowels.—A quick, small, and weak pulse, with extreme debility, in fevers, shews the fever to be of a malignant kind, and great danger to exist. Redness of the Skin, diffused with heat, and but little swelling, the skin only elevated as with a little roughness, distinguishes erysipelas, or St. Anthony's fire: redness of the cheeks, coming on with the hectic fever, marks consumption. Respiration, quick and shout, with fever, and tightness across the chest, indicates inflammation of the lungs: short and quick respiration, pains in the side, chest, and fever, distinguish pleurisy. Difficult respi- ration coming on by fits, but without fever, marks an asthmatic affection: awaking the patient with consi- derable alarm, with weight across the chest, and swelling of the feet, points out water in the chest. Difficult respira- tion may also accompany inflammation of the liver, various affections of the heart and large vessels, disten-