Exercise and Disease. 51 of walking, having it always in his power to get into his carriage when he was fatigued; but he derived so much benefit from the exercise he thus took, that he was cured of the disorder before he reached Bath. Diseases of the Mind, &c.—The celebrated Hoff- man, a German physician, justly celebrates exercise as the best of medicines; he cured idiotism by it; and the miud would seem to depend so much upon the state of the bodily organs, that, according to Descartes, an emi- nent French philosopher, in his day, if any means of in- creasing sagacity were to be met with, they must neces- sarily be sought for in the art of medicine, accompanied by a due proportion of exercise. A well-framed, and well-exercised body, is precisely what facilitates and secures the proper performance of the mental functions; and a healthy organisation of the bodily powers, is the best foundation for that noble endowment, known under the name of common sense (however uncom- mon in fact it is), or a sound understanding. A number of cures have been alleviated and cured by the exercise of sailing. In all the preceding, it has been of essential service, also in nervous pains of the stomach, in, what is termed, vapourish languor and fever, &c. With regard to the choice of exercise for curing dis- eases, there are many particulars to be attended to. Every kind of exercise, and every degree of it, is not fit for every constitution, far less in every disease, or at all times. The proper kind of exercise to be recommended, must depend upon particular circumstances of habit, age, constitution, or disease, and 'wherever disease is present, taking the advice of some intelligent physician ought not to be neglected. By means, therefore, of the invigorat- ing quality of exercise, the efficacy of medicine is in- creased, by extending its powers to every part of the system, and at length promoting its discharge, when it is no longer useful: and as the elegant poet Armstrong ob- serves : Toil and be strong. By toil the flaccid nerves Grow firm, and gain a more compacted tone ; The greener juices arc by toil subdu'd, Mellow'd, and subtiliz'd ; the vapid old Expell'd ; and all the rancour of the blood. Art of Preserving Health, book iii. line 31). General Rules for taking Exercise, fyc. As regards the lime of taking exercise, authors hitherto ii 2