I 310 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. serviceable in destroying worms; is recommended in gout, jaundice, and other obstructions of the liver, green sickness, &c. &c. Moreover these springs are expressly protected by two acts of parliament. The walks, rides, country-seats, &c. hereabouts are delightful; and local amusements are not wanting. BUXTON, In Derbyshire, is situated in a most romantic spot, and though the surrounding country is mountainous and Darren, the bowels of the earth are replete with various minerals; and the smiles of the Goddess of Health, who has fixed her residence here, gives animation to the cheerless spot, whence she dispenses her favours with unsparing hands. Buxton was formerly an insignificant village, but the goodness of the roads, its central situation, the salubrity of the air, and, above all, the medicinal qua- lities, and effects of its springs, have greatly contributed to its improvement, as a place of fashionable resort, where accommodations, adapted to the rank and number of its visitors, are provided on a very convenient and extensive scale. The Baths Are six in number, and were formed at different periods. The gentlemen'sbathisthemostancient: that appropriated for the accommodation of the ladies being comparatively modern. There are also three private baths for persons of condition, who pay for them accordingly—one for the poor, and a cold bath; all adjoining each other, but en- tirely separate and distinct. The principal bath is twenty- six feet long, twelve wide, four feet nine inches deep; and is paved at the bottom. The two principal springs rise through a black limestone rock : the water is warm, and resembles that of Bristol. It raises the thermometer to between eighty-one and eighty-two degrees, and has a sweet pleasant taste. Analysis and Use of the Buxton Waters. On analysation, it was found to contain a small quan- tity of sea salt, and an inconsiderable portion of purging salt. Iron has been occasionally discovered in it, but in quantities too small to deserve notice. Taken inwardly, it is esteemed serviceable in diabetes, strangury or bloody urine, bilious colic, loss of appetite, coldness of the stomach, inward bleedings, atrophy or wasting of the body, contraction of the limbs, cramps, convulsions,