281 Housekeeping and Husbandry. catsup, soy, and some of* their flavoured vinegars, as elder or tarragon, pepper and fine spice, sweet herbs, capers, eshallots, &c. They serve it with most roasted meats. N.B. Keep your anchovies well covered; first tie down your jar with bladder moistened with vinegar, and then wiped dry, tie leather over that: when you open a jar, moisten the bladder, and it will come off easily: as soon as you have taken out the fish, replace the cover- ings—the air soon rusts and spoils anchovies. Liver and Parsley Sauce, or Liver and Lemon Sauce. Wash the liver (it must be perfectly fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it five minutes in five table-spoonsful of water; chop it fine; or pound or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve; wash about one third the bulk of parsley leaves, put them on to boil in a little boiling water, with a tea- spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it very fine; mix it with the liver, and put it into a quarter of a pint of melted butter, and warm it up : do not let it boil.—Or, To make Lemon and Liver Sauce, Pare off the rind of a lemon, or of a Seville orange, as thin as possible, so as not to cut off any of the white with it; now cut off all the white, and cut the lemon into slices, about as thick as a couple of half crowns; pick out the pips, and divide the slices into small squares ; add these, and a little of the peel minced very fine, to the liver, prepared as directed above, and put them into the melted butter, and warm them together, but do not let them boil. N. B. The poulterers can always let you have fresh livers, if that of the fowl or rabbit is not good, or not large enough to make as much sauce as you wish. Some cooks, instead of pounding, mince the liver very fine (with half as much bacon), and leave out the parsley; others add the juice of half a lemon, and some of the peel grated, or a tea-spoonful of tarragon or chili vinegar, a table-spoonful of white wine, or a little beaten mace, or nutmeg, or allspice ; if you wish it a little more lively on the palate, pound a shallot, or a few leaves of tarragon or basil, with anchovy, or catsup, or cayenne. n n 2