Dr. Willis' Amulet for the Cure of Epilepsy, fa. 199 parts/' Or, as Garth in his " Dispensatory," so beauti- fully illustrates the idea— " Thus paler looks impetuous rage proclaim, And chilly virgins redden into flame : See envy oft transformed in wan disguise, And mirth sits gay and smiling in the eyes : Oft our complexions do the soul declare, And tell what passions in the features are. Hence 'tis we look, the wond'rous cause to find, How body acts upon impassive mind." Addison, on the power and pleasure of the imagination, (Spect. vol. vi.) concludes, from the pleasure and pain it administers here below, that God, who knows all the ways of affecting us, may so transport us hereafter with such beautiful and glorious visions, or torment us with such hideous and ghastly spectres, as might even of themselves suffice to make up the entire of Heaven or Hell of any finite being. St. Vitus' dance was cured by visiting the tomb of the Saint, nearUlm, every May. Indeed there is some reason in this assertion; for exercise and change of scene and air, will cure many obstinate diseases. The bite of the tarantula is cured by music ; and what is more wonderful still, persons bitten by this noxious animal, are only to be cured by certain tunes—thus, for instance, one person might be cured with " Nancy Dawson," while another could only reap a similar benefit from "Moll in the Wood,—or, "Off She Goes." Dr. Willis's Amulet for the Cure of Epilepsy, fa. The learned Dr. Willis, in his treatise on nervous diseases, does not hesitate to recommend amulets in epileptic disorders. "Take," says he, "some fresh paeony roots, cut them into square bits, and hang them round the neck, changing them as often as they dry." In all probability, the hint from this circumstance was taken for the anodyne necklaces which were in such strong requisition some time ago, and which produced so much benefit to the proprietors ; as the Doctor, a little farther on, prescribes the same root for the looseness, fevers, and convulsions of children during the time of dentition, mixed, to make it appear more miraculous, with some elks-hoof. Turner, whose ideas on hydrophobia are so absurd, when he asserts that the symptoms may not appear for forty years after the bite; and who asserts, " that the