Secrets of Trade. 547 Mix these separate solutions, and put them in a water-bath for three weeks, taking care to shake the vessel frequently; to them add, Gumarabic, ~ ? OUnC6S* Carbonate of ammonia, - 1 ounce. Dissolve in cinnamon water. Mix, filter, and keep for use. Dose, twenty-four drops, three times a day, in a glass of the cold decoction of marsh-mallow roots. The external use of these drops is also advised for local syphilitic complaints. virgin's milk. A spirituous solution of Gum Benjamin, mixed with about twenty parts of rose water, forms a cosmetic long known by this name. Under the same title also a very different preparation is sold, which is a sulphate of lead, and is prepared as follows:—To a saturated solution of alum, add one-third part of Goulard's extract. Shake them together. Used as a lotion to inflamed surfaces. wade's drops. (See Friar's Balsam). WALKER'S & WESSELS' JESUITS DROPS. This is nothing more than the elixir ante-venereum of of Quincey, consisting of guaiacum, balsam of copaiba, and oil of sassafras, made into a tincture by spirit. WARD'S ESSENCE FOR THE HEAD-ACH. Nothing more than compound camphor liniment—opo- deldoc. ward's paste for FISTULA, PILES, &C. The following is the recipe for preparing this compo- sition. Take of black pepper and elecampane powdered, equal parts, half a pound; of the seeds of sweet fennel, one pound and a half; of honey and sugar, equal parts, one pound; beat, and mix the ingredients well together in a mortar. Dose:—-the size of a nutmeg, three times a day. *#* With respect to the value of this remedy, it may be observed, that it is principally useful in those cases attended with considerable debility, in leuco-phlegma- tic habits, and when piles arise from a deficient secre- tion in the rectum. On the other hand, the composition will as certainly prove injurious in those cases which are accompanied with erisypelatous inflammation, and which require cooling laxatives, and a total abstinence from all stimulants, for their cure. Ward was originally a footman, and during his attend-