619 Housekeeping and Husbandry. Sixty-one pounds, or a bushel of wheat, produces in grinding sixty pounds three quarters, which by dressing is resolved into forty-eight pounds second flour; four pounds and a half of tine pollard; four pounds of coarse pollard, and two pounds three quarters of bran; two pounds being lost in the process. Five bushels, or a sack of second flour, weighing by law, two hundred and fifty pounds, requires generally three or four ounces of alum, sometimes from two to eight, with four pounds of common salt, half a gallon of yeast, and about three gallons of water, producing about eighty quartern loaves, sometimes eighty-two or eighty- three. A sack of flour, three ounces of alum, six pounds of common salt, one bushel of potatoes, three pounds yeast, with a sufficient quantity of water, produces a light and highly valuable bread.—A sack of indifferent flour, one pound of magnesia, with salt, yeast, and water as usual, makes excellent bread. It is generally supposed that an imperfect kind of fer- mentation, similar to that in the preparation of wine or beer, takes place in making bread; but others deny this, because dough made in this manner does not yield any ardent spirit on distillation, although the same dough diluted with water, and suffered to ferment for sixteen hours, yielded a portion of spirit. The dough also falls so rapidly, that it cannot be supposed the fermentation has ceased. In the summer time, when the yeast has turned acid, bakers are in the habit of adding a little subcarbonate of potass or of ammonia, which raises the dough in a few minutes. Mineral waters containing much carbonic acid, raise dough in a few minutes, without the help of yeast; and other substances which contain much enclosed air, also render the dough spongy, as eggs beaten to a froth, snow-water, &c. RYE FLOUR. This species of flour is used either to make a sweet bread, raising the dough by yeast, or an acid bread by using leaven for that purpose. The last is cooling, not so nourishing as the former, but more suited to an animal diet. BARLEY FLOUR. When barley flour is made into yeast, it requires the dough to be baked very soon after it is made, as it almost immediately becomes sour. A paste of barley meal and 3 u