Specific for the Croup and Hooping-Cough. the highest part of the leaf, and placing himself in a very erect position, looking most attentively up into the bush, he remained fixed near ten minutes. Calling my friend to observe the frog's attention, he at that moment made a spring up under the bush, brought down a quantity of caterpillars, and devoured them with the greatest avidity. Not being the least alarmed, he repeated the attack se- veral times with the same success. As the caterpillars hung in small clusters, he never brought down less than from five to eight at a time, and then picked them up from the ground as a fowl picks up corn. The owner of the garden was very glad of this discovery, as he never before knew the frog so valuable as to be capable of keeping his gooseberry and currant trees free from those destructive visitors. SPECIFIC FOR THE CROUP AND HOOPING-COUGH. A prize of 12,000 francs being offered in 3807, to that physician who should produce the best memoir on the croup, &c, eighty-three memoirs have been received; among them, two have shared the prize, being of equal merit; three are distinguished as extremely honourable to their authors ; and the sixth memoir is marked by the proposal of a remedy. It is liver of sulphur, alkalized, a sulphur of pot-ash, recently prepared, and brownish. It is usually mixed with honey. The dose, from the attack of the croup to the decided diminution of the disorder, is ten grains, morning and evening, to be diminished as the disorder abates, and towards the close, the morning dose only to be given : the mixture of sulphur and honey to be made at the moment of using. Young children will suck it off the end of a finger ; but it may be given in a spoon- ful of milk, or of syrup thinned with water; or as a bolus; grown children take it best in this form. It usually re- lieves in two days; but it must be continued some time after the cure, for fear of a relapse. The lips, and the interior of the mouth, are whitened by the liver of sul- phur, and it imparts a warmth to the stomach as it arrives there. The first dose most commonly occasions a vomit of a viscid or concrete matter, to which the sulphur gives a greenish tint. Infants at the breast may continue their accustomed nourishment.—This medicine is also recommended in pulmonary catarrhs, and other affections of that class, for the purpose of obtaining further information of its effects.