72 Secrets of Trade. which consisted almost entirely of sulphate of lime. Upon submitting a portion of the pill, in a glass tube, to the heat of a spirit-lamp, two distinct sublimates were pro- duced, the first consisting of sulphur, the second of cin- nabar, and a small carbonaceous deposit remained. The pill was then assayed, via humida: distilled water dis- solved the sulphate of lime, which was identified by ap- propriated tests, and left sulphur and cinnabar on the filtre. " By the above experiments, (says Dr. Paris), I feel warranted in considering the composition of this pill as fully ascertained." CEPHALIC SNUFF. The basis of this errhine, is powdered asarum, diluted with some vegetable powder. CHAMOMILE DROPS. The nostrum sold under this name, is a spirit flavoured with the essential oil of chamomile. It is very obvious that it cannot possess the tonic bitter of the flowers. CHARCOAL, CONCENTRATED SOLUTION OF. A preparation under this absurd name, for cleaning the teeth. CHELSEA PENSIONER. An empirical remedy for the rheumatism, is well known under this name; it is said to be the prescription of the Chelsea Pensioner, by which Lord Amherst was cured: the following are its component parts: Take Gum guiacum, - 1 drachm. Powdered rhubarb, - 2 drachms. Cream of tartar, - - 1 ounce. Flour of sulphur, - 2 ounces. Nutmeg, fine powdered, - - No. 1. To be made into an electuary, with one pound of clari- fied honey. Two large spoonfuls to be taken night and morning. CHELTENHAM SALTS. A factitious compound has long been vended under this name, as a popular purgative ; it is formed by tritu- rating together the following salts: sulphate of soda, 120 grains; sulphate of magnesia, 66 grains; muriate of soda, 10 grains; sulphate of iron, \ grain. As a purgative it is very efficacious, and superior probably to that which is actually obtained by the evaporation of the Cheltenham water itself; for, notwithstanding the high pretensions with which this latter salt has been publicly announced, it will be found to be nothing else than common Glaubers