526 How to Destroy the Tobacco Worm. is most proper to take off the top of it, to prevent it from running to seed. This knowledge can only be perfectly acquired by experience. When it has risen to upwards of two feet, -it commonly begins to put forth the branches on which the flowers and seeds are produced; but as this expansion, if suffered to take place, would drain the nutriment from the leaves, and thereby lessen their size and efficacy, it becomes needful, at this stage, to nip off the extremity of the stalk, to prevent its growing higher. In some other climates, the top is commonly cut off when the plant has fifteen leaves; if the tobacco is intended to be a little stronger than usual, this is done when it has only thirteen ; and sometimes, when it is chosen to be remarkably powerful, eleven or twelve leaves only are allowed to expand. On the contrary, if the planter is . desirous to have his crop very mild, he suffers it to put forth eighteen or twenty; but in this calculation, the three or four lower leaves next the ground are not to be reckoned. This is denominated " topping the tobacco," and is much better done by the finger and thumb, than with any instrument; because the former close, at the same time, the pores of the plants; whereas, when it is done with the latter, the juices are in some degree exhausted. And though this might appear unimportant, yet every method that tends to give vigour to the leaves, should be care- fully pursued. For the same reason, care must be taken to nip off the sprouts that will be continually springing up at the junction of the leaves with the stalks. This is termed "suckering the tobacco," and ought to be re- peated as often as occasion requires. How to Destroy the Tobacco Worm. The last, and not the least concern in the cultivation of this plant, is the destruction of the worm that Nature has given it for an enemy, and which, like many other reptiles, preys on its benefactor. To destroy these, which are the only insects that molest this plant, every leaf must be carefully searched. As soon as such a vvound is discovered, the cause of it, who will be found near it, from his unsubstantial texture, which I shall presently describe, may be easily crushed ; but the best method is to pluck it away by the horn, and then crush it. Without a constant attention to these noxious insects, a whole field of plants may be soon destroyed. This is termed