Consequences of neglecting to make a Will. 107 the patron or patroness dies, without a will! and the heirs- at-law take possession of all. The orphan, if not im- mediately turned out of doors, finds his or her situation too irksome to remain longer in a place, where they arc degraded to the rank, perhaps of a menial servant; and with the education, accomplishments, and ideas, of genteel life, they sink into the helpless lot of those "who cannot work, and to beg they are ashamed." This is one bad effect of intestate property, and in our opinion, that, which of all others, blackens the memory of the deceased. We know no crime greater than that of him, who promotes an orphan to a rank of independence, takes him from where he might have been trained up to industry and usefulness, and yet does not, from the first, provide that no accident shall deprive him of the rank to which he has been raised. It is in fact, though perhaps without the evil intention, strewing the path to a preci- pice with roses. Such dependents, educated in high life, only to be consigned to poverty which they cannot avert, and shame which they cannot encounter, have reason, it is to be feared, to curse that mistaken benevolence which drew them from the happy mansions of industry and fru- gality, where they might have been useful and virtuous in their situations, and have had no hopes or fears to encounter from the smiles or frowns of the world. It may be said, " This is too severe ; those benefactors meant to have left to their adopted children as they would to their own, had they not been suddenly cut otf before a will could be made."—But if we consider what a serious thing is the temporal, and perhaps eternal hap- piness of a child, educated and deserted as we have stated, we fear that our indignation will not be abated by this excuse. In the first place, it is great folly to take a child from a life of useful industry; and in the second place, it is great wickedness to educate any children with ideas of high life, even if we could realize them, and with hopes of great wealth, even if we could gratify them. He is the best benefactor to orphans, who places them in situations where they can provide for themselves; and who teaches them the value of wealth, not by the profusion, but by the acquirement of it. But to educate children in splendid idleness and useless accomplish- ments, can never be atoned for, unless an immediate provision be made for them, and nothing be left to acci- dent. Wc conclude this part of our subject with repeat- p 2