Health and Quackery. give way from good intention, and with a. view originally to cure some active complaint, but which, assisted by the force of imagination, produces, on the contrary, a train of complaints that are often incurable. We have all heard of certain persons, who, when some- thing has troubled their minds, have had recourse to the bottle, as a medium of ease, and have never been able to leave off the deleterious practice. Your quacking people are much about in the same predicament. Some complaint has been removed by medicines; and, on this account, such a violent liking has been taken for drugs, as never to be easy without them, nor able to leave off taking them in one Shape or other. Such persons, with the utmost efforts at health, are never well, nor ever without some cause of com- plaint. They procure popular books on medicine, and as Don Quixote, from reading books of chivalry, fancied him- self doomed to be a knight-errant, so they, from reading histories of diseases, fancy they are bora to be afflicted: with every distemper they read of, and prepare their cures accordingly. In the morning, something must be taken to correct the wind on the stomach ; at noon, something also must be taken to promote digestion—dinner pills, or some such other buffoonery; in the afternoon, they re- move the foulness of the stomach; in the evening they guard against the ague; and at night they procure sleep. If the physician be called in, he is anticipated in all his recipes, and to prescribe such gentle remedies as are usual in incipient disorders, would be as effectual as to recom- mend weak negus to warm the stomach of a brandy drinker. Indeed, there are plenty of practitioners of the present day, who desire no better customers, than a dozen such squeamish ladies of quality. 'The doctor,' says Foote's Julep, * that doses best, is the best doctor for us.' Prodigality of health, and avarice of ease, are the two extremes a wise man would wish to avoid: they are, indeed, equally culpable. For the man who, endowed by nature with a strong constitution, wantonly exhausts it in luxurious and lawless pleasures, there is no known excuse can be made. What language can excuse the impious ingratitude to Heaven, which such conduct im- plies ; and what temptation of company, or situation in life, however it may account, can justify this species of slow suicide? This much may indeed be said, that where we see a man, worthy in other respects, so habituated to the pleasures of the table as not to be able to limit him-