The Effects of drinking large Quantities of Liquors. 123 duty, and 2d. per lb. for the duty on hops, beer is still cheaper than tea in the proportion at the least of three to two.—Cottage Economy, and Mansion Economy, esti- mated on the market-prices of provisions for November, 1823, and February, 1824. By T. N. Parker, Esq. A. M. TREATMENT TO COUNTERACT TEIE EFFECTS OF DRINKING LARGE QUANTITIES OF LIQUORS. Many persons are destroyed suddenly by drinking large quantities of spirit. The first effects are stimulant; they quicken the circulation, and occasion much blood to be thrown upon the head. They afterwards prove sedative; they bring on stupor; loss of reason, total; of motion and sensation, almost total. Their effects may be partly owing to their entering, in some degree, into the circulation, but depend chiefly, when violent, on their action on the nerves of the stomach. In consequence, the brain is affected, and the nervous influence suspended, if not destroyed. All the parts of the body therefore par- take of this insensibility. As the skin in some cases may be burnt even without feeling, so the stomach and intes- tines may be stimulated considerably without any effect. The motion of the heart and lungs is much enfeebled and interrupted, but continues irregularly till death ensues. To rescue the person from so dangerous a state is ex- tremely difficult. To counteract these effects by medi- cine is less likely, both as the power of swallowing is lost, and as, probably, little or no absorption then takes place. But we ought to endeavour, 1st, to evacuate the poison; or else, 2dly, to dilute it, and thereby weaken its action. With a view to the first, brisk vomits may be given; but, from the want of irritability of the stomach, these often will not act, unless given early, when they are of great service, in cases of intoxication. A dock- porter, who died in the Liverpool Infirmary from this cause, Feb. 28,1780, got down over night, nearly twelve grains of emetic tartar dissolved, yet it produced little or no effect, though he lived till the next day. Purges are also proper, but liable, though in a less degree, to the same objections. Sharp glisters may be administered, and will produce some evacuation, but their operation does not extend far enough. Large glisters, of water only, or of water in which purging salts are dissolved, r 2