On Paring and Burning. and particularly in dry seasons, these vermin, without always being suspected, have made great havoc among the game. Animal Substances in Agriculture,. The young farmer should be sensible of the importance of animal substances, which are greatly preferable to all vegetable manures; many kinds being procurable in great cities. Curriers' shavings, woollen rags, hogs' hair, fea- thers, offals of butchers' and fishmongers' stalls and ken- nels, trotters, horn shavings, &c. &c. It should be received as a maxim, that all animal substances whatever make admirable manures, much better than any thing in the vegetable or fossil kingdoms % and this should not only direct him in the purchase of his manures, but also to be very attentive in preventing any such substances in his own house and farm being wasted: the compost dung- hill should be the general receptacle of all such, Some of these substances, however, are sold at such high prices, that common dung is a better purchase. Compost of fish is excellent. On Paring and Burning. We feel as much desire and anxiety to get over this job, when begun, while the fine weather lasts, as we do to escape the effects of too much fire. The occurrence of much wet makes the job tedious, and the season may sometimes be lost, or thrown too backward for sowing our cole. The delay in spreading the ashes is, therefore, the consequence of our desire to get the pared slices burned; but we hold it as a good general caution, to have the ashes spread within a few days of the heaps being thoroughly burned down. There is, however, one thing which deceives many of us. When we begin to heap and fire the first side, the earth is yet moist below (suppose the middle of May)"; but before we get over fifteen or twenty acres, a fortnight of drought makes a great difference; we examine the first side a few days after it is burned, but find very little fire below the ashes; by this temptation to let the others lie, that the heaping and firing maybe completed, the fire drops in the middle part of the field, and occasions much expence and trouble. Perhaps it might be too much to say, that closely spreading and future care would always be a preventive of mischief, but generally it would succeed.