On the Cost of Tea, tyc. crease of bulk upon the whole quantity: it being under- stood, that the malt-dust ought not to be immediately separated from the whole store of malt, but only from each quantity as it is wanted for use. In regard to the present value of malt: the aggregate average price of barley for the week ending 1st of Novem- ber, according to the London Gazette, is 27s. 4d. per quarter, that is, 3s. 5d. per bushel; the charge for malting thirty-nine quarts is Is. equal to rather less than lOd. for thirty-two quarts; and the duty is 2s. Gd., or rather less. 9. d. Barley, per bushel - - - 3 5 Malting - - - - 0 10 Duty - t - -26 Hops, &c. - ' - - - 1 6 Including the maltster's profit from the outcast 8 3 I have charged rather too much for hops in bringing the total precisely to answer the table (page 120), which shews, that the beer described in the act of 4 Geo. IV. c. 51, maybe brewed at home for less than Id. per quart, according to the present prices of the ingredients, instead of 2\d., the price fixed by the act for the public brewer; and I have before shewn that tea (page 119) is worth more than \\d. per quart, so that cottagers may provide themselves with three pints of such beer at a less cost than two pints of tea. I am informed, that a bushel of malt after brewing, produces three or four quarts of yeast, and more than a bushel of grains, in the proportion of about six to five. The yeast and grains will therefore amply compensate for the expences of brewing; while there is some trouble and loss of time in making tea twice a day, from which you have no return besides the liquor; and there being no duty on home brewed-beer, is another advantage. I apprehend that the act of 4 Geo. IV. c. 51, is not likely to answer the purpose proposed by it; for although there are sixty-eight common ale-house licenses granted in the hundred of Oswestry, including the town and liber- ties, not one license has been applied for under this recent act of 4 Geo. IV. c. 51. Were this question to be tried by a jury of cottagers' wives, I should be found guilty of recommending very indifferent tea, but for the strength of the beer I may shelter myself under the protection of an act of parlia- ment; and although 2s. Gd. per bushel is paid for malt-