Absurd Practices, ftc. 440 as upon these occasions the individual temperament, age, and other circumstances attending the situation of the child, are little, if at all, consulted. But I cannot, in justice to helpless infancy, forbear to point out a few circumstances, which appear to me of peculiar importance: such, for instance, is the almost general custom of neglecting the constitution of infants, till they become afflicted with pain or disease. For, though medical assistance should be occasionally resorted to, by families either more wealthy or circumspect than their neighbours, yet I am convinced, from painful ex- perience, that it is too frequently done at a very late period, and chiefly with a view of satisfying clamorous relations, or relieving the anxiety of distressed parents j because the prospect of rescuing the little sulferer from the jaws of death is then nearly vanished.—How can it be rationally expected, that a physician, called in upon the spur of the moment, should be able to ascertain the seat and causes of the disease ? On such occasions, indeed, I would prefer the account of a judicious nurse, to any examination hastily instituted by the most learned and attentive practitioner, during a conversation seldom exceeding ten minutes. Is it not a most melancholy in- stance of human indifFerence, that we often devote a considerable portion of our time to pursuits of an inferior kind, such as rearing trees and shrubs, or even flowers and grasses, while we neglect the most dignified of human offices, namely, that of educating our children upon a plan supported by the dictates of reason ? And this un- pardonable neglect begins from the hour of a child's birth. It is at that momentous period, when the founda- tion is frequently laid, of a feeble and sickly life. Hence I shall only observe, that many children have fallen victims to general convulsions, the cause of which was unknown; but, after enquiring into a few circumstances of their early days, I have generally found, that the meconium had not been properly discharged, or that some other essential points had been entirely overlooked by those to whom the first treatment of the child was en- trusted. Nevertheless, kind Nature often relieves the suffering infant by a spontaneous effort. Absurd Practices, 8>c. Before the child is scarcely two months old, I have often had the mortification to observe, that over-wise