634 The Toiletle. hot-IiQuse, by continuing the bark-beds of a proper tem- perature, and by fires every evening, and cold mornings, or sometimes all day, when intemperately cold, or severe frosts; and in mild sunny weather give occasional mode- rate supplies of air and water. As most hot-houses, &c. compromise not only a princi- pal supply of pines, but also of many other curious tender exotics, the same degree of internal heat suits the whole; only the pines in particular, must be continued always plunged in the bark-bed; and most of the other plants maybe disposed in different parts of the hot-house or pinery, upon shelves at top of the flues, &c. and some occasionally in the bark-bed, particularly anymore curious tender kinds; or sometimes to forward any particular sorts for flowering more effectually, and occasionally to strike cuttings, layers, and suckers; or also to vegetate seeds, or to expedite the fresh-roots of some newly-planted exotics. ©&e ©oilettc —No. VI. TOOTH POWDER TO REMEDY A BAD BREATH. Take Cream of tartar, - - |of each> ^ ounce_ Myrrh, powdered, - - - - - 1 drachm. Orrice-root, powdered, - - - - \ drachm. Powdered bark, - - - - - 2 drachms. Mix all together, and rub down the mass well in a mortar. A WASH TO BE USED TO THE ARM-PITS WHEN THE PER- SPIRATION IS UNPLEASANT. Take Pure spring water as cold as can be got, - 2 pints. Tincture of myrrh, 1 ounce.. Sulphate of zinc, ----- \ ounce. Rose water, - -' -. - - - 2 ounces. Mix all together, and sponge the arm-pits occasionally with it. TO MODERATE PERSPIRATION. Take Spring water, - - - - - 4 ounces. Diluted sulphuric acid, - - - - 40 drops. Compound spirits of lavender, - - - 2 drachms. Mix.—A table-spooonful twice a day; keeping the bowels regular by rhubarb. WASH TO WHITEN THE NAILS. Take Diluted sulphuric acid, - - - - 2 drachms. Pump water, - - - • ■ - - - 4 ounces. Tincture of myrrh, - - - - - 1 drachm. Mix.—First cleanse with white soap, and then dip the fingers into the wash. TO IMPROVE THE VOICE. Add twenty drops of the oil of sweet almonds to half a glass of port wine.