On the supposed Degeneracy of the present Age, &c. 399 logy, are a little exaggerated by translators and commen- tators ; that the descriptions given us of the divinities and heroes of the Greeks and Romans do not exactly corre- spond to their originals; and that the ancient Germans, whom Tacitus represents as men of a colossal stature, were no more than other hardy sons of Nature, viewed at a distance, when arrayed in their semi-barbarian dress, and national armour;—yet it appears from their coats of mail, their helmets, swords, and other implements of war, that they have certainly been more muscular, vigorous, and considerably taller than their descendants in the 18th century. I have purposely chosen the Germans for this compa- rison, as western Europe, and even Britain, have in some measure been peopled , by that nation. But it will be asked, 1st, how arose this relative debility and decrease of bodily energy in a whole people?—2d, how may it in future be most effectually remedied ?—and, 3d, have we upon the whole gained or lost by this apparent degene- racy? These questions I shall endeavour briefly to answer. The progressive culture of the human mind has unfor- tunately been accompanied with more than a proportion* ate increase of luxury, or, in other words, with an almost general effeminacy, especially in the higher walks of life. This change of manners, habits, laws, and customs, has farther been productive of effects, upon which I cannot in this place expatiate, as they chiefly relate to the animal economy of man. But without descending to particular reflections, I appeal to the judgment of every observer, whether the prevailing system of dissipation among the fashionable class of men, is not one of the most powerful means of dissolving the moral ties of society?—and whether the calm indifference shewn to those libertines, in the higher circles, is not an indirect approbation of their conduct? Hence the increasing number of those who find it more convenient to live in a state of celibacy; hence also the very early, or very late marriages—two of the most opposite and pernicious extremes in society. The Romans enacted severe laws against those who did not enter at a certain age into the marriage state: the Greenlanders, on the contrary, blame the more enlightened Europeans, and bestow upon them very opprobrious epi- thets, because they marry at too early an age, and are blessed with a great number of children. Whether the 3 j;