226 Plural Cfcconomg.—No. III. Communications relative to Orcharding* By T. S. D< Bucknall, Esq. {From Vol. 13 of the Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce). " It is generally imagined, that when the trees are planted, the troublesome part of forming an orchard is over : but the fact is far otherwise; for a greater difficulty remains, which is, to determine what proper use to apply the ground to; for if it is cultivated by the plough, little good can be expected; for the injuries which young trees constantly receive, from the implements in husbandry bruising and destroying them before they can have got possession of the soil, generally hurt them most essen- tially; and if, by a superlative care, they should surmount the evils so brought on, the crops of corn being regularly carried off the land, impoverishes the ground so much, that the trees are soon stunted, and run to moss. " There is not any culture we are acquainted with, equal to hops, for raising an orchard; and when the proper time comes for grubbing up the hops, the trees may be secured, and the land turned to grazing. How- ever, let the agriculture be what it may, the land should never be ploughed, or dug deep, directly over the roots of a young-planted fruit-tree; for as the roots collect their best benign sap from their extreme points, if those points are broken ofF from the upper side of the roots, that tree is compelled to subsist on nurture drawn from the under- strata, and consequently the sap will be of an inferior quality. " It may be regularly observed, that where trees stand in such a situation, that the hogs and poultry are con- stantly running over the ground, those trees very seldom fail of a crop, which is the best proof that manure is necessary; and any manure will suit an orchard: but there are several sorts of manure which are overlooked, such as the sweepings of cow-houses, slaughter-houses, emptying of drains, and every thing filthy; and these are more disposed to facilitate the growth and health of fruit- trees, than the manure from the stable. " An essential circumstance to be attended to is, that the fruits be ordered of th use soils which thrive in the Q g