m &utal ^conomg.—No. II. On Flooding Meadows. From a long residence in Hampshire, we well know that the meadows in that county are considerably im- proved by flooding them, that is, stopping the water, when there happens to be an unusual quantity, from vio- lent or long continued rains, and by means of trenches or gripes, conveying the surplus water so as to overflow them entirely, if possible; but we deny that, by this pro- cess, all weeds are destroyed, the use of manure super- seded, or tha,tflote fescue grass is immediately begotten. Although it is a constant practice with the farmers to flood their meadows in the winter, it is no less a constant practice, with such as wish to have good crops of grass, to manure them with dung or ashes. Flooding can no otherwise destroy weeds, than by altering the soil on which they grow; and if it destroys one set of weeds, it must certainly favour the growth of another. If those plants which thrive best in a dry situation, are destroyed by the alteration which now takes place in the soil, those which are fond of a moist situation Will proportionably flourish. Iftheflote fescue grass was immediately pro- duced by flooding, we should find all those meadows which have undergone this operation, to contain nothing but this kind of grass, whereas the richest and best mea- dows in Hants contain scarce a single blade of it. The fact is, this grass will not flourish in meadow land, unless you convert it into a bog or swamp; and I believe few landed gentlemen will think this an improvement, or thank Mr. Kent for giving them such a hint. (Grass on the best watered meadow is always less substantial than the pure natural grass; whence the utility of dry manures, more especially on watered soils of inferior quality).— Curtis on British Grasses. Preservation of Game. In preserves, and wherever it is an object to protect the game, great care ought to be taken to extirpate, if pos- sible, the breed of vipers, snakes, and all vermin of the, serpentine kind, which suck the eggs, and even destroy young pheasants and partridges. In warm and dry soils, z i