'20 Chinese Art of Preset'ring Health. weather, without endangering his health, provided he stops not too long in; and yet a fever is too often the effect of only sitting a short time with your back to a window or door, through which, summer and winter, a stream of cold fresh air is perpetually rushing. In the 'first case, the body endures one uniform and general shock, which makes it less fierce; but, in the other, a single part, the ear or neck, is attacked with greater violence. The cannon of a battery, for instance, will sooner open a passage into the town, when levelled against one single part of the bastion, than when dis- charged against the whole face. SIGNS OF GOOD BODILY HEALTH. The best criterion of a man being in a good condition of body, is the clearness of his complexion; to which may be added, the appearance of the under lip, which is rosy and plump, in proportion to the healthy fulness of the constitution, which is a much more certain symptom of vigorous health, than any indication that may be formed from the appearance of the tongue, or the pulse, which is another very uncertain or deceiving index, the strength and frequency of which, not only varies in dif- ferent persons, but in the same person, under different circumstances and positions. In some irritable constitu- tions, the vibrations of the heart varies almost as often as its pulsations; for instance, when we walk, stand, sit, or lie down, early in the morning, late in the evening, elated with good news, depressed with bad, &c.; when the stomach is empty—after taking food— after a full meal of nutritive food—after a spare one of meagre materials. It is moreover impossible to ascertain the degree of deviation from the standard of health, by feel- ing a pulse, unless we are well acquainted with its pecu- liarity when the patient is in good health. CHINESE ART OF PRESERVING HEALTH. Be virtuous; govern your passions; restrain your appetites; avoid excess, and high-seasoned food; eat slowly, and chew your food well. Do not eat to full satiety. Breakfast betimes; it is not wholesome to go out fasting. In winter, a glass or two of wine is an excellent preservative against unwholesome air. Make a hearty