390 Horticulture. Planting—may be performed in bulbous roots, various sorts of fibrous-rooted perennial and biennials, by slips, oil-sets, &c. and may be commenced in many shrub and tree kinds, particularly of the evergreen tribe; also de- ciduous sorts, (m. 1.) when the leaves begin to decay. Gravel walks—should still be continued clear from weeds and litter, and often rolled. Grass lawns, plats, fyc.—still keep in very neat order, by proper rolling, mowing, and sweeping. —: For new grass work, or to repair old, may now cut and lay turf successfully; or in want of a sufficiency of turf, may occasionally sow grass seed (b. m.), pre- viously in either method forming a surface of light dry soil, firm and smooth. Work in the Nursery.—In this month it is proper to commence the preparation of ground for autumnal planting of various nursery trees and shrubs; which in some sorts, evergreens particularly, may be proceeded in towards the middle or latter end of the present month; but in others, more generally in October and November. Also may begin the autumn planting of cuttings, and making layers: likewise perform any necessary pruning, and complete all requisite pruning in evergreens in par- ticular : and at this time take particular care to extermi- nate weeds, both by hoeing between rows, and hand- weeding in close growth. The Green-House.—The green-house plants continue still mostly in the open air, till towards (m. or 1.), when, or before, if cold or very wet weather, the tenderest kinds may be housed, especially succulent plants, oranges, lemons, &c, but if a warm season, they may remain till (1.) this, or (b.m.) next month. Hot-House and Stove.—In the hot-house and pinery, continue still a proper bark-bed heat; give air and water> and finish shifting into larger pots. Trim and regulate—any hot-house plants in which dis- orderly growths occur in the branchy shooting kinds, pruning and trimming the straggling and runaway shoots; and in general cut out all dead parts, and clear off de- cayed leaves. Fresh earth—the tops of any pots where it appears necessary; or in others where the earth is hard crusted, loosen the surface a little.