26-i Diseases of the Skin of Children. stances under which patients are so variously placed who require such assistance. Connected with this article is the air-pump vapour-bath, or machine, to which the in- ventor has given this name. This apparatus has been found efficacious in removing paroxysms of the gout, and preventing their recurrence, in acute and chronic rheu- matism, palsy, diseases of the skin, ulcers, lumbago, sciatica, &c. It has also been proposed in chilblains, leprosy, yaws, cramps, female obstructions, and dropsy, with every probability of success. Medicated Baths. This description of baths are such as are saturated with certain mineral, vegetable, and sometimes animal sub- stances. Thus we have sulphur, chlorine, and iron- baths, simple or medicated, aromatic and milk baths. There is little doubt that such ingredients, if duly mixed, and a proper temperature given to the water, may, in cer- tain complaints, be productive of effects highly beneficial. Water impregnated with the sulphate of iron will abound with the bracing particles of that metal, and may be useful for strengthening the parts to which it is ap- plied, re-invigorating debilitated limbs, stopping'various kinds of bleeding, restoring the menstrual and hemorrhoi- dal discharges when obstructed, and, in short, as a sub- stitute for the natural iron-bath. There are various other medicated baths, such, for in- stance, as those prepared with alum and quicklime, sal ammoniac, &c, by boiling them together or separately in pure rain water. These have long been reputed as eminently serviceable in paralytic, and all other diseases arising from nervous and muscular debility. DISEASES OF THE SKIN OF CHILDREN. Eruptions of various kinds make their appearance in the early periods of life, of which it is impossible at all times to convey any precise idea, by mere descrip- tion, divested, of technical terms. Some take on the resemblance of measles, others the small-pox; some that of the nettle-rash, and others the appearance of what has been vulgarly called scurvy (herpes, or shingles); all these eruptions, however different in appearance, yield to a well-regulated use of the warm, or medicated bath, with occasional calomel purgatives.