370 On the Physical Eilucation of ChUdrerti tye. Hints and Remarks on the Physical Character; with oc- . casional Observations on the Moral State of the Green- lander. The Greenlander seldom attains the height of five feet; and the Esquimaux, his brother, who dwells farther to the north, is still shorter. But, as the vital power ope- rates towards the exterior parts of the body, it has compensated in warm and solid muscular substance, what it could not bestow in aspiring height. His head, in proportion to his body, is large; his face broad and flat; for Nature produces beauty only, when acting with temperance, and in a mean betwixt extremes: she could not here round a soft oval; and still less allow the nose, that ornament of the face, to project. As the cheeks occupy the chief breadth of the visage, the mouth is small and round; the hair is stiff; for the fine penetrating juices necessary to form soft silky hair, are wanting; no mind beams from the eye. In like manner, the shoulders grow broad, the limbs large, the body corpulent and sanguine; the hands and feet alone remain small and slender. As is the external form, so are the irritability and the economy of the fluids within. The blood circu^ lates more slowly, the heart beats more languidly: hence the desire of the sexes, which rises to such a height with the increasing warmth of other countries, is here less violent. It awakens not till late; the unmarried live chastely; and the women almost require compulsion, to take upon them the troubles of a married life. They have but few children ; whence they compare the amorous and pirolific Europeans to dogs. In their connubial state, as in their general way of life, a calm sobriety, and an habitual stillness of the passions, prevail. Insensible of those irritations which a warmer climate, and more Volatile animal spirits produce, they live and die peace- able and patient; contented from indifference, and active Only from necessity. The father educates his son to that apathy which he esteems the grand virtue and happiness of life ; and the mother suckles her infant for a length of time, with all the profound tenacious affection of animal maternity. What Nature has denied them in irritability and elasticity of fibre, she has given them in permanent indefatigable strength; and has clothed them with that warming obesity, that abundance of blood, which render their very breath suffocating hot, in close habitations.