Anecdotes on, and Remedies for, offensive Breath. 4(17 of the most imperious nature. Hence it is recommended to all who may havo suffered from this cause, to supply the parturient animals with as much cold liquid as they require or can drink. ANECDOTES ON, AND REMEDIES FOR, OFFENSIVE BREATH. Nothing is more common in society, than to meet with persons having a very offensive breath, which is extremely disagreeable to those under the necessity of associating with them; a circumstance to which the fol- lowing Anecdotes relate. A nobleman, who laboured under this infirmity, affected to say nothing to a lady who paid him a visit. The lady offended, determined to be revenged for this insulting silence, called the servant and said, " See whether your master be not dead; for my part, I think he is, for he stinks, and is speechless." A man, standing in the pit of a French Theatre near a musqueteer who had an offensive breath, asked him " what piece was to be performed V The soldier replied briskly, " Do you take me for a play-bill ?" " The bill would be a very dirty one/' retorted the other. On this answer they went out, and were immediately sword in hand. The countryman, hesitating a moment, said to his antagonist, " Take care, Sir, what you are going to do; if you kill me, you will not stink a whit the less; but if I kill you, you will stink a great deal more." This repartee produced a laugh, and they shook hands. A woman reproached Hiero, tyrant of Syracuse, with having an offensive breath. Hiero said nothing; but com- plained to his wife that she had never told him of this infirmity. " I thought," said this virtuous woman, " that all men's breath smelt so." After the hyperbolical manner of the Orientals, they said, that the breath of Abdelmalech, fifth Caliph of Bagdad, who conquered Mecca, Medina, and part of India, was so infectious, that it proved instant death to the flies that settled near his mouth. Cardan, in his book De Subtilitate, says, that a brother of the King of France, who was afflicted with an ulcer (he does not tell where situated), was perfectly cured by the breath of a child twelve years of age, who slept with him.