On Surgical Operations, as they relate lo Children. 499 proportion to their good effects; and if the blister raised on the surface of the body, be opened with precaution, so that the epidermis, or scarf-skin, is not lacerated, the superficial wound heals in a very short time. Hence parents ought not to object to their application, especially as they are well calculated to relieve pain arising from internal inflammation; to dislodge catarrhal and rheu- matic humours from the parts more essential to life; to discharge them by the nearest extremities, and to excite the indolent powers of the system in general. Good mothers require only to be informed of such advantages, and they will cheerfully co-operate with the views of the physician, instead of prejudicing the helpless child against the application of means so powerful and anodyne. By making this petty sacrifice, they often would save their children much greater, and more durable pain. Observations on Surgical Operations, as they relate to Children. Lastly, Chirurgical Operations are generally considered by parents as unnecessary tortures to the child. It is an almost unpardonable weakness, to suffer children to languish, and sometimes even to die, rather than submit for a few minutes to the knife of the surgeon. For pain certainly is less afflictive to children than adults; because the former cannot reflect upon its consequences, and the remembrance of their sufferings is so faint, that the whole is generally forgotten with the departure of the operator. 1 hope I have not exceeded the limits of patience, in exposing prejudices, which, if not checked in time, may prove extremely detrimental to the future health, and the longevity of children. If the hints and cautions here suggested, be duly considered, it will be found that they are not taken from fancy, but derived from experience and observation. There is another mischievous practice, which deserves severe censure. Nurses and unthinking mothers often imagine they do service to the child, when they threaten it with the appearance of what is vulgarly styled the Doctor, who shall be called to perform an operation, or to punish the little offender with bitter medicines. In this absurd manner, the young mind is often prejudiced against medical assistance, merely be- cause patience and prudence were wanting, to suggest more rational means of appeasing a fretful temper. If, therefore, proper measures were adopted, at the age of