Doctrine of Effluvia applied to Amulets, fyc. 201 against the jaundice; and also as a preservative against the noxious vapours of inclement seasons: it breaks, he observes, and conquers the different figured seeds of pes- tilential distempers floating in the air; or else, mixing with the air, kills them where hatched. Doctrine of Effluvia applied to Amulets, #c. Other philosophers have ascribed the power of mercury in these cases, to an electric faculty given out by the warmth of the body; which attracts the infectious parti- cles outwards. For, say they, all bodies are continually emitting effluvia more or less around them; and some, whether they be external or internal. The Bath waters change the colour of silver in the pockets of those who use them ; mercury the same; cantharides applied exter- nally (or taken inwardly) affect the urinary organs ; and camphor, in the same manner, is said to be an antiphro- disac. Quincy informs us, that by only walking in a newly-fainted room, a whole company had the smell of turpentine in their urine. Yawning and laughing are infectious; so is fear and shame. The sight of sour things, or even the idea of them, will set the teeth on edge. Small-pox, itch, and other diseases, are infec- tious ; if so, mercurial amulets bid fair to destroy the germ of some complaints, when used only as an external application, either by mercurial attrition or worn as an amulet, or inhaled by the nose. In a word, all amulets, medicated or not, are precarious and uncertain; and now a-day are seldom resorted to, much less confided in. Baglivi refines on the doctrine of effluvia, by ascribing his cures of the bite of the tarantula, to the peculiar un- dulation any instrument or tune makes by its strokes in the air; which, vibrating upon the external parts of the patient, is communicated to the whole nervous system, and produces that happy alteration in the solids and fluids, which so effectually contributes to the cure. The contraction of the solids, he says, impresses new mathe- matical motions and directions to the fluids; in one or both of which, is seated all distempers, and without any other help than a continuance of faith, will alter their quality—a philosophy as wonderful and intricate as the nature of the poison it is intended to expel; but which, however, supplies this observation, that if the particles of sound can do so much, the effluvia of amulets may do more. Dd