Cheap Recipe for White-waahing a Cottage. 93 lem artichokes, &c. with various small herbs. Liquorice also may be planted, if omitted last month, &c. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—All planting and pruning must now be finished. Planting may be per- formed in all sorts of fruit-trees, any time this month; but it is advisable to complete all that is intended as soon as possible, before the trees advance much in their spring buds, &c. Flower-Garden.—Compartments designed for plant- ing with any kind of flower-roots or plants, shrubs, trees, should now be forwarded, that all principal planting may be commenced this and the beginning of the next month. Numerous sorts of flowering plants may now be planted ; and many sorts of annual, perennial, and biennial flowers, and many sorts of trees and shrubs, may be planted. Various perennials may also be propagated, &c. The Nursery.—In this month a considerable increase of principal nursery business comes under observation, some consisting in forwarding whatever was omitted in the two former months ; others in performing some parti- cular now more successfully than at any other season; and to finish, if possible, all nursery digging, and the principal work of planting and transplanting in general, according as required; as also to forward the business of propagating, both by seeds, layers, cuttings, suckers, grafting, &c.; and to complete all principal work of prun- ing, and in performing several other works, mentioned under their proper heads, &c. &c. Green-House.—Continue all the plants still in the green-house; and at this season allow them a large admission of free air daily in mild weather, with frequent waterings, &c. &c. Hot-House Plants.—These still require the constant aid of a lively bark-bed heat, assisted by fires in the evenings, and in cold mornings; continuing the pines always in the bark-bed, supported in a good heat, &c. &c. CHEAP RECIPE FOR WHITE-WASHING A COTTAGE. There is something particularly comfortable-looking and healthy in a clean white-washed cottage; and, as poor people are often denied this comfort, from the ex- pence attending it, I give the following recipe, to enable them to do it themselves. The expence is merely for the lime, and should be done with a proper brush. Put half a