484 Diagnostic Signs preceding or accompany ing Diseases. necessary to extirpate them either with the knife or liga- ture ; although this method is not unattended with danger. When, in consequence of piles, the rectum becomes so much affected as to threaten a fistula, the use of Ward's celebrated paste is recommended; made as follows :— Take Pepper, - 2 drachms. Elecampane, - - - "} . . _ Fennel seeds, - - - - jof™ch, jounce. Mixed up with honey in the form of an electuary, of which a tea-spoonful may be taken three times a day. DIAGNOSTIC SIGNS, OR SYMPTOMS, PRECEDING OR ACCOMPANYING DISEASES. (Continuedfrom p. 387). Taste, bitter, sickness, want of appetite, and pain at the stomach, are symptoms of indigestion and weakness of the stomach. An acid taste, accompanied by the pre- ceding symptoms, also occur in weakness of the stomach. Teeth, grinding of,—in fever, a symptom of danger.— In children, a symptom of worms. , aching of, a symptom of inflammation, or caries. The teeth covered with dark, foul, viscous matter, in fevers, generally marks malignancy. Tendons, twitching at the wrist, in fevers, shew danger. Testicle swelled, occurs sometimes at close of the disease called mumps. When the testicles are drawn up and affected with an aching pain, with pain in the back, stretching forwards and downwards, with sickness at the stomach, are symptoms of gravel in the kidneys or ureter. Thirst generally present in fever frequently occurs; but when wanting, and the tongue parched and foul, shews danger. It is generally a troublesome symptom in dropsy. Throat swelled and red, and swallowing very painful, mark the inflammatory sore throat. of a deep crimson colour, with whitish specks, spreading and deepening; extreme debility, and the pulse small and quick, distinguish the putrid ulcerated throat. Thrush or apth^, little ulcers, generally white, ap- pearing on the tongue, inside of the lips, cheeks, &c. When these occur to children, it may in general be con- cluded either that the food of the child is not sufficiently nutritious, or that the child breathes an air too impure. These apthae frequently appear in the latter stage of con- sumption. When they appear in fever they are not always