118 Bathing the Eyes in cold Water. be avoided, on account of the twinkling light occasioned by the agitation of the leaves. Bathing the Eyes in cold Water. The best remedy with which we are acquainted for preserving weak eyes, is bathing them in pure cold water: it both refreshens and strengthens them. But this ought not to be done above three or four times in the course of the day ; otherwise it has a tendency to over stimulate the eyes. Nor should it be done immediately after rising in the morning, but only when the moisture, which during sleep is deposited even in the soundest eyes, is evapo- rated. This partial cold bath may be very advanta- geously employed after dinner and supper, at which times the eyes stand as much in need of it as in the morn- ing. The brow, the region behind the ears, and some- times the whole head, and particularly the upper lip, which is closely connected with the optic nerves, should be bathed or washed as well as the eyes. The washing- should be expeditiously performed ; gradually exposing the eye in the morning to the water. The eyes after this ablution should be carefully and cautiously wiped dry; and rays of light, as well as every kind of exertion, should afterwards be particularly avoided. A large piece of sponge, containing a good deal of water, so that it may not too soon become warm, is far preferable, in these partial bathings, to the warm smooth hand, or towel. The sponge should be frequently dipped in cold water, and occasionally allowed to lie for a few moments on the eye, with the head bent backward, while the eye is gently moved, and a little opened during the operation. Eye-Wash, for relieving the Pain and Weakness incident to the Eyes of Elderly People, when depending on Debility of the Optic Nerves. Take Sulphate of zinc, - - 1 drachm. Spirit of Camphor, - 3 drachms. Distilled water, hot, - 4 ounces. Rose water, - - - 8 ounces. Pour the boiling water upon the zinc and camphorated spirit in a closed vessel, and when cold, strain through linen or line tow; then add the rose water.