Horticulture. 89 remedies were applied, and every thing that was most efficacious in physic, was given to the Prince. He regained his health, but he lost his love; the strength of his dis- order had abated that of his passion, and when he thought himself a lover, he found that he had ceased to love. There is, however, another species of evacuation, not less efficacious for a despairing swain, which will proba- bly amuse the reader. A German gentleman felt an amorous flame for a German Princess. She was not insensible to a reciprocal passion; and to have him about her person, without giving scandal, she created him her general. They lived some time much pleased with each other; but the Princess became fickle, and the General grew jealous. He made very sharp re- monstrances ; the princess, who wished to be free, gave him his conge, and he was constrained to quit her. But his passion at every hour increased; he found he could not live out of her presence, and he ventured to enter pri- vately into her closet. There he threw himself at her feet, and entreated her forgiveness. The Princess frowned, and condescended to give no other answer, than a command to withdraw from her royal highness' presence. The de- spairing lover exclaimed, and he was ready to obey her in every thing but that; that he was resolved, in this to disobey her; and that he preferred to die by her hand. In saying this, to give force to his eloquence, he presented his naked sword to the Princess; who, perhaps, being- little acquainted with the flowers of rhetoric, most cruelly took him at his word, and ran him through the body! Fortunately his wound did not prove mortal: he got well at the end of three months, and likewise of his passion, which had flowed away with the effusion of his blood. horticulture* JANUARY. Kitchen-Garden.—The principal business in the kitchen-garden, at this season, is to prepare the ground for future crops, by manuring, digging, and trenching; protecting tender plants in frames, hand-glasses, borders, &c. In frosty or other inclement weather, making hot- beds for early forcing, when required; and only a few articles are necessary to be sowed and planted, and these principally in but small portions, some in warm N