2bS Horticulture. tention and expedition, that the whole may be com- pleted early in the month. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.—The flower-garden and pleasure-ground, &c. having been furnished in the preceding months with the requisite articles, the principal work now consists in keeping all the different compartments in proper order, in the neatest manner, and to give any necessary regulation to the flowers, plants, shrubs, &c. Annual Flowers—having been all principally sowed, planted and removed to the places where they are to flower, now only require occasional waterings, especi- ally those in pots; and some to be supported with sticks. Work in the Nursery.—The nursery business in this month comprises the continuation of several works of the two former, May and June, consisting of hoeing, weeding, watering, and some occasional shading, pro- pagating by budding, layers, cutting, some transplanting and pricking out, with some occasional works of pruning, training, &c. Weeding and Watering—will now demand particular attention, for as weeds generally at this season continue advancing considerably in all parts, they should be dili- gently kept under; and in dry weather many sorts of small young plants will need frequent watering; and is particularly necessary to all plants in pots. Hoeing—perform in dry weather, to destroy weeds be- tween rows of young trees, and in all compartments where weeds are advancing in considerable growth, and where the hoe can be introduced, cutting them up radi- cally, that they may not grow again, and that the ground may thereby appear in a clean neat order; for, by giving a proper hoeing, and eradicating the weeds effectually, you loosen and freshen the surface beneficially to the growth of the plants. • Likewise seed-beds and others—of small young plants in close growth, where the hoe is not admissible, should be carefully weeded by hand, before the weeds increase much in size to spread, entangle with, and in- jure the plants, now in their infant state. The Green-House. —Any green-house exotics of tender succulent plants, still remaining in the house, remove now into the open air; or if continued longer in the grecn-housc, have the full air admitted day and night ; such as ceruses, African aloes, torch thistle, ficoides, &c.