658 Hippocrat.es' Comparison. active emetic of ipecacuanha must be got down, and the dose followed up at short intervals, as in the preceding case, till vomiting is excited ; this must be kept up for a long time with copious draughts of warm drink. If the substance swallowed be corrosive sublimate, the white of eight or ten eggs, beat up with a quantity of warm water, is an antidote which effectually destroys the effect of the poison. 3. Verdigris.—An emetic of ipecacuanha in the first instance, to be followed by copious draughts of sugared water, is the best antidote to this poison. 4. Oxalic Acid.—This preparation has of late years been often the cause of accidental poisoning, being taken by mis- take sometimes for common salts. It is particularly used for the cleaning of boot-tops, and certain kinds of harness; and its poisonous qualities were uot, for a long time, sus- pected. It has, however, proved to be one of the most formidable of the mineral poisons in common use. So violent is its action, that it is generally found to destroy life within an hour, and sometimes within a quarter of that time, after being swallowed, Little time conse- quently is given for deliberation, and it is necessary to have recourse instantly to the first remedy that comes to hand. Amongst these, the best is calcined magnesia, which should be administered in as large a quantity as can be got down : should this not be at hand, recourse should be had to prepared chalk or lime-water. Tn all cases of poison it should be recollected, that the most speedy means of diminishing the mischief, is that of exciting vomiting; this is most i certainly effected by putting the finger down the throat, or should the patient be incapable of doing this, some other person should em- ploy a feather dipped in oil, and persevere till vomiting is produced. *** The stomach pump, if soon procured, ought to be used immediately by some experienced practitioner, in all cases of poison, as the speediest means of removing the effects. HIPPOCRATES' COMPARISON. The art of Physic is properly enough compared by Hippocrates to a battle, and also to a farce, acted be- tween three persons—the Patient, the Doctor, and the Disease. The Doctor and the Disease, however, risque nothing; the danger is always with the Patient—-Rabelais.