60 Dr. Adair's Suggestions to induce Sleep. There may always be suspected some derangement in the machinery of the constitution, when sleep does not follow as a natural consequence of the activity employed throughout the course of the day. Various practices have been recommended to promote sleep: some to be observed before going to bed, and some after; such as walking up and down the parlour or bed-room, before retiring to rest: " after supper walk a mile," is an excel- lent rule, and may be practised in the house as well as abroad. Listening to music, reading, &c. are good pre- parations for repose. Chinese method of promoting Sleep. The Chinese recommend it as an important rule before going to bed, to wash the mouth, and to rub the teeth and gums over with a brush. This gives the mouth and tongue an agreeable freshness ; and though the practice at first may appear a little troublesome, one may soon become accustomed to it, will feel uncomfortable if omit- ted, more especially as it has a tendency to promote sound sleep. It is also considered by them as a healthy custom, and tending to promote sleep, when a person is undressed, to rub the soles of the feet briskly, and then each toe separately, with the hand or flesh-brush; this practice promotes insensible perspiration, and is an effectual method of preserving and repairing the vital and animal spirits. In fact, there is no better rule than to use the flesh-brush generally, before going to bed, and after getting up in the morning. Dr. Adair's Suggestions to induce Sleep. As disturbed or sleepless nights are very annoying and distressing, and not unfrequently productive of disease, Dr. Adair recommends it, as an effectual remedy, to bathe the feet in a narrow tub with handles, so deep as to reach the knees, gradually increasing the heat, by adding boiling water, till a gentle sweat breathes out; the legs must then be wiped quite dry, and a pair of worsted stockings put on. This he recommends as the best means of procuring natural rest, and as particularly beneficial to men of studious and sedentary habits, as well as to those who are subject to frequent attacks of nervous head-achs, colics, rheumatic or gouty pains.