})8 Qeneral Rules regarding Sleep. will become sound and refreshing, which, otherwise, they cannot expect. Want of sleep is a most distressing, weakening, and dangerous symptom, in a multiplicity of diseases. The causes of morbid initation, which produce and support this dreadful evil, are many and complicated; and it is of the utmost consequence that the true cause should be ascertained. In no instance do ignorant prac- titioners err so much, or so frequently, as in cases of this kind. 4. Old Age.—Sleep was intended to recruit nature, and to restore the wasted spirits. This is necessary to all persons, but is most essential to the aged, because they can least bear any waste or exhaustion, and they may indulge more in it than younger people, or those who are in the prime of life. In this respect, indeed, they may be considered as children a second time. Instead of eight hours, therefore, nine, and even ten, may be allowed them, provided they sleep the whole time, and are not corpulent. If, owing to any agitation of mind, a person advanced in years finds himself unable to sleep as well as usual, he ought, notwithstanding, to rise at his accustomed hour; and next evening let him take the warm bath, and a glass of wine extraordinary, and he will enjoy a sweet slumber, and will not suffer from his former watchfulness. This is a much better plan than lying in bed in the morn- ing, to make up for the last night's want of sleep, which may lead to a very pernicious habit, which it may be difficult to conquer. By getting into a regular habit, in regard to hours (which old people have no excuse for breaking through), life may be as much enjoyed in old age, as even in youth, and perhaps even more so; but then it is necessary to attend to a number of minute circumstances, which may be overlooked in the heyday of youth, but cannot be neglected in old age with impunity. Persons advanced in years may sleep a little after dinner, that their heat, which is weak and feeble, being concentrated within, may enable them to perform their digestion better;! but their afternoon's sleep ought not to be continued too long, for fear it should prevent their sleeping in the night, which is of much more advantage to them. 5. Miscellaneous Rules for Sleeping.—A Chinese philo- sopher, who had paid particular attention to the art of preserving health and long life, drew up a regular system