109 1 J^ecrets of ®rane.—No. II. dalby's carminative. This consists of Carbonate of magnesia, - - 2 scruples. Oil of peppermint, 1 drop. nutmeg, - - 3 drops. aniseed, 3 drops. Tincture of castor, - - 30 drops. assafcetida, - 15 drops. opium, 5 drops. Spirit of penny royal, - 15 drops. Compound tincture of cardamoms, 30 drops. Peppermint water, - - - 2 ounces. *** There are cheaper compositions sold under the same name. In examining the pretensions of this com- bination, it must be allowed that it is constructed upon philosophical principles; this, however, is no reason why the physician should recommend it; the mischievous tendency of a quack medicine does not depend upon its composition, but upon its application. We ought to remember, says an eminent physician, that in recom- mending this nostrum, we foster the dangerous prejudices of mothers and nurses, who are unable to ascertain the circumstances under which it should be given, or even the proper doses in which it should be administered. If its composition is judicious, why do not physicians order the same in a regular prescription, rather than in a form in which the most valuable remedy will be abused ? Davidson's remedy for cancer. Arsenious acid, and powdered hemlock (dangerous). de la motte's golden drops. An ethereal solution of iron. Much used in gout, hy- pocondriasis, and nervous diseases. They have the re- markable property of losing their yellow colour in the sun, and recovering it in the shade. dinner pills. (See Lady Crespignys). dixon's antibilious pills. Aloes, scammony, rhubarb, and tartarized antimony. DUTCH, OR HiERLEM DROPS. The basis of the nostrum consists of the residue of the rc-distillation of the oil of turpentine, which is a thick, red resinous matter, to which the name, of Balsam of Turpentine has been given; a preparation, however, is frequently vended as " Dutch Drops," which is a mixture of oil of turpentine, tincture of guiacum, spirit of nitric aether, with small portions of the oil of amber and cloves.