Singular Cures of the Gout, ijc. producing any degree ot' ease. Some proposed to him to call in the physician Valezio. When he came, he advised the king to immerse his feet in warm water. This simple remedy succeeded beyond all expectation. The result was, that Mercatus was discharged, and Valezio received his place. When Biosrobert was seized with gout, Despreaux sent a servant to inquire after his health. On returning, he acquainted him that the gout was raging with redoubled fury. " I suppose he swears heartily then," said Des- preaux. " Alas ! Sir," said the valet, " he has no other consolation, as all the physicians have abandoned him." An anecdote related in the Roman History has escaped general attention. Of three ambassadors, sent by the Romans to the king of Bythinia, one had the gout, the second had been trepanned, and the third was little better than a fool: on which Cato, the censor, remarked, that " this embassy had neither feet, head, nor common sense." It was the gout that first gave a turn for mathematics to the celebrated Cavalieri, a Jesuit of Milan, and after- ward professor of mathematics at Bologna. He was dreadfully tormented with this malady when Castelli, a disciple of Galileo, came to visit him; who counselled him, by way of diverting his pains, to apply himself to geometry. Cavalieri followed his advice, and took such a liking for this science, that he became one of the first mathematicians of the age. Gout is frequently the con- comitant of genius, although it has been denominated the offspring of Bacchus and Venus. The torture of the gout must be dreadful, as it has even driven its victims to terminate their miseries by a violent death. Of this an example is furnished in the case of Colonel Lloyd, who, in the year 1724, being cruelly tormented by this disease, put an end to his life by a pistol. He left a note upon his table, declaring, that the gout having got completely the better of him, he knew no other way of getting rid of this enemy than by putting an end to his life. This is a case in which it may be justly said, that the remedy is worse than the disease. Leibnitz, in consequence of wishing to be too quickly relieved from an attack of gout, took some remedy from the hands of a Jesuit at Vienna. The gout mounted from the feet to the stomach, and the patient soon expired in spasms, sitting on his bed-side, with the Argenis of