5(J0 Aquatic Improve men Is in China. with cotton, and after +!.at with potatoes. This is the common method of culture; but the rule is not without exception. Upon most of the mountains, which are incapable of being cultivated for the subsistence of man, proper trees are planted for building houses or ships. Many of them contain iron, tin, and copper mines, for supplying the empire. The gold mines have been neglected, either because their produce did not defray the expence of working them, or because the gold dust, washed down by the torrents, was found sufficient for the purposes of exchange. The sandy plains, saved from the ravages of the ocean (which changes its bed as rivers do their course, in a space of time so exactly proportioned to their differ- ent moments, that a small encroachment of the sea causes a thousand revolutions on the surface of the globe), form at this day the provinces of Nankin and Tchekiang, which are the finest in the empire. As the Egyptians checked the course of the Nile, the Chinese have repulsed, restrained, and given lawrs to the ocean. They have re- united to the continent, tracts of land which had been disjoined by this element. They still exert their endea- vours to oppose that over-ruling effect of the earth's motion, which, in conformity with the celestial system, drives the ocean from east to west. To the actions of the globe, the Chinese oppose the labours of industry; and while nations, the most celebrated in history, have, by the rage of conquest, increased the ravages that time is perpetually making upoh this globe, they exert such efforts to retard the progress of universal devastation, as might appear supernatural, if daily experience did not afford us strong evidence to the contrary. Aquatic Improvements. To the improvements of land this nation adds, if we may be allowed the expression, the improvement of the water : the rivers, which communicate with each other by canals, and run under the walls of most of the towns, present us with the prospect of floating cities, composed of an infinite number filled with people, who live con- stantly upon the water, and whose sole employment is fishing. The sea itself is covered with numberless vessels, whose masts, at a distance, appear like moving forests. Anson mentions it as a reproach to the fishermen belong- ing to the boats, that they did not give themselves a