Sketch of the History of Sugar. 431 1100) says, that the Crusaders found in Syria certain reeds, called Cannameles, of which it was reported a kind of wild honey was made; but does not say that he saw any so manufactured. Albertus Agnensis relates, that about the same period, " the Crusaders found sweet honeyed reeds, in great quantity, in the meadows about Tripoli, in Syria, which reeds were called Zucra. These the people (the Crusaders' army) sucked, and were much pleased with the sweet taste of them, with which they could scarcely be satisfied. This plant (the author tells us) is cultivated with great labour of the husbandmen every year. At the time of harvest, they bruise it, when ripe, in mortars, and set by the strained juice in vessels, till it is concreted in form of snow, or white salt. This, when scraped, they mix with bread, or rub it with water, and take it as potage; and it is to them more wholesome and pleasing than the honey of bees. The people who were engaged in the sieges of Albaria Marra and Archas, and suffered dreadful hunger, were much refreshed hereby." The same author, in the account of the reign of Bald- win, mentions eleven camels, laden with sugar, being taken by the Crusaders, so that it must have been made in considerable quantity. Jacobus de Vitriaco mentions, that " in Syria reeds grow that are full of honey, by which he understands a sweet juice, which, by the pressure of a screw engine, and concreted by fire, becomes sugar." This is the first account I have met with, of the employment of heat or fire in the making of sugar. About the same period (A. D. 1124), Willermus Tyrensis speaks of sugar as made in the neighbourhood of Tyre, and sent from thence to the farthest parts of the world. Marinus Sanutus mentions (A. D. 1300), that in the countries subject to the Sultan, sugar was produced in large quantity, and that it likewise was made in Cyprus, Rhodes, Amorea, Marta, Sicily, and other places be- longing to the Christians. Hugo Falcandus, an author who wrote about the time of the Emperor Frederic Barbarossa, speaks of sugar being in his time produced in great quantity in Sicily, It appears to have been used in two states; one wherein the juice was boiled down to the consistence of honey, and another where it was boiled farther, so as to form a solid body of sugar. 3 i