578 Prevention of the Smoking of a Lamp. comes habituated, or has adapted itself to the cause. A table spoonful every morning, diluted with twice the same quantity of water, is said to be a prophylactic against the fevers of warm climates,—to strengthen the stomach, promote the powers of digestion to act as a general strengthener to the constitution, so liable to be relaxed by change of climate, and to preserve that gene- ral tonicity so essential to health, without requiring any additional stimulus to continue the effect. As many people have been, and still are, deterred from undertaking sea-voyages, from the dread of encountering the hitherto invincible terror, called sea-sickness, we trust that those who henceforward would prefer this mode of travelling, either from choice or cheapness ; but who, for the reasons just mentioned, have been prevented, will now be enabled to gratify their predilection, secure from the evil they have so long dreaded to encounter. With the general virtues of the Aromatic Marine Tincture, the public will be soon in possession, as it is understood the author has a pamphlet in the press on the subject. We also understand, that an analysis of this peculiar prepa- ration has several times been unsuccessfully attempted by two eminent chymists*.' MILK, At this day in use among almost all nations, was, in the first ages, the most common article of food. Pliny and some Historians make mention of certain nations who lived on milk only. But the art of cooking has converted into a mere ingredient, what was the chief nourishment of man; while medicine has drawn from it a useful and salutary resource in those desperate cases in which the weakness of the patients render them unable to take any solid nourishment. There is scarcely any state of feeble- ness, according to Dr. Cheyne, from which this liquor cannot raise the body. TO PREVENT THE SMOKING OF A LAMP. Soak the wick in strong vinegar, and dry it well before you use it; it will then burn both sweet and pleasant, and give much satisfaction for the trifling trouble in pre- paring it. * Purely vegetable compositions arc with extreme difficulty, if at all, capable of correct analysis. This appears to be the case with the " Aromatic Marine Tincture."