BUONAPARTE'S MEDICATED BATH. The following recipe for a medicated bath, Sir Arthur Clarke observes, he was favoured with from a French Physician, and which is the form Sir Arthur has recom- mended in a variety of cases of. the diseases of the skin, from the slightest eruption to. the most obstinate scorbu- tic complaints, approaching to leprosy. To produce water similar to that of the Source Royal at Barege. Take, for every gallon of water you wish to impregnate, Aluniine, - - 2 grains. Carbonate of lime, - - 2 grains. Hard Spanish soap - - 2 grains. Muriate of soda (common salt) 4 grains. Carbonate of soda (dried) - 20 grains. Sulphuret of potash - - 16 grains. Grind these materials together, and boil them in as much water as will dissolve them ; stir them over the fire, till the sulphuretted hydrogen gas is disen- gaged, which is known by its resemblance to the smell of rotten eggs; then mix the ingerdicnts with the water of the bath, previously prepared. When this combination is formed, and the proper de- gree of heat added, we may expect every salutary effect by this artificial water, as certainly, observes Sir Arthur, as if used at its source. Julius Caesar, and the Roman General Sertorius, bathed in the waters of Barege, to restore their wonted energy, after their campaigns in Gaul and Spain. Henry IV. of France frequented them in his youth, and Louis XVI. dig- nified them with an hospital for his wounded officers, and another for his soldiers; who, when all other means of cure failed, were, from the remotest parts of France, sent to Barege, as a last and sure resource. M. Dessault, an eminent French surgeon, published an essay recommending their use in stone and gravel; and Sir Christopher Meighan published a treatise on their use for the cure of gun-shot and other wounds, muscular contractions, schirrous tumours, and many other disor- ders ; but the general use of the waters at Barege, is for disorders of the skin, gouty, rheumatic, rigid and palsied limbs, and cases of painful wounds. Monsieur Montant, at the Military Hospital at Barege, has given an account of their utility in such cases. The most successful results have been obtained from the use of artificial medicated baths, as well as from the source of the medicated springs; and as the latter are inac- cessible to the subjects of this country, whose means do not allow of visiting them, it is a consideration of the first importance, to be enabled to supply this defect; b 1 2