Diagnostic Signs preceding or accompanying Diseases. 47 Convulsions.—Convulsive fits often precede the erup- tion of the small-pox; and frequently accompany teething, in which last case they may be speedily removed by having the gums properly lanced.—Convulsions are often occasioned by worms irritating the stomach and bowels of children; here vermifuges are necessary.— Convulsions of the whole body, with frothing at the mouth, and total loss of sensibility, characterise epilepsy, or falling sick- ness, so termed, from the subjects of this disease falling down suddenly on the coming on of the fit. Accompanied with a sensation as if a ball were rising in the throat, fluttering and rumbling in the bowels, shew the disease to be hysterics. Costiveness.—Obstinate costiveness, with severe pain, and contraction of the belly, and twisting about the navel; point out colic. When costiveness happens to painters, makers of white lead, lapidaries, &c. there will be reason to suppose it to be occasioned by the poisonous fumes of the lead.—When accompanied with extreme pain and vomiting, inflammation of the bowels; which symptoms also may be a consequence of strangulated hernia. It is also a symptom of weak organs of digestion, torpor of the intestinal canal, &c. Cough, when continuing for any length of time, ought to excite apprehension of some dangerous affection tak- ing place in the lungs. Accompanied with shortness of breath, pain in the chest, bloated or swelled face of a purplish colour, particularly indicate inflammation of the lungs. Continuing with shortness of breath, after the other symptoms have subsided, gives reason to fear some alteration in the lungs, that may, if not speedily reme- died, terminate in consumption. With frequent discharge from the mouth, eyes, and nose, distinguishes a catarrhal affection—with redness of the eyes, accompanying an eruption of small pimples like flea-bites, are symptoms of measles. Violent coughing may be sometimes symp- tomatic of an hysterical affection. With a discharge of purulent matter accompanied by fever, increasing twice in twenty-four hours, shows that consumption has com- menced. Strangulating convulsive cough, quickly re- peated, and accompanied with a peculiar hooping sound, hooping cough. Cramp in the legs, is a frequent symptom in the disorder of the bowels, termed cholera morbus. Deafness, succeeding to a purulent discharge from