551 4 A NATURAL HISTORY OF ANIMALS OF THE LOBSTER KIND. (From Dr. Goldsmith and other Natural Historians.) Anatomy of the Lobster, &c. The lobster is an animal of so extraordinary a form, that those who first see it are apt to mistake the head for the tail; but it is soon discovered that the animal moves with its claws foremost; and that the part which plays within itself by joints, like a coat of armour, is the tail. The two great claws are the lobster's instrument of pro- vision and defence; these, by opening like a pair of nippers, have great strength, and take a firm hold, by being notched like a saw. Beside these powerful instru- ments, the lobster has eight legs, four on each side; and these, with the tail, serve to give the animal its progres- sive motion. Between the two claws is the animal's head, very small, and furnished with eyes that seem like two black horny specks ; and these it has a power of advanc- ing out of the socket, and drawing in at pleasure. The mouth, like that of insects, opens the long way of the body; not crossways, as with the higher race of animals. It is furnished with two teeth for the communition of its food; but as these are not sufficient, it has three more in the stomach; one on each side, and the other below. Between the two teeth there is a fleshy substance, in the shape of a tongue. The intestines consist of one long bowel, which reaches from the mouth to the vent; but what this animal differs in from all others, is, that the spinal marrow is in the breast-bone. It is furnished with two long feelers or horns, that issue on each side of the head, that seem to correct the dimness of its sight, and apprize the animal of its danger, or prey. Every lobster is an hermaphrodite, and is supposed to be self-impreg- nated ! The ovary, or place where the spawn is first pro- duced, is backwards, toward the tail, where a red sub- stance is found, when too full for exclusion. From this receptacle there go two canals, that open on each side at the jointures of the shell, at the belly; and through these passages the spawn is excluded, and placed under the tail, where the animal preserves them from danger for some time, until they come to maturity; when, being furnished with limbs and motion, they drop off into the water.