217 Education of Children. Respecting the Times of Eating. Extract from the Haven of Health, by Thomas Cogan, Master of Arts, and Bachelor of Physicke. Of Dinner.—"When foure houres be past after breakfast, a man may safely taste his dinner; and the most conve- nient time for dinner is about eleven of the clocke before noon. Yet Diogenes the philosopher, when he was asked the . question, what time was best for a man to dine; he answered, for a rich man when he will, but for a poore man when he may. But the usuall time for dinner in the Universities is eleven, and elsewhere about noone. At Oxford, in my time, they used commonly at dinner boyled biefe with pottage, bread and beere, and no more; the quantity of biefe was in value an half-a-penny for one man; sometimes, if hunger constrayned, they would double their commons." . Of Supper.—" About foure houres or sixe after we have dined, the time is convenient for supper: which in the Universities is about five of the clocke in the afternoone, and in poore men's houses, when leisure will serve." Having thus set down every thing that occurs to me at present, I shall conclude with my best wishes for your health; and am, Sir, your most obedient humble servant, Francis Grose. EDUCATION OF CHILDREN. In Boswell's Life of Dr. Johnson, we find the follow- ing sentiments, with regard to the education of children:— " Mr. Boyd told us that Lady Errol was one of the most pious and sensible women in the island; had a good head, and as good a heart. He said she did not use force or fear, in educating her children."—Johnson observed, " Sir, she is wrong; I would rather have the rod to be the general terror to all, to make them learn, than tell a child, if you do thus or thus, you will be more esteemed than your brothers or sisters. The rod produces an effect which terminates in itself. A child is afraid of being whipped, and gets his task, and there's an end on't; whereas by exciting emulation, and comparisons of superiority, you lay the foundation of lasting mischief; you make brothers and sisters hate each other."