Prevention and Treatment of Hydrophobia, 337 laborious and uneasy, but his judgment is unaffected; and, as long as he retains the power of speech, his an- swers are distinct. In some few instances, a severe delirium arises, and closes the frightful scene; but it more frequently happens, that the pulse becomes tremulous and irregular, convul- sions arise, and nature becoming at length exhausted, the unhappy patient sinks under the pressure of his misery. Appearance of a Mad Dog, When a dog is affected with madness, he becomes dull, solitary, and endeavours to hide himself, seldom bark- ing, but making a murmuring noise, and refusing all kinds of meat and drink. He flies at strangers, but, in this stage, he remembers and respects his master; his head and tail hang down j he walks as if overpowered by sleep; and a bite at this period, though dangerous, is not so apt to bring on the disease in the animal bitten, as one inflicted at a later period. The dog at length begins to pant; he breathes quickly and heavily; his tongue hangs out; his mouth is continually open, and discharges a large quantity of froth. Sometimes he walks slowly, as if half asleep, and then runs suddenly, but not always directly forward. At last he forgets his master; his eyes have a dull watery red appearance; he grows thin and Weak, often falls down, gets up and attempts to fly at every thing, soon becoming very furious. In this state the animal seldom lives longer than thirty hours; and it is said that his bites, towards the close of his existence, are the most dangerous. The throat of a person suffering hydrophobia is always much affected ; and it is asserted, that the nearer the bite to this part the greater the danger. Prevention and Treatment of Hydrophobia. It would appear superfluous to dwell long on the treat- ment of this afflicting disease, and it might be deemed presumption, after so many great names, to say any thing on an occasion so distressing, that does not admit of being confirmed by long experience and observation; although, hitherto, nothing of any benefit has been offered through this channel—all has been conjecture and surmise. One has recommended one tiling, another another; but what do these all amount to ?—nothing. No good, we are told, is to be derived from medicine: the^ moment a man u u 2