502 Treatment during Suspended Animation. Nature thought proper to form all his creatures upon the same plan, and to give each of them an equal portion of mental and bodily.capacities, we might then reasonably expect to establish rules and maxims applicable to every individual. Such uniformity, however, does not exist: hence, the necessity of attending to the peculiarities of constitution, climate, season, and many other particulars, before we can venture to reduce any principles to general practice. In this manner only, experimental facts will become truly valuable and useful—and the important office of educating children, will receive every day new accessions and practical improvements. TREATMENT TO BE ADOPTED DURING SUSPENDED ANI- MATION, FROM COLD, HANGING, INTOXICATION, APO PLEXY, SUFFOCATION FROM NOXIOUS VAPOURS, LIGHT- NING, &c. Observe the following cautions:—l.Lose no time.— 2. Avoid all rough usage.—3. Never hold the body up by the feet.—4. Do not roll the body on casks.—5. Do not rub the body with salt or spirits.—6. Do not inject tobacco smoke, or infusion of tobacco. Restorative Means, if apparently Drowned. — Send quickly for medical assistance; but do not delay the fol- lowing means:—I. Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders in a raised position, to the nearest house.—II. Strip the'body and rub it dry; then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed, in a warm apartment.—III. Wipe and cleanse the mouth and nos- trils.—IV. In order to restore the natural heat of the body: 1. Move a heated covered warming-pan over the back and spine.—2. Place bladders, or bottles full of hot water, or heated bricks, to the pit of the stomach, the arm-pits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet.—3. Fo- ment the body with hot flannels; but, if possible, immerse the body in a warm bath, as hot as the hand can bear without pain, as this is preferable to the other means of restoring warmth.—4. Rub the body briskly with the hand; do not however suspend the use of the other means at the same time. V. In order to restore breathing, introduce the pipe of a common bellows, (where the apparatus of the Royal Society is not at hand) into one nostril, carefully closing