Housekeeping and Husbandry. 81 alkalis must be neutralized with the diluted acid of vinegar. Muslin, when stained by wine, will be best restored by rubbing it with soft soap and common whiting before washing ; after which it must be kept wet, and exposed to the sun and air. To remove Grease Spots. Moisten them with a few drops of the concentrated solution of subcarbonate of potash; rub the spot be- tween the fingers, so that the alkali may unite chemically with the grease, forming a species of soap, which a little warm water will wash out. To remove Spots of Wax, Oil Paint, fyc. Moisten them repeatedly with alcohol, or strong spirit of wine, when the wax will become dry and brittle, yield- ing easily to the action of a brush. If, however, the spots are of long standing, it will be a readier method to apply a few drops of rectified spirit of turpentine ; rub it in well, and wash out with soap and water.—To remove oil paint, apply oil of turpentine, and wash it out. The preceding directions are all applicable to linens, cottons, and woollens; but another process is required, To remove Grease Spots from Silk, e. g. Take some fullers' earth, powder it, and mix into a paste with water. Apply some to the spot; let it dry, and then brush out; after which, remove the marks with a little sulphuric ether, which must again be washed out with spirits of wine. Of discharging Grease Spots from Cloths, by Mr. W. Nicholson, Philosophical Journal, No. 68, Vol. 16. Piece goods are often so damaged, by oil or tallow dropping on them from the lamps or candles of the weaver, that they are quite unsaleable; it is therefore a matter of considerable importance to the manufacturer, to have every information he can, on the best method of discharging the spots so caused. Fullers' earth, or tobacco-pipe clay, being put wet on an oil spot, absorbs the oil as the water evaporates ; and leaves the vegetable or animal fibres of the cloth clean, on being beaten or brushed out. When the spot is occa- sioned by tallow or wax, it is necessary to heat the part cautiously by an iron, or the lire, while the earth is dry-