Observations on Clothing, taking Exercise, b>c. The advantages to be derived from exercise, are, increase of bodily strength, free circulation of the blood and the other fluids, a due performance of the necessary secretions and excretions—-the whole mass of blood is cleared and refined, so that stagnation does not take place, even in the minutest vessels; and if any obstruc- tion be beginning to take place, it will be effectually relieved by it. To those, however, unaccustomed to it, violent ex- ercise is particularly hurtful; more so, when excesses in eating and drinking have been committed. Those also, whose bodies have not been sufficiently nourished by food and drink, may do themselves harm by using too much exercise. In like manner, sudden transitions from a state of rest to violent action, is likewise hurtful, and still more so in hot than in cold weather. After strong emotions of the mind, every species of bodily exercise ought to be avoided, till the tranquillity of the mind return upon an equilibrium with that of the body: the effects of cold should nevertheless be guarded against, which, in such a state, might prove extremely injurious*. Manner of taking Exercise. Three principal points in the manner of taking exer- cise, are necessary to be attended to, viz. 1. The kind of exercise;—2. The proper time for exercise;—3. The du- ration of it. With respect to the kinds of exercise, the various species of it may be divided into active and passive. Among the first, which admit of being considerably diver- sified, may be enumerated, walking, running, leaping, swimming, riding, fencing, the military exercise, different sorts of athletic games, &c. Among the latter, or passive kinds of exercises, may be comprised riding in a carriage, sailing, friction, swinging, &c. The first, or active exer- cises, are more beneficial to youth, to the middle-aged, to the robust in general, and particularly to the corpu- lent, the plethoric, and to those whose evacuations are not in a due proportion to their supplies. The second, or passive kinds of exercise, on the contrary, are better calculated for children; old, dry, and emaciated persons * Sec " The Natural and Medical Dietf,ticon," for many useful obser- vations on the preceding subjects, just publislicd.