48 Famines accounted for in earlier Times. the ear, seldom admits of a cure—where, without this last symptom, it continues for any length of time, it often depends on the passage of the ear being obstructed by wax; consequently may be cured by its removal; which may be effected by syringing the ear with a solution of soap and water, &c. ; Delirium, preceded by cold shivering, and succeeding to excessive indulgence in spirituous liquors, and other pernicious habits, demands the utmost attention to guard against inflammation of the brain. In acute diseases, it never occurs without danger. At the commencement of fever, it ought to excite the greatest alarm, from the pro- bability of its being a consequence of inflammation of the brain. When it accompanies erysipelas, or St. An- thony's fire, and increases as the disease proceeds, it is an alarming symptom, prognosticating a translation of the morbid matter to the brain, or its membranes. When- ever delirium is violent, with redness of the face and eyes, accompanied with fever, the patient experiencing great inconvenience from light and noise, it may be con- cluded that inflammation of the brain has actually taken, place.—(To be continued). FAMINES ACCOUNTED FOR IN EARLIER TIMES. The frequency of famines which prevailed in the earlier centuries, affords too clear a proof of the slow progress of agricultural improvement. The wretched tenure by which the inferior farmers held their lands (a tenure which obliged them to discontinue that labour which they were employing in their own fields, and to transfer it to that of their lords, whether prelates or barons), was an effectual bar to every amendment of soil. If gardening throve better, it was because it flourished immediately by the protection of the great. Almost every large castle or monastery, had its kitchen-garden, physic- garden, orchard, and frequently, its vineyard. And, strange as it may appear to those, who consider how much less is brought about, although with much greater advantage, yet it does appear from evidence we cannot well doubt, that at the period we allude, to, wine, in great quantity, was made in England, and of a quality too which, at least, is never mentioned to its disparage- ment. _