4 Observations on Clothing, influence of Air, Weather, 5fc. spirations, which are highly salutary in removing obstruc- tions in the cutaneous pores, &c. Delicate and dyspeptic persons are often distressed by changing their dress, which should be as uniform as possible, in thickness, quality, and form, especially flannel, or indeed whatever is worn next to the skin. The change of a thick waistcoat for a thin one, or a long one for a shorter one ; not putting on winter garments soon enough, or leaving them off too soon, will often excite a violent disorder in the lungs, bowels, &c. and exasperate any existing constitutional complaint. Those who wear flannel waistcoats, are recommended to have their new ones about the middle of November, with sleeves to them coming down to the wrist: the short- ening these sleeves in warm weather, is as effective an antidote against extreme heat, as lengthening them, and closing the cuff of the coat, is against intense cold. Coats* should be made so large, that when but- toned, we may be as easy as when it is unbuttoned, so that without any unpleasant pressure on the chest, &c. we may wear it closely buttoned up to the chin: the power of doing this, is a convenient provision against the sudden transitions from heat to cold. Buttoning up this outer garment, will protect the delicate from-the many mischiefs so apt to arise in this precarious and un- certain climate, from the want of such an article of de- fence ; and the additional warmth it produces, will often cure slight colds, &c. Another mode of accumulating heat, is to have two sets of button-holes to the cuff of the coat (especially the great-coat), one of which will bring it close round the wrist. Boerhaave observed, that only fools and beggars suf- fered from cold; the latter not being able to procure sufficient clothes—the former not having the sense to wear them. People advanced in life, well know how to appreciate these observations, without, at the sacrifice of their health, being biassed either by prejudice or fashion. * In the Life of John Stewart, the traveller, better known about London by the name of Walking Stewart, he observes ! ** I clothed myself at all times very warm, and by buttoning and unbuttoning, I could accommodate .to the sudden changes of climate and season, and preserved thereby, that equilibre of the secretions and excretions, on which life and health depends; for clothing forms a factitious heat, as a substitute to the muscular heat, declining with age or sickness ; on which action of heat, vitality, and all the other functions q{ vital organism, depend."