254 Wells, Waters, aud Watering-Places. any particular apartment, may be lowered or raised at pleasure. BROADSTAIRS. Either envy or emulation is invariably excited by the success of our neighbours. Margate on the one side, and Ramsgate on the other, having acquired a high repu- tation as bathing-places, Broadstairs, adopting the com- mon principle, has attempted to rival them, or at least to participate in their profits. Broadstairs, sometimes pronounced Bradstow by the inhabitants, is a hamlet belonging to the parish of St. Peter, in the Isle of Thanet, distant about three miles south-east from Margate, and two miles from Ramsgate. It has latterly become the resort of many respectable families during the summer, who, preferring retirement to the gaiety and bustle of a public place, find, in the society and accommodations that are to be met with here, every pleasure and amusement they can wish for. Many new buildings have been erected for their reception, so that now, what was originally an insignificant village, has become a convenient and pretty considerable little town. In the harbour, and off its mouth, is the bathing-place. The machines and rooms are on the same principle and terms as those of Ramsgate and Margate; between which and Broadstairs, a constant intercourse is kept up; to be attributed principally to the shortness of the distance. Lodging-houses are plentiful, and persons may live according to their own plan. DOVER. This celebrated sea-port, so much frequented by visi- tors to France, has of late imitated many of its neigh- bours, in aspiring to the rank of a regular watering-place. It is a town of high antiquity, situated in the eastern part of the county of Kent, seventy-two miles from London, sixteen from Canterbury, and twenty-two from Margate, in a pleasant valley. It was once walled round, and had ten gates. The environs are beautiful and romantic. A little to the north of the town is Shakspeare's Cliff, so styled from the following appropriate description CO the Tragedy of King Lear: " There is a clilF, whose high and bending- head Looks fearfully on the confined deep ;— How dizzy 'tis to cast one's eyes below I The crows and choughs, that wing the. midway air. , Shew scarce so gross as beetles. Half way down Hangs one that gathers samphire ; dreadful trade '.