538 LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN, DURING THE EARLY PART OF THEIR LIVES. ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS, Sic% BY A. F. WILLICII, M. D. (Continuedfrom p. 502). LECT. III. Abstract of Professor Huj"eland's Opinions relative to the Food and Drink, Sleep and Cries, of Children. Of Food, fa. Happy is the child who, during the first period of its existence, is fed upon no other aliment than the milk of its mother, or that of a healthy nurse: if other food becomes necessary before the child has acquired teeth, it ought to be of a liquid form ; for instance, biscuits, or stale bread, boiled in an equal mixture of milk and water, to the consistence of a thick soup; but by no means even this in the first week of its life. Flour or meal ought never to be used for soup, as it produces viscid humours, instead of a wholesome nutritious chyle, while it lays the foundation for worms, and obstructs the mesentery. After the first six months, weak veal or chicken broth may be. given, and also, progressively, vegetables that are not very flatulent; for instance, carrots, endive, spinach, parsneps, scorzonera made into pudding, with broth and boiled fruit, such as apples, pears, plums, and cherries. When the infant is weaned, and has acquired its proper teeth, it is advisable to let it have small portions of meat, and other vegetables, as well as dishes prepared of flour, &c. so that it may gradually become accustomed to every kind of strong and wholesome food. We ought, however, to be cautious, and not, upon any account, to allow a child pastry, confectionary, cheese, heavy dishes made of boiled or baked flour, onions, horse-radish, mustard, smoaked and salted meat, especially pork, and all compound dishes; for the most simple food is the most salubrious. Potatoes should be allowed only in moderation, and not to be eaten with butter, but rather with other vegetables, either mashed up or in broth. The time of taking food is not a matter of indifference: very young infants make an exception; for as their con- sumption of vital power is more rapid, they may be more frequently indulged with aliment. It is, however, ad- visable to accustom even them to a certain regularity, so