533 Horticulture. to any more tender or curious exotics ; pruning and trimming- the stems of trees, &c. wheeling in dung lor manure; and some other occasional works, as hereafter directed. The work of transplanting—may be occasionally per- formed moderately in open weather, where required, especially in most of the hardy deciduous trees and shrubs, both in some nursery planting, and for final planting in garden and shrubbery plantations, &c. but if appearance of frost setting in, should decline all planting, or at least removal or transplanting of any kind of trees and shrubs. However, in continuation of open settled weather, any particularly necessary planting and drawing of trees may be forwarded in dry light ground, without any great risk'of injury; and may transplant some hardier sorts of evergreens (b. m.) for gardens, shrubberies, and other plantations ; but they will be more safely removed with balls of earth about the roots. The work of transplanting—but in evergreens particu- Jarly, it is not at all advisable to perform any general transplanting at this season in the nursery way. The Green-House.—In the green-house particular attention is required, to admit air to the plants in all mild weather, and to give occasional moderate waterings; likewise to protect them efFectually from frost. Fresh air—admit only in mild open weather, every day, by opening some of the glasses moderately, from nine or ten in the morning till three or four in the afternoon; then shut close for the night. Fresh air—But in giving air, if the weather changes sharply cold, shut close, or only draw down the glasses a little at top. Never admit air in foggy or very damp wea- ther, nor when sharp frost or much wind. Tn frosty iveather—keep the glasses constantly close; and when very severe, put up shutters, or nail mats against the glasses; also where flues, make gentle fires. Water—will be required occasionally, but always very moderately at this season, and never in frost; water the succulent plants, but seldom and sparingly. Stir the surface of the earth—in the pots, where it ap- pears crusted or bound. Decayed leaves and shoots, £yc.—always clear off from the plants. Hot-House and Stove.—At this season be careful to keep a constant regular heat in the pinery and general