Treatment of Piles, &c. 483 When the tumours are large, and attended with much pain, it will be advisable to apply a few leeches to them; after which pledgets of lint or linen rag, wetted in the fol- lowing lotion, may be applied, the patient after each stool anointing the part with some emollient ointment. Lotion for painful Piles. Take Sulphate of zinc, or sugar of lead, - - 20 grains. Water, - 1 pint. To be applied «s directed. Emollient Ointment to be used after each Stool. Take Spermaceti ointment, - - 1 of cach> * <„,„«.. Cerate of the superacetate of lead, J * Opium in powder, - - - - - \ drachm. To be intimately mixed together. If falling down of the fundament be occasioned by the piles, the part is to be carefully replaced each time after going to stool; and if the patient cannot perform this him- self he must procure some one to do it for him ; when he must lie in a horizontal posture, while his assistant, or medical attendant, gently presses up the gut; the return of which, is to be prevented by avoiding, as much as pos- sible, the cause which occasioned its descent. When it proceeds from laxity, besides applying a proper bandage^ the astringents advised under spitting of blood, may be taken internally; also the following externally, removing costiveness by some of the preceding laxatives. Astringent injection for the falling down of the fundament in piles, or bleeding considerable. 1. Take Decoction of oak bark, 1 pint. Alum, powdered, 2 drachms. Tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Mix for an injection, and throw up enough to fill the rectum. 2. Take Bruised oak gall, - \ ounce. Hot water, - - - - - - 2 pints. Infuse and strain, to be used as above. When the bleeding from the piles has been very con- siderable, in addition to the above astringent injections, much benefit has been derived from the early application of pressure by means of a piece of pig's or sheep's gut, introduced up the rectum, tying it at one end, and filling it at the other extremity with some cold water and vine- gar, forcing up the liquid, so as to increase the strength of pressure, and then securing it with a proper bandage. Whore piles have been of long standing, the excres- cences become sometimes so troublesome as to render it