Diagnostic Signs preceding or accompanying Diseases. 127 Pain in the Right Side, under the short ribs, ex- tending to the shoulder, with fever, points out inflamma- tion of the liver. Pain over the whole Belly, increased by straight- ening the body, extreme soreness and fever, mark inflam- mation of the peritoneum, or membrane lining the cavity of the belly. Very violent vomitings, obstinate costiveness and fever, distinguish inflammation of the bowels. Pain about the Navel, very severe, with costive- ness and contraction of the belly, are symptoms of colic. With frequent slimy stools, streaked with blood, point out dysentery, or bloody flux. Pain at the bottom of the Belly, with fulness and extreme tenderness on pressure, and frequent painful attempts to pass urine, which escapes only in small quantities, shews inflammation to have possessed the bladder. Pain in the Back, one of the first symptoms of fever, and generally occurs to a great degree in malignant and in eruptive fevers. Pain in the Loins, passing forward toward the bot- tom of the belly, fever, vomitings, numbness of the thigh, and drawing up or pain of the testicles in the affected side, accompany inflammation of the kidneys. Pain in large Muscles and Joints, without red- ness, swelling, or fever, occurs in chronic rheumatism. With swelling, redness, and fever, distinguish acute, or inflammatory rheumatism. Pain in the Shin Bones, or in the head, suffering a considerable augmentation in the evening, demands im- mediate attention. Pain in the Joints of the Great Toe, instep, or hand, generally preceded by some affection of the sto- mach, and coming on most commonly in the night, cha- racterises the attacks of the gout. Pain in the Limbs generally occurs at the commence- ment of fever. Pain at the Pit of the Stomach, with vomitings, may proceed from gall-stones.—At the commencement of fever, pain at the pit of the stomach is often followed by a disease of a considerable degree of malignity. It also frequently precedes the eruption of the small-pox or measels. And heat in the stomach, increased by swal-