410 Remedial Treatment of Einpassioned Depressions, &c. an ideal cause, especially in a mind of natural timidity, or constitutionally pre-disposed to a gloomy view of nature. For such, by a mere exercise of their own meditations, but far oftener by the coarse, but empas- sioned oratory of itinerant preachers, are induced to believe that the Almighty has shut them out for ever from the pale of mercy, and that the bottomless pit is yawning to receive them; and under the influence of such an impression, they too frequently work themselves up into a state of permanent insanity, or hurry themselves, by their own hand, into the horrors of a fate from which they feel assured that no repentance, or power of religion, can save them. The aptitude of Despondency to become Epidemic, fyc. In the midst of great public calamities, the passion of ungovernable despondency is apt to become epidemic, and particularly where the constitution of the atmosphere, from being moist and hot, and consequently relaxing and debilitating, favours its spread. In 1806, the feeling of desperation was so common at Paris, that 60 suicides occurred during the months of June and July; at Copen- hagen, in the course of the same year, 300; and in 1793, about 1300 at Versailles alone. The sensation, however, whether general or individual, is most acute where there is little corporeal exertion, and consequently where there is time to cultivate and brood over it. Hence suicide is frequent during the distress of sieges; in the first alarm of civil commotions, or when they have subsided into a state of calmness, and the mischiefs they have induced arc well pondered; but it seldom takes place amid the activity of a campaign, whatever may be the fatigue, the privations, or the sufferings endured. On the fall of the Roman Empire, and throughout the Revolution of France, self-destruction was so common at home, as at last to excite but little attention; it does not, however, appear to have stained the retreat of the ten thousand under Xenophonj and according to M. Fabret, was rare in the French army during its flight from Moscow. Remedial Treatment of Empassioned Depressions, 5yc. In all these varieties of empassioned depression, the art of the physician can do but little, and in many of them nothing whatever. Yet, where the heart suffers acutely, and the mind is deeply dejected, sedatives and