Treatment during Suspended Animation. f>03 the other and the mouth; at the same time drawing down- wards and pushing gently backwards the upper part or'the windpipe, to allow a more free admission of air: blow the bellows gently, in order to inflate the lungs, till the breast be a little raised; the mouth and nostrils should then be set free, and a moderate pressure made with the hand upon the chest. Continue this process until signs of life appear. VI. Electricity is to be employed early by a medical assistant. VII. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, half a pint of warm brandy and water, or wine and water. VIII. Apply sal volatile, or hartshorn, to the nostrils. If apparently dead from intense cold—Rub the body with ice, snow, or cold water. Restore warmth by slow degrees; and, after some time, if necessary, employ the means recommended for the drowned. In these acci- dents it is highly dangerous to apply heat too soon. If apparently dead from hanging—hi addition to the means recommended for the drowned, bleeding from the jugular vein or temporal artery, should be early adopted.' If apparently dead from noxious vapours, or lightning-— 1. Remove the body into a cool fresh current of air.— 2. Dash cold water on the neck, face, and breast, fre- quently.—3. If the body be cold, apply warmth, as re- commended for the drowned.—4. Use the means recom- mended for inflating the lungs, in direction V.—5. Let electricity (particularly in accidents from lightning) be early employed by a medical assistant or other competent person. If apparently dead from intoxication—Lay the body on a bed, with the head raised: remove the neckcloth and loosen the clothes. Obtain instantly medical assistance, as the treatment must be regulated by the state of the patient; but, in the mean time, apply cloths soaked in cold water to the head, and bottles of hot water, or hot bricks, to the calves of the legs and feet. If apparently dead from apoplexy—The patient should be placed in a cool air, and the clothes loosened, parti- cularly about the neck and breast. Bleeding must be early employed, and the quantity of blood abstracted re- gulated by the state of the pulse. Cloths soaked in cold water, or vinegar and water, or spirits, should be con- stantly applied to the head, which should be instantly 3 s