Rural Economy. 326 of the lower hive for about ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour, in/ which time the bees will leave their cells in the lower hive, ascend, and adhere to the upper one. Then gently lift the new hive, with all its little tenants, and place it on the stand from which the other hive was taken. This should be done some time in the week pre- ceding Midsummer-day, that the bees may have time before the summer flowers are faded, to lay in a new stock of honey, which they will not fail to do for their sub- sistence through winter. To prevent Sheep from catching Cold after being Shorn. Sheep are sometimes exposed to cold winds and rains immediately after shearing, which exposure frequently hurts them. Those farmers who have access to the sea, should plunge them into the salt water; those who have •not that opportunity, and whose flocks are not very large, may mix salt with water, and rub them all over, which will in a great measure prevent any mishap befall- ing the animal after having been stript of its coat. It is very common in the months of June and July for some kinds of sheep, especially the fine Leicester breed, which are commonly thin skinned about the head, to be struck with a kind of fly, and scratching the place with their feet, they make it sore and raw. To prevent this, take tar, train oil, and salt, boil them together, and when cold, put a little of it on the part affected. This appli- cation keeps off the flies, and likewise heals the sore. The salt should be in a very small quantity, or powdered sulphur may be used instead of it. To Destroy Maggots in Sheep. Mix with one quart of spring water a table spoonful of the spirit of turpentine, and as much of the sublimate powder as will lie upon a shilling. Shake them well together, and cork it up in a bottle, with a quill through the cork, so that the liquid may come out of the bottle in small quantities at once. The bottle must be always well shaken when it is to be used. When the spot is observed where the maggots are, do not disturb them, but pour a little of the mixture upon the spot, as much as will wet the wool and the maggots. In a few minutes after the liquor is ap- plied, the maggots will creep to the top of the wool, and in a short time drop ofT dead. The sheep must, however, be inspected next day, and if any of the maggots remain atndcstroyed, shake them off, or touch them with a little