Pickling, fyc. 508 They may also be pickled with ale, ale vinegar, or dis- tilled vinegar, and adding three or four cloves of garlic and shalots. ARTIFICIAL ANCHOVIES. To a peck of sprats put two pounds of salt, three ounces of bay-salt, one pound of salt-petre, two ounces of pru- nella, and a few grains of cochineal; pound all in a mor- tar ; put into a stone pan, first a layer of sprats, and then one of the compound, and so on alternately to the top. Press them down hard; cover them close for six months, and they will be fit for use, and will really produce a most excellent flavoured sauce. SALMON. Boil the fish gently till done, and then take it up, strain the liquor, add bay leaves, pepper-corns, and salt; give these a boil, and when cold add the best vinegar to them; then put the whole sufficiently over the fish to cover it, and let it remain a month at least. TO PRESERVE FISH BY SUGAR. Fish may be preserved in a dry state, and perfectly fresh, by means of sugar alone, and even with a very small quantity of it. Fresh fish may be kept in that state for some days, so as to be as good when boiled as if just caught. If dried, and kept free from mouldiness, there seems no limit to their preservation; and they are much better in this way than when salted. The sugar gives no disagreeable taste. This process is particularly valuable in making what is called kippered salmon: and the fish preserved in this manner are far superior in quality and flavour to those which are salted or smoked. If desired, as much salt may be used as to give the taste that may be required; but this substance does not conduce to their preservation. In the preparation, it is barely necessary to open the fish, and to apply the sugar to the muscular parts, placing it in a horizontal position for two or three days, that this substance may penetrate. After this it may be# dried; and it is only further necessary to wipe and ventilate it occasionally, to prevent mouldiness. A table-spoonful of brown sugar is sufficient in this manner for a salmon of five or six pounds weight; and if salt is desired, a tea-spoonful or more may be added. Saltpetre may be used instead, in the same proportion, if it is desired to make the kipper hard.