198 Effect of Imagination on the Mind, fyc. the stocks across on the floor, on going to bed, have performed cures this way. Numerous are the charms, amulets and incantations used even at the present day lor the removal of warts. We are told by Lord Verulam (vol iii. p. 234), that when he was at Paris he had above an hundred warts on his hands; and that the English ambassador's lady, then at court, and a woman far above all superstition, removed them all, only by rubbing them with the fat side of the rind of a piece of bacon; which she afterward nailed to a post, with the fat side towards the south. In five weeks, says my Lord, they were all removed. Lord Verulam s Observations on Amulets, &c. As Lord Verulam is allowed to have been as great a genius as this country ever produced, it may not be irre- levant to the present subject, to quote in his own words, what he has observed relative to the power of amulets. After deep metaphysical observations in nature, and arguing in mitigation of sorcery, witchcraft, and divina- tion, effects that far outstrip the belief in amulets, he observes, "we should not reject all of this kind, because it is not known how far those contributing to superstition depend on natural causes. Charms have not their power from contracts with evil spirits, but proceed wholly from strengthening the imagination; in the same manner that images and their influence have prevailed in religion; being called from a different way of use and application, sigils, incantations and spells." Effect of Imagination on the Mind, &c. Imagination indubitably has a powerful effect on the mind; and in all these miraculous cures, is by far the strongest ingredient. Dr. Strother says, the influence of the mind and passions work upon the body insensible operations like a medicine, and is of far the greater force upon the juices than exercise. The countenance, he observes, betrays a good or wicked intention; and that good or wicked intention will produce in different persons a strength to encounter, or a weakness to yield to the preponderating side. " Our looks discover our passions; there being mystically in our faces, (says Dr. Brown), certain characters, which carry in them the motto of our souls, and therefore probably work secret effects in other