Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 359 A new chalybeate spring, of a very superior power, has also been discovered on the estate of Colonel Riddell, in Cambray. The proprietor, with great attention to the convenience of visitors, has erected a pump, and allows them a free passage through his garden, with the use of the water gratis. Its efficacy as a tonic is undoubtedly great, particularly when combined with the colonel's old fine-flavoured East India Madeira, of which he is as liberal as he is of the water in his pump. On the northern bank of the same river, at about 250 yards distant from High-street, is another carbonated chalybeate well, the property of Mr. Jones, which is covered with an elegant viranda, and yields abundance of water. There are various other chalybeate springs in the neigh- bourhood of Cheltenham, mostly resembling in quality those already described; namely, 1. Arle Spring, about a mile distant; 2. Barnwood Spring, eight miles from Cheltenham, and one mile and a half from Gloucester; 3. Cleeve Spring, four miles from Cheltenham; 4. Hyde Spring, in the parish of Presbury, two miles and a half from Cheltenham ; 5. Naunton Spring, nine miles from Cheltenham, and half a mile from Todington, on the Tewkesbury road ; 6. Walworth Spring, about three miles north from the city of Gloucester; and, 7. Walton Spring, distant seven miles from Cheltenham, and one from Tewkesbury. The chalybeate waters are used in chronic diseases, accompanied with debility, and unattended with feverish symptoms. Two species, which are at first partial ones, require them more than all others. In debility of the digestive organs, attended with the usual symptoms of loss of appetite, flatulencies, distention of the bowels, acidity, and vomiting; or in dyspeptic symptoms, accom- panied with a diseased mind, called hypochondriasis; or in a debilitated state of the stomach and alimentary canal, from hard study or debauch, the steel waters will prove decidedly useful, especially if an aperient medicine, such as the waters of the saline well, or an aloetic pill, bo interposed once or twice a week, to keep the body solutive, during the time of drinking them. In debility of the uterine vessels, producing obstructions, weaknesses, or sterility in females, the steel water proves extremely beneficial.