226 Bucknall's Communications relative to Orcharding. neighbourhood where the plantation is intended to be made, and a strict regard shewn to that purpose, as the beauty and Value of the whole orchard will greatly depend upon the trees being well suited. There is a striking in- stance of this at Sittingbourn, and its neighbourhood: the lemon-pippin is invariably a fine thriving tree, and the summer pearmain as constantly ragged and out of health; and this observation may be applied throughout the whole range of fruit-bearing trees, according to the soil and situation. " The ancient orchards of Kent, which were mostly grubbed up about fifty years since, produced the Kent- ish pippin, lemon-pippin, russet, cat's-head, and other hardy-keeping fruits; but as the age refined in luxury, the more delicate apples were introduced. The sharp north-east winds, in many situations, were certainly too severe for these productions; though I entertain no doubt but this appearance of a caprice or particularity in na- ture, may by attention be in part corrected, though any attempt to point out the cause would lead me too far from the present subject. " Care should be taken not to suffer trees to bear much fruit while young; it should be gathered as soon as seen, except about half a dozen, to shew the size and quality. The young trees being kept clear, will give them, if I may use the expression, the habit of producing larger and finer fruit; but that is not the material reason; by being kept clear, the leading and collateral branches run stronger each year; and be assured, if the tree can be brought to a proper size, there will be no doubt of its bearing afterwards. Observe among those gentlemen who pride themselves for being masters of fine stock, either horses, cattle, or sheep, and you will find the governing principle with each of them, is to run the young stock to as long bone as possible in the first year ; knowing, from experience, that having once secured bone, flesh, figure, and symmetry will follow. Such trees as suit the soil may, by easy means, be induced to grow to a size be- yond what we imagine: let the land be grazed or ma- nured, and gather the fruit before it can be applied to any use. How long this custom should be continued, each orchardist must judge for himself; but no one will have the least chance for the prize, who does not take ofi* the fruit for some time at least. " There is no impropriety in deeming the heads of