1:2:} ifturai CBconomp.—No. V. On Cultivating the MusJiroom. By Mr. William Hogan. The exterior form of the bed resembles the old ones as built against a wall, but instead of building it solid, it is hollow; strong stakes are inclined against the wall at an angle of about sixty-five degrees, on which are placed hurdles to support the bed. By this means a cavity is formed under the stakes, between them and the wall and the floor, for the purpose of receiving dung, which being readily changed, an opportunity is thus afforded of keep- ing up a permanent moist bottom heat in the bed, the absence of which, together with an insufficient depth of mould for the spawn to run in, is the great defect of all other modes of raising mushrooms, with which I am ac- quainted.—Upon a structure thus contrived, I built two beds, eighteen inches thick, the uppermost four inches of which is mould of a loamy nature, with an admixture of one quarter of road-sand. The substratum was formed of dung, which had laid in the stable-yard a considerable time; this was well shaken, and laid in ridges for about a week, giving it a few turnings in the interim, by which time it became moderately dry ; I then added to it one-third of mould collected under a group of common horse-chesnut trees, where different cattle indiscriminately retreat during the heat of summer; this lay in heaps a few weeks pre- vious to use. A layer of straw or long litter was first placed on the hurdles, to prevent the mould and short part of the dung passing through them. In laying on this com- post, I beat it with a spade till it became solid, and then left it for a week, before it was spawned and moulded. When the mould was put on, I bestowed no other labour on it, than beating it with the spade.—I did not use a covering of straw or hay, nor do I think it necessary, pro- vided the place where the beds are built be sufficiently closed; but in an open shed such a protection must be provided. When a covering is not used, the whole crop fit for use may be observed at once, which is very advan- tageous. With respect to watering, it would be difficult to lay down fixed rules—that must depend on the judg- ment of the gardener; however, from the depth of mould which is used in this plan, I can confidently state that there is no necessity for being so sparing of water as is 3 n