Housekeeping and Husbandry. An Estimation of the Loss of Weight which takes place in Cooking Animal Food. [From the Philosophical Magazine.-] " It is well known, that, in whatever way the flesh of animals is prepared for food, a considerable diminution takes place in its weight. We do not recollect, however, to have seen any where a statement of the loss which meat sustains in the various culinary processes, although it is pretty obvious that a series of experiments on this subject, would not be without their use in domestic economy. " We shall here give the result of a series of experi- ments which were actually made on this subject in a public establishment; premising that, as they were not undertaken from mere curiosity, but, on the contrary, to serve a purpose of practical utility, absolute accuracy was not attended to. Considering, however, the large quantities of provisions which were actually examined, it is presumed that the results may be safely depended upon for any practical purpose. It would no doubt have been desirable, to have known not only the whole diminu- tion of weight, but also the parts which were separated from the meat in the form of aqueous vapour, jelly, fat, &c.; but the determination of these did not fall within the scope of the enquiry. lbs. oss. '' 28 pieces of beef, weighing ..... 280 0 " Lost in boiling 73 14 " Hence the weight lost by beef in boiling was, in this case, about 26^ lbs. in 100 lbs. lbs. ozs. " 19 pieces of beef, weighing - 190 0 " Lost in roasting ... - - 61 2 " The weight lost by beef in roasting, appears to be 32 per cent. lbs. ozs. " 9 pieces of beef, weighing ..... 90 0 " Lost in baking 27 0 ** Weight lost by beef in baking, 30 per cent. lbs. ozs. " 27 legs of mutton, weighing - - - - 260 0 " Lost in boiling, and by having the shank-bone taken off 62 4 " The shank-bones were estimated at 4 ounces each; therefore\5& g the loss by boiling was - - J " The loss of weight in legs of mutton, in boiling, is 21£ per cent. lbs. oss. " 35 shoulders of mutton, weighing .... 350 0 " Lost in roasting - 109 10 " The loss of weight in shoulders of mutton, by roasting, is about 31} per cent.