Carious Ancient Wills. 44 burning at her head, and another at her feet; and consti- tutes Thomas her son, sole executor.—Given and written at Cherlton, without Newgate, in the parish of St. Se-. pulchre, London, the day and year aforesaid. Another Curious Will. The Dutchess of Northumberland (wife of John Duke of Northumberland, who was beheaded August 22, 1553, for proclaiming Lady Jane Grey), a short time before her death, wrote her will with her own hands. She bequeathed to Sir Henry Sidney the gold and green hangings in the gallery at Chelsea, with her lord's arms and her's ; to her daughter Mary Sidney, her gown of black-barred velvet, furred with sables, and a gown with a high back of fair wrought velvet; to her daughter Catherine Hastings, a gown of purple velvet, a summer gown, and a kirtle of new purple velvet to it, and sleeves; to Elizabeth, daughter of Lord Cobham, a gown of black-barred velvet furred with lizards; to the Dutchess of Alva, her green parrot, having nothing else worthy for her. "My will is (says she), earnestly and effectually, that little solem- nitie be made for me; fori had ever have a thousand foldes, my debts to be paid, and the poor to be given unto, than anye pompe to be shewed upon my wretched carkes; therefore to the worms will I goe, as I have afore wrytten in all poyntes, as you will answer that afore God. And you breke any one jot of it, your wills hereafter may chaunce be as well broken." In another place she says, "After I am departed from this world, let me be wonde up in a shete, and put into a coffyn of woode, and so layde in the grounde with such funeralls as parteyneth to the buriall of a corse. I will at my yeres mynde have such devyne service as myne executors shall thynke mete, with the whole arms of father and mother upon the stone graven ; nor in no wise to let me be opened after I am dead. I have not loved to be verry bold afore women, much more would I be lothe to come into the hands of any lyving man, be he physician or surgeon." Notwithstanding her strict injunctions to the contrary, she was buried with great solemnity, February 1, 1554-5, two heralds attending, with many mourners, six dozen of torches, and two white branches, and a " canopy borne over her effigies in wax, in a goodly hearse, to the church of Chelsea."