Preparation of Food, $c. of which arc entirely destroyed by being long subjected to the action of heat. The processes of cookery, notwithstanding the great number of receipts, are but few. In some, the chief object is to extract the .fluid or soluble parts of the sub- stance cooked; in others, to alter the nature of the sub- stance itself, and often to combine both purposes. Fire is a principal agent in almost all the processes of cookery, and the most economical mode of applying it, has en- gaged the attention of many philosophers and artists. Convenience and economy are the objects proposed by all alleged improvements The nature of the fuel is of no little importance, and is different in different coun- tries. Pit-coal has the advantage of forming a lasting- fire, and producing an intense degree of heat, which ren- ders it almost indispensable for roasting; but its smoke is very detrimental, both by the unpleasant flavour it imparts, and by the inconvenience arising from the flame, and from the soot deposited upon the vessels and in the chimney. Woodr Turf, Charcoal, Coke, Cinders, 5yc. Wood and turf make less smoke, but their flavour is more penetrating, and they give less heat, and are less durable. The cleanest and most generally useful fuel is charcoal of wood, or coke, neither of, which give out any smoke, or impart any flavour. Charcoal is more easily kindled, but coke lasts longer, and gives out more heat. Well-burnt cinders are an excellent substitute for coke, which in every family ought to be carefully preserved for the purposes of cookery. Heat, how applied in Boiling, Roasting, Baking, Broiling, and Stewing. Whatever may be the fuel from which heat is produced, it is applied in various ways to the substances to be cooked, either directly or indirectly. As a radiant heat, it is applied directly in the process of roasting, in which the effects are produced entirely by the rays of heat im- pinging directly upon substances placed at a short dis- tance before it: for this purpose, a clear glowing fire is secretions; particularly expectoration and urine. They are recommended in scorbutic cases, as possessing antiscorbutic properties. Externally, onions are employed in suppurating poultices ; and suppression of urine in children, is said to be relieved by applying them roasted to the pubes. b b 2