Observations on Clothing, and Exercise and Rest. o When the feet grow cold, from languor in the circula- tion, worsted stockings are the fittest coverings for them, observing to have your shoes well warmed; and in tak- ing them from the fire, to put your slippers in their place, that they may be dry, warm, and comfortable when you want them again. The best slippers are a pair of old shoes; the worst, those of plaited cloth, which not only make the feet tender, but are a hotter covering for them in the house, than you put upon them when you go out. In wet weather, shoes with good thick soles, and double upper leathers, which will keep the feet much drier than one thick one. The curriers' dubbing is the best nourisher of leather, rendering it as soft as. satin, and impervious to water. The restoration, as well as the preservation of health, especially of those who have passed their fortieth year, depends upon a scrupulous and unremitting attention to food, clothes, exercise, pure air, &c; any of which, taken individually, may appear trifling, but, taken in the aggre- gate, are of the most vital importance. Tight hats, stays*, braces, garters, &c. obstruct the circulation of the blood, and are often the cause of many chronic complaints, which lay the foundation of organic diseases, &c. Exercise and Rest. Those who do not take a sufficient quantity of exer- cise, soon suffer from a number of disorders, e. g. want of appetite, want of sleep, flatulence, &c. obstructions, relaxation of the bowels, and all the diversified symptoms of nervous complaints. Men of letters suffer much, and, from neglecting to take exercise, are often the most un- healthy of human beings; even that temperance by which many of them are distinguished, is no effectual remedy against the mischief of a sedentary life, which can only be counteracted by a proper quantity of exercise and air.—See Sir John Sinclair's Code of Health and Lon- gevity. • ?**y*™' stiff jackets are most pernicious ; they disfigure the beautiful and upright shape of a woman, and injure the breasts and bowels; obstruct the nrcathing and digestion; hurt the breasts and nipples so much, that many mothers have been prevented by their use from suckling their children ; hence many get cancers, and at last lose both health and life—for they render the delivery of women very difficult and dangeroife, both to mother and child.— D|{. FAUST S « Catechism of Health." \