126 Diagnostic Signs preceding or accompanying Diseases. Mind much dejected in the beginning of fevers, gene- rally points out a considerable degree of malignancy in their nature. Pain internally, with fever, requires particular atten- tion ; it in general denoting inflammation of some internal part. In cases of internal inflammation, if the pain sud- denly cease, the countenance sunk, the pulse beginning very quick and small, with frequent cold shiverings, gives reason to fear the coming on of mortification.—Pain, in cases of internal inflammation, gradually diminishing, and a sensation of weight in the part gradually arising, with some degree of anxiety, shews that suppuration is taking place. Pain in the Head, with fever, redness of the face and eyes, and inability to bear noise and light, are symp- toms of inflammation in the brain and its membranes. Pain in the Ear, with feverishness, are symptoms of inflammation in the ear. Pain in the Chest, with a sense of oppression, and of heat under the breast-bone, with a saltish taste in the mouth, generally precedes spitting of blood. Pain in the chest, with fever, difficulty and shortness of breathing, are marks of inflammation of the lungs, Ff the other symptoms here enumerated, are present, the disease may be concluded to exist, although the pain be not considerable. Pain coming on suddenly, during walking, and par- ticularly whilst going up stairs, or ascending a hill, a pain also being felt, at the same time, about the middle of the arm, are symptoms of the disease termed angina pectoris. Pain of the Side, increased by drawing in the breath, and particularly by coughing, with hard pulse, and dif- ficulty of laying on the pained side, denotes pleurisy, or inflammation of the pleura or membrane inverting the inside of the chest. Pain in the Left Side of the Chest, with fever, great anxiety, irregular pulse, faintings and palpitations, are symptoms of inflammation of the heart. Pain in the Left Side, under the short ribs, with fulness and tension, distinguishes the inflammation of the spleen. Pain on either side of the Chest, not very acute, nor violently increased during inspiration, may occur in consequence of an affection of the muscles of the chest.