Bucknalis Communications relative to Orcharding. 227 fruit-trees as so many hemispheres:. only suppose it pos- sible, by any art, to induce each of the branches of one tree to grow two inches longer than those of another tree in the same year; that free-growing tree will, in eighteen years, double the head of the other: so much for size. Health is the certain consequence. " No young plant, or newly-engrafted tree, should be suffered to run mop-headed; for until each branch has acquired a determined leader, that tree will make no progress; and a tree, like an animal, if it takes a stunt, it is difficult to throw such energy into the system after- wards as will make it free-growing. " It has been objected, that if no leading branches are to be shortened, the nurseryman could not form the stems to support the head. " Undoubtedly, while the plants are in the nursery, the slightest practitioner knows that the head must be cut down, to give strength and symmetry to the stem; and it is also necessary that most of the grafts be short- ened, or the wind will blow them out; and during the time the plants are in an infant state, shortening helps to swell out the buds. It was never meant to exclude shortening, until the plant was become a tree; and it is perfectly within the nurseryman's art to produce all his standard fruit-bearing trees with stems large and smooth, buds full and round, and leaves broad and open, without the tree being liable to canker or gum; and this is given as the character of a perfect and valuable tree. " Moss.—One of the greatest obstructions to good or- charding, is moss, which is merely the result of poverty and neglect, reflecting a discredit on the owner. Where trees are much over-run with moss, a strong man with a good birch-broom, in a wet day, would do great execu- tion. But to enter more into the business, what is moss? a plant; and, like other plants, may be eradicated on the first appearance; for that purpose, on young trees, the best method is to rub all the branches, spring and autumn, with a hard scrubbing-brush and soap-suds; and the action of rubbing will so far invigorate the tree, as to overpay both trouble and expence. There is no damage can befall the tree from rubbing; and let it be performed as a groom does a horse's legs. " Certainly the best soil to plant on is a fine deep loam; and no one, for profit, would think of planting on a strong clay, chalk, or a cold sharp gravel; but whore G g2