The Way to Wealth. Trusting too much to others' care, is the ruin of many; for, " In the affairs of this world, men are saved not by faith, but by the want of it:" but a man's own care is profitable; for *' If you would have a faithful servant, and one that you like, serve yourself. A little neglect may breed great mischief; for want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of a horse the rider was lost," being overtaken and slain by the enemy; all for want of a little care about a horse-shoe nail. III. f So much for industry, my friends, and attention to one's own business; but to these we must add frugality, if we would make our industry more certainly successful. A man may, if he knows not how to save as he gets, *f keep his nose all his life to the grindstone, and die not worth a groat at last. A fat kitchen makes a lean will," and ' <e Many estates are spent in getting, Since women for tea forsook spinning and knitting, And men for punch forsook hewing and splitting." ' " If you would be wealthy, think of saving as well as of getting. The Indies have not made Spain rich, because her out-goes are greater than her incomes." ' Away then with your expensive follies, and you will not then have so much cause to complain of hard times, heavy taxes, and chargeable families ; for ' "Women and wine, game and deceit, Makes the wealth small, and the want great." * And farther, " What maintains one vice would bring up two children." You may think, perhaps, that a little tea, or a little punch now and then, diet a little more costly, clothes a little finer, and a little entertainment now and then, can be no great matter; but remember, " Many a little makes a mickle." Beware of little expences; "A small leak will sink a great ship/' as Poor Richard says; and again, " Who dainties love, shall beggars prove;" and moreover, * Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them." Here you are all got together to this sale of fineries and nick-nacks. You call them goods; but if you do not take care, they will prove evils to some of you. You expect they will be sold cheap, and, perhaps, they may for less than they cost; but if you have no occasion for them they must be dear to you. Remember what Poor Richard says, " Buy what thou hast no need of, and ere long thou shalt sell