Housekeeping and Husband nj. 320 pounds, two hours and a hall'; it is the business of the butcher to take oft'the skin and skewer it on again, to de- fend the meat from extreme heat, and preserve its succu- lence; if this is neglected, tie a sheet of paper over it; baste the strings you tie it on with directly, or they will burn : about a quarter of an hour before you think it will be done, take off the skin or paper, that it may get a pale brown colour, and then baste it, and flour it lightly to froth it. A Shoulder—of seven pounds, an hour and a half; put the spit in close to the shank bone, and run it along the blade bone. A Loin—of mutton, from an hour and a half, to an hour and three quarters. The most elegant way of carv- ing this, is to cut it lengthwise, as you do a saddle. A Neck—about the same time as a loin. It must be carefully jointed, or it is very difficult to carve. The neck and breast are in small families commonly roasted together; the cook will then crack the bones across the middle before they are put down to roast; if this is not done carefully, they are very troublesome to carve. A Breast—an hour and a quarter. A Haunch—(i. e. the leg and part of the loin) of mut- ton ; send up two sauce-boats with it; one of rich drawn mutton gravy, made without spice or herbs, and the other of sweet sauce. It generally weighs about fifteen pounds, and requires about three hours and a half to roast it. Mutton, Venison fashion—Take a neck of good four or five year old South-down wether mutton cut long in the bones; let it hang, in temperate weather, at least a week: two days before you dress it, take allspice and black pepper ground and pounded fine, a quarter of an ounce each, rub them together, and then rub your mutton well with this mixture twice a day: when you dress it, wash off the spice with warm water, and roast it in paste. Persevering and ingenious epicures have invented many methods to give mutton the flavour of venison; some say that mutton prepared as above may be mistaken for veni- son, others that it is full as good ; the refined palate of a grand gourmand, in spite of the spice and wine the meat has been fuddled and rubbed with, will, perhaps, still protest against "Welsh venison;" and, indeed, we do jiot understand by what conjuration allspice and claret can communicate the flavour of venison to mutton; we