40 EXERCISE AND DISEASE. The wise for cure on exercise depend, God never made his work for man to mend. DKVDEN. Numerous instances are recorded in ancient history, of the efficacy of exercise in the cure of disorders. In many branches of medicine, the ancients were doubtless inferior to the moderns; they nevertheless treated disease with success; for they applied themselves with extraor- dinary diligence, to acquire a thorough knowledge of the symptoms of every disorder; and called in the aid of corporeal exercises, by which means they supplied what was wanting from other remedies. The diseases in which exercise has been found to exert the most beneficial influence, are gout; rheumatism; consumption; nervous disorders; bilious colic; dropsy; palsy, &c. Gout.—Sydenham, the father of English physic, affirms, that nothing so effectually prevents that indigestion of the humours, (which he considers to be the principal cause of the gout), and consequently strengthens so much the fluids and solids, as exercise. But as there is more necessity for making a thorough change in the constitu- tion, in the gout, than in any other chronic disease, so exercise, unless it be used daily, will do no service, and perhaps may do mischief, by bringing on a paroxysm, if it were resorted to, .after having been abandoned for any length of time. In short, without exercise, medi- caments will be of little service. The nature of the ex- ercise in gouty patients should be moderate and uniform, because, if violent or unsteady, people advanced in years, who are chiefly, the subjects of this disease, have their spirits too much wasted, and their concoctive powers in- jured, which regular and gentle exercise would strengthen. Riding on horseback was considered by Sydenham as the best medium of exercise, and indeed it has been found so beneficial in gout, rheumatism, and other chronic diseases, as to come strictly within the means of cure tor such complaints. If riding on horseback cannot be adopted, going out frequently in a carriage will, he ob- serves, answer almost as well. Rhkumatism.—In chronic rheumatism, particularly in that species of it called sciatica, or hip-joint disease, the beneficial effects of exercise have been ascertained in the * ' H