40(5 Observations on Rabbits eating their Young. regions; for, however this may agree with your philoso- phical character, it will by no means enhance your phy- sical one. Never stay telling a long story in a coffee-house, when you may be writing a short recipe in a patient's chamber; and prudently consider, that the first will cost you six- pence, while the last will gain you a guinea. Never go out in the morning without leaving word where you may be met with at noon; never depart at noon with- out letting it be known where you may be found at night.; for the sick are apt to be peevish, and impatient; and remember, that suffering a patient to want you, is the ready way for you to want a patient. Be mindful of all messages, punctual to all appoint- ments, and let but your industry equal your abilities; then shall your physical persecutors become abashed, and the legions of Warwick-lane and Blackfriars shall not be able to prevail against you. Lastly, read these rules every morning over your tea, and I fancy you will find yourself mend upon it. SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE CAUSE OF RABBITS, &c. EATING THEIR YOUNG. BY MR. H. M. BROWN, OF BANBURY. Mr. B. believes, that what appears to be a propen- sity, is nothing more than a necessitous, though truly unnatural, act. That it is done to satiate the thirst induced by the febrile state of parturition, which thirst they, in conse- quence of their confinement, have not the natural power to allay. Hence the horrid alternative of sacrificing their young, an extremity to which they are never driven in a state of nature. Mr. B. observes, " I have had rabbits which have been sold me cheap, in consequence of this seeming proneness to eat their young, which I have entirely avoided by allowing the animal some short time anterior, at the time, and for a week or so after parturition, to drink freely of cold water; and when I have taken this precaution, no such propensity ever evinced itself in the least; and that cold water is in no way injurious, and the animal appears wonderfully gratified by it." The preceding remarks go to prove, that the propensity is in fact one which has necessity for its origin ; and that