3 n 2 Humorous Recipe for a Physician. 46*5 If the head is very greasy, the spirits of hartshorn alone, or mixed with half the quantity of pure water, rubbed upon the head once a week, will effectually clean the hair, and render it strong and glossy* OIL FOR THICKENING THE HAIR. Take Palma Christi oil, 1$ ounce. Oil of lavender, - - - - \ drachm. *#* Apply morning and evening for three or four months, to those places where the hair is wanting, in consequence of a deficiency of moisture in the skin. HUMOROUS RECIPE FOR A PHYSICIAN. [The following /ra d'esprit was written hy the late ingenious Paul Whitehead to his friend Dr. Thompson, Physician to Frederick Prince of Wales. This eminent practitioner was a man of wit, learning, and liberality; hut so great a sloven, that he seldom had his shoes cleaned, which he generally "hought at a Yorkshire warehouse, wore them till his feet came through the leather, then shook them off at the same place, and purchased a new pair; and thus he did with all his other habiliments.] Let not the soil of a preceding day be ever seen on your linen; since your enemies will be apt to impute it rather to an unhappy scarcity of shirts than any philo- sophical negligence in the wearer of them. Let not father Time's dilapidations be discoverable in the ragged ruins of your garments; and be particularly careful that no more holes appear in your stockings than the weaver intended ; that your shoes preserve the sym- metry of two heels; and that your galligaskins betray no poetical insignia; for it will be generally concluded he has very little to do with the repair of others constitu- tions, who is unable to preserve that of his own apparel. Let your wig always swell to the true college dimen- sions ; and, as frequently as possible, let the apothecary bob give way to the graduate tye ; for, what notable recom- mendation the head often receives, from the copiousness of its furniture, the venerable full bottoms of the bench may determine. Thus dressed, let your chariot be always ready to re- ceive you ; nor be ever seen trudging the streets with an Herculean oak, and bemired to the knees; since an equipage so unsuitable to a sick lady's chamber will be apt to induce a belief that you have no summons thither. , Forbear to haunt cook-shops, hedge-alehouses, cyder- cellars, &c. and to display your oratory in those inferior