193 ON THE ORIGIN AND IMAGINARY EFFICACY OF AMULETS AND CHARMS, IN THE CURE OF DISEASES, PROTECTION FROM EVIL SPIRITS, &c. TVhat are Amulets ? Amulets are certain substances, to which the pe- culiar virtue of curing, removing, or preventing diseases, was attached by the superstitious and credulous; for which purpose they were usually worn about the neck, or other parts of the body. The council of Laodicea prohi- bited ecclesiastics froni wearing amulets and phylacte- ries, under pain of degradation. St. Chrysostome and Jerome were likewise zealous against the same practice. Decline of Amulets—Boyle's Remarks, $c. At the present day, although by no means entirely extinct, amulets have fallen into disrepute; the learned Boyle nevertheless considered them as an instance of the ingress of external effluvia into the habit, in order to shew the great porosity of the human body. He more- over adds, that he is persuaded " some of these external medicaments do answer ; for that he was himself subject to a bleeding from the nose; and being obliged to use several remedies to check this discharge, he found the mass of a dead man's skull, though only applied so as to touch the skin until the mass became warm from being in contact with it, to be the most efficacious remedy. A remarkable instance of this nature was communicated to Zwelfer, by the chief physician to the States of Moravia, who, having prepared some troches, or lozenges of toads, after the manner of Van Helmont, not only found that, being worn as amulets, they preserved him, his domes- tics and friends from the plague; but when applied to the carbuncles or buboes, a consequence of this disease, in others, they found themselves greatly relieved, and many were saved by them. Mr. Boyle also shews how the effluvia, even of cold amulets, may, in the course of time, pervade the pores of the living animal, by suppos- ing an agreement between the pores of the skin and the figure of the corpuscules. Bellini has demonstrated the possibility of this occurrence in his last propositions de febribus; the same has also been shewn by Dr. Wain- wright, Dr. Keil, and others. There were also verbal or lettered charms, which wer£ 0 c