Housekeeping and Husbandry. 22f fection, must never be put on the table till the soup is taken off. So many circumstances operate on this occasion, it is almost impossible to write general rules. There are decidedly different opinions, whether fish should be put into cold, tepid, or boiling water. We believe, for some of the fame the Dutch cooks have acquired, they are a little indebted to their situation, af- fording them a plentiful supply of fresh fish for little more than the trouble of catching it; and that the superior ex- cellence of the fish in Holland, is because none are used, unless they are brought alive into the kitchen (mackarel excepted, which die the moment they are taken out of the water). The Dutch are as nice about this, as Seneca says the Romans* were; who, complaining of the luxury of the times, says, " they are come to that daintinesss, that they will not eat a fish, unless upon the same day that it is taken, that it may taste of the sea, as they ex- press it." On the Dutch flat coast, the fish are taken with nets; on our rocky coast, they are mostly caught by bait and hook, which instantly kills them.—Fish are brought alive by land to Dutch markets, in water casks with air-holes in the top. Salmon and other fish are thus preserved in rivers, in a well-hole in the fishing-boat. Fish of every kind are best sometime before they begin to spawn, and are unfit for food for some time after they have spawned. The most convenient utensil to boil fish in, is a turbot- kettle; this should be twenty-four inches long, twenty- two wide, and nine deep : it is an excellent vessel to boil a ham in, &c. &c. Mr. Ude (page 238 of his Cookery) advises—" If you are obliged to wait after the fish is done, do not let it remain in the water, but keep the water boiling, and put the fish over it, and cover it with a damp cloth ; when the dinner is called for, dip the fish again in the water, and serve it up." ■ * They had salt water preserves for feeding different kinds of sea fish; those in the ponds of Lucullus, at his death, sold for 25,000/. sterling. The prolific power of fish is wonderful; the following calculations arc from Petit, Bloch, and Lcuwenhoek : Eggs, A salmon of twenty pounds weight contained - - 27,850 A middling sized pike - - - - - - 148,000 A mackarel 546,681 Acod - . . 9,344,000 Soe Cours Oastronomi^ues, 18mo. 1806, p. 241.