Moveable Feasts. 582 Low Sunday, is the Sunday next after Easter day. Maunday Thursday, is the day before Good Friday. Midlent, or the fourth Sunday in Lent, is the fourth Sun- day after Shrove Tuesday. Palm Sunday, or the sixth Sunday in Lent, is the sixth Sunday after Shrove Tuesday. Paschal Sabbath. See Easter day. Passion Week, is the week next ensuing after Palm Sunday. Pentecost, or Whit Sunday, is the fiftieth day arid seventh Sunday after Easter day. Quinquagesima Sunday, is so named from its being about the fiftieth day before Easter. It is also called Shrove Sunday. Relick Sunday, is the third Sunday after Midsummer-day. Rogation Sunday, is the fifth Sunday after Easter day. Rogation Days are the Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes- day following Rogation Sunday. Shrove Sunday, is the Sunday next before Shrove Tues- day. It is also called Quinquagesima Sunday. Septuagesima Sunday, so called from its being about the seventieth day before Easter, is the third Sunday before Lent, and the ninth before Easter Sunday. Sexagesima Sunday, is the second Sunday before Lent, or the next to Shrove Sunday, so called as being about the sixtieth day before Easter. Trinity Sunday, or the Feast of the Holy Trinity, is the next Sunday after Pentecost or Whitsuntide. Whit Sunday. See Pentecost. Whit Monday, 1 are the Monday and Tuesday following Whitsuntide, is the three days above-mentioned. The Vigil or Eve of a feast, is the day before it occurs. Thus the Vigil of the feast of St. John the Baptist is the 23d of June. If .the feast-day falls upon a Monday, then the Vigil or the Eve is kept upon the Saturday preceding. The Morrow of a feast is the day following: thus the feast of All Souls is November 2d, and the Morrow of All Souls is consequently the 3d of November. The Octave or Utas of each feast, is always the eighth day after it occurs; for example, the feast of St. Hillary is the 13th of February; hence the Octave of St. Hillary, is the 20th of that month. In the Octaves, means within the eight days following any particular feast. Whit Sunday.