Reduction of Corpulence, and Improvement of Health. 473 The following account of the successful reduction of corpulence, and improvement of health, the Editor can vouch for being a faithful statement of facts : 30th January, 1821. MY DEAR SIR, In consequence of the conversation Iliad with you, upon the advantages I had derived from exercise and attention to diet, in the reduction of weight, and your desire that I should communicate, as far as I recollect them, the particulars of my case,| Ihave great pleasure in forwarding to you the following statement. I measure in height six feet and half an inch ; possess a sound constitution, and considerable activity. At the age of thirty I weighed about eighteen stone; two years afterwards 1 had reached the great weight of nineteen stone, in perfect health, always sleeping well, and enjoy- ing good appetite and spirits; soon after, however, I began to experience the usual attendants on fulness of habit, a disinclination to rise in the morning, from drowsi- ness, heaviness about the forehead after I had risen, and disposition to giddiness; I was also attacked by a com- plaint in one of my eyes, the symptoms of which it is unnecessary to describe, but it proved to be occasioned by fulness of blood, as it was removedvby cupping in the temple. I lost four ounces of blood from the temple ; and thinking that the loss of a little more might be ad- vantageous, I had eight ounces taken from the back; and in order to prevent the necessity, as far as possible, of future bleeding, I resolved to reduce the system, by in- creasing my exercise and diminishing my diet. I therefore took an early opportunity of seeing Mr. Jackson (whose respectability and skill as a teacher of Sparring is uni- versally acknowledged), and after some conversation with him, determined upon acting under his advice. I accordingly commenced sparring, having provided myself with flannel dresses, which I always used, being extremely careful on changing them to avoid the risk of cold, and I recollect no instance in which I was not successful. I also had recourse to riding-schools, riding without stirrups, so as to have the advantage of the most power- ful exercise the horse could give; these exercises I took in the morning, in the proportion, probably, of sparring twice a week, and riding three or four times. 3 o 2