Letter from John Hunter. 493 Different Preparations of Aloes, directed by the London College. Dose. Aloes, compound powder of, L grs. x- to 3l« , pills of, with myrrh, L. E. D grs. x. to 9j. , compound pills of, grs- x> to 5^s* , pills of, with assafcetida, E grs. x. to 3j. colocynth, E. grs. v. to x. Compound pills of gamboge, L , grs. x. to 3j. rhubarb, E grs. x. to 3j. Pills of scammony, with aloes, D grs. v. to 3j. Compound decoction of aloes, L. ... §ss. to Extract of purified aloes, L. D grs. v. to xv. . Compound extract of colocynth, L. D grs. v. to 3SS. Tincture of aloes, L. E. D 5SS« to %; • compound, L. E. D 5SS> *° oli' Compound tincture of benzoin, L. E. D. 5SS- to 5SS* Tincture of rhubarb and aloes, E 3SS- to oiss- Wine of aloes', L. E. D 3ss. to §ij. Aloes, aethereal tincture of, E. 5SS- 40 5^* Aloes is frequently adulterated with common resin; but the fraud more generally committed is that of mixing with, or substituting the inferior species of the socotrine: but the Barbadoes aloes may, independent of its want of aromatic flavour, be distinguished from the socotrine by a simple test, for the latter dissolves entirely in boiling water and alcohol, whereas the former, when treated in a similar manner, leaves a considerable residue. Some- times, the horse aloes is made so bright and pure, as not to be easily distinguished by the eye even from the soco- trine ; but its rank odour, of which no art can divest it, will readily betray the fraud. " For obviating the effects of opium upon the intestinal secretions, the judicial addition of some purgative will offer the most effectual corrigent, and according to my own experience the aloetic preparations are to be prefer- red for such an occasion,"—New London Medical Pocket Book. DR. HUNTER TO HIS BROTHER WILLIAM HUNTER. Amongst the papers of the late Dr. Baillie, is a note to Dr. William Hunter from his brother John. The following is a copy :— " Dear Brother,—The bearer is very desirous of having your opinion. I don't know his case. He has no money, and you don't want any; so that you are well met. Ever your's, Jermyn Street, Saturday. John Hunter.