Housekeeping and Hmbandry. 278 steam; the water remains at the same pitch of tempera- ture, however fiercely it boils. The only difference is, that with a strong fire it sooner comes to boil, and more quickly boils away, and is converted into steam."— Buchanan on the Economy of Fuel, 1810. There was placed a thermometer in water in that state which cooks call gentle simmering—the heat was 212°, i. e. the same degree as the strongest boiling. Two mut- ton chops were covered with cold water, and one boiled a gallop, and the other simmered gently, for three quarters of an hour; the flavour of the chop which was simmered, was decidedly superior to that which was boiled; the liquor which boiled fast, was in like proportion more savoury, and, when cold, had much more fat on its surface: this explains why quick boiling renders meat hard, &c.—be- cause its juices are extracted in a greater degree. Reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. The old rule of fifteen minutes to a pound of meat, we think rather too little; the slower it boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and whiter it will be. For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked {which all will who have any regard for their stomachs), twenty minutes to a pound will not be found too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire; allowing more or less time, according to the thickness of the joint, and the coldness of the weather; always remembering, the slower it boils the better. Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art; and cooks seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot, and set it over the fire for a certain time—making no allowance, whether it simmers without a bubble, or boils a gallop. Fresh killed meat Will take much longer time boiling than that which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe, and longer in cold than in warm weather : if it be frozen, it must be thawed before boiling as before roasting ; if it be fresh killed, it will be tough and hard, if you stew it ever so long, and ever so gently. In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it into a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer. The size of the boiling pots should be adapted to what they are to contain; the larger the saucepan the more room it takes up on the fire; and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate increase of fire to boil it. In small families, we recommend block tin saucepans,