Health, Longevity, and Death. 10 their health, and forbear every thing which, by their own experience, they find to do them hurt; and let them be assured, that, by a diligent observation and practice of this rule, they may enjoy a good share of health, and seldom stand in need of physic or physicians." Cornaro*, and the Archbishop of Seville, are other memorable instances of the efficacy of rules. The former attained his 101st year; the latter, who died in 1785, his 110th. It was no less by attention to rules, such as strict temperance, regular exercise, and judicious habits, that the celebrated John Wesley, notwithstanding a delicate constitution, protracted his existence to near ninety years; and was enabled, during that long period, to undergo much bodily and mental exertion and fatigue. Shakspeare's Description of a Healthy Old Man. " Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty, For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood ; Nor did not, with unbashful forehead, woo The means of weakness and debility; Therefore my age is as a lusty winter, Frostly, but kindly." This is a very able delineation of the effects of tem- perance on declining years, which, coupled with the pre- ceding allusions, and other facts of a similar nature that might be brought forward, are sufficient, nay, encouraging proofs of the efficacy of rules, and how much they are deserving of attention and cultivation. Healthy old age, is doubtless a fine subject of con- templation ; but we know not, even by rules, that it can be acquired. Few very old men, who are healthy, have lived by system, with all its recommendations; and, according to the significant experience of our English Seneca (Dr. Johnson), a healthy old man, after all, is but a tower undermined. The attainment of long life, if attended with a good state of bodily health, is not only an important con- sideration to the individual, but also, if he be an up- right man, and an useful member of society, to the com- munity to which he belongs; declining years, under such circumstances, often prove the happiest period of our existence. Children, and very young persons, endure the thoughts * See Cottage Physician, No. 7, Old Scries.