372 On the Physical Education of Children, fa. which they probably inherit as a national character, and which, it is presumed, even the climate itself could not subdue, their form is on the whole that of the north. Of the Tungooses. The Tungooses, who dwell farther to the south, begin to have some resemblance to the Mongolian stem; from which, however, they are as different in race and language, as the Samoiedes and Ostiaks are from the Laplanders and Greenlanders. The bodies of the Tungooses are better shaped and more slender; their eyes small, like those of the Mongolians ; their lips thin; their hair softer; yet their faces retain the flat northern form. It is the same with the Yakouts, and Yukagirians, who appear to acquire'the Tartarian form, as the Tungooses acquire the Mongolian; nay, this observation applies ta the Tartarian race itself. Of the Tartars. Near the Black and Caspian Seas, on Mounts Caucasus and Ural, consequently in the most temperate climate of the world, the Tartarian form is blended with more beauty. The body is slender and pliable; the head quits the heavy rotundity for a more elegant oval; the com- plexion is florid; the nose projects boldly, and is well shaped; the eye is lively; the hair dark brown; the step alert; the countenance pleasingly modest and timid. Thus, the nearer we come to the regions where Nature is most profuse of life, the more exquisite and better pro- portioned is the organization of man. The more we proceed to the north again, or the farther into Kalmuk Tartary, so much more flat and barbarous we find the features, either after the northern or Kalmuk model. In this, however, much is to be attributed to the way of life of a people, its descent, and intermixture with others, as well as the nature of the country. The mountain Tartars preserve their features with more purity than those that dwell in the plains: hordes that reside near towns and villages, intermix, and soften down both their features and manners. As there are many probabilities that the first abode of the human species was on the Asiatic ridge of the earth, we migh't naturally expect to find the most beautiful race of men in that region. But how greatly should we be deceived in our expectation? The form of the Kalmuks and Mongolians is well known. With a middling stature,