63 The Origin of Brandy. 7. Beware of damps. 8. Air vaults, by letting them remain open some time before you enter, or scattering- powdered lime in them. Where a lighted candle will not burn, animal life cannot exist; it will be an excellent caution, therefore, before en- tering damp and confined places—as wells, privies, cellars, —to try this simple experiment. 9. Never leave saddle or draught horses, while in use, by themselves. Nor go immediately behind a led horse, as he is apt to kick. 10. Ride not on foot-ways. 11. Be wary of children, whether they are up, or in bed; and particularly when they are near the fire; an element with which they are very apt to amuse themselves. Leave nothing poisonous, open or accessible; and never omit to write the word " Poison," in large letters upon it, wherever it may be placed. 12. Whenever you feel very uneasy, tell your distress early to a steady friend. Such are the outlines of this useful establishment, to which a number of other equally important cautions might be added. The advantages of societies formed every where on a similar plan, would be incalculable, and the benefit derived to society, far exceeding the trifling expence with which they might be maintained. THE ORIGIN OF BRANDY. It is probable that in 1642 brandy was not in fashion in Wales: yet Nurse, in Shakspeare's play of Romeo and Juliet, calls for it amain, under the name of aqua vita}— " Some aqua vitee, ho! my lord ! my lady I" It appears to have been chiefly used in those days for medical purposes. In Captain Wyndham's Voyage to Guinea, there was brandy on board for the use of the sick sailors. It was said to have been invented by Raymun- dus Lullius, the famous alchymist, who died in the year 1315. Charles the Bad, King of Navarre, came to a most horrible end, says Mezerey, who, to restore his strength, weakened by debauchery, was wrapped in sheets steeped in eau de vie. His valet, by accident, set fire to them : after the third day he died in the most dreadful tortures, and it is to be hoped, thus expiated the crimes of his most execrable life.