J398 On the supposed Degeneracy of ike present Age, &c. him from without; but, as his physical condition is thus gradually impaired, he must experience the consequent unfavourable effects on the united faculties of mind and body. To whatever quarter of the primitive world he carries his improvements, peace, health, and. happiness, seem to vanish. Gloomy prospects! but such they un- fortunately are; and we have a conclusive instance of this melancholy truth in the now wretched Brazilians, who were formerly celebrated for their longevity, sim- plicity of manners, and domestic felicity. Since their conquest by the western usurpers, who introduced among them the education, the manners, and artificial habits of Europe, the happy contentment and longevity of the Brazilians were soon changed into a life of woe and disease; all their domestic comforts and happiness dis- appeared.—I wish I could persuade myself that this shocking change were not founded on fact 5 as it involves the fate of millions of human beings, who arc now re- duced to misery and abject servility. But, alas! we may learn from such an example, however mournful, that most of our pretended improvements in civilized life, are only of negative value. I pronounce this sentence with a mixture of pain and regret; because it may, on the one hand, be considered invidious, and on the other, perhaps, extravagant. Yet, convinced of the truth of my assertion, I shall, in the sequel, draw several useful inferences from its indirect application to the present state of society. And unless we resolve to abandon a few of our modern habits and prejudices, which are sanctioned by no other autho- rity than that of time immemorial, I apprehend that, instead of advancing on the path of true improvement, the convulsed state of morals will gradually lead us to retro- grade and baneful steps. Observations on the supposed Degeneracy of the present Age, when compared with the former. Many persons, as well among the learned as the illite- rate classes, have asserted that mankind every day become more reduced in size, and bodily strength. When we draw a parallel between the ancient patriarchs and the progenitors of the present race, the difference with respect to their energy, figure, and duration, or longevity, is in- deed remarkable. For, even admitting that the historical and traditionary accounts we have obtained from sacred and profane writers, espcciqlly those relative to chrono-