r>8() DIRECTIONS FOR PURIFYING ANY GIVEN QUANTITY OF CORRUPTED WATER —SPRING WATERS, &c. When it is intended to purify any given quantity of corrupted water, we should begin by adding to it as much powder of charcoal as is necessary to deprive it entirely of its bad smell; and in order to ascertain whether the quantity added be sufficient to clarify the said water, a small quantity of it may be passed through a linen bag, two or three inches long; if the water thus filtered has still a turbid appearance, a fresh quantity of powdered charcoal must be added until it becomes perfectly clear: the whole of the water may thus be passed through a fil- tering-bag, the size of which should be proportioned to the quantity of water. If vitriolic or any other acid can be procured, a small quantity of it should be added to the water, before the charcoal-powder is used; the quan- tity of acid being regulated in proportion to the state of putridity in which the water is found; and which should be added in quantity sufficient to communicate to the water a degree of acidity just perceptible to the taste. If the water be merely intended for dressing meat and vegetables, instead of acid, such a quantity of sea-salt as would have been proper for seasoning the above articles, maybe employed. Saline substances, like acids, hasten the effects of the charcoal-powder; by making use of acids (as has already been observed), a much less quantity of powdered charcoal is necessary; and so easy is the process to any one accustomed to operations of this kind, that four or five minutes only are required to render several gallons of putrid water fit to drink. In like man- ner, to improve the taste of those spring waters which have an hepatic flavour, and are therefore unpleasant to use, nothing more is necessary than to filter them through a bag half filled with powdered charcoal; if such waters are not very much loaded with mucilaginous par- ticles, the addition of an acid is not necessary.—See Natural and Medical Dieleticon; or, Practical Rules for Eating and Drinking, &c. 12mo. Lond. p. 284, &c. by J. S. Forsyth, Surgeon, fyc. LAWS RESPECTING SERVANTS. The following abstracts of Acts of Parliament res- pecting servants, ought to be read and attended to, not