380 Housekeeping and Husbandry. it is nearly enough, then dredge it lightly with flour, and put a bit of butter into your basting ladle, and as it melts, l)aste the turkey with it5 this will raise a finer froth than can be produced by using the fat out of the pan. A very large turkey, will require about three hours to roast it thoroughly; a middling sized one, of eight or ten pounds (which is far nicer eating than the very large one), about two hours; a small one may be done in an hour and a half. Turkey poults are of various sizes, and will take about an hour and a half—they should be trussed with their legs twisted under, like a duck, and the head under the wing like a pheasant. Fried pork sausages are a very savory and favourite accompaniment to either roasted or boiled poultry. A turkey thus garnished, is called " an Alderman in Chains." Sausage-meat is sometimes usecl as stuffing, instead of the ordinary forcemeat, &c. If you wish a turkey, especially a very large one, to be tender, never dress'it till at least four or five days (in cold weather, eight or ten), after it has been killed. " ISTo man who understands good living, will say, on such a day I will eat that turkey—but will hang it up by four of the large tail-feathers, and when, on paying his morn- ing visit to the larder, he finds it lying upon a cloth, prepared to receive it when it falls, that day let it be cooked." Send up with them, oyster, egg, bread, and plenty of gravy sauce. CAPONS OR FOWLS, Must be killed a couple of days in moderate, and more in cold weather, before they are dressed, or they will eat tough : a good criterion of the ripeness of poultry for the spit, is the ease with which you can then pull out the feathers—and when a fowl is plucked, leave a few to help you to ascertain this. They are managed exactly in the same manner, and sent up with the same sauces as a turkey, only they require proportionably less time at the fire. Fowls which are fattened artificially, are by some epi- cures preferred to those called barn-door fowls; whom we have heard say, that they should as soon think of order- ing a barn-door for dinner, as a barn-door fowl. The age of poultry, makes all the difference: nothing is tenderer than a young chicken, lew things arc tougher