The Way to Wealth, 204 I. f It would be thought a hard government that should tax its people one-tenth part of their time to be employed in its service: but idleness taxes many of us much more ; sloth, by bringing on diseases, absolutely shortens life.— "'Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears, while the used key is always bright," as Poor Richard says. " But dost thou love life? then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of," as Poor Richard says.—How much more than is necessary do we spend in sleep ? forgetting that, " The sleeping fox catches no poultry, and that there will be sleeping enough in the grave," as Poor Richard says. ' " If time be of all things the most precious, wasting time must be," as Poor Richard says, " the greatest pro- digality;" since, as he elsewhere tells us, " Lost time is never found again; and what we call time enough, always proves little enough."—Let us then up and be doing, and doing to the purpose: for by diligence we shall do more with less perplexity. " Sloth makes all things dif- ficult, but industry all easy,* and he that riseth late, must trot all day, and shall scarce overtake his business at night; while laziness travels so slowly, that poverty soon overtakes him. Drive thy business, let not that drive thee; and early to bed, and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise," as Poor Richard says. ' So what signifies wishing and hoping for better times; we may make these times better, if we bestir our- selves.—" Industry need not wish, and he that lives upon hope will die fasting. There are no gains without pains; then help hands, for I have no lands, or, if I have, they are smartly taxed. He that hath a trade, hath an estate; and he that hath a calling, hath an office of profit and honour," as Poor Richard says; but then the trade must be worked at, and the calling well followed, or neither the estate nor the office will enable us to pay our taxes; for "at the working-man's house hunger looks in, but dares not enter." Nor will the bailiff* or the constable enter; for " Industry pays debts, while despair increaseth them." What though you have found no treasure, nor has any rich relation left you a legacy, " Diligence is the mother of good luck, and God gives all things to industry; then plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep. Work while it is called to-day, for you know not how much you may be hindered to- morrow. One to-day is worth two to-morrow," as Poor