Table of the PrubabiUly of Lives. 537 the life of a man of 35; and but 5 per cent, for insuring for one year the life of a man of 43; after which the insur- ance ought to rise above 5 per cent, in proportion to the advance of a person's age above 43; so that a man of 77 ought to pay 25 per cent, and a man of 85, 33f per cent, for insuring his life for one year. And from the same the table we may see, that those ■who insure lives at the rate of 5 per cent, per aim. that is to say, who have 5/. paid them yearly for every hundred pounds they engage to pay upon the death of any person; such insurers, we may see, must be great gainers, even at the present low rate of interest, if the persons whose lives are thus insured, be above one, and under 51 years of age, because 51. per ann. at SI. per cent, compound interest, supposing the money to be laid out at interest half yearly only, produces above \00l. in 16 years; whereas it appears by this table, that all persons above ' one, and under 51 years of age, have an equal chance for living more than 16 years. Nay as 51. per ann. at 3/. per cent, compound interest, produces above 200?. in 27 years, the insurers must be above cent, per cent, gainers upon the lives of all persons above one, and under 31 years of age. Then with regard to the purchase or sale of annuities for life, we may from this table, and the tables of com- pound interest, easily see what a person of any age ought to pay for an annuity for life; because in this table we may see what number of years a person of any age has an equal chance to live, and in the tables of compound interest, we may see what is the present value of any annuity for that number of years, at the then common rate of interest. Thus a person of 30 has by this table an equal chance to live 28 years, and by the tables of com- pound interest we may see, that the present value of 11. per ann. for 28 years, reckoning interest at 3L per cent, is a little above 181.15s. Therefore a person of that age ought to pay, at the present low rate of interest, near nineteen years' purchase for an annuity for life : whereas, if the common rate of interest were still at 5/. per cent, he ought to pay full fifteen years' purchase; and as there were always more sellers than buyers, the common price was generally under this rate. 3 y 2