121 On the Cost of Tea, 6tc traction of nine parts in seventeen of a farthing, or nearly Id. per quart; and the quart of ale is now (November, 1823) sold for Id. at the public-houses of this neighbour- hood, or 6d. if carried away by the buyer. The Winchester bushel (13 W. III. c. 5), is thus described: " that every round bushel, with a plain and even bottom, being made eighteen inches and a half wide throughout, and eight inches deep, shall be esteemed a legal Win- chester bushel, according to the standard in his Masjesty's Exchequer:" and it will appear, that by adding one quarter of an inch for every additional quart required, retaining the same width, the depth for thirty-eight quarts should be nine inches and a half, and for thirty-nine quarts nine inches and three quarters. The Winchester bushel is generally allowed to contain 2150 cubic inches, and a fraction of four parts in ten of a cubic inch, as the dry measure, for grain, &c; but this does not apply to, liquid measure, for there are Cubic Inches. 268 & 8-10ths in a gallon of grain or malt, 282 in a gallon of ale or beer. 231 in a gallon of wine, By the same act of W. III. an allowance in the propor- tion of four bushels in twenty, or twenty per cent, is made to the maker of malt, in reduction of the duty (now 2s. 6d. on the Winchester bushel, equal to 3s. 0\d. on the Oswestry bushel of barley of about thirty-nine quarts, or about 63 lbs.) <( in consideration of the difference be- tween the quantity of such corn when it is wet and swoln, and the quantity thereof when it is converted into dry malt." The duty, therefore, is in fact charged on the barley; for the malt, when dried and completely screened from the malt-dust, will measure more than the barley, under skilful management and favourable circumstances in the malting process; which increase is well understood amongst maltsters by the term outcast; it will be found, also, that the allowance of twenty per cent, on the swell- ing of the barley during the operation of malting, is a little in favour of the maker of malt. The only method which 1 am aware of, for proving at once the real increase or decrease of bulk, is to take a wine glass, or any such vessel, striking ofT this small measure of barley, and the like of malt clear from malt- dust, and then counting out the grains ; which will give a tolerably accurate proportion of the increase or .de- R