Observations on Clothing, taking Exercise, §c. 7 of a delicate and debilitated constitution ; and particu- larly to the asthmatic and consumptive. With regard to the time at which exercise is most proper, it, in fact, depends on such a variety of concur- rent circumstances, that it does not admit of being regu- lated by any general rules, and must therefore be col- lected from the observations made on the effects of air, food, drink, &c. With respect to the duration of exercise, there are other particulars, relative to a greater or less degree of fatigue attending the different species, and utility of it in certain states of the mind and body, which must deter- mine this consideration as well as the preceding. That exercise is to be preferred, which, with a view to brace and strengthen the body, we are most accustomed to, as any unusual one may be attended with a contrary effect*. Exercise should always be begun and finished gradually, never abruptly. Exercise in the open air has many advan- tages over that used within doors. To continue exer- cise until a profuse perspiration, or a great degree of weariness take place, is far from being wholesome. In the forenoon, when the stomach is not too much dis- tended, muscular motion is both agreeable and healthful; it strengthens digestion, and heats the body less than with a full stomach; and a good appetite after it, is a proof that it has not been carried to excess. But, at the same time, it should be understood, that it is not advise- able to take violent exercise immediately before a meal, as digestion might thereby be retarded. Neither should we sit down to a substantial dinner or supper immedi- ately on returning from a fatiguing walk, at a time when the blood is heated, and the body in a state of perspira- tion from previous exertion, as the worst consequences may arise, especially where cooling dishes, salad, or a glass of cold drink is begun with. Exercise is always hurtful after meals, from its impeding digestion, by pro- pelling those fluids too much towards the surface of the body, which are designed for the solution of the food in the stomach. * To the delicate and invalid, carriage exercise is preferable ; horse exercise to the more hardy; but foot exercise, is most convenient for many reasons. For small is the proportion of mankind, who can afford to use either a carriage or a horse. 4/lair's Essay on Diet anil Regimen, p. 62..—Both body and mind arc enlivened by walking ; and even when carried to an extreme, it has often been found highly serviceable in nervous diseases.—Turnbull's Medical Works, p. 120.