210 To make various Hard Confections. Starch Lozenges.—Starch, one ounce and an hall; liquorice root, six drachms ; Florentine orrice root, half an ounce; sugar, one pound and an half; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough■. *#* These may also be made without the orrice root. Almond Paste.—(See Secrets of Trade). Marsh-Mallow Paste {Pate de Guimauve).—Decorti- cated root of marsh-mallows, four pounds; water, one gallon; boil to four pints, strain; add gum arabic, half a pound ; lump sugar, two pounds; evaporate to an ex- tract, then take from the fire; stir it quickly with the white of twelve eggs, previously beat to a froth; add while stirring, orange-flower water, half an ounce. Yellow Pectoral Lozenges.—Florentine orrice root, six drachms; liquorice root, three drachms; starch, half an ounce; saffron in powder, two scruples; sugar, eight ounces; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough. Lozenges for the Heartburn.—Prepared chalk, four ounces; prepared crabs'claws, two ounces; bole arme- niac, one ounce; nutmeg, one scruple; sugar, three ounces; water, a sufficient quantity. 2. Prepared chalk, four ounces; prepared crabs'claws, two ounces; cinnamon, half an ounce; sugar, three ounces; mucilage of gum arabic, enough. 3. Prepared chalk, four ounces; gum arabic, one ounce; nutmeg, one drachm; sugar, six ounces ; water, a sufficient quantity. Clove Lozenges.—Cloves, five drachms; sugar, one pound eight ounces; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough: —make one hundred and fifty lozenges, containing two grains of cloves each. Put into chocolate to render it stomachic, or used as a restorative after fatigue. Cachou Lozenges.— Catechu, three ounces; sugar, twelve ounces; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough. Cachou a VAmbergris.—The same, with eight grains of ambergris. Cachou Musque.—The same, with musk, eight grains. Cachou a la fleur d'Oranges.—The same, with essence ofnerole, six drops. Cachou a la Reglisse.—Catechu, two ounces; extract of refined liquorice, one ounce; sugar, fourteen ounces; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough. Cachou d, la Violeite.—The same, with Florentine orrice root, one drachm and an half. Saffron Lozenges.—Hay saffron dried and powdered,