General Rules for the Preservation of the Sight. 163 tepid diluent, or bitter infusion, as that of camomile flowers, &c. Principal Emetics, given with the intention of producing quick and full Vomiting. Dose. Copper, sulphate of » - - gr.\ to v. even, in cases of poison, to xv. grs. vitriolated - - - gr. j. to iij. Ipecacuanha, powder of - grs. x. to 5ss. with tartarized antimony, gr. j. Tartarized antimony . - - gr. -§ to iij. Sulphate of zinc - - - grs. x. to 5ss. *** The influence of emetics over the human body, appears to be so manifold and extensive, that they may be justly reckoned amongst the most powerful instru- ments which the Materia Medica supplies.—New London Medical Pocket-Book, for the use of Clergymen, Heads of Families, fyc. p. 120. GENERAL RULES FOR THE PRESERVATION OF THE SIGHT; THE USE OF SPECTACLES, &c. 1. Never sit for any length of time in absolute gloom, or exposed to a blaze of light, and then remove to an opposite extreme. 2. Avoid reading a very small print. 3. Never read by twilight nor by fire-light, nor, if the eyes are disordered, by candle-light. 4. Do not permit the eye to dwell on glaring objects, particularly on first awaking in a morning. 5. Long-sighted persons should accustom themselves to read with rather less light, and somewhat nearer to the eye, than is naturally agreeable ; while the short- sighted should habituate themselves to read with the book as far oft* as possible. 6. Nothing preserves the sight longer than a moderate degree of light; too little strains the eyes, and too great a quantity dazzles and inflames them. 7. Do not wear other spectacles than your own, to which your eyes have accommodated themselves. Philosophical Observations relative to Spectacles, fyc. By assisting the eyes to converge the rays of light, spectacles restore and preserve to us one of the most noble and valuable of our senses. They enable the me- chanic to continue his labours and earn his subsistence till the extreme of old age. The scholar, by their aid,