Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 345 an admirable degree of uniformity of temperature. He thinks too, that one of their most important uses is that of an external application, yet supposes that, in this re- spect, they differ little from common water, when heated to the same temperature, and applied under similar cir- cumstances. According to Dr. Falconer, the Bath water, when drunk fresh from the spring, generally raises, or rather accele- rates the pulse, increases the heat, and promotes the different secretions. These symptoms, in most cases, become perceptible soon after drinking it, and will some- times continue for a considerable time. It is, however, remarkable, that they are only produced in invalids. Hence we may conclude, that these waters not only pos- sess heating properties, but their internal use is likewise attended with a peculiar stimulus, acting more immedi- ately on the nerves. One of the most salutary effects of the Bath water, consists in its action on the urinary organs, even when taken in moderate doses. Its operation on the bowels varies in different individuals, like that of all other waters which do not contain any cathartic salt; but in general, it is productive of costiveness: an effect resulting from the want of an active stimulus to the intestines, and pro- bably also from the determination this water occasions to the skin, more than from any astringency which it may possess; for, if perspiration be suddenly checked during the use of it, a diarrhoea is sometimes the consequence. Hence it appears that its stimulant powers are primarily, and more particularly exerted in the stomach, where it produces a variety of symptoms, sometimes slight and transient, but, occasionally, so considerable and perma- nent, as to require it to be discontinued. In those indi- viduals with whom it is likely to agree, and prove bene- ficial, the Bath waters excite, at first, an agreeable glowing sensation in the stomach, which is speedily fol- lowed by an increase both of appetite and spirits, as well as a quick secretion of urine. In others, when the use of them is attended with head-ache, thirst, and constant dryness of the tongue, heaviness, loathing of the stomach, and sickness; or if they are not evacuated, either by urine or an increased perspiration, it may be justly in- ferred that their further continuance is improper.