553 Lobster casting its Shell, fyc. 4 a2 claws, which burst at the joints; the animal, with a tre- mulous motion, casting them off as a man would kick off a boot. Thus, in a short time, this wonderful creature finds itself at liberty; but in so weak and enfeebled a state, that it continues for several hours motionless. Indeed, so vio- lent is the operation, that many of them die under it. Immediately after this change, they have not only the softness, but the timidity of a worm. Every animal of the deep is then a powerful enemy, which they can neither escape nor oppose; and this, in fact, is the time when the dog-fish, the cod, and the ray, devour them by hun- dreds. But this imbecility continues only a short time ; for the animal, in less than two days, is seen to have the skin that covered its body grown almost as hard as before j its appetite increases; and, strange to behold ! the first object that tempts its gluttony, is its own stomach, which it so lately was disengaged from. This it devours with great eagerness; and some time after eats even its former shell. In about forty-eight hours, in proportion to the animal's health and strength, the new shell is perfectly formed, and as hard as that which was but just thrown aside. When the lobster is completely equipped in its new shell, it then appears how much it has grown in the space of a very few days; the dimensions of the old shell being compared with those of the new, it will be found that the creature has increased above a third in size. The creature, thus furnished not only with a new cover- ing, but also a greater share of strength and courage, ven- tures more boldly among the animals at bottom; and in its combat it often suffers mutilation. A joint, or even a whole claw, is sometimes snapped off in these encounters. To come off with the loss of a leg, or even a claw, is no great calamity; the victor carries off the spoil to feast upon at his leisure, while the other retires from the defeat to wait for a thorough repair. This repair is not long in procuring. From the place where the joint of the claw was cut away, is seen in a most surprising manner the renovation of a new claw. This, at first, is small and tender, but grows, in the space of three weeks, to be almost as large and as powerful as the old one, liut never arrives to the full size; and this is the reason we generally find the claws of the lobsters of unequal magnitude.