384 CONDIMENTS, &c. VINEGARS*. 1. From wine left exposed to the air, in pairs of casks, one full, the other only half full, but filled up daily from the other in turn: those wines which contain the most mucilage are fittest for the purpose. 2. Common White Wine Vinegar—From ale, treated in the same way. 3. Common Vinegar—From weak malt liquor, brewed for the purpose : its various strength in England is denoted by the numbers from 18 to 24. 4. Sugar Vinegar—To each gallon of water, add two pounds of brown sugar, and a little yeast; leave it ex- posed to the sun for six months, in a vessel slightly stopped. 5. Gooseberry Vinegar — To each quart of bruised gooseberries add three quarts of water, and to each gal- lon of liquor, one pound of coarse sugar, or more ; expose to the sun until sufiiciently sour. 6. Raisin Vinegar—After making raisin wine, lay the pressed raisin in a heap to heat; then to each hundred weight put fifteen gallons of water, and a little yeast. ACID LIQUORS, &c. The strength of distilled acetous acids is examined by Taylor's Revenue Aerometer, which consists in saturat- ing a sample of the acid with slaked lime, and then ascertaining the specific gravity of the solution. The best malt vinegar (No. 24) contains about five per cent, real acetous acid, and is taken as the standard or proof acid, two hundred grains of which will saturate twenty-nine grains of well-crystallized subcarbonate of soda. The best common distilled vinegar is about half this strength. * Vinegar is used principally as a sauce, and to preserve vegetable substances ; but it is employed externally in medicine as a refrigerant and repeller : useful also internally, when an over-dose of strong wine, spirit, opium, or other nar- cotic poison lias been taken. A false strength is given to vinegar, by adding oil of vitriol, or some acrid vegetable, as pellitory of Spain, grana cnidia, capsi- cum.1 It is rendered colourless by adding fresh-burned bone-black, six ounces to a gallon, and letting it stand two or three days to clear.