Dangers to which helpless Infancy is exposed, 5yc. 443 of the complaint. Hence it may be explained, that our progress in the knowledge and cure of infantile disorders, has been remarkably slow, and is not likely to advance, unless we shall be aided by mothers, and guardians of families, instead of being thwarted by inveterate preju- dices and customs. When will the period arrive, that children shall be no longer entrusted to ignorant and superstitious nurses?— It requires no great sagacity to discover the difference between infants educated under the eye of a sensible mother, and those reared by mercenary agents. But as I propose to treat, in this Lecture, chiefly of the dangers attending the administration of medicines to young con- stitutions, I shall be under the necessity of dividing that subject into particular heads. Previously to this division, I cannot pass over in silence, what has often appeared to me peculiarly striking in the treatment of diseased children; namely, that most persons are either too anxious, and officious, in removing their complaints, or they shew an almost culpable indifference; believing that the medical art, on such occasions, affords no relief. Others again are excessively partial to domestic remedies, or family-prescriptions, which, like the amulets of barbarous memory, are called in aid upon the slightest indisposition. They conceive it to be of little conse- quence, to attend to the particular constitution or tem- perament of the child, provided the remedy has been for- merly found of service to others. If, however, medical advice should be asked, it is more with a view to procure instant alleviation of pain, than to await with patience the operation of the medicines. That domestic remedies may, in certain cases, be productive of good effects, can- not be denied; but I hope it is unnecessary to prove that they are not altogether harmless; or, if indiscriminately and improperly employed, that they must be attended with dangerous effects. For there is no substance in Nature, even among the different kinds of food and drink, which is so perfectly neutral or ineffectual, when intro- duced into the human body, that it is not more wholesome or pernicious at one time than at another. Nor is it pos- sible to conceive the existence of any material substance, without attributing to it properties and effects, more or less consonant to the human body. Hence the flagrant absurdity of Nostrums advertised for the cure of infantile disorders; a speculation peculiar to the present age:—