42G Composition for curing Diseases in Trees. juice, carried through a vinous fermentation, becomes a liquor resembling cider, but more spirituous, which is sought with avidity by all ranks of society. On boiling and clarifying, it becomes a wine; and on distillation affords a fine brandy. The outward coat of leaves yields a membranous substance used for the manufacture of Cordage; an inner coat gives a finer substance for clothing; and the internal part of the leaf is an article of food; so that this productive plant, regarded by the Mexicans as one of the most beautiful gifts of nature, affords them cider, wine, brandy, cordage, clothing, food, and fuel. From 12,000 to 15,000 mules are daily employed in sup- plying the city of Mexico from the surrounding planta- tions with pulque, which is the liquor in a ciderous state. It is in the flowering of this plant, in a degenerate state, in colder climates, that we are deceived by supposing it to be the aloe that flowers once in a century: this flowers in eight or ten years in such climates, and perhaps is not of the aloe tribe; certainly it partakes not of the nauseous bitter, nor cathartic qualities, of the aloes we are ac- quainted with. Directions for making a Composition for curing Diseases, Defects, and Injuries, in all kinds of Fruit and Forest Trees, and the Method of preparing the Trees, and laying on the Composition. By William Forsyth*. Take one bushel of fresh cow-dung, half a bushel of lime rubbish of old buildings, (that from the ceilings of rooms is preferable^ half a bushel of wood-ashes, and a sixteenth part of a bushel of pit, or river sand. The three last articles are to be sifted fine before they are mixed; then work them well together with a spade, and after- ward with a wooden beater, until the stuff is very smooth, like fine plaster used for the ceilings of rooms. The composition being thus made, care must be taken to prepare the tree properly for its application, by cutting away all the dead, decayed, and injured part, till you come to the fresh, sound, wood; leaving the surface of the wood very smooth, and rounding off the edges of the * In consequence of an Address of the House of Commons to His late Ma- jesty, and of an examination made respecting the efficacy of a composition discovered by Mr. William Forsyth, for curing injuries and defects in trees, His Majesty was pleased to grant a reward to Mr. Forsyth, for disclosing the method of making and using that composition; and the following directions for that purpose were published accordingly.