Draughts in Spitting of Blood—Piles, $c. 481 tient be hot and feverish, youthful, and of a full habit, and has a hard jerking pulse, bleeding from the arm may be adopted with considerable benefit, and the operation re- peated according to circumstances. On the contrary, where there are marks of debility and laxity, and the blood is of a dark colour, this step will be improper. Draughts in Spitting of Blood. 1. Take Infusion of roses, - H ounce. Epsoin salts, 3 drachms. Mix, and take twice a day, as a cooling purgative. 2. Take Infusion of roses, - - - - If ounce. Nitrate of potass, - - _ ' - 15 grains. Tincture of opium, - - - - 15 drops. To be taken every four hours, after the purgative draught has operated, as a refrigerant and cooling draught. 3. Take Cream of tartar, 3 drachms. Nitre, - - - - - - 2 drachms. Divide into ten equal parts, and take one in a tea-cupful of barley-water, every three or four hours. 4. Take Alum, ------ 3 grains. Extract of catechu, 10 grains. Confection of roses, enough to make a bolus. To be taken every four hours, washing it down with three table-spoonsful of the infusion of roses, as an astringent. More powerful astringents may be used, should this fail, such as a grain of the superacetate of lead every four or six hours; and in cases of emergency, and attended with imminent danger, from the loss of blood, two or even three grains may be given, in infusion of roses, with a few drops of the tincture of opium: or if more agreeable, it may be given in the form of a pill. After the effusion is stopped, every possible means must be adopted to prevent its return, by avoiding the causes that may have given rise to it. Should a pain in the chest arise, or remain as a consequence of this disease, a blister applied over the part, will be attended with considerable relief. PILES. The piles are small tumours arising on the verge of the fundament, from the distention of small veins; sometimes separate, round and prominent; at other times of a tumour consisting only of one tumid ring surrounding it. There is a discharge of blood, in some cases, from these tumours, particularly when the patient goes to stool; the disease is then known by the name of the bleeding piles ; and in others, there is no discharge; thev then take the name of blind piles p '2