On the Physical Education of Children, fyc. 395 of an old man, a witness in a cause, who averred, that when Queen Anne was at Oxford, she touched him, whilst a child, for the evil." Mr. Barrington, when he had finished his evidence, asked him, "Whether he was really cured V* Upon which he answered, with a signi- ficant smile, " that he believed himself never to have had a complaint that deserved to be considered as the evil, but that his parents were poor, and had no objection to the bit of GOLD." This accounts for the great resort of patients, and the supposed miraculous cures on this occasion. This new- exploded royal gift is thus described by Shakspearc: «« Strangely-visited people, All swollen and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye, The mere despair of surgery he cures; Hanging a golden stamp about their neck, Put on with holy prayers."—Macbeth. LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN DURING THE EARLY PART OF THEIR LIVES. ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS, &c. BY A. F. WILLICH, M. D. LECT. I.—(Continuedfrom p. 375). Habits of Early Life, and Physical Character of various Nations considered, relative to Cause and Effect, fyc. The Negro spends his life, void of care, in a country which yields him food with unbounded liberality. He moves his slender body in the water as if it had been formed for that element; he runs and climbs, as if each were his sport; and, not less strong and healthy than light and active, his peculiar constitution supports him against all the accidents and diseases of his climate, under which so many Europeans sink. What to him are the tormenting sensations of superior joys, for which he was not formed ? The materials were not wanting; but Nature took him in hand, and formed of him what was most fit for his country, and the happiness of his life.— Either no Africa should have been created, or it was requisite that Negroes should be made to inhabit that country. The wandering Californian is placed as it were on the border of the habitable world, in a country which geographers, with great injustice, have called fertile, lie lives in the most wretched indigence; has in general