529 The Second, or last Sweating. may be tied together in pairs, and hung across a pole, in the same covered place, a proper interval being left be- tween each pair. In about a month they will be thoroughly dried, and of a proper temperature to be taken down. This state may be ascertained by their appearing of the same colour as those imported from America, with which few are unacquainted. But this can be done at no other season than during wet weather; for the tobacco greatly- abounding with salt£, it is always affected if there is the least humidity in the atmosphere, even though it be hung in a dry place. If this rule be not observed, but they are removed in dry weather, the leaves will crumble, and a considerable waste will attend its removal. The Second, or last Siveating, &c. As soon as the plants are taken down, they must once more be laid in a heap, and pressed with heavy logs of wood for about a week. This climate, however, may re- quire a longer time. Whilst they remain in this state, it will be necessary to introduce your hand frequently into the heap, to discover whether the heat be not too intense ; for in large quantities this will sometimes be the case, and considerable damage will accrue from it. When the heat exceeds a moderate glowing warmth, part of the weight by which they are compressed must be taken away; and the cause being removed, the effect will cease. This is called " the second, or last sweating," and when com- pleted, which it generally will be in about the time just mentioned, the leaves may be stripped from the stalks for use. Many omit this last operation, but it takes away any remaining harshness, and renders the tobacco more mellow. When the leaves are stripped from the stalks, they are to be tied up in bunches and kept in a cellar, or any other place that is damp; though if not handled in dry weather, but only during a rainy season, it is of little consequence in what part of the house or barn they are laid up. At this period the tobacco is thoroughly cured, and equally proper for manufacturing as that imported from the colonies. If it has been properly managed, that raw fiery taste so frequently found in the common sale tobacco will be totally eradicated ; and though it retains all its strength, will be soft and pleasing in its flavour. Those who are curious in their tobacco in the northern colonies of America, sprinkle it, when made up into rolls for keeping, with small common white wines or cvder, ri x 2