149 Mechanics, Labourers, fyc. the greater portion of the evil supposed to result from them, arises in consequence of imprudence and intem- perance in the mode of regulating those principal matters which, although they do not enter into the composition of the body, are, at the same time necessary to its existence; for example, air, meat and drink, sleeping and watching, affections of the mind, retentions and excretions, &c. Before, however, we touch upon this important subject, previous to treating of the eflects of certain callings and particular positions of the body, as productive of certain diseased actions, it may not be irrelevant to our plan to premise the following inquiry, as far as regards the con- sequences of labour, abstractedly taken. The subject here presents two points for consideration, viz. over-confinement, and over-exertion, either of which it seems impossible to reject alone, as being the cause of serious diseases. We are accustomed frequently to wit- ness the consequences of over-working the horse, and to acknowledge their origin; and, at least in this respect, there is nothing physically different between man and the other animals of the first class. In the horse, the kind of labour has evidently nothing to do with it, since the same exercise, moderately taken, contributes to the preservation of his health and the improvement of his strength: it is the quantity alone to which the injury is to be referred. The same remark holds equally good of man, but very many circumstances attending his occupations will require to be taken into account. In the first place, the quantity of labour which different individuals will undergo without detriment, will considerably vary with the original con- stitution of their bodies, and their habits of life. A man of great natural physical strength, other things being equal, will perform more labour than a man of less powerful make ; of two men of equal natural powers, the one, accustomed to continual hard work, will bear more than the other, unaccustomed to such employment; and, in the second place, very much will depend upon the quantity of nutriment which can be obtained*. Taking, however, all these considerations into account, there are * A more striking instance of this could scarcely be adduced, than what occurred to the persons engaged with Captain Franklin in the travels to the North Pole ; where we find them preserving their strength, and enduring easily the journey to the sea, though called upon perpetually to great bodily exertion ; but, on their return, having been for some time deprived of sufficient food, the strongest amongst them was scarcely able to carry his gun, and not at all able to steady it, so as to obtain any of that supply when it appeared witlun their reach.