Secrets of Trade. ?1 « * gentian, columba, cardamom and bark, with the com- pound spirit of lavender, and wine of iron. C chamberlaine's restorative pills for scrofula. "The moat certain cure for the Scrofula, or King's Evil, Fistula, Scurvy, and all Impurities of the Blood." My attention, says Dr. Paris, (see Pharmacologia, vol. ii. p. 247), has been particularly directed to these pills, in consequence of having lately seen, during the course of my professional duty, several highly respec- table persons, who have been induced to make trial of their efficacy. Their inventor, if 1 am rightly informed, resides at Tpswich, where, for the benefit of suffering humanity, he prepares these wonderful pills, and, with the alacrity of his patron deity, Mercury, transmits them to every corner of the united kingdom. It appears from the printed directions which accompany the " restorative pills," that their use must be continued for a very long period; but upon this occasion we must allow the Doctor to speak for himself: " It may be necessary to observe; that in some cases of scrofula, especially when the seat of the dis- ease is in the feet, ancles, or hands, it may take a longtime to effect a cure, even two years, and it may be twelve or sixteen months, with seeming little or no improvement, yet the cure is certain by perseverance."—What, two years! and to be taken during a period of sixteen months without any sensible benefit! Is it possible that people can be found, with sufficient credulity and resolution to submit to so preposterous a proposal ? There is no doubt Mr. Cham- berlaine can produce a great a proportion of cures after such an ordeal, as was adduced in former times, in proof of the efficacy of the royal touch, and for the same obvi- ous reason. Upon examining these said pills, they were found to consist of cinnabar, sulphur, sulphate of lime, and a little vegetable matter, perhaps gum. Each pill weighs a fraction less than three grains; upon dividing one with a penknife, and examining the cut surface through a lens, itexhibited the appearance of scoriae of a red brick colour, having small yellowish masses imbedded in its substance. When exposed on a piece of platinum foil to the action of the blow-pipe, it-yielded vapour of a strong sulphure- ous smell, and left a residuum of a pearly white matter,