Horticulture. 532 and raise it as much as possible, especially where the trees are to be set. Ground intended for planting—or where the ground is of a very poor, light, hungry, or otherwise unfavourable na- ture, apply a compost of good earth, loam, and rotten dung, at least to the places where the trees are to stand, which may be increased at leisure, as observed on former occasions. Planting may be performed—in all wall trees, espaliers, and standards, when the weather is open. But in planting—it is advisable to complete what is in- tended at this season, as soon as possible, while open weather prevails; and not continue it, or have the trees removed for that occasion if there is the appearance of expected frost setting in severe. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground. — The business of the flower-garden, pleasure-ground, &c. con- sists in finishing all intended winter planting, if mild weather, in roots, plants, shrubs, and trees and in for- warding any requisite pruning in trees and shrubs: also to keep the principal compartments of walks, borders, and lawns, decently clean; and in severe frost to give occasional protection to tender or curious plants. For intended planting—dig beds, borders, and shrub- berry compartments. Planting—may still be performed in open mild weather, in bulbous roots, hardy perennials and biennials, and most sorts of trees and shrubs: but more freely in the decidu- ous than in the evergreen kinds. Keep clean all principal compartments—by eradicating weeds in the borders, and sometimes raking them; pole and roll grass, sweep and roll principal gravel-walks, and prune and dig shrubberies: also dig beds and borders, to destroy weeds effectually, and to appear clean, neat, and ready for planting, &c. Work in the Nursery.—In this season, as severe frosts often prevail or are expected, no considerable works of removing ox transplanting of young trees, &c. is advisable, nor of sowing seed thereof, or propagating by cuttings and layers; but several other necessary works will be required, which should now be performed occa- sionally ; such as forwarding the digging of vacant ground for spring planting and sowing; digging between the rows of trees and shrubs; mulching the ground between the stems of some of the more curious or less hardy kinds, to preserve them more securely from the power of rigorous frost; giving other occasional protection in severe weather