Operation and Effects of Emetics. 496 must, on this occasion, with reluctance observe, that mothers are guilty of similar imprudence, when they place a diseased infant more frequently than Nature requires, to their breasts j and hence appears to have originated the absurd expression, " to still a child." But, if mothers were informed that they contribute to the destruction of the child, while endeavouring to promote its welfare, they would not load it with a superfluity of milk; which vitiates the stomach, produces acidity, and by remaining in the mouth of the infant, even there becomes sour and acrimonious, generates aphthous eruptions, and disposes the little patient to habitual flatulency. On the whole, it cannot be disputed, that the diet and regimen of children are shamefully neglected; because mankind almost uniformly place too implicit a reliance on medicinal substances; and, while searching for distant means of relief, are apt to slight those which kind Nature has placed within their reach. Thus, the source of re- tarded recovery, or premature death, arises principally from an improper management during the first attack of the disease; because the dietetic treatment unfortunately was in direct opposition to the medicines prescribed. Having now treated of such remedies as are most generally subject to abuse, let us also take a concise view of those, the application of which is often dreaded and procrastinated in infantile disorders; as it is erroneously imagined, that they manifest too powerful an effect on young constitutions, and are apt to injure them. The Operation and Effects of Emetics in the Diseases of Children, fyc. Among all the remedies which mankind have adopted in consequence of the hints given them by Nature, none appear to be more beneficial and conformable to the con- stitution of children, than emetics. It is, therefore, ex- tremely imprudent to substitute laxatives, merely because these are erroneously considered as less dangerous and oppressive to the child. On the contrary, it cannot be disputed, that purgatives are attended with much greater relaxation of the stomach and bowels, especially in young children; and it is a certain fact, that a single emetic has often relieved the most distressing symptoms, prevented suffocation, and produced the most desirable effects.