Observations on Clothing, Influence of Air, Weather, fa. 3 briefly observed, that there is nothing contributes more essentially to health and comfort, than a well-directed attention to these articles; nor does it require any laboured commentary, in giving plain directions for the management of this department of medical precepts. The general properties of a good, commodious, and comfort- able dress, maybe briefly comprised as follows, viz. That it be soft and pliable, so as not to obstruct the free and easy motions of the joints, nor in any other respect to in- commode us, either by its weight or tightness;—that it be adequate to protect the body from the external influence of the atmosphere, and preserve the body in that degree of temperature which is most agreeable, as well as best adapted to the exercise of the different functions and motions compatible with a state of health;—that it do not produce any detrimental effects, so as to increase an unnecessary degree of perspiration, nor absorb the va- pours of the atmosphere. As far as individual clothing- is concerned, these are the essential requisites for the preservation of health. While on the subject of clothes, we cannot resist lay- ing before our readers, particularly at this season of the year, the judicious observations of Dr. Kitchiner*, whose opinions so perfectly accord with our own. " A gentle- man who has a mind to carry the adjustment of his clothes to a nicety, may have the shelves of his ward- robe numbered 30, 40, 50, CO, &c. and according to the degrees of cold pointed to by his Fahrenheitf, he may wear a corresponding defence against it. This mode of adjusting dress according to the vicissitudes of the weather, &c. is as rational as the ordinary practice of regulating it by the almanack or the fashion, which, in this uncertain climate, and capricious age, will as often lead us wrong as right." Directions for the regulation of Wearing Apparel, fyc. Leave off your winter clothes late in the spring; put them on early in autumn. By wearing your winter clothes during the first half dozen warm days, you get some fine per- * See Peptic Precepts, p. 144. + Thermometers intended to give the temperature of rooms, should be so placed as to be equally removed from the radiant heat of the fire, and from currents of air from the door. Out of doors, they should be in a northern situa- tion, sheltered from sunshine, or reflected heat. B 2