290 Appert's Method of Preserving Green-Pease, $c. The sorts of green pease preferred by the author for pre- servation are, the clamart and the crochu; the michaux he rejects. The pease being gathered when not two young, and the largest separated, they are put into bottles, ob- serving to jog the bottles, that they may contain as many as possible. When corked, they are submitted to the water-bath, which is kept boiling for an hour and a half or two hours. The large pease also" are to be bottled, and treated in the same way, but with thirty minutes longer boiling. Asparagus—being washed as usual, are plunged into boiling, and afterwards into cold water, before they are bottled: if they are preserved whole, they are care- fully ranged in a jar with their heads downwards. They are left in the bath no longer than till it begins to boil. Garden Beans.—The larger sorts, gathered when the bean is about half an inch long, are shelled, and bottled with a small bunch of savory, &c. and submitted to the bath, which is to boil for an hour and a half. Green Kidney Beans are gathered as for common use, the best sort for preserving are known by the name of Bayolet. They are to be cut and stringed, and then bot- tled. The water bath should boil for an hour and an half; but if the beans are large, they should be cut in two or three lengthwise, and then an hour's boiling will be suffi- cient. Artichokes (whole) are treated the same as asparagus, and left an hour in the bath. Cauliflowers require the same treatment, with only half an hour's boiling. A longer heat is given in dry, and a shorter in wet seasons. Culinary and medicinal herbs are to be pressed close in the bottles with a stick, and, after being corked up, sub- mitted but a short time to a boiling heat. The process should be gone through as quickly as possible, for pre- serving juices and fruits. Fruits should be gathered before they are perfectly ripe: they will be best if gathered in the middle of the season. Gooseberries and grapes, picked and bottled like the pease, are placed in the bath till it begins to boil: the fire is then removed from under the copper, and a quarter of an hour after- wards the water is let out through a cock, or by other convenient means. Gooseberries are preserved better if the seeds are previously taken out. Cherries and rasp- berries are preserved in the same manner as gooseberries.