RULES FOR THE PRESERVATION AND TREATMENT OF THE EYES. In whatever calling or employment we may be en- gaged, we should attend, as much as possible, to the following circumstances, viz. that the eyes receive an uniform and sufficient light, so as to affect the retina (the seat of vision) on all sides alike. The eyes materially suffer, when the rays of the sun are strongly reflected from the opposite wall or window. In children, many disorders of the eye, which never would have terminated fatally, have ended in total blindness, when parents have neglected to provide the cradle or window with proper curtains. For this reason, the greatest caution is neces- sary in the choice of an apartment appropriated to the labours of the day. Nor should people place themselves directly opposite to the light, in reading and writing; they should take the light rather in a lateral direction. A great obstacle to this arrangement, is the change of light, in the same apartment, by the progress of the sun. Where the sun dazzled in the morning, we find in the middle of the day the most uniform light, which again in the afternoon, particularly in town, becomes reverberatory, and extremely hurtful. This inconvenience should be remedied, if possible, by a frequent change of the room ; or, at least, we might produce more uniformity in the light, by means of window-curtains or blinds: and it may be observed, that blinds of green, or of whited-brown linen, are best adapted for this purpose. It is an useful practice, to protect weak eyes from the descending rays, by means of shades ; because the vivid light striking them from above, is thus intercepted. But .we ought to consider, that the lower part of the eye is, by such means, completely shaded, while the upper part of this organ is stimulated by the light it receives from below; a practice which cannot be productive of good consequences. If the malady be situated in the upper part of the eye, this conduct is still more improper; for the healthy part is in this manner protected, and that already relaxed, is still more weakened. Darkness, or shade, is then only beneficial to the eyes, when they are unemployed, when the obscurity is natural, and, consequently, every where extended. To rest a little during the twilight, is very suitable to weak Q