3ti Singular Cures of the Gout, #c. the 43d and 60th degrees of north latitude, and over a space extending from Marseilles to St. Petersburgh, the most accurate and authentic tables of records shew no other increase of mortality in females, from the age of thjrty to seventy, than what necessarily results from the progress or decline of life!! At all periods within the above range, there is, in fact, according to the said tables, a greater mortality among men than women—especially between the age of forty and fifty years—hence the "turn of life," or we will say the forty-fifth year, is a more critical period for the lords of the creation than for the ladies. On these calculations and tables, we can only remark, that, although they appear to prove that the general ratio of mortality among women is not increased by the " turn of life," yet they do not prove the cessation of the cata- menia is unproductive of danger, and in many instances of death. It ought to be recollected, that the " turn of life" brings with it an immunity from some dangers, as child-bearing, for instance, and therefore, although the general rate of mortality may not be influenced by this epoch, the kind of death may vary. If, for example, as many women die, after the age of forty, in consequence of the " turn of life," as there died before that age, of child-bearing, the ratio of mortality would not be altered, and yet it would be quite certain that the critical period was a period of danger. SINGULAR CURES OF THE GOUT, &c. The influence of the master's temper on all his servants and dependants, is one of the most remarkable particulars in the manners of the Turks. Despotism seems as if it would be incomplete, were it not also to enslave the sentiments of the mind. The servants of the Turks carefully observe the reception any one meets with from their patron, in order to treat him in the like man- ner, the moment he quits his presence. They interpret the usage he has received, and if the master bestows a kick, he can expect no quarter. A Pacha had honoured an European merchant with his intimate friendship; he delighted in his company, and all about him paid their court to the stranger. It happened he was subject to the gout. The Pacha, who had unfortunately studied a little