8x4 Secrets of Trade. subscribed from ten to forty guineas for the purchase ; but alter exhausting themselves with advertisements that did not fulfil their expectation, she had interest enough to attract notice from another quarter; viz. to Parliament, who, after mature deliberation, and with equal goodness and wisdom, did actually grant unto the said Mrs. Stephens, the afore-mentioned sum of 5000/. sterling, for her won- derful stone dissolvent; which was considered of too weighty importance to be longer withheld from the pub- lic, &c. This said remedy for the stone, for which the above consideration was actually paid, consisted of lime, which was produced by calcining the shells of eggs and snails, and made into pills with soap. A decoction was also administered, consisting of chamomile, fennel, parsley, and burdock, together with a portion of Alicant soap. This is a very rational practice, and is very much what the prac- titioners Of the present day. depend upon: the observa- tions of Mrs. Stephens respecting their administration, is equally judicious: " If these medicines/' says she, " pro- duce pain, it will be necessary to give an opiate with them, and it must be at all times a principal care to pre- vent a looseness, for if this should happen, it would carry oiF the medicines: under such circumstances, the quantity of the decoction, since it is laxative, must be diminished, and other suitable means taken, by the ad vrce of a physician." The credit, however, of introducing alkaline medicine* in cases of stone, does not rest with Mrs. Stephens; for we find that Basil Valentine employed a fixed alkaline salt in such cases; and it may be here added, that Sen- nertus, in his Praxis Medica, mentions a lithontriptic, or stone dissolver, that was in great repute, and in general use in his time; which consisted of one ounce of salt of tartar dissolved in a pint of barley-water, and afterwards tinged yellow with orange-peel. *** Lime-water, soap, acidulous soda-water, caustic alkali, and bitters, are useful in cases of stone. Of soap, as much may be taken as the stomach will bear, or as much as will prove gently laxative; but of lime-water, few can take more than a pint daily, in consequence of the * Dr. Chittick's remedy for the stone consisted of a fixed alkali in veal broth ; the broth was usually made by his patients, and sent to him fresh every day, in order to be medicated.—AN.P. 1766.