405 The Cause of Love, fyc. (the keimweUr of the Germans) has sometimes, and espe- cially among the Swiss, when their manners were simpler, and their domestic virtues and feelings much stronger than they seem to have been of late years, produced not only a permanent melancholy, but a hectic fever. It is to the third modification that our attention on the present occa- sion is chiefly called, from the greater frequency of its occurrence, and the severer and more tragic effects to which it has led, where obstacles have arisen in its pro- gress. On the present occasion, we have nothing to do with the gross passion of concupiscence, which is as dif- ferent from that of pure and genuine love, as light from darkness. The man of lust has, indeed his love, but it is a love that centres in himself, and seeks alone his own gratification; while the passion we are now speaking of, puts self completely out of the field, and would volunta- rily submit to every pain, and sacrifice, even life itself, in promoting the happiness of the beloved object. Yet, constituted as we are by nature for the wisest and best of purposes, a pure corporeal orgasm still interweaves itself with the sentimental desire, though subordinate to it in virtuous minds, and the flame is fed from a double source; and, according to Lord Bacon (Essay, No. x.) u Nuptial love maketh mankind; friendly love perfecteth it j but wanton love corrupteth and embaseth it." The Cause of Love. What it is that first lights up this flame, is of no im- portance to the present subject. A peculiar cast of form or of features, acknowledged by all to be moulded ac- cording to the finest laws of symmetry, and productive of a high degree of external grace or beauty; or a figure or a manner that to the eye of the enamoured beholder gives to them of a mind adorned with all he can wish for; or an actual knowledge, from long acquaintance, of the existence of such internal cultivation and excellence, may be equally causes of the same common effect. And hence this is of little or no account; for the passion being once excited, the judgment runs a risk of being over- powered by its warmth and violence; and the moment it is overpowered, the new train of ideas that are let loose upon the mind are of a romantic character; and as soon as every obstacle starts up as a barrier in the vista of hope, instead of being damped or repressed, they grow wilder and more vivid, till at length the sensorial system