Gcncml Rules regarding Slap. .100 be rendered fit to pass the pores.—4. Many people are subject to colds and coughs, if they sleep in a less warm head-dress, or thinner night-cap, than they have been accustomed to. Any risk of that sort ought to be care- fully guarded against.—5. Such persons as are subject to cold feet, ought to have their legs better covered than the body, when they are in bed.—6. As the body is ex- cited by light, hence darkness is necessary for repose; and fires in the room, or lamps or candles, by which the air is vitiated, or admitting the morning light, ought to be avoided.—7. We should never suffer ourselves to dose, or fall asleep, before we go to bed, as it must greatly diminish any chance of getting repose, when we wish for sleep.—8. Some sleep with their eye-lids open, like hares, who are led to do it in consequence of their timidity; but this practice is not to be approved in men, because dust may get into the eyes, and the light in the morning may become so powerful as to interrupt sleep.— 9. There is not a more pernicious custom, than that of reading in bed, even in the day-time; such a practice strains the eyes, but by candle-light it is still more in- jurious; to which is to be added, the danger of having the bed set on fire, and not only suffering a cruel death one's self, but being perhaps the source of infinite mis- chief.—10. At public schools, where great numbers of children sleep together, the utmost attention ought to be paid to the nature of their beds, the bedding, the airiness of the apartment, and every thing that can prevent the bad effects of crowding numbers together, and compelling them to breathe a confined and vitiated atmosphere.— 11. Those whose sleep is apt to be interrupted by slight causes, should nevertheless keep themselves quiet, and warm in bed, with their eyes shut, and without tossing or tumbling, and this will, in some degree, answer the purpose of more sound repose. Sleep, in fact, is so natural to man, that in almost every instance, it must be the fault of the individual, if he does not enjoy it to that extent, which is so essential for his comfort and happiness.