444 Purgatives, Syc. our ancesto rs,however credulous and superstitious with respect to theiniluence of medicines on, adults, did not encourage tha species of fraud, which has now been ex- tended to the nursery, as well as to public and private infirmaries. Tn order to explain the dangers attending such injudi- cious conduct, I shall divide the different medical reme- dies into two classes: first, such as are too frequently and incautiously employed ; and, secondly, those which are considered as dangerous by the vulgar, but never- theless deserve to be more generally introduced, when administered with due precaution. Of the former class are purgatives, sudorifics, composing draughts or pills, ex- pectorants, and tonics or bracing medicines.— Of the latter, are emetics, clysters, bathing, blisters, and chirurgical operations. 1. Purgatives, fyc. Although Nature appears to have pointed out pur- gatives as useful remedies, they are liable to much abuse. In febrile attacks, coughs, worms, diseases of the eyes, &c. they are in general resorted to, without considering that the doses, as well as the propriety of taking them, ought to be maturely weighed, and accurately determined. A frequent repetition of laxatives obviously debilitates the body, and the oftener we attempt to evacuate, or, as it is pre-eminently called, to cleanse the bowels, the more certainly we lay the basis of a farther accumulation of impurities; and by removing a single symptom of a dis- eased habitj the body is rendered liable to continual morbid debility; it becomes extremely irritable, and sus- ceptible of new affections, on the slightest occasion. Thus weakly children have often been treated with, and, as it were, fed upon medicines, till at length their consti- tution resembles a spoiled time-piece, which is of greater service to the artist than to its possessor.—The necessary consequences of frequent and violent cathartics, are translations of morbid matter to the internal parts, espe- cially towards the breast and abdomen: hence we find, that so many children die of dropsical complaints, or, if they survive the age of puberty, they fall a sacrifice to consumption; because convulsions, spasms', and epileptic fits, had been contracted in their infancy, from the admi- nistration of laxatives. It is needless to increase the catalogue of these maladies; as prudent parents must be convinced, that the exhibition of a medicine is a very