407 Ungovernable Anxiety. sell a mouse for two hundred pence, and then famished himself, with the money in his pocket. And hence the madness of the covetous man has been a subject of sarcasm and ridicule by moralists and dramatic writers in every period, of which we have sufficient examples in the writings of Aristophanes, Lucian, and Moliere. Ungovernable Anxiety. There is another mental feeling of a very afflictive, and too often, like the last, of a chronic kind, which is fre- quently found to usurp a dominion over the judgment, and to embitter life with false and visionary ideas • and that is a habit of anxiety, or preying care, which not only drives the individual who possesses it mad, but runs the risk of doing so to all who are about him, and are harassed with his complaints and discontents. This is sometimes the effect of a long succession of misfortunes or vexatious troubles; but it seems in some persons to depend on a very high degree of nervous sensibility, united with a choleric or melancholic temperament. Their age, wealth, or situation in life, is of no importance; and though their digestive powers are good, and they are not hypochondriacs, they are always apprehensive and full of alarm, and flee from every appearance of joy as they would from an apparition, or even sooner. In the language of Burton, who knew so well how to describe them, "the old are full of aches in their bones, croups, and convulsions; dull of hearing, weak-sighted, hoary, wrinkled, harsh, so much so, that they cannot know themselves in a glass; a burthen to themselves and others. If they be sound, they fear diseases; if sick, weary of their lives. One complains of want; a second of servitude; another of a secret incurable disease, of some deformity of body, of some loss, danger, death of friends, shipwreck, persecution, imprisonment, disgrace, repulse, contumely, calumny, abuse, injury, contempt, ingratitude, unkindness, scoffs, scouts, unfortunate mar- riage, single life, too many children, no children, false servants, unhappy children, barrenness, banishment, op- pression, frustrate hopes, ill success. In the mean time," continues the younger Democritus, "thus much I may say of them, that they generally attenuate our bodies, dry them, wither them, shrivel them up like old apples, and make them as so many anatomies." 3 F