Natural History of the Crab, fyc. 554 Varieties of the Lobster, &c. Of this extraordinary, yet well known animal, there are many varieties, with some differences in the claws, but little in conformation. Some are found above three feet long;xand if we may admit the shrimp and the prawn into the class, though unfurnished with claws, it is seen not above an inch. These all live in the water, and can bear its absence for but a few hours. The shell is black when taken out of the water, but turns red by boiling. The most common way of taking the lobster is in a basket, or pot, as the fishermen call it, made of wicker wood, in which they put some kind of garbage for a bait, and then throw it to the bottom of the sea, in six or ten fathom water. The lobsters creep into this for the sake of the bait, but are not able to get out again. The river craw- fish differs little from the lobster, but in size, and that it lives in fresh water, and the other only in the sea. NATURAL HISTORY OF THE CRAB, &C. The crab is an animal found equally in fresh and salt water; upon land and in the ocean. In shape it differs much from the lobster, but entirely resembles it in con- formation. The tail in this animal is not so apparent as in the former, being a broad flap, that seems to cover a part of the belly, and when lifted discovers the spawn> situated there in great abundance. It resembles the lobster in the number of its great claws, which are two; and its legs, which are eight. As the crab is found upon land as well as in the water, the peculiarity of its situation produces a difference in its way of life, which it is proper to describe. The land crab is found in some of the warmer regions of Europe, and in great abundance in all the tropical climates in Africa and America. They are of various kinds, and endued with various properties; some being healthful, delicious, and nourishing food : others, poisonous or ma- lignant to the last degree; some are not above half an inch broad; others are found a foot over; some are of a dirty brown, and others beautifully mottled. That ani- mal called the violet crab of the Caribbee islands, is the most noted both for its shape, the delicacy of its flesh, and the singularity of its manners. Description of the Violet Crab, &c. The violet crab somewhat resembles two hands cut