191 Housekeeping and Husbandry. be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and your credit will be lost. The health, and even life of the family, depends upon this; and the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's bill than the doctor's ; therefore, atten- tion to this cannot fail to engage the regard of the mis- tress, between whom and the cook, it will be my utmost endeavour to promote perfect harmony. i If a servant has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her pan*, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, I, advise her, by all means, imme- diately to acquaint her employers, who will thank her for candidly mentioning such an accident, and censure her deservedly if she conceal it. Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tammy cloths, spoons, and ladles ; make it a rule, with- out an exception, never to use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any stevvpans, &c. without first washing them out with boiling water, and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean them from grease, sand, &c. or any bad smell they may have got since they were last used: never neglect this. Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut as to wilfully neglect her broth pots, &c. yet we may recommend her to wash them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly dried before the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon : attend to this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. Never put by any soup, gravy, &c. in a metal utensil; in which, never keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the purposes of cookery; the acid, vege- tables, and fat, &c. employed in making them, are capa- ble of dissolving them; therefore stone or earthen vessels should be used for this purpose. Stewpans and soup-pots, with thick and round bottoms (such as saucepans are made with), will wear twice as long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides are soldered to the bottom, of which sand and grease get into the joined part> and it is next to an * This may he always avoided hy browning your meat in the frying-pan—it is the browning of the meat that destroys the stewpan.