421 PRACTICAL REMARKS ON THE PRESERVATION OF THE TEETH AND GUMS, CARIES TEETH, AND SWEETENING OF THE BREATH, The best time for cleaning the teeth is before break- fast. The first thing every morning, is to rinse the mouth out with cold water; then gently to pass over the gums (inwardly and outwardly) a fine piece of sponge fastened to an ivory handle, moistened with an equal quantity of tincture of myrrh and rose-water; after which, rub the surface of the teeth with a similar piece of sponge, moist- ened with the diluted tincture of myrrh, as above, with the surface covered with finely-levigated charcoal of the areca-nut. Then finish, by rinsing the mouth out again With cold water. A brush is sufficient for removing any morbid secretion of the gums that may collect on the in- side and between the teeth. If this simple treatment be adopted, the person may be assured that he shall re- main free from any fresh disease of the teeth, or pains in the jaw, and that the carious teeth which may have existed at the time, will be rendered sweet, and the pro- gress of the disease effectually suspended. The general adoption of the charcoal of the areca-nut, as a dentifrice, has induced some interested men, terming themselves dentists, to oppose its use, for the ridiculous reason, that no tooth-powder should be used without the advice of a dentist: yet some of these conscientious men puff off the most dangerous compositions as safe and effi- cacious tooth-powders. The fact is, that if the charcoal of the areca-nut were the only tooth-powder employed in this country, and the directions above given were strictly followed, there would be no necessity of having recourse to dentists. The charcoal of the areca-nut has been employed by the natives in the East Tndies from time immemorial; and it is well known that no people in the world possess more healthy or beautiful teeth, or are more free from caries and tooth-ache. It has been said, that the charcoal of the areca-nut cannot possess any quality superior to that of wood. This is a very erroneous assertion, for the pow- dered charcoal of the areca-nut is both smooth and alca- lescent, while that of the wood is a common dry powder, which, from its firmness and fibrous quality, may do mischief.