132 horticulture* APRIL. The Kitchen-Garden.—Now all principal sowing and planting omitted last month in the main crops, should be finished early in this; also at this time the sowings planting, transplanting, &c. many successional plants that are but of short duration in perfection, will be required. Finish preparation of ground—by dunging, digging, and trenching, ready for sowing and planting. Sowing—may still be successfully performed in most of the principal crops (b. m.*), both in the open ground and in hot-beds, which, however, should now be forwarded as much as possible, in the main crops of several sorts; such as onions, leeks, parsnips, carrots, red beet, lettuce, celery, cabbage, savoys, broccoli, &c. In the open ground—may sow onions, leeks, carrots, parsnips, radishes, red beet, peas, beans, kidney beans, cabbage, cauliflowers, broccoli, borecole, savoys, red cabbage, sea cabbage, celery, cardoons, lettuce, asparagus, turnips, spinach, white beet, green beet, tur- nip-cabbage, turnip-radish, salsafy, scorzonera, skirrets, Alexanders, flnochio, rampion, nasturtiums, and small Salading. • Of the above—finish sowing the main crops of Onions, leeks, carrots, parsnips, red beet, cabbage, cau- liflowers, asparagus, lettuce, radishes, and spinach. — Likewise of pot-herbs—may sow parsley, borage, fennel, dill, thyme, marjoram, savory, hyssop, marigold, sorrel, burnet, chervil, clary, Coriander, and purslane, it hot done last month. In hot-beds—sow cucumbers, melons, kidney beans, capsicum, tomatoes or love apple, and basil. Planting—is now proper in many principal crops, as asparagus, artichokes, cabbages, cauliflowers, coleworts, sea-cabbage, beans, kidney beans, potatoes, horse-radish, lettuce, Jerusalem artichokes, and strawberries; with several kinds of aromatics, pot and sweet herbs, both in full plants, slips, off-sets, cuttings, &c. as sage, mint, * b. m. 1. stand for beginning, middle, and latter end of the month, denoting when particular works may be performed.