392 Directions for Buying and Using the Vervain, fyc. written expressly to recommend its use in scrofulous affections, had the effect of restoring its medical charac- ter. This gentleman recommends the root of the vervain to be tied with a yard of white satin ribbon round the neck. He also directs infusions and ointments made from the leaves of the plant, and occasionally calls in aid the most active medicines of the Materia. It seems, however, to have been much more frequently employed externally, in the form of a poultice made from the bruised leaves and stalks. It has been highly recom- mended by many as an excellent deobstruent, in obstruc- tions of the liver and bowels. It acts also as a diuretic, and promotes perspiration; and in this capacity it has been found serviceable in inveterate coughs, and other affections of the breast. For these purposes it is best employed in decoction, in which form it is aiso commended as a gargle in sore throats. Mr. Morley's Directions for Buying and Using the Vervain, fyc. " One constant method I use to every patient, without distinction, let their complaints be what they will, if, upon examination, I have reason to suspect them to be scrofulous, is to recommend to them a piece of fresh common purple veryain, about three or four inches long, and about the size of the patient's little finger, if men or women; to young children and infants, as large as their thumb; and so in proportion, but not less; because it shrinks much, and contains but little virtue. Many pa- tients have been grossly imposed upon by the sellers of these roots, who quote my name to deceive the ignorant buyer; and I must repeat it, that if a vervain root is not of the bigness I recommend, people are greatly deceived, and have little or no benefit at all from it. Let the buyer take heed. All the fibres are to be cut off smooth, and as little of the rind as possible, to be worn always at the pit of the stomach, tied with a yard of white satin ribbon, half an inch wide, round the neck of men and women of an ordinary stature: if taller, an ell will be wanting; and children in proportion. To the better sort of females, I propose the ribbon to be fastened through an eye-let hole or loop in the bottom of the shift, and so worn, which will bo no eye-sore. A quarter of a yard of ribbon will be enough; but no other coloured ribbon is proper, because the dye in some colours may be pre-