352 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. of the liver—Bilious state of the stomach—Habitual cos- tiveness—Hypochondriacal complaints—Sick head-ache, with bilious vomitings—some kinds of bilious purgings— Jaundice and biliary concretions—Depraved appetite and indigestion—Pimply eruptions, called scurvies—Scaly and scurfy states of the Skin—Inflammations of the skin of the face—Exudations and watery humours of the skin—Some kinds of scrofulous tumours—Inflammations of the eyes and eyelids—Inflamed ulcers and discharges of the legs —Some stages of rheumatism and gout—Inflammatory asthma—Female diseases—Piles and fistula—Diseases of the kidneys, gravel, and stone; and Intestinal worms. The best season of the year, says Dr. Jameson, in his treatise on these waters, for a course, is the summer, on account of advantages derived from the co-operation of air and exercise with the water. It is also the season which renders the removal of bile and undigested food "from the bowels most necessary for health. The waters are likewise strongest, and their refreshing effects most felt, in summer; for superficial mineral springs are weaker in cloudy and rainy seasons, than in clear dry weather: but it may also be drank in the mid- dle of winter, with considerable advantage, by taking off the chill, or drinking it at the fire-side. The spring and autumn are likewise proper seasons for its use, on account of the tendency of the constitution -to inflammatory and eruptive diseases at these periods. Hence the usual time of the resort of company to Chel- tenham begins in April. The season is at its height from the beginning of July until the end of September, and finishes in October, except with those persons who intend to remain all the winter, of which there has been consi- derable numbers for some years past. The best time of the day for drinking the water is found by experience to be early in the morning, and it is seldom used at any other time at Cheltenham. Medicines in- tended to operate in the circulation of the blood ought to be taken with a full meal; but water, which acts on the alimentary organs only, should be drank on an empty stomach; and the use of it, at this time, is attended With a further advantage of the operation ceasing before dinner. Some invalids drink the water at bed-time, for the pur- pose of remaining all night in the bowels, to work itself off early next morning by the assistance of exercise. But