Housekeeping and Husbandry. 521 BARLEY STARCH. Powdery, greyish white, scarcely crimp, and retains the smell and taste of the grain, Which yields rather more than half its weight of starch. OAT STARCH. Floury, greyish, not crimp, with a weak smell and taste of water-gruel: the grain yields half its weight of starch. INDIAN ARROW ROOT, Is made from the root of maranta arundinacea, by pound- ing or grating it in water, and letting the fecule settle. When rubbed up smooth with a little cold water, and boiling water poured upon this paste, it dissolves easily by stirring up a transparent jelly, without requiring to be boiled.—Its properties are nutritive. POTATOE STARCH. This may be made from frozen potatoes, in as large a quantity, and as good as from those which have not been spoiled by the frost; very white, crimp to the finger, and colours them—friable, heavy, sinking in water. When held towards the light, it has shining particles in it, dis- solves in boiling water as easily as true arrow-rOot: lOOlbs. of potatoes will yield lOlbs. of starch. STARCH FROM PEAS AND BEANS, &C. Dvjarf Kidney-bean starch is white and crimp : one ounce of beans yielded forty-eight grains. Pea starch, white and crimp and good; the peas yield one-fourth of their weight. Earth pea starch is procured from the bulbs of lathyrus bellerosus; one pound of the bulbs yielded three ounces. Bean starch is white and crimp : one ounce yielded seventy-five grains. Lentil starch, is also white and crimp: one ounce yielded ninety-eight grains. Chich pea starch, from the seeds of cicer arietinum; white and good; one ounce yielded one hundred and two grains. MEADOW SAFFRON STARCH, May be prepared from the root of meadow saffron, where those plants are plentiful: when boiled with water, it is brown like sago, and cements well. Fecule of Briony, Gersa serpentaria. All the above spe- cies of starch are prepared in a manner similar to that of wheat or potatoes, and others may be made from different roots or seeds ; they are all nutritive. 3 o 2