91 Horticulture. Hot-House and Stove.—During this season a good internal heat must be constantly supported in the hot- house, and sometimes to admit a little air, and to give gentle waterings. If severe frost prevail, guard the hot- house plants by constant fires; and in very rigorous weather, and no sun, defend the glasses with shutters or mats. In grape forcing-houses, may now be begun the forcing by heat and fire. FEBRUARY. The Kitchen-Garden.—If the weather be settled and open, considerable attention is now required, relative to the preparation of all vacant ground, by dunging, digging, and trenching, &c. .and of hot dung and other materials for hot-beds, all in proper order, ready for sowing and planting the principal early and main-crops, this and the two following months, for the general supply of the present year; some to attain early perfection in the same spring, and beginning of summer: but considerably the greater part of the main crops for the general service of summer and autumn; and jmany also for the following winter. Fruit-Garden and Orchard. — All planting and pruning should now be forwarded as much as possible, to have the whole completed, or nearly finished, this month. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.—Forward now all the necessary preparation for planting, where intended, the various sorts of flower-roots, plants, shrubs, and trees; as also for sowing the different sorts of annual flowers, both in the open ground and in hot-beds; and likewise to dig and clean the different compartments of beds, borders, shrubberies, walks, &c. in the best order, now in the commencement of the spring season. Dig and prepare the compartments of beds, borders, shrub- beries, &c. both for planting, where intended, the flowers and shrubs, saving many sorts of flower-seeds, both of annuals, biennials, and perennials; and that the whole may appear in the utmost regular order, &c. Work in the Nursery.—As this month may properly be considered as the commencement of the spring season, various works of nursery, planting, transplanting, will be necessary, in many sorts of young trees and shrubs, in open settled weather, as well as in taking up and drawing