24 Observations on Tea, it continues to aggravate hysterical and hypochondriacal complaints. Tea has also been supposed to possess con- siderable diuretic and sudorific virtues, which, however, depend more on the quantity of warm water employed as a vehicle, than the quality of the tea itself. Lastly, as infusions of these leaves are the safest refreshment after undergoing great bodily fatigue or mental exertion, they afford an agreeable beverage to those who are exposed to cold weather; tending, at the same time, to support and promote perspiration, which is otherwise liable to be im- peded. Division of Teas in Great Britain. The teas commonly imported amongst us, are only of two sorts, Green and Bohea; and these are divided into three kinds of green, and five of Bohea. In the former class are included, 1. Imperial, or Bloom tea, having a large leaf, a faint smell, and of a light green colour;— 2. Hyson, which has small curled leaves, of a green shade," inclining to blue;—3. Singlo tea, thus termed from the place where it is cultivated. The Boheas comprehend, 1. Souchong, which, on in- fusion, imparts a yellowish green colour;—2. Camho, a fine tea, emitting a fragrant violet smell, and yielding a pale shade : it receives its name from the province where it is reared ;—3. Pekoe tea, is known by the small white flowers that are mixed with it;—4. Congo has a larger leaf than the preceding variety, and yields a deeper tint to water;—5. Common Bohea, the leaves of which are of an uniform green colour. There are, besides, other kinds of tea, sold under the names of gun-powder tea, &c. which differ from the preceding, only in the minuteness of their leaves, and being dried with additional care. Qualities, fyc.—The Chinese Bohea (distinguished by the above names of Pekoe, Congo, and Common), has the most pleasant and delicate flavour; its liquor is not of so deep a tincture as the others, and it creams briskly when poured out. The water must stand on it a considerable time, to draw out its virtue ; and it will bear four or five different waters. This sort of tea improves by keeping. If the water is not poured off quickly from the Congo Bohea, the whole strength of the tea will be drawn off at once, so that the best way to have fine tea, is to mix the Pekoe and Congo together, in equal quantities. The common Bohea is blacker and larger leaved than either of the former, smells and tastes more faint, and not