35$ Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. taste resembled diluted sea-water, with a strong flavour of hepatic gas. The saline matter obtained from a gallon of this water, after a complete dessiccation, weighed 540 grains, and when 80 gallons were evaporated^ until the selenite dropped, and was thrown away, the water after- wards yielded two pounds of crystals, by slow evapora- tion. Nearly half the contents of it consisted of sea-salt, and a small portion of iron. The effects on the bowels and stomach were, therefore, similar to those produced by the rest of the saline springs; and, like other sulphu- reous waters, it also possessed a specific power over diseases of the skin." Montpelier Wells, Are so called from their situation in an elevated healthy field of that name, on the east side of the Badgeworth road, and not 800 yards from the centre of the town. They were opened in May 1808, and the waters soon acquired considerable reputation, which encouraged the proprietor to make the following arrangements. The long pump-room, with pillars in front, and a music-room at the top, situated in the upper corner of Montpelier grounds, contains four pumps, which raise water from two wells. These are discharged by brass cocks on each side of the pump-case, which are num- bered. There are, besides, three smaller cocks, which discharge the water conveyed from a third well, at a considerable distance. No. 1. TJie Chalybeated Saline Water—is brought from a well under a small brick building, about twenty yards distant, and discharged by the outer cock. The water of this well acts on the bowels, in producing evacuations, like that of the other spas, and is stated in the analysis to contain an uncommonly large proportion of iron. No. 2. The Strong Sulphuretted Saline Water—is pumped from within three inches of the bottom of the well imme- diately under the room, and discharged by the inner brass cock. The well, 46 feet deep in blue clay, collects 2000 gallons of water in twenty-four hours. Near half the solid contents consists of sea-salt, which is united to a little Glauber and Epsom salts, that occasion it to operate upon the bowels like the aperient waters of the old wells. It contains no iron, but abounds with a sulphureous principle, found, by experience, to stimulate the exhalent