m. BOTANICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE HERB VERVAIN, ike. (See Plate). The common vervain abounds in waste places, and by way-sides, chalky, gravelly, and stony uncultivated places: the root consists of a number of thick, short, tough fibres, connected to a small oblong head j the stalks arc firm, erect, remarkably tough, of a brownish green colour, sometimes reddish towards theii base. The leaves stand in pairs; they are oblong, and elegantly divided, being deeply indented, the indentations rounded off, and the end of the leaf obtuse. The flowers stand in long slender spikes at the tops of the stalks and branches ; they are small and white, with a blue or pur- plish tinge; and appear in the month of June. Its former Reputation and Virtues. Few plants have enjoyed greater reputation than this, nor have so completely lost it, among the moderns; although it is neither deserving of the repute in which it was once held, nor its present neglect. No small part of its high character arose out of its pretended virtues in the cure of certain diseases. In former times it seems to have been held sacred, and was employed in celebrating the sacrificial rites; and with a view to this, more than the natural power of the plant, it was worn suspended about the neck as an amulet. This practice, thus founded in superstition, was, however, in process of time adopted in medicine; and therefore, to obtain its virtues more effectually, the vervain was directed to be bruised before it was hung round the neck; and of its good effects, thus used for inveterate head-aches, Forestus relates a re- markable instance. In still later times it has been em- ployed in the way of cataplasm, by which we are told the most severe and obstinate head-aches have been cured, and for which we have no less authorities than Etmuller, Hartman, and more especially De Haen, all eminent physicians in their day. Notwithstanding all these testimonies in favour of vervain, it has fallen into disuse in Britain; nor has Mr. Morley's pamphlet*, * " An Essay on the Nature and Cure of Serofulous Disorders, commonly called the King's Evil; deduced from long Observation and Practice, with Additions, and above Sixty Cases ; the Remedies in them used, and occasional Remarks, &c. By the late John Morlky, Esq. of Hnlsted, in Essex. The Forty-Second Edition."—Published by Sherwood and Co.