Observations on Tea, .fye. 25 unlike dried hay. It gives the deepest tincture, and two or three waters draws out its whole strength. Green tea, distinguished by the names of Hysson (so called from Mr. Hysson, a rich East India merchant that first imported it), imperial, common, and ordinary. The hysson, in addition to the above properties, tastes crisp in the mouth when chewed, and afterwards looks green when spit out; and, though it scarce tinctures the water with a pale greenness, when strongest, it is of a most de- licious flavour. Its virtue is known by the clear blue green of its leaves, or more certainly by letting a cupful of its liquor stand all night; then, if its colour, delicate smell, and bitterish taste continue, it is good ; but if these/ or any of them be impaired, the tea is old, and has lost part of its virtue. This tea will bear four or rive waters, and requires less for use, than any other sort, to the same quantity of water. Two waters will draw off the virtue of imperial tea, in consequence of its being the lightest, and its principles the loosest of all others.—Common green tea will bear three or four waters.— Ordinary green tea, which is neither so pleasant to the taste or smell as the former, will not bear so many waters. Not only China, but Japan, and Siam, are fruitful in this shrub. And the Japan tea is most esteemed for its fine clear green colour, smaller leaf, and more delicious smell. Method of detecting Adulterations in Tea. Many of the noxious qualities attributed to tea, doubt- less arise from the twofold sophistication it is frequently doomed to undergo before it reaches the hands of the consumer. The Chinese formerly mixed the leaves of other shrubs with it. This, however, is easily discovered, if not at first sight, by putting a grain and a half of blue vitriol into a cupful of the infusion, when, if it be genuine green tea, and set in a good light, it will appear of a fine light blue. If it be genuine Bohea, it will turn to a deep blue, next to black; but if either of these be adulterated, a variety of colours, as green, black, yellow, &c. will be seen in them. After this fraud wa3 detected, they dyed the leaves of damaged and ordinary green tea, and probably of such teas as had been infused, with Japan earth, which gives the leaf the colour, and the infusion the tincture of Bohea. This may be discovered by various means:—1. It will be