294 How to do Things in Style. 2. Moist sugar, six pounds; ginger, five ounces; cream of tartar, two ounces ; lemons, four; yeast, eight ounces; water, seven gallons; work two or three days; strain; add brandy, one pound ; bung very close, and in fourteen days bottle it: a cooling effervescent drink in summer. HOW TO DO THINGS IN STYLE. If your wife is to give a dinner in style, she must have more money from you than the usual allowance. If you are to go to Brighton in style, you must first pay a visit to your banker;—and before you can finish your house in style, in Middlesex, you must mortgage part of your estate in Essex. If you wish to bring up your sons in style, you must educate them in card-playing, milling, and drinking, &c.; and, if you discover a disposition in them towards intrigue, attribute it to a proper spirit. Upon every occasion, inculcate that they axe gentlemen, which will give them a proper contempt for the vulgarity of trade. As soon as they are able to ride, provide them with horses, that they may occasionally take the air, par- ticularly on Sundays, and not spoil their constitutions by study or application to business. Provide also a servant to ride behind them, to take care of their horses, and pay the turnpikes in style. Encourage them to visit the different races, and, occasionally, to shew their know- ledge by betting; in some cases they will probably win, and where they lose, they will gain some experience. Never check them in their little genteel expences incurred either at the gaming-table, the mill, or on the race- course ; for, if you do, you will infallibly make them hate you, and besides this, you will damp their genius and growing spirit. If they discover an inclination to go abroad, encourage it, for there is nothing so much im- proves a young man of great spirit and small fortune as travelling. With respect to keeping company, there is but one rule; namely, to associate with those either very much their superior in rank and fortune, or those as much their inferior: at the gaming-table, on the race-ground, and Fives Court, plenty of both descriptions may be met with.