Housekeeping, tyc. To clean Gold and Silver Lace. Sew the lace in linen cloth, boil it in a pint of water and two ounces of soap, and then wash it in water. When it is tarnished, apply a little warm spirits of wine to the tarnished part. To clean Gilt Buckles, Chains, fyc. Dip a soft brush in water, rub a little soap on it, and brush the article for a minute or two, then wash it clean, wipe it, and place it near the fire till dry, then brush it with burnt bread finely powdered. To manage Razor Strops. Keep them moderately moist with a drop or two of sweet oil: a little crocus martis, and a few drops of sweet oil, rubbed well in with a glass bottle, will give the razor a fine edge; pass it afterwards on the inside of your hand when warm, and dip it in hot water just before using. To make Spruce Beer. Take eight gallons of boiling water, and add it to eight gallons of cold. Mix with it sixteen pounds of treacle or molasses, six table-spoonfuls of essence of spruce, and half a pint of yeast. Keep it in a temperate situation with the bung-hole open, two days; then close up the cork, or bottle it off, and it will be fit to drink in a few days after- wards. - To make Coffee. To two ounces, of the best coffee, fresh ground, put eight coffee-cups of boiling water, let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two or three times, and return it again; then put two or three isinglass chips or a few harts- horn shavings into it, and pour one large s'poonful of boiling water on it: boil it five minutes more, and let the pot stand by the fire ten minutes, for the coffee to settle. It will then be clear and bright. If it is wished to be particularly strong, three ounces of coffee must be used for eight cups; and if it is not fresh roasted, let it be made perfectly hot and dry, before or over the fire, before it is used. A tea-spoonful of the best mustard- flour added to every ounce of coffee, greatly improves it, both in clearness and flavour. Serve hot milk or cream with it, and pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar. To know whether a Bed he damp or not. After the bed is warmed put a glass goblet in, between 4 v