441 Absurd Practices, fyc. nurses begin to try experiments on its legs. As the bones, however, have not yet acquired sufficient firmness, it may bo easily conceived what injury must be done to the for- mation and growth of the child, by attempts equally pre- posterous and detrimental. No less absurd is the practice of confining infants for several hours in walking-machines, as well as the prevail- ing method of carrying them on one arm. Both the nurse and the child often experience the bad effects, of this habit; the former may become side-bent or crooked, while the child is unnaturally compressed, so that its joints and bones cannot unfold their organic powers. I shall upon a future occasion, suggest a more rational, and proper method, of carrying infants, than is at present uni- formly practised. There are other very injudicious customs, which deserve severe animadversion. I allude to the strange habit of taking very young children to places of public worship or amusement; sending them to schools, with the view of making them sedate, or confining them, especially during cold weather, in hot and suffocating rooms. By such de- structive means, the foundation is laid for that plethoric habit, which disposes them either to apoplectic or erup- tive disorders, to convulsions, palsy, epilepsy, in short, to that very general irritability of the system which is the forerunner of consumption. If these effects do not always follow, we ought not to be less attentive to the causes which may imperceptibly produce them; for it is a remark which occurs to every reflecting observer, that the present generation displays an unaccountable debility, and in- capacity to withstand the sensible changes of the weather, as well as the influence of the seasons. It seems, from the general conduct of nurses, almost doubtful, that fresh air, in whatever temperature, is the true balm of life. The digestive organ of children is likewise subject to very furious assaults: their tender stomachs ought not to be measured by those of adults. And in this respect, neither the quantity, nor the quality of nutriment, is pro- perly attended to:—tea, coffee, beer, and wine, all are more or less hurtful, and here generally misapplied. Nor are we sufficiently studious to contrive such exercise as is adapted to the age, strength, temperament, and incli- nation of the child. Farther, many parents feel an in- vincible desire to improve the infantile mind, at an age when such attempts cannot be realized, without producing 3 k 2