279 Housekeeping and Husbandry. &c. as lightest, and safest; if proper care is taken of them, and they are well dried after they are cleaned, they are by far the cheapest; the purchase of a new tin sauce- pan being little more than the expence of tinning a cop- per one. Take care that the covers of your boiling pots fit close, not only to prevent unnecessary evaporation of the water, but that the smoke may not insinuate itself under the edge of the lid, and give the meat a bad taste. If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after it is done enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavour. Beef and mutton a little under done (especially very large joints, which will make the better hash or broil), is not a great fault—by some people it is preferred; but lamb, pork, and veal, are uneatable, if not thoroughly boiled—but do not overdo them. A trivet, or fish-drainer, put on the bottom of the boiling pot, raising the contents about an inch and a half from the bottom, will prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom from being done too much,—and the lower part of the meat will be as delicately done as . the other part; and this will enable you to take out the contents of the pot without sticking a fork, &c. into it. If you have not a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup- plate laid the wrong side upwards. Take care of the liquor you have boiled poultry or meat in; in five minutes you may make it into excellent soup. The good housewife never boils a joint without converting the broth into some sort of soup. If the liquor be too salt, only use half the quantity, and the rest water; wash salted meat well with cold water before you put it into the boiler. Gravy for Boiled Meat, May be made with parings and trimmings; or pour from a quarter to half a pint of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of the joint with a sharp skewer. Parsley and Butter. Wash some parsley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf by leaf; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water; boil the parsley about ten minutes, drain it on a sieve, rriince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. N n