8 HEALTH, LONGEVITY, AND DEATH. " If," observes the author of the ' Code of Health and Longevity,' " men lived uniformly in a healthy cli- mate, were possessed of strong and vigorous frames, were descended from healthy parents, were educated in a hardy and active manner, were possessed of excellent natural dispositions, were placed in comfortable situa- tions in life, were engaged only in healthy occupations, were happily connected in marriage, and kept their pas- sions in due subjection, there would be little occasion for medical rules."—All this is very excellent and desirable; but, unfortunately for mankind, unattainable. Man must be something more than man, to be able to connect the dif- ferent links of this harmonious chain—to consolidate this summum bonum of earthly felicity into one uninterrupted whole. For, independent of all regularity or irregularity of diet, passions, and other sublunary circumstances, contingencies and connexions, relative or absolute, thou- sands are visited by diseases and precipitated into the grave, independent of accident, to whom no particular vice could attach, and with whom the appetite never overstepped the boundaries of temperance. Do we not hear almost daily, of instances of men living near to, and even upwards of a^century ? We cannot account for this; either because of such men we know but few who have lived otherwise than the world around them; and we have known many who have lived in habitual intemperance for forty or fifty years without interruption, and without much apparent inconvenience. Children, whose constitutions cannot be, and women whose constitutions seldom are, injured by intemperance, are the frequent prey of death. How is this to be ac- counted for? We see a beautiful body, the model of health and strength, attacked by certain pains and irre- gularities, which we «all disease, and which close the scene of life in its prime. Why these things are, God only knows. We cannot account for length or shortness of life. Temperance ought to be practised as a duty, and as one on which a healthful existence depends; still temperance is no defence against death. We frequently see the healthiest and strongest men cut off by a few days' illness; while, on the other hand, it is wonderful what length and severity of disease the feeble and the valetudinary will survive.