Linen Bleached with Lime. 316 successive days; and, at the end of the third or fourth day, a number of particles, of a fine, yellow, oily matter will float on the surface, which in two or three days more will gather into a scum, which is the ottar of roses. This is taken up by some cotton tied to the end of a piece of stick, and squeezed, by the finger and thumb, into a small phial, which must be immediately well stopped; and this is repeated for some successive even- ings, or while any of this fine essential oil rises to the surface of the water. It is said that a hundred pounds weight of roses will not yield above half an ounce of this precious aroma." STARCH. A great improvement has been made in the manu- facture of starch by M. Herpin, of Metz. In the ordi- nary method, for the purpose of decomposing and destroy- ing the gluten which conceals the starch, flour is allowed to ferment for a fortnight or a month, with a certain quantity of water; by which means ammoniac is disen- gaged, and a very fetid odour is spread through the manufactory. M. Herpin makes starch in the course of an hour, by a process by which he obtains at once both the gluten and the starch, without having to endure any odour whatever. To effect this, it is sufficient to knead the flour with a few drops of water, in a bag of fine linen. The water carries off the starch, and the gluten remains in the bag. The water and the starch are passed through a silk sieve, and are received into a vessel. When the starch is deposited, the water is poured off; and contains a quantity of saccharine matter, which may be advan- tageously employed in the preparation of some cheap beverage. LINEN BLEACHED WITH LIME. Every body knows the injury which is done to linen by bleaching it with lime. It is easy to detect linens which have been so bleached, in the following manner:— Cut off a scrap of the new linen which you wish to ex- amine, put it into a glass, and pour upon it several spoonfuls of good vinegar. If the linen contain lime, the acid will excite considerable effervescence, accom- panied with a slight noise. Otherwise, no effect is pro- duced.