543 Of the Crying of Children. children sleep on a couch which is made without any elevation from the ground; because the most mephitic and pernicious stratum of air in an apartment, is that within one or two feet from the floor, while the most wholesome, or atmospheric air, is in the' middle of the room, and the inflammable gas ascends to the top. Of the Crying of Children. Man, when first he enters the world, announces him- self by his plaintive voice, and we thence form no other conclusion than that he lives. Instead of being alarmed by his cries, we justly rejoice; because they indicate expanded lungs and vital action. In a similar manner we ought to regard the squalling of infants when they advance in age, as they generally imply little more than the loud expressions of their existence. Frequently, how ever, tender mothers and officious nurses are not only extremely concerned at every demonstration of the pul- monic powers of a child, but even busy in relieving the clamorous noise, by means generally the most absurd and pernicious. In order to prevent such mischievous attempts, and to prove that the crying of children is useful and sa- lutary to them, rather than hurtful, let us take a more comprehensive view of this subject. If we inquire into the causes which produce the crying of infants, we shall find that it seldom originates from pain, or uncomfortable sensations; for those who are apt to imagine that such causes must always operate on the body of an infant, are egregiously mistaken; inasmuch as they conceive that the physical condition, together with the method of expressing sensations, is the same in infants and adults. It requires, however, no demonstra- tion that the state of the former is essentially different from that of the latter. In the first years of infancy, many expressions of the tender organs are to be consi- dered only as efforts, or manifestations of power. We observe, for instance, that a child, as soon as it is un- dressed, or disencumbered from swaddling clothes, moves its arms and legs, and often makes a variety of strong exertions ; yet no reasonable person would suppose that such attempts arise from a preternatural or oppressive state of the little agent. It is therefore equally absurd, to draw an unfavourable inference from every inarticulate cry; because, in most instances, these vociferating sounds imply the effort which ©hildrcn necessarily make to dis-