162 Practical Remarks on the Diseases of Tradesmen, children should bo employed in factories ; and for the first year they should not he employed more than four or five hours a day ; for the two succeeding years, six tir seven hours a day; and afterwards they might be employed tenhtfurVa day; aild beyond that, in my opinion, there ought to he no increase of labour." That there are extraordinary instances, in which more than the time here specified is passed in labour, is un- questionable; but these are too few in number, to disturb the general accuracy of Dr. Baillie's opinion. 'Diseases arising from Exposure to Deleterious Fumes, fyc.— Those most liable to be affected with it, and other Ano- ' malous Diseases, fyc. The great and almost incredible number of individuals that are exposed to the influence of various deleterious fumes arising from minerals, such as mercury, lead, anti- mony, arsenic, all of which are readily vapourable by heat, lead us now to offer some observations on the dis- eases to which such workmen thus exposed are liable. 1. Mercury, and the Effects of Exposure to Mercurial Vapour. , The workmen in silver mines, and the gilders of buttons and toys, are almost the only individuals sufficiently ex- posed to the fumes of this metal, to be affected by it. Still there is no doubt, that wherever any one is long occupied with mercury, the same diseases may occur. One of the most common consequences of exposure to mercurial vapours, is a great increase of sensibility to cold. It is said by Dr. Gosse of Geneva, that the work- men employed in this mineral are so sensible to the variations of the atmosphere, that they may be compared to living barometers. The workmen who employ quicksilver, are also subject to all those diseases to which the name latterly of pseudo- syphilis, or diseases resembling syphilis, has been given, viz. ulcerations of the mouth and fauces, eruptions, rheu- matic pains in the limbs, and, in short, all the diseases which, in former times, were comprehended under the appellation of cachexia, or diseases proceeding from a bad habit of body, known by a depraved or vitiated state of the solids and fluids.—Terrible, however, as these dis- orders may appear, there is nothing peculiar in them con- sequent upon the manner in which they arisen they exhibit the same phenomena, are equally distressing, and equally obstinate, as when proceeding from the internal ad- ministration of mercury for the cure of hies.