Bat ha, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. S§S here and flourish, without being injured by the inclemency of the winter. And even tender exotics thrive, as if in their native bed. Mineral Springs. Between a place called Blackgang Chine, where there is a vast and gulph-like opening, the effect probably of some convulsion of the earth, and the land-slip of 1799, a mineral spring was discovered by a Mr. Waterworth, a surgeon of Newport, proprietor of the spot in question. This aluminous chalybeate water, on examination not only by the taste (which is intensely chalybeate), but also by the application of chemical re-agents, was found to contain sulphate ofiron, and sulphate of alumen, sub- stances which, though rarely met with in combination with water, yet exist in this, in such large proportions, as to give it a very distinct character, and render the other ingredients which enter into its composition, wrholly im- perceptible to the palate. From an analysis made of it by the late Dr. Marcet, it appears that each pint contains the following ingredients; Of carbonic acid gas, three-tenths of a cubic inch. Grs. Sulphate of iron, in the state of crystallized green sulphate, 41 4 Sulphate of alumina, if crystallized, - - - - 31 6 Sulphate of dried lime, at 160, - - - 10 I Epsom salt, crystallized, - - - 3 1 Glauber's salt, crystallized, - - - 16 0 Muriat of soda, or common salt, crystallized, - 4 0 Silicia, - • - - - - 0 7 107 7 Dr. Marcet also" observed, that he was not acquainted with any chalybeate, or aluminous spring, in the chemical history of mineral waters, that could be compared, in re- gard to strength, with that here described. The Hartfell water, in Scotland, and the Horley Green Spa, near Halifax, in Yorkshire, both of which appear to be ana- logous to this in chemical composition, and were consi- dered the strongest impregnations of the kind, are stated by Dr. Garnet, to contain, the one only about fourteen grains, and the other, forty grains of saline matter in each pint. Direction.? for using this Water. The way in which this water has been prescribed by its discoverer, is first to evacuate the bowels, by a dose of Q q2