31(> Baths, Wells, Wafers, and Mineral Springs. Diseases in which the Bath Waters are used, fyc. The diseases for which these celebrated waters are resorted to, are very numerous, and are some of the most important and difficult of cure of all that come under medical treatment. In most of them, the bath is used along with the waters, as an internal medicine. The general indications, of the propriety of using this medi- cinal water, are in those cases where a gentle, gradual, and permanent stimulus is required. Bath water may certainly be considered as a chalybeate, in which the iron is very small in quantity, but in a highly active form: and the degree of temperature is in itself a stimulus, often of considerable powers. These circumstances again point out the necessity of certain cautions, which, from a view of the mere quantity of foreign contents, might be thought superfluous. Although, in estimating the powers of this medicine, allowance must be made for local prejudice in its favour, there can be no doubt but that its employ- ment is hazardous, and might often do considerable mis- chief, in various cases of active inflammation, especially in irritable habits, where there exists a strong tendency to hectic fever; and even in the less inflammatory state of diseased and suppurating viscera; and, in general, wherever a quick pulse and dry tongue indicate a degree of general fever. The cases, therefore, to which this water are peculiarly suited, are mostly of the chronic kind; and by a steady perseverance in this remedy, very obstinate disorders have given way. The following, Dr. Saunders, in his Treatise on Mineral Waters, considers as the principal, viz. 1. Chlorosis, a disease at all times much relieved by steel, and will bear it, even where there is a considerable degree of feverish irritation, receives particular benefit from the Bath water; and its use, as a warm bath, excellently contributes to remove that lan- guor of circulation, and obstruction of the natural evacua- tions, which constitute the leading features of this com- mon and troublesome disorder.— 2. The complicated diseases, often brought on by a long residence in hot climates, affecting the secretion of bile, the functions of the stomach, and alimentary canal, and which generally produce organic derangement in some part of the hepatic system, often receive much benefit from the Bath water, if used at a time when suppurative inflammation is not actually present.—3. Another and less active disease of