Directions fur using the Cold-Bath, SfC. The chief hot-baths in our country, are those of Bath, Buxton, and Matlock; which latter, however, are rather warm or tepid, than hot. The use of these baths is found to be beneficial in diseases of the head—as palsies, &c; in diseases of the skin—as leprosies, &c.; obstructions and constipations of the bowels; the scurvy, and in many diseases of women and children. Directions for the Use of the Cold-Bath, &c. " Cold bathing has this good alone, It spurs old John to hug old Joan, And of the matrimonial two makes one." The cold-bath, though popularly esteemed one of the most innocent remedies yet discovered, is not, however, to be adopted indiscriminately. On the contrary, it is liable to do considerable mischief in all cases of diseased viscera, and is not, in any case, proper to be used during the existence of costiveness, which should previously be obviated by appropriate laxatives. As a preventive remedy for the young, and as a general bracer for per- sons of a relaxed fibre, especially of the female sex, it frequently proves highly, advantageous; and in general the popular idea is a correct one, that the glow which succeeds the use of cold or temperate baths, is a test of their utility; while, on the other hand, their producing chilliness, head-ache, &c, is proof of their being per- nicious. . Cold water is a powerful tonic, but, like all others, is liable to the same abuses, consequently, in this respect, capable of doing mischief. The first action of cold is to produce a sudden torpor of the skin, and to determine the volume of blood from the external to the internal parts ; hence if a person be dis- posed to inward bleedings, spitting or vomiting of blood, or apoplexy, the first application of cold to the skin, may produce the complaint. No one disposed to consumption ought ever to use the cold-bath: in such cases, sea-air and sea-bathing— and sea-water internally, accelerate the disease. A1J persons weakened by disease to a certain degree are in- capable of bearing the concussion of the cold-bath ; the utility of which arises from its secondary operation, e. g. the irritability is accumulated in the vessels of the skin, which are stimulated to act more strongly; the balance of blood is restored to the external surface, and kept up there, and a glow of heat ensues.