To make various Hard Confections. 239 Annual Flower Plants.—Tender annuals—raised in hot- beds, as cock's-combs, tricolors, balsams, globe amaran- thus, egg plant, &c. remove into the open air, some in pots, others planted into borders, &c. all to remain for flowering the same summer. Water—all new-planted annuals in dry wea- ther ; also those lately sowed, or of small growth, and all sorts of pots. Work in the Nursery.—In the nursery, at this season, particular care is necessary to destroy weeds by hoeing and hand-weeding; and in watering some late planted young trees, shrubs, and other plants; also in watering seed-beds of small young seedlings of the same year, and all plants in pots; and in giving occasional shade to some small seedling exotics of evergreens, and others of slender growth; attend also to some works of propagation by layers, cuttings, and budding; and in pricking out some seedling evergreens of the spring sowing. Weeds rising numerously—at this season, should be dili- gently destroyed, in all parts between rows of young trees and shrubs, &c. and among all young plants in seed-beds. The Green-House.—The exotics still remaining in the green-house should now be removed into the open air, as soon as settled warm weather; but while they re- main give the free air, by continuing the windows open almost day and night. Remove into the full mY—all the myrtles, geraniums, oleanders, &c. (b.); also, if warm weather, the oranges, lemons, and all the other exotics, except the more tender succulent plants: placing them at first in a sheltered situation for a week, then dispose them where required, to ornament the flower-garden or pleasure-grounds, fore- courts, &c. Hot-House amd Stove.—All the hot-house exotics are to be continued constantly in that apartment, and must still have the bark-bed heat supported, but that of fires discontinued ; and plants should have air admitted freely every warm day: they will require frequent wa- tering. TO MAKE VARIOUS HARD CONFECTIONS. Marsh-Mallow Lozenges.-^-Marsh-mallow root, in pow- der, one pound; white sugar, four pounds; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough. it h I