Horticulture. 182 planting and winter pruning in the different sorts of fruit, trees, the preceding months, and as the wall and espalier trees will now be advancing in numerous young shoots, the principal business at this time is to commence the summer pruning, by removing the ill-placed and super- abundant productions, and to give occasional watering to late planted trees. The pruning—principally required at this season, and all summer, is chiefly in wall-trees and espaliers: not so generally necessary in standards. Summer pruning.—Begin in early shooting wall-trees, by disbudding the improper and superabundant young snoots of the year. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.—As in the preceding spring months, the several compartments of the flower-garden and pleasure-ground having been mostly furnished with the principal supplies of seeds, plants, shrubs, and trees, that were wanted, the princi- pal care now is to keep the beds, borders, shrubberies, &c. clean from weeds, watering some late-planted articles; also to keep the walks, lawns, &c. in neat order. Annuals maybe transplanted from hot-beds, and warm borders; others in the borders may be thinned, and some sowed; likewise some sorts of small, or moderate-shooting pe- rennials or biennials, may still be removed with balls, and planted occasionally, for flowering the same year. Work in the Nursery.—Having in the preceding spring months finished all principal planting for this season until the following autumn; as likewise the ge- neral business of propagation by seeds, layers, cuttings, suckers, and grafting; together with all the necessary work of digging, &c. the business now in the nursery consists principally in keeping the ground and plants clear from weeds, and in giving occasional waterings to new planted young trees, seed-beds, pots, &c. and some- times shading from the sun some particular sorts of small seedling plants in beds and pots ; some occasional pruning and propagating, and some other necessary works of culture. The Green-House.—The green-house exotics con- tinue mostly under shelter till (m. 1.), but must have plenty of air daily, frequent waterings, some shifted into- larger pots, and others fresh earthed. Give air—freely now to the green-house plants, by