588 Laws respecting Servants. paid; unless by the authority of a magistrate, for some reasonable complaint. If a servant, after warning is given, is insolent, or refuses to do his duty, a magistrate, on complaint, will commit him to prison for the time he has to serve; but the master will be ordered to pay him his wages whilst there. No agreement a servant shall make with his master to his disadvantage, whilst he is under the age of 21, shall operate against him. Dalt. c. 58. If a servant assault his master or mistress, or any other, having charge over him, he may be bound over to his good behaviour, or be committed for a year, or less, at the discretion of two magistrates. 5 Eliz. c. 4, s. 21. If any servant shall purloin, or make away with his mas- ter's goods to the amount of 40s. itis felony. 12 Ann, c. 7. Disputes with servants about wages under 10/. a year, and other things, if they cannot be amicably settled, should be referred to a neighbouring magistrate, who is authorized to hear complaints, and redress them; the expence is but trifling. But the wages of coachmen, grooms, and the like, magistrates can take no cognizance of, as they come within the jurisdiction of the office that regulates the hackney coaches, post horses, &c. If masters or mistresses, when they hire servants, deli- ver into the custody of such servants, plate, china, linen, &c. and tell them, before a witness, that they must be responsible for such things; then, if they lose any part of them, the law will oblige them, as far as they are able, to replace them. As to breaking of china, a servant can- not be compelled to make it good, unless it was done de- signedly, and the servant, when hired, agreed to pay for what he might break. A servant may stand up in his master or mistress's de- fence, and assault any one that assaults them, without being liable to any punishment by law. 1 Salk. 407. Whatever trespasses a servant commits, by order of his master, the master is answerable for it, not the ser- vant. Lord Raymond, 264. Masters are justifiable in insisting on their servants going to church. Every person who shall keep a servant that shall be absent from church one month, without a reasonable excuse, shall forfeit 30/. for every month he so keeps that servant. 3 Jac. c. 5; s. 8, 22. Servants gaming at a public-house, with cards, dice, draughts, shuffle-board, Mississippi, skittles, nine-pins.