442 Dangers to which helpless-Infancy is exposed, fyc. consequences felt by the child during the whole of its life ;—they are anxious to exhibit the progress made by forward children in reading, in history, geography, arith- metic, &c.; not considering that every premature exer- tion is attended with the most dangerous effects. Thus, the access of the fluids towards the head is promoted; preternatural irritability of the whole nervous system, and a tendency to spasmodic strictures, are thereby occa- sioned ; digestion is likewise impaired, or rendered weak and inactive for life; and lastly, early consumption, or dropsy of the head, terminates the calamitous scene.— " The ancient treatment of children," I have observed in the Introduction to my Lectures on Diet, &c. " being consecrated by time, must not be rudely and precipitately rejected; but old customs may be changed, by prudent and moderate management; and thus we may proceed from one step to another, in extending the boundaries of truth and reason. A gradual transition, from a defective to a better state of things, is commonly the most perma- nent. Let us first oppose the most dangerous notions and prejudices: the conquest of a single prejudice, if completely effected, is a triumph of no little moment, in- asmuch as it will shake the foundation of many others, more or less connected with it." There are, however, multitudes who smile with appa- rent indifference, at every new proposal, which is not suggested by their own mind; but such persons do not reflect, that no useful plan was ever executed, without having previously been started as a proposal; and that no good idea, however repugnant at first, has ever been wholly without its use, in the general mass of knowledge. Should we succeed in improving the corporeal manage- ment of infants, we may reasonably expect that their minds will also be improved. Yet, in this important attempt, more real good may be effected by deliberate action, and even occasional omission, than by continual, and officious interference. Dangers to which helpless Infancy is exposed, when afflicted with Disease. It is a melancholy, but indisputable truth, that of all patients, children are most neglected. Medical aid, I have before observed, is generally called in at too late a period ; as the child is unable to give a distinct account of the disease, or to point out the seat and probable cause