30 Practical Observations on Domestic Economy, $c. ing gained by an artful display of passion, his time passes on, until, at length, the poor child frequently manifests a degree of ill-hurnour sufficient to render him the little de- tested tyrant of his playmates and inferiors. No one will here presume, we believe, to assert that such a mode of tampering with the education of children—an education, by which it is here intended to be understood, combining the whole concourse of circumstances which form the human character—is not erroneous in the extreme. Yet how frequently do we witness its effects in our intercourse with human life ? It may be asked, if, when children do wrong, are they to be corrected? Most undoubtedly they are to be corrected, that is, they are to be directed right, and prevented from doing wrong, and special care taken that this correction be correct; for these young reasoners are as expert as ourselves in detecting falla- cies ; and in criminal, so ought it to be in moral law— it is better that ten naughty boys should go unpunished, than that an innocent one should be whipped for a fault of which he is not the author! In punishing children for their faults or vices, the greatest care is necessary that capriciousness forms no part of this moral process ; and punishment for doing wrong, will effect more harm than good, in proportion to the frequency with which it is inflicted; for punishment, mental or corporeal, will be invariably, and as much as possible avoided; and the dread of it will make them both liars and hypocrites. Above all things, children should be taught candour and the undisguised declaration of their feelings; but whilst they are operated upon by the apprehension of pain, such candour and declaration of their feelings will be prevented—their chief occupation, under such circumstances, will be the practice of deceit and duplicity, in order to conceal the errors they have committed. No child will be candid without kindness; and it will be difficult to persuade any child, that, in putting him to bodily or mental torture, you have his happiness at heart.—(To be continued). PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY, Sec. Economy in domestic affairs*, is the management of a family with propriety, and without waste. As atten- * For these judicious calculations, wc are indebted to that able work, the " Family Cyclnprsdia," or Manual of Useful and Necessary Knowledge, &c. (2d Edition, vol. ii. 8vo.) by James Jennings.