106 Consequences of neglecting to make a Will. without suffering punishment; and he cannot without suffering pain. We repeat it, that we are persuaded such a man will feel so much from the idea of parting with his wealth, that he cannot sit down to give it away with his own hand. We know not even whether a miser be not such a monster, as to calculate the possibility of taking it with him, but we know that he is often fool enough to lament that he must leave it behind him. If not to be deferred, ivhen ought a Will to be made? If the making of a will is not to be deferred to a late period, at what time is it to be performed? This question, is not necessary to be answered, after what we have already presumed to advance on the subject. If any man knows exactly when he is to die, he may defer it to that period ; but as "of that day and hour knoweth no man," we must be content to prepare for whatever may happen. Sick- ness has its pangs, its alienations of mind; and old age has its cares and its forgetfulness. These are not the times when a man of sense would hazard blunders and errors in a matter that concerns his dearest relatives and his reputation. We will not enquire how far death-bed repentance is accepted; but we hope it is less matter of dispute than death-bed testaments. If, indeed, making of a will be deferred until that period, it had better be done then, but it will rarely be done satisfactorily; it will rarely include or exclude what it ought; very little indeed ought to be left to that awful crisis. Our intellects are not perfect in "the time of tribulation." We cannot think of the world at the "hour of death." Consequences of neglecting to make a Will. The confusion and unhappiness which arise to survi- vors from the neglect of a Will, or from the making of one, when the testator cannot possibly recollect his obligations or his engagements, need not demand many words. We observe something of the kind every day. One thing, however, it is worth while to dwell upon more particularly. It has often been a custom with persons of wealth and substance, to adopt and consider as their own child, some poor orphan or friendless young person, whom they educate in a manner suitable to their own fortune. These adopted children naturally adopt the ideas of the situa- tion in which they are brought up; they look upon them- selves as the heirs of those who have adopted them, and aro considered in the same light by the world. At length,