^82 Housekeeping and Husbandry, pease, bonne bouche, gravy sauce, and sage and onion sauce. RECIPE FOR SAUCE TO WILD FOWLS. Port wine, or Claret, - - - 1 glass. Sauce a la Russe, (the older the better) 1 tablespoonful. Catsup, - - - - - l ditto. Lemon juice, - - 1 ditto. Lemon peel, - - - - 1 slice. Shalot, (a large) - 1 sliced. Cayenne pepper, (the darkest) not that like brick-dust, 4 grains. Mace, - - - 1 or two blades. Cook's Oracle. To be scalded, strained, and added to the mere gravy which conies from the bird in roasting. To complete this, the fowl should be cut up in a silver dish which has a lamp under it, while the sauce is simmering with it. HAUNCH OF VENISON. To preserve the fat, make a paste of flour and water, as much as will cover the haunch, wipe it with a dry cloth in every part, rub a large sheet of paper all over with butter, and cover the.venison with it, then roll out the paste about three quarters of an inch thick; lay this all over the fat side, and cover it well with three or four sheets of strong white paper, and tie it securely on with packthread; have a strong close fire, and baste your venison as soon as you lay it down to roast (to prevent the paper and string from burning) : it must be well basted all the time. Neck and Shoulder of Venison—Are to be managed in the same way as the haunch: only they do not require the coat or paste, and will not require so much time. The best way to spit a neck, is to put three skewers through, and put the spit between the skewers and the bones. HARE. The first points of consideration are, How old is the hare? and how long has it been killed? When young, it is easy of digestion, and very nourishing; when old, the contrary in every respect. To ascertain the age, examine the first joint of the fore foot; you will find a small knob, if it is a leveret, which disappears as it grows older; then examine the ears; if they tear easily, it will eat tender; if they are tough, so will be the hare, which we advise you to make into soup, or stew; or jug it. When newly killed, the body is stiff; as it grows stale, it be- comes limp.