572 V » Inning of Wine. vintages, may be safely imported, and will, if properly attended to, give the owner a high reputation for the choice of his wines. The order should be given for the importation of wines when the seasons are temperate, as great heat or great cold is equally injurious to wine; so that they should neither be imported in the depth of winter, nor in the height of summer, especially Champagnes. The wines of the south of France, as Hermitage and the Cote de Rhone wines, are the hardiest, and require the least care. Fining of Wines. The wines being arrived at the cellar, they are to be placed for fining perfectly level, and not inclining for- wards, as some erroneously advise. The very best finings are those prepared by M. Jullien, of Paris, and which cost only twopence or threepence for fining a hogshead ; if they are not to be procured pro- ceed as follows : for red wine, draw off a couple of bot- tles of wine, then take the whites of five eggs, beat them up with water to a fine froth, pour it into the cask, and fill it up with the wine you took out, then take a cleft stick and stir the wine well up in every part, to do which, the stick must be long enough to go to the bottom, and all the lower angles of the cask ; it must be stirred for five minutes, that the finings may be equally dispersed throughout the whole body of the wine; put in the bung, and do not touch the cask for a week or ten days, in which time it will be completely fine. It is highly im- portant that fine dry clear weather should be selected, both for the fining of the wine and the bottling of it; if not, it may be necessary to fine it over again, on account of its not being clear. For white wines, a solution of isinglass is the best, when M. Jullien's powders cannot be obtained ; the same method is to be pursued, and the same precautions as to the weather. We must again enforce the importance of the casks being placed perfectly level and solid, so that they cannot move in any direction. Tf they incline for- ward, the cock must be put in much higher, that the dregs may not run off with the wine ; if they are inclined backwards, you will be obliged, on getting near the bot- tom, to change the position; this will disturb the lees, and mix them with the good wine. Before we speak of bottling the wine, we must instruct