SJQttfe&cepmg; ano p^usftianDr^.—No. XL Housekeeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood ; The wife too must husband, as well as the man ; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. PICKLES. Pickling is.a branch of domestic economy which comprises a great variety of articles essentially necessary to the convenience of families. It is too prevalent a practice to make use of brass utensils to give pickles a fine colour. This pernicious custom is easily avoided by heating the liquor, and keeping it in a proper degree of warmth before it is poured upon the pickle Stone or glass jars are the best adapted for sound keeping.—Pickle should be handled with the fingers, but taken out by a spoon, with holes in it. kept for the purpose.—Tke strongest vinegar must be used for pickling. It must not be boiled, as therebjr the strength of the vinegar and spices will be evaporated. By parboiling the pickles in brine, they will be ready in half the time they would otherwise be. When taken out of the hot brine, let them get cold and quite dry before you put them into the pickle.—The articles to be pickled should be per- forated with a larding pin, in several places, by which means they will the more readily imbibe the flavour of the pickle.—The spices, &c. generally used, are those men- tioned in the following receipt for walnuts. To every quart of the strongest vinegar, add one ounce each of black pepper, ginger, shalots, and salt; half an ounce of allspice, and half a drachm of Cayenne. Put these into a stone jar, covered with a bladder, wetted with the pickle; tie over that some leather, and set the jar on a trivet, by the side of a fire, for three days, shak- ing it three times a day, and then pour it, while hot, on the walnuts, and cover them down with a bladder, wetted with the pickle, &c. This pickle is the best, easiest prepared, and cheapest of any, for every kind of article. It is also an excellent savoury sauce for cold meats. TO PICKLE WALNUTS. Make a brine of salt and water, with a quarter of a pound of salt to a quart of water. Soak the walnuts in this for a week, and if you wish to have them ready the