172 Observations on Eggs, and the Fecundity of Hens. the following, which was first adopted by Sir Charles Monck, having proved to be at once the most efficient and most easy of execution, it is useless to describe any other. The leaf-stalks of the buds were reduced to a very short length, and the young branch was then en- closed in a double fold of cabbage leaf, bound close to- gether at each end, and enclosed in a letter. It was found advantageous to place the lower surface of the cabbage leaf inwards, by which the enclosed branch was supplied with humidity, that being the perspirating sur- face of the leaf, and the other surface being nearly or wholly impervious to moisture. I did not usually receive the buds from Belsay-casfle, the seat of Sir Charles Monck, in Northumberland, in less than five or six days, and the leaf-stalk had then often parted from the buds, and the bark could not very readily be detached from the wood. The latter substance was therefore suffered to remain; but it was pared very thin, particularly such part of it as extended above the bud; and as the loss of the leaf-stalk deprived me of the usual method of holding the bud, I found it necessary to suffer that to remain attached to the branch above it, or to a part of it, till I had placed the bud in its proper position; it was then severed from the branch with a sharp knife, and the bud almost always succeeded as well as one recently taken from the tree would have done."—New Monthly Mag. Observations on Eggs, and the Fecundity of Hens. December 7th.—Half-bred Poland hen matched with the cock; began to lay on the 28th. On March 1, 1806, she had laid fifty-six eggs, and afterwards sat over twelve eggs. After incubation had commenced, she laid two eggs, making a total of fiftyreight, which two were with- drawn. Her eggs, unbroken, weighed from one ounce three quarters to two ounces each, amounting, at one ounce and three quarters each, to nearly seven pounds avoirdupois. I bad, from motives of curiosity, deducted the weight of the shells, but the memorandum is lost. The eggs of another hen, in poor condition and ill fed, were small, light, and the yolk unsubstantial; the same hen, after good feeding, laid plenty of eggs of larger size, and nearly double the weight. The largest eggs will weigh two ounces and a half, those of the Chittagong hen, perhaps, three ounces. To promote fecundity and great laying in the hen, nothing more is necessary than