488 History and Uses of the Aloe Plant. ture being impossible, the violent motion occasioned in the blood by the juice of the aloe, rendered useless the application of every salutary styptic, and destroyed its effect. Pomet, in his history of drugs, mentions three sorts of aloe ; the socotrine, so called either from its coming to us in a concrete form, or more probably because the greatest quantity comes from the Isle of Socotra, in the Red Sea. According to Chomel, this is the purest sort, and is of a yellow colour, bordering upon red, shining, friable in winter, but easily softened in summer, and its smell resembles, that of myrrh. The second is the hepatic aloe, which takes its name from its being of a liver colour; and the third is the caballine aloe, and is used only in remedies for horses. It is the bark or rape of the two other sorts, is of a black colour, and full of dirt. The aloe forms also an ingredient in the hiera-diacolo- cynthedos, in the Catholic extract of Frankfort, and - Sennert, in the cachectic pills of Charas, in those of Ambra of the London Pharmacopeia, and in the pestilen- tial, or fetid pills '; and according to the same author, the aloe gives name to the dialoes, or hierapicra of Galen, is an ingredient in the elixir proprietatis of Paracelsus, in the balm of the commander, and in many other vulnerary and detersive compositions, as extremely well adapted to the resistance of putrefactions. Sicily furnishes every species of aloe, and especially the perfoliata and viscosa, in great abundance. As the same kinds grow also in Spain, the phlegmatic inhabitants of that kingdom first thought of procuring from them a thread, whose extraction requires all the patience and sang-froid which seem to be the peculiar characteristics of that nation. The Spanish soldiers who were sent to Sicily when that island was subject to the crown of Spain, and who remained there attached to the service of the King of the Two Sicilies, brought with them the art of making the thread, and are the only persons in the island employed in its manufacture. After stripping the plant of all the green leaves that com- pose its first coat, they.cut off all those which cover the stem, and which are generally white, smooth, tender, and less compact than the exterior ones. This operation is performed from May till the end of August, when the leaves become too hard and brittle. After cutting off the leaves, they fasten one end of them to a cord, at the dis-