432 Biographical Portrait of Valentin a Crealrakcs. The foregoing are all the passages that have occurred to my reading on this subject. They are but few and inconsiderable, but may save trouble to others who are willing to make a deeper enquiry into tne history of this substance. BIOGRAPHICAL PORTRAIT OF VALENTINE GREATRAKES. This singular man, famous for curing many people by the touch of his hand, was descended from a good family in the county of Waterford, where he was born in the reign of Charles the First. His education was as liberal as could be procured in those troublesome times, at Lismore school, where he continued until the term of years qualified him for entering Trinity College, Dublin. At this time the Rebellion broke out; and, owing to the then distracted state of the nation, he was obliged, with his mother (who had several other small children), to fly for refuge into England, where they were relieved by his uncle, Mr. Edward Harris; after whose death, young Greatrakes was committed to the care of Mr. John Daniel Getseus, a German, and then minister of Stoke Damarel, in the county of Devon, who, for several years, instructed him in theology, philosophy, &c. About the year 1624, he returned to his native country, but was so exceedingly affected by the miserable and reduced state it was in, that he retired to the Castle of Caperquin, where he spent a year in serious contempla- tion on the vicissitudes of state and fortune. In the year 1649, he became lieutenant in the regiment of Roger, Lord Broghill, afterwards Earl of Orrery, then acting in Munster against the Irish papists; but, upon the regiment being disbanded (1656), he retired to his estate at Affane, and was soon after appointed clerk of the peace for the county of Cork, and registrar for plan- tations, and justice of peace. About the year 1662, Valentine began to conceive himself possessed of an extraordinary virtue, in being able to remove the king's evil, or other diseases, by touching or stroking the parts affected, with the hand. This imagination he concealed for some time; but, at last, revealed it to his wife, who ridiculed the idea. Resolved, however, to make a trial, he began with one William Mayer, who was brought to the house of his father for the purpose of receiving some assistance from