445 Sudorifics, 6f€. serious and precarious attempt.—To lay down particular rules and directions, in what cases aperient remedies may be proper and necessary, would lead me too far from the outline of Introductory Lectures: these subjects must be discussed at a future opportunity. 2. Sudorifics, &c. Sudorifics, are either such as promote the insensible perspiration, or occasion a perceptible exudation by the pores: the former cannot easily do mischief, but the latter, if injudiciously administered, may be attended with pernicious effects. This distinction, however, is not very material; as the effect of all diaphoretic remedies is dif- ferent only in its degree, and this degree depends chiefly on the constitution of the patient; his natural disposition for such evacuation, his conduct during the operation, and other concomitant circumstances. It is therefore an erroneous notion, that diaphoretics, or sweating remedies, are always safe in eruptive diseases of children, or in rheumatic and catarrhal attacks. Dr. Sturve asserts, that he has observed the most obstinate swellings, and even dropsy, to arise from that hurtful practice; and as fre- quent and profuse perspiration debilitates the solids, it cannot fail to produce a strong tendency to pulmonary consumption, and hectic fevers. Hence it is particularly injurious in the following cases : 1. When the first pas- sages are loaded with impurities; 2. In general relaxa- tion of the body; 3. In plethoric children, or such as are very full of blood and humours ; 4. In alL diseases pre- vious to what is called the crisis or coction of the fluids; and 5. If there is any other species of action, or evacua- tion from the body, taking place at the same time. 3. Composing Draughts, Powders, or Pills, Resemble in some degree the sharp and dangerous instruments of the mechanic, which can be safely em- ployed only by the master.—Want of sleep, and loud complaints, may indeed often induce parents and nurses to have recourse to anodynes, paregoric elixirs, and other opiates; but these expedients are the more objectionable, as they frequently become habitual; and though they should regularly cure one symptom of diseased action in the body, that of restlessness and pain, yet it is not in the nature of things, that they could uniformly effect a radical cure of the disease, the contrary, they in general