435 Horticulture. middle, and invited the infidels to a sitting; whereupon threescore and eight, who tried the experiment, were drowned, and St. Blase walked back to be beheaded. The " Golden Legend" says, that a wolf having run away with a woman's swine, she prayed St. Blase that she might have her swine again, and St. Blase promised her, with a smile, she should, and the wolf brought the swine back; then she slew it, and offered the head and the feet, with some bread and a candle, to St. Blase. " And he thanked God, and ete thereof; and he sayd to her, that every yere she sholde offre in his chirche a candell. And she dyd all her lyf, and she had moche grete prosperyte. And knowe thou that to the, and to all them that so shal do, shal well happen to them." It is observed in a note on Brand, that the candles offered to St. Blase were said to be good for the tooth- ache, and for diseased cattle.—Butler's Lives of the Saints. horticulture. OCTOBER. The Kitchen Garden.—In this month all sowing and principal planting should be finished for this year; some necessary for winter, and others to remain for next spring and summer. At this season many crops will be consumed, or past perfection; the ground should be cleared from the refuse, and weeds hoed down, or the ground digged; and all advancing crops should have a thorough clearing from autumnal seed-weeds, &c.: some want earthing-up, and several sorts of esculent roots should be dug up, to pre- serve for winter use. Attend to the necessary sowing and planting—now re- quired ; and perform the principal part early in the month (b. m.) The sowing crops—are but few; chiefly a small crop of lettuce, some radishes, successions of small salading, and a few early peas, to come in forward next summer. Planting is still necessary—to perform in several crops ; as cabbage, cauliflowers, coleworts, celery, endive, let- tuce, and late broccoli and borecole; also may plant garlic and shallots, several aromatic of pot-herbs, some plants for seed, and a few early beans for next summer;