Recipes/or making Genuine Family Wines. 293 it does not fine soon enough, add half an ounce of isin- glass, dissolved in a pint of water, to each nine gallons. 3. Fruit, any that is to be had quite ripe, equal parts; express the juice, and if very rich in flavour, an equal quantity of water may be added : to each gallon of liquor, add four pounds of sugar, and ferment as usual. *** These English fruit wines, differ from those made from the grape, by containing the malic acid instead of the tartaric. GRAPE WINE May be made from the juice of ripe or even unripe grapes, or from an infusion of about five pounds of the young leaves or cuttings of the vine in seven or eight gallons of water, adding sugar about three pounds to each gallon of liquor. GOOSEBERRY WINE. Ripe berries bruised, ten gallons; water, thirty gal- lons ; soak twenty-four hours ; strain; to each gallon add Lisbon sugar two pounds, and ferment. . 2. Bruised berries, eighty pounds; water, ten gallons; soak for a day; strain; to each gallon add loaf sugar six pounds, and ferment. 3. Juice, ten gallons; water, twenty gallons; sugar, seventy pounds: ferment. 4. Berries, one hundred pounds; brown sugar, six pounds; water, a sufficient quantity to fill a fifteen gal- lon cask; yields a good yellowish white, very transpa- rent wine. 5. Green berries, forty pounds ; water, four gallons ; bruise together, and the next day press out the juice; to every gallon add sugar, three pounds : ferment. GINGER WINE. Bruised ginger, twelve pounds; water, ten gallons; boil for half an hour; add sugar, twenty-eight pounds; boil till dissolved; then cool, and put the liquor along with fourteen lemons sliced, and three pounds of brandy ; add a little yeast, and ferment; bung it up for three months, and then bottle it. GINGER BEER. Lump sugar, three pounds; bruised ginger, two ounces; cream of tartar, one ounce ; four lemons sliced ; pour on them boiling water four gallons; add yeast, eight ounces; work for four days, then bottltf in half pints, and tic the corks down.