Reflections on the Health, Education, fcc. of Children. 27 milk is not adapted to insinuate itself into the leaves of the tea, or to dissolve the delicate salt, oil, and earth, by which means the virtue of the tea is lost. The Japanese powder their leaves; upon which they pour boiling water, and sip them up together, which must give the tea a more rough, earthy, and disagreeable taste, consequently prejudicial, as it will not only thicken the blood, but constringe the fibres too much; thereby de- stroying that equilibrium which ought to be maintained between relaxation and contraction. The Chinese infuse their tea in boiling water, as we do ; and when they have drawn off their full quantity, they prepare the leaves with sugar, oil, and vinegar, for an evening salad. IMPORTANT REFLECTIONS ON THE HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND MORALS OF CHILDREN. Children, like tender oziers, take the bow, And as they're fashion'd, so they always grow. DRYDEN. "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it," says Solomon ; and, although this sublime moral advice does not amount to an axiom, the correctness of the maxim is so far established, that should its early inculcation be neglected or deferred, the bias of the future mind is deteriorated in a tenfold ratio. On parents, therefore, it depends, whether their children shall prove a blessing or a curse; whether they shall comfort their declining years, or bring down their grey hairs with sorrow to the grave. On the basis of religion must their happiness be founded; and the exist- ence of a Supreme and Invisible Being, the first know- ledge that is imprinted on their weak and tender minds. When children are permitted by nature to notice the beautiful varieties of the creation, teach them to believe, that to the hand of an all-merciful and beneficent Crea- tor, we owe their formation; that they are sent to us as the reward and encouragement of virtue, and that to act in opposition to the divine will, would be the surest means to deprive us of every benefit we enjoy. Instead of terrifying their weak imaginations by the representa- tion of a thousand frightful monsters to them, such as old Poby, the chimney-sweep, or any other of the like smutty tribe, to whom they are to be consigned when