460 Analysis of Beer, fyc. %* Liquorice-root and other flavours may be added. What are here inserted, are only the most general, and, (as some suppose) indispensable requisites. Analysis of Beer, 5yc. Having thus Completed the general receipts and instruc- tions for procuring the several liquors, it may not be amiss, to promote general knowledge, to give a slight sketch of the properties of each article, that every person may choose his own ingredients, and increase or decrease their various proportions, as may best suit his taste, opinion, or convenience. Malt—is a wholesome nutritious grain, containing a soft balsamic, oleaginous essence, highly agreeable to the palate and healthful to the constitution ; but by no means intoxicative, except when used in very large quantities. The intoxicating qualities of porter are to be ascribed to the various drugs intermixed with it; it is evident some porter is more heady than other, and it arises ffom the greater or less quantity of stupefactive ingredients. Malt, to produce intoxication, must be used in such large quan- tities as would very much diminish, if not totally exclude the brewer's profit, when porter is retailed at seven far^ things the pint. Pale Malt—is most nutritive, being, from the tender method of drying it, nearest to the original barley corn ; it likewise contains more of the alcalous and balsamic quali- ties than the brown malt, which enduring a greater degree of fire in the kiln, is sometimes so crusted and burnt, that its mealy part loses a great share of its essential salts and vital properties. Amber Malt—is that which is dried in a middle degree, between pale and brown, and is now much in use, being the most-pleasant, and free of either extreme. I would therefore recommend the use of it. Hops—-are an aromatic grateful bitter, very wholesome, and undoubtedly efficaeious in- giving both flavour and strength to the beer. Yeast—is necessary to give the liquor that portion of elastic air, of which the boiling deprives it. Observe, Without fermentation or working, no must or worts, how- ever rich, can inebriate. Sugar—is a pleasant nutritive extract, and forms the main body of beer, when boiled to a proper temper for essentia, and for what is. called colour: it answers both for malt and hops, being in part an agreeable, sweet, and