77<e Fulham Fisheries. Directions for the Care of Family Linen. When linen is well dried and laid by for use, nothing more is necessary than to secure it from damp and in- sects ; the latter may be agreeably performed by a judi- cious mixture of aromatic shrubs and flowers, cut up and sewed up in silken bags, to be interspersed among the drawers and shelves. These ingredients may consist of lavender, thyme, roses, cedar-shavings, powdered sas- safras, cassia, lignea, &c. into which a few drops of attar of roses, or other strong scented perfume, may be thrown. In all cases, it will be found more consistent with eco- nomy, to examine and repair all washable articles, more especially linen, that may stand in need of it, previous to sending them to the laundry. It will also be prudent to have every article carefully numbered, and so arranged after washing, as to have their regular turn and term in domestic use. To renew Scorched or Browned Linen. This is an accident attributable entirely to the igno- rance of the laundress, in not knowing how to regulate the heat of her irons. To remedy this: Add to a quart of vinegar, the juice of half a dozen large onions, about an ounce of soap rasped down, a quarter of a pound of fullers' earth, one ounce of lime, and one ounce of pearl ash, or any other strong alkali. Boil the whole until it is pretty thick, and lay some of it on the scorched part, suffering it to dry. It will be found that, on repeating this process for one or two washings, the scorch will be completely removed from the linen without any additional damage; provided its texture has not been absolutely in- jured, as well as discoloured. THE FULHAM FISHERIES. The fisheries were leased in the seventeenth century to Sir Abraham Dawes, Sir Nicholas Crispe, and others, for the annual rent.of three salmons. Flounders are taken here all the year, and used to be caught in great abundance, but since the completion of the new docks, below London Bridge, they have almost disappeared, owing to the spawn being carried by the tide into the docks, where it is de- stroyed, from the water being impregnated by the copper- bottomed vessels.