Secrets of Trade. 67 do harm. The dose of Fowler's solution is from one drop to lour, twice a day. ALMOND PASTE. This cosmetic for softening the skin, and preventing chaps, is made as follows: Take Bitter almonds, blanched, 4 ounces. White of an egg. , Rose water, and Rectified spirits, equal parts, as much as is sufficient to make the almonds into a paste. ANDERSON'S PILLS. These pills are made with Barbadoes aloes, a propor- tion of jalap, and a few drops of the oil of aniseed. *** In consequence of aloes not undergoing solution in the stomach, it is admirably adapted for the basis of remedies intended to remove habitual costiveness, or torpor of the intestinal canal. It should however be re- marked, that these pills, as well as every other prepara- tion into which aloes enter as an ingredient, are improper as a cathartic in hemorrhoidal and pulmonic affections, pregnancy, or in cases where menstruation occurs either too frequently or too redundantly. ANODYNE NECKLACES. The roots of hyoscyamus (henbane) are commonly strung in the form of beads, and sold under this name, to tie round the necks of children, to facilitate the growth of their teeth, and allay the irritation of teething. The application of medicated necklaces is a very ancient superstition. Oribasius commends in high terms, a necklace oi.pceony root, for the cure of epilepsy. In a work on scrofula, written by Mr. Morley, the root of the vervain is directed to be hung round the neck, tied with a yard of white ribbon, which is to remain there until the patient is cured. These kinds of deceptions, however, were too palpable. Oribasius accompanied his paeony necklace with copious purgatives;—and Morley called into his aid the most active medicines of the Ma- teria Medica. AROMATIC LOZENGES OF STEEL. These consist of sulphate of iron, with a small propor- tion of the tincture of cantharides. AROMATIC VINEGAR (HENRY'S). This is merely an acetic solution of camphor, oil of cloves, of lavender, and of rosemary. A preparation of this kind may be extemporaneously made, by putting a k2