MS Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. intemperate living, and the like, are disorders not to be removed by a short course of any mineral water; and many of those who have once received benefit at the fountains, find it necessary to make an annual visit to them, to re- pair the waste in health during the preceding year. CHELTENHAM.—THE MONTPELIER OF BRITAIN. The fame of this watering place is the more solid, and will be the more permanent, because it owes its celebrity less to the caprice of fashion than to the salu- tary virtues of its springs. Cheltenham is about 95 miles from the metropolis, is pleasantly situated in a rich and beautiful vale in the county of Gloucester; and, being well sheltered by hills from the cold winds, the air is fine and mild. It is 9£ miles from the city of Gloucester; 16 from Cirencester; 40 from Oxford; 9 from Tewkesbury; 40 from Hereford ; 35 from Monmouth; 22 from Malvern; 25 from Wor- cester; 44£ from Bristol; and 44| from Bath. The Well Walk. With the exception of Christ-church walk, in Oxford, this is perhaps the most delightful in the kingdom. On passing the draw-bridge, we enter a magnificent gravelled promenade, twenty feet wide, shaded by venerable elms at twelve feet distance, whose embowering tops exclude the fierce rays of the sun. A quickset hedge bounds this Elysian walk on each side; and here and there a bench or garden chair is placed as we advance, which, during the morning, are generally occupied in succession by parties. From the commencement of this charming walk to the pump, which stands in its centre, is nearly 600 feet. Looking back, the church-spire ap- pears perfectly in a line with the walk; and, on its dial, the hour and minute may be distinguished. The Spa, or Long Room. On the east side of the Pump-square is the Long Room, sixty-six feet by twenty-three, built in 3775, at the joint expence of the late Mr. Skillicorne, the ground-landlord, and Mr. Miller, then renter of the Spa, for the accom- modation of the company while drinking the water; and on the west side is a building of similar dimensions, the principal part of which Mr. Chambers, the manager of of the pump, occupies.