•toO Baths, Wells, Wafers, and Mineral Springs. Originally the ground belonged to Mr. Higgs, of Charl- ton-King's, who, ignorant of the treasure it eontained, sold it to Mr. Mason, in 1716. For a short time after the discovery of the spring, it remained open, and was drunk by such persons as thought it might be of service to them. In 1718, Jiowever, it was railed in, locked up, and a little shed built over it; then, in consequence of some experi- ments made on the water by Dr. Baird of Worcester, and Dr. Greville of Gloucester, its virtues became more gene- rally known; and for three years, it was sold as a medi- cine, till in 1721 it was leased to Mr. Spencer at 61?. per annum. After the death of Mr. Mason and his son, Captain Henry Skillicorne, father of the late landlord, becoming possessed of the Spa and premises in right of his wife, the daughter of the original discoverer in 1738, he not only built the old room, on the west side of the pump, for the use of company, but cleansed the spring from all extraneous matter; and erected a square brick building in four arches, over it, with a pump on the east side, rising in the form of an obelisk. This structure now remains; and the well in the centre of the doom is about five or six feet below the surface, close shut down with doors, to prevent the admission of air. At the same time Captain Skillicorne laid out the paved court that environs it, planned the upper and lower Well Walk, planted the trees, and was continually improving the natural beauties of the place, to render it more worthy of the respectable company that began to visit it from all quarters. Dr. Short, in 1740, published some experi- ments made by him on this water; and, under the name of a neutral purging chalybeate water, pronounced it superior to any thing else of the kind in England. The growing fame of the Spa met with a great acces- sion, from his just testimony to its virtues; and other distinguished physicians and chyraists have successively analyzed it, particularly Dr. Fothergill, of Bath. Its principal ingredients are Epsom and Glauber salts, a small portion of chalybeate, and some fixed air. The temperature at eight o'clock in the morning is generally about 53° or 54°, and at noon, in the hottest season, 6° or 7° higher.—The taste is §!4jgh*ly saline, and a small impression of bitter, like that of Epsom salt, is left upon the palate; but it is by no means so nauseous