Baths, Wells, Maters, and Mineral Springs. 361 The water is preserved in the baths at the uniform height of 4§ feet, which continually flows into them by pipes of cold water and steam, and out of them byawaste pipe, of 1$ inch diameter. They are besides completely emptied every two or three days, by which means the water is always preserved fresh and pure. They are heated early every morning, and one of them kept all day about 70°, a little warmer than Matlock water, and another between 94° and 97°, or the lowest degree of hot bath; but they receive additional heat after six o'clock, so as to constitute baths of the highest temperatures for the remainder of the evening. There are also smaller baths for those who wish to regulate the heat to any par- ticular degree, or to increase it during the time of bathing. The Spa, or Long Room. The Spa. or pump-room, is open every morning for the accommodation of the water drinkers; and, by the per- mission of the liberal and obliging renters of the Wells, Messrs. Capstack and Mathews, artists are here allowed to exhibit specimens of their skill or manufacture; and the room is further enlivened by tables covered with dif- ferent wares for sale. While the company are parading up and down the well- walks, or pump-room, from eight to ten in the morning, a band of music, supported by subscription, plays to entertain them. The number of names entered in what is called the well-book, has lately amounted to 5000, though, about twenty years ago, 500 would have been reckoned a full season. In the year 1780, the visitors were estimated at 374; in 1790, at 1100; in 1802, at 2000; in 1809, at 4000; and in 1813, at 5000, and still increasing. GLOUCESTER SALINE CHALYBEATE SPA. A spring has recently been discovered near Gloucester, which surpasses the waters both of Cheltenham and Leamington in the strength of its most essential impreg- nations. Since the well has been opened, many hundred individuals have daily experienced its virtues; and the proprietor, Sir Jame3 Jelf, has used every endeavour to furnish such accommodations as Will enable strangers of all classes to employ it with the greatest possible ad- vantage. A very handsome pump-room has been erected; hot z z 2