BatJis, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 353 the principal benefit is derived from drinking it at the pump early in the morning, when the temperature, volatile principles, and solution of iron, enhance the value of the remedy : while the early walk in the pure coo] air, enables those who pursue the salutary practice to eat a hearty breakfast. The waters generally contain more steel early in the morning, and many of them entirely lose it in the middle of the day. The dose of the water ought always to be moderate on first using, and the quantity increased according to the effects produced on the body. This will, therefore, very much depend upon the age, sex, constitution, and disease, of the patient; and, at the commencement of the course, it will, perhaps, require the opinion of the faculty, to de- termine whether the water should be drank in such quan- tities as gently to increase the natural evacuations of the body, or to act as a brisk cathartic. The temperature of the water is of more importance than is generally imagined. In its cold state, it braces the stomach, and refrigerates the body: in its warm state, it relaxes the stomach, and, by the loss of its volatile principles, proves less flatulent. Invalids should, there- fore, endeavour to bring themselves gradually to the use of it in the coldest state, unless in cases of gout, rheuma- tism, spasm, gall-stones, or indurated viscera; and then some of the water, which is kept heated on purpose by the pumper, should be added to each dose. The duration of the course should be regulated by the nature of the disease, and effects of the water on the constitution. Those who visit Cheltenham for amuse- ment, are satisfied with drinking as much as relaxes the bowels, for two or three weeks; but in obstinate chronic cases, which require complete alteration of the habit, the patients are obliged then to persevere in a moderate use of the water for months, and sometimes for years, to get their health re-established. I t is a very common practice* after these waters have acted powerfully on the bowels for two or three weeks, to take a short excursion to some neighbouring town, or to drink at the steel wells for a week or two, and return again to the use of the purging waters. A. pint of water taken at two draugh ts before breakfast^ is generally sufficient for most constitutions. There are always physicians, or resident apothecaries, on the spot> who should be consulted on the use of such powerful vy2