Famous American Recipe for Rheumatism. 523 way than chopped, and makes a very good crust for any pie that is to be eaten hot, or for fruit puddings. PREPARED HOG'S LARD. Take any quantity of the leaf-fat of a large hog ; cut it into bits about an inch square; put it over a slow fire in a clean, bright, brass kettle (if it is put in a pot that is tinned it will fetch the tin off); let the heat increase gra- dually, till it boils, and a good quantity of fat is melted; (keep stirring it often); then pour it through a cullender into an earthen pot or pan; when the liquid part of the fat has run through, return what was left in the cullender into the kettle, and put it over the fire till more is melted; then put it into the cullender, as before; do this three or four times to draw out all the lard; take care it does not scorch, as that would spoil the flavour and colour, and render it unfit for use ; when it begins to cool, put it into small bladders; tie them up close, and hang them in a cool dry place, if it is to be kept a long time; but if it is only for a month or two's use, it may remain in the pot, with a paper tied over it. Beef-suet may be done in the same way, and is very good for pastry or frying. TO BOIL A TONGUE. If the tongue is dried, it must lie in water one night be- fore you boil it; if a pickled one, only wash it in a good quantity of water; put it into the pot, with the water cold, and let it boil very slowly, three hours and a half; if a large one, four hours or more, according to the size of it. When you take it up, be careful not to stick a fork in it; take off the peel, put it on a dish, and garnish it with any kind of herbs you think proper. If the tongue is to be eaten cold, when the peel is taken off, put it into an earthen pan, with as much of the liquor it was boiled in as will cover it; let it remain till cold ; then take it out, and dry it with a clean cloth; cut it in slices, and send it to table, garnished with green parsley. FAMOUS AMERICAN RECIPE FOR RHEUMATISM. Take garlic, two cloves; gum ammonia, one drachm ; pound them together, and make them into six boluses, with water. Take one or two at night and morning, drinking in the interim strong sassafras tea. *#* This, it is said, has generally been found to banish the rheumatism, and even contraction of the joints, in five times taking.