200 Belort's Amulets against the Plague, Jjc. slaver, or breath of such a dog, is infectious; and that men bit, will bite like dogs again, and die mad," (p. 411); although he laughs at the anodyne necklace, argues much in the same manner. It is not so very strange that the effluvia from external medicines entering our bodies, should effect such considerable changes, when we see the efficient cause of apoplexy, epilepsy, hysterics, plague, and a number of other disorders, consists, as it were, in imperceptible vapours. Amulet to prevent Abortion, and to facilitate Delivery. Lapis cetites (blood-stone) hung about the arm, by some similar secret means, is said to prevent abortion ; and to facilitate delivery, when worn round the thigh. Dr. Sy- denham, in the iliac passion, orders a live kitten to be laid constantly on the abdomen; others have used pigeons split alive, and applied to the soles of the feet, with success, in pestilential fevers and convulsions. The court of King David thought that relief might be obtained by external agents, otherwise they would not have advised him to seek a young virgin; doubtless, thereby imagining that the vigour of youth would impart a portion of its warmth and strength to the decay of age. " Take the heart and liver of the fish, and make a smoke, and the devil shall smell it, and flee away." (Tobit, c. vi.) During the plague of London, arsenic was worn as an amulet against infection. During this melancholy period, Bradley says that Bucklersbury was not visited with this scourge, which was attributed to the number of druggists and apothecaries living there. Belort's Amulets against the Plague, fyc. During the plague at Marseilles, which Belort attri- buted to the larvae of worms infecting the saliva, food, and chyle; and which, he says, were hatched by the stomach, took their passage into the blood, at a certain size, hinder- ing the circulation, affecting the juices and solid parts, advised amulets of mercury to be worn in bags suspended at the chest and nostrils, either as a safeguard, or as a means of cure; by which method, through the admissive- ness of the pores, effluvias specially destructive of all verminous insects, were received into the blood. " An illustrious prince," continues Belort, " by wearing such an amulet, escaped the small-pox."* An Italian physician (Clognini) ordered two or three drachms of crude mercury to be worn as a defensive