The Hot-Bath. scents, one plunge, or two at the utmost, is sufficient; after which they should dry and dress as speedily as possible. On coming out of the water, particularly after sea-bath- ing, where the air is keen and sharp, although the heat of the water is more uniform than in rivers, should chilli- ness or trembling come on, a small quantity of weak brandy and water, to which a few drops of the compound spirit of lavender may be added, will be found to be the best restorative—using a gentle degree of exercise. Other means may be used, should these prove insufficient; such as putting the patient to bed, and procuring warmth, &c. The pleasing glow of heat diffused over the body, after cold bathing, is a proof that it may be continued with benefit. The Hot-Bath. By a hot bath, is understood any degree of heat be- tween 93° and 96° of Fahrenheit. It has a peculiar ten- dency to bring on a state of repose, to alleviate any local irritation, and thereby to induce sleep; it promotes per- sonal cleanliness; is excellent to children affected with convulsions; in diseases of the skin; restores suppressed perspiration; relieves gouty, rheumatic, and hectic pa- tients; and complaints in the region of the kidnies and loins. It is also used in the puffy swellings in the legs, and obstructions peculiar to females, &c. It is, upon the whole, a safer remedy than the cold bath, and more peculiarly applicable to very weak and irritable con- stitutions, whom the shock procured by the cold immer- sion would overpower, and who have not sufficient vigour of circulation for an adequate re-action. In all cases, where the local formation of matter is the solution of the general inflammatory symptoms, experi- ence directs the use of warm relaxing applications, rather than those which, by exciting a general re-action, would increase the local complaint. This object is particularly to be consulted when the part affected is one that is essential to life. Hence it is that in fever, where there is a great deter- mination to the lungs, the respiration appearing to be locally affected, independently of the oppression produced by mere febrile increase of circulation, practitioners have avoided the external use of cold, in order to promote the solution of the fever, and have trusted to general antiphlo-