cm Compound Oih. DRYING OIL. Nut or lintseed oil, eight pints; white lead, dried, sugar Of lead, dried, white vitriol dried, of each, one ounce; litharge, twelve ounces; boil slightly, and scum until a pellicle is formed, then cool, and let it settle. 2. Lintseed or nut oil, sixteen ounces; litharge, one ounce and a half; white vitriol, three drachms: boil. 3. Lintseed or nut oil, sixteen ounces; litharge, three or four ounces: boil. 4. Lintseed or nut oil, sixteen ounces; litharge, three or four ounces; mix, aud let it stand for some time. 5. Nut oil, two pounds; water, three pounds; white vitriol, two ounces: boil till nearly all the water is con- sumed, then expose it to the sun for some time. 6. Oil, mix with snow or powdered ice, and keep it from thawing as long as possible; in two months the oil will have acquired the drying property: used to mix with colours, to cause them to dry quickly. painter's oream. Nut oil, three ounces; mastich, half an ounce; dissolve, acid of sugar of lead, one drachm, and then water gra- dually to the consistence of cream: use4 by painters to cover the work which they are obliged to leave some time: when they begin again, it is washed off with a wet sponge. FURNITURE VARNISH. White wax eight ounces, oil of turpentine one pint. PICTURE VARNISH. Mastich, twelve ounces; Venice turpentine, two ounces four drachms; thirty grains of camphor; pounded glass, four ounces; oil of turpentine, three pints and a half; pour off the clear: used to oil paintings. GOLD VARNISH FOR LEATHER. Turmeric, gambooge, of each one scruple and a half; oil of turpentine, two pints; add seed lac, gum sandarac, of each four ounces; dragon's blood, four drachms; Venice turpentine, two ounces; pounded glass, four ounces: pour off the clear. COPAL VARNISH. Oil of turpentine, thickened by keeping, eight ounces; copal two ounces and a half. 2. Oil of turpentine six ounces; oil of lavender, two ounces; copal, one ounce. JAPANNER'S COPAL VARNISH. Copal, four pounds, is melted in a glass matrass, till the water is evaporated.