130 Hotisekeepiny and Husbandr;/. nimediately, or they will lose their colour and goodness. Drain the water from them thoroughly before you send them to table. This branch of cookery requires the most vigilant atten- tion. If vegetables are a minute or two too long over the fire, they lose all their beauty and flavour. If not tho- roughly boiled tender, they are tremendously indigestible, and much more troublesome during their residence in the stomach, than under-done meats*. To preserve or give colour in cookery, many good dishes are spoiled; but the rational epicure who makes nourishment the main end of eating, will be content to sacrifice the shadow to enjoy the substance. Once for all, take care your vegetables are fresh ; for as the fishmonger often suffers for the sins of the cook, so the cook often gets undeservedly blamed instead of the green-grocer. Vegetables in this metropolis are often kept so long, that no art can make them either look or eat well. " Succulent vegetables are best preserved in a cool shady and damp place. Potatoes, turnips, carrots, and similar roots intended to be stored up, should never be cleaned from the earth adhering to them, and must be protected from the action of the air and frost, by laying them in heaps, burying them in sand or earth, &c. or covering them with straw or mats. " The action of frost destroys the life of the vegetable, and it speedily rots."—Sup. to Edinb. Encyclop. vol. iv. p. 335. N. B. When greens, &c. are quite fresh gathered, they will not require so much boiling, by at least a third of the time they take, when they have been gathered the usual time those are that are brought to public markets. * <f Cauliflowers and other vegetables are often boiled only crisp, to preserve their beauty. For the look alone they had better not be boiled at all, and almost as well for the use, as in this crude state they are scarcely digestible by the strongest stomach. On the other hand, when over boiled, they become vapid, and in a state similar to decay, in which they afford no sweet purifying juices to the body, but load it with a mass of mere feculent matter."—Domestic Management^ 12mo. 1813, p. 69. I