36 Existing Sympathy behveen the Skin, Stomach, $c. that healthy and morbid matter has been secreted from it, is equally true ; but the principal use of the skin is to carry off from the system the redundant heat and mois- ture by sensible and insensible perspiration. On the fit- ness then of this organ to perform those duties, depends, in a great measure, the state of health of the individual: if the perspiration be in excess, the system is enfeebled by the evacuation ; and if it be deficient, disease must be the consequence. Existing Sympathy betvjeen the Skin, Stomach, and Bowels, and behveen the Skin and Liver. There exists between the skin, the stomach, and bowels, a sympathy, or what, in medical language, is called, a consent of parts," that is, when one part (suppose the skin) is affected, the other (the stomach and bowels) sympathises, as it were, and takes on an analo- gous action. Also between the skin and liver, or in other words, between the perspiration and biliary secretion, there exists one of the strongest sympathies in the human frame. This is a consideration of the first practical im- portance, not only in the cure of cutaneous diseases, but of bilious, dyspeptic, and other complaints; for by di- recting our operations, observes Sir Arthur Clarke, to- wards any one of the functions in question, we can deci- sively influence the other. For example, the vapour bath, or James' powders, by producing a perspiration, increases the secretion of bile; and mercury, while it promotes the secretion of bile, increases at the same time the insensible perspiration. This consent of parts between the skin and liver, ac- counts for the augmented secretion of bile in warm wea- ther and in hot climates, corresponding with the increased perspiration. Eruptions on the skin, particularly those on the face, are commonly the consequence of some previous affeo- tion of the liver, or of the alimentary canal; and arise from sympathy between those organs and the skin. They are often mistaken eruptions, and as such treated with- out any effect. Their cause is sometimes very obscure, but they are almost always traced to some circumstance which has obstructed or checked the sensible or insensi- ble perspiration: hence it must be obvious, that in all eruptive complaints, the Barege, o? medicated warm-bath