260 Observations on the Baths of the Ancients. repaired to the baths, either the public or the private ones: this was called the bath hour, hora balnei> which in winter was at nine, in summer at eight. The public baths were all opened by the sound of a bell, and always at the same hour. Those who came too late, stood a chance for bathing in cold water. They began with hot water; after which, as the pores were now opened, and might give room for too plentiful a perspiration, they thought it necessary for their health to close them again, either with the cold bath, or at least with a sprinkling of cold water. During the bath, the body was scraped with a kind of knives, or small strigils, such as are still found in the cabinets of the curious. After bathing, succeeded unction and perfum- ing, from which they went fresh to supper. The Romans, when they found their stomachs over- charged with meat, went to the bath, as we learn from Juvenal, who inveighs against those who, having gorged themselves with eating, were forced to go into the baths to give relief*. They found also that a bath was good to refresh themselves after some considerable fatigue or travel, as Celsus tells us; which makes Plautus say, that all the baths in this world were not sufficient to remove the weariness he felt. After Pompey's time, the humour of bathing was carried to great excess, by which many were ruined, several having brought themselves to such a pitch, that they could not bear food without bathing first. The Emperor Titus is said to have lost his life thereby. Hence Pliny inveighs severely against those physicians who held, that hot baths digested the food. The Emperor Hadrian first laid a restraint on the immoderate humour of bathing, by a public edict, pro- hibiting all persons to bathe before the eighth hour. The baths of Agrippa were built of brick, but painted in enamel; those of Nero were not only furnished with fresh water, but even had the sea brought into them; those of Caracalla were adorned with 200 marble co- lumns, and furnished with 1600 seats of the same matter. Lipsius assures us they were so large, that 1800 persons might conveniently bathe in them at the same time. But the baths of Dioclesian surpassed all the rest in magni- ficence. One hundred and forty thousand men were employed many years in building them. Great part of * See observations on this practice, p. 2fi0.