14 Elixir of Life. a bottle with the Venice treacle, and a pint of good brandy added to them. The mouth of the bottle is to be well stopped with wet parchment, and when this dries, several holes are to be made into it with a pin; it is to be left for nine days, observing occasionally to shake it well up. On the tenth day, the infusion is to be carefully poured off, as long as the liquor continues clear, into another bottle; which is afterwards to be well stopped with linen. A second pint of brandy is afterwards to be poured upon the dregs, for a second infusion, which is to be left for nine days more in the bottle, well stopped as before, and shaken in the same manner. On the tenth day, pour off again into another bottle, as long as it passes on clear; and when it begins to be turbid, it should be filtered through cotton in the funnel several times: the two infusions are afterwards to be added, and kept in a stopper bottle for use. By the daily use of this remedy, it is said that one may live for a very long time, without requiring bleeding, or any other medicine or preservative against contagious diseases. It throws out the small-pox without any dan- ger ; and it possesses this admirable property, that a very strong dose of it may be taken, should occasion require it; and it is also as serviceable in small quantities, accord- ing to circumstances. It is directed to be taken in the following manner: For sickness at the stomach, one spoonful, quite pure; for indigestion, two spoonfuls in four of tea; for drunkenness, two spoonfuls, quite pure; for colicks, two spoonfuls, in four of brandy ; for fits of the gout, during the fit, and particularly when it is get- ting up, three spoonfuls quite pure; for worms, one spoonful before eating, for eight days; for the dropsy, one spoonful in white wine for a month; for intermitting fevers (agues), a spoonful quite pure before the cold fit; and, if the fever is not cured by the first or second dose, it will undoubtedly be so by the third. The only precaution necessary in taking a large dose of this elixir, is, to eat nothing raw, to take neither milk nor salad, and not to go too much into the open air. The quantity to be taken daily, as a strengthener of the stomach, is seven drops for women, and nine for men. Very old people should take, besides, a spoonful quite pure, every eighth day. i