243 DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING DISTILLED WATERS, &c. Many of these are used as vehicles for medicines, in order to disguise their nauseous taste ; others as per- fumes. No great care is judged necessary in their pre- paration for medical purposes; the herb, just as collected, without any separation of decayed parts, or accidental mixture of dirt, or other substance, is added to the water, distilled in a short-necked wide still, as quickly as pos- sible, and two drachms of spirit of wine, or even more, added to each pint. Many do not, in fact, take this trouble, but rub a drop or two of the oil, with a little sugar, and add it to common water, or dilute the oil with ten times as much spirit of wine, and add, as occasion may require, a few drops of the essence to the water, or other vehicle. The case, however, is different with re- gard to perfumes, as rose water, elder-flower water, &c. more care being requisite, as the buyers must be pleased with their smell and appearance; hence the herb, &c. must be carefully picked, and the waters as carefully distilled in a high narrow-necked still, that no part of the infusion may be thrown over with the distilled water, as this would render them liable to become mothery in a short time; and if a superior article is required, the waters must be redistilled by a gentle heat. Angelica Water.—Leaves, eight pounds to the gallon: cordial. Anise-seed Water.—Collected in the distillation of the oil. Aqua Cymbalarim.—From the herb: used in Italy as the vehicle for exhibiting arsenic as a poison. Aqua Ledi palustris. Aqua Persicarice.—From the herb : useful in calculous complaints. Allspice Water.—Haifa pound to a gallon: stimulant; used in hospitals as a cheap spicy vehicle. Aqua Castorei.—Russian castor, an ounce; a sufficient quantity: distil two pounds. Aqua Lactis Alexiteria. — Leaves of meadow-sweet, goat's rue, of each six handfuls; of mint, wormwood, five handfuls; of rue, three handfuls; of angelica, two hand- fuls; milk, three gallons; distil to dryness: diaphoretic.