528 Direct ions for Gathering, $6, to its tail, without any diminution at oither extremity; indented or ribbed round at equal distances, nearly a quarter of an inch from each other, and having at every one of these divisions a pair of claws, by which it fastens itself to the plant. Its mouth, like that of the caterpillar, is placed under the fore part of the head. On the top of the head, between the eyes, grows a horn about half an inch in length, and greatly resembling a thorn; the extreme part of which is brown, of a firm texture, and sharp pointed. By this horn, as before observed, it is usually plucked from the leaf. Directions for Gathering, and after-Management, &c. When the plant is fit for gathering, on the first morning that promises a fair day, before the sun is risen, take a long knife, and holding the stalk near the top with one hand, sever it from its root with the other, as low as pos- sible. Having done this, lay it gently on the ground, and there let it remain exposed to the sun throughout the day, or until the leaves are entirely wilted, as it is termed in America; that is, till they become limper, and will bend any way without breaking. If, on the contrary, the rain should continue without any intervals, and the plant ap- pears to be full ripe, they must be cut down and housed immediately. This must be done, however, with great care, that the leaves, which are in this state very brittle, may not be broken. Being placed under proper shelter, either in a barn or a covered hovel, where they cannot be affected by the rain or too much air, they must be thinly scattered on the floor, and if the sun does not appear for several days, so that they can be laid out again, they must remain to wilt in that manner; which is not indeed so de- sirable as in the sun, nor will the tobacco prove quite so good. When the leaves have acquired the flexibility before described, the plants must be laid in heaps, or rather in one heap, if the quantity be not too great, and in about twenty-four hours they will be found to sweat. But during this time, when they have lain for a little while, and begin to ferment, it is necessary to turn them, that the whole quantity maybe equally fermented. The longer they lie in this situation the darker coloured the tobacco becomes. This is termed " sweating the tobacco." After they have lain in this manner for three or four days, for in a longer time they grow mouldy, the plants