253 Wells, Wafers, and Walering-Plavcs. Methinks he seems no bigger than his head. The fishermen that walk upon the beach, Appear like mice ; and yon tall anchoring bark, Diminish'd to her cock ; her cock, a buoy Almost too small for sight. The murmuring surge, That on the unnumbered idle pebbles chafes, Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more, Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight Topple down headlong. SAND GATE, A pretty village, situated midway between Folkstoue and Hythe, about seventy-three miles from London, has suddenly and deservedly started into notice as a water- ing-place. Here are also many bathing-machines, besides comfortable warm-baths. Lodgings may be procured on reasonable terms. Some very good houses have been lately erected for the accommodation of strangers. The beach consists entirely of shingle, so that the water is very clear, and by shelving gently from the shore, presents any depth that may be desired. The cliffs on the land-side, and all the walks and rides round Sand- gate, are highly romantic and fascinating. TUNBRIDGE-WELLS. Among the mineral waters of the chalybeate kind, those of Tunbridge have long maintained distinguished pre- eminence ; and this place owes less to the virtues of its springs than to the purity of its air, and its vicinity to town. This is now the oldest watering-place but one : Bath having been visited as such, early in the sixteenth century. The wells are a hundred yards above the sea; and the position of the hamlet is picturesque and invit- ing, the houses appearing like a large town in a wood. The village is nearly two miles in length by one in breadth. The place improves yearly. The Wells:— Their Virtues and Qualities. That part called theWells, by way of distinction, is the centre of business and amusement. The springs rise here, and here is held the markets; and here also are situated the chapel, the assembly-rooms, and the public parades. The discovery of the mineral springs has been ascribed to Dudley Lord North, a distinguished courtier in the reign of James the First. Having injured his constitu- tion by fashionaible excesses, his health was perfectly restored within the space of three months after he com- menced the use of these waters, and his debilitated frame 90 completely invigorated, that he lived to the age <%C