Housekeeping and Husbandry. 79 have been sent to the East Indies. When these potatoes, thus prepared, are dried, they may be ground as they are wanted; and the flour, which is a yellowish powder, similar to gum arabic, dissolves in the mouth, and com- municates to water the consistence and taste of potatoe that has been cooked. It has been called the poor peoples soup. Gruel and rich porridge may be made with it. The indispenable necessity of partly cooking the pota- toes, in order to preserve their nutritious quality, has occasioned in Germany many useful researches; and, among others, an instrument has been made for mashing them after they are cooked. It is a cylindrical tube made of tin, which is pierced with small holes like a skimmer; by this the potatoes, boiled and dried in a stove, produce a kind of vermicelli. Another method is, to take them in a sound state, neither boiled nor bruised, and to rasp or grate them. When dried or sifted, and the juice of fibrous matter separated, they will keep like starch for ages. These rasped potatoes put into a linen bag, and well pressed, then divided into small cakes, being dried, become friable, and very proper to be used in soups, &c. THE LAUNDRY, &c. Tb restore Soiled and Discoloured Linen. When linen is soiled or discoloured by town-washing, or by age, or by lying by out of use, the best bleaching materials are the natural verdure of the ground, with the dews and winds of heaven. But as a more speedy mode may be desirable, we recommend the following, viz. the linen must be twice washed out; first in a mixture of ley, formed in the proportion of one pound of common pearl- ash to a gallon of soft water, in a boiling state, in which the linen must lie for twelve hours, and then be boiled for half an hour in the same liquid; after which it must pass into the second process, viz. a mixture of common bleach- ing powder (hyper-oxymuriate of lime) with eight times its quantity of water, or a pound to a gallon, which must be well shaken in a stone jar, for three days, then allowed to settle, and being drawn off clear, the linen must be steeped in it for thirty-six hours, and then washed by the usual process : this will take out all but ink stains. Grass-bleaching is always best for discoloured linen or muslin; but in town, or when in a hurry, mix a pound of oxymuriate of lime, with six quarts of soft water, and