On Bottling French Wines. 574 at those periods than any other; this is the case even with preserved fruits kept in store closets, so that we need seek no cause in the exhalations of the earth. If the casks are not kept full, the mephitic air in the space tends to turn the wine sour, and a mustiness is generated on the surface of the wine, the same as we see in vinegar and ink in hot weather: when this mould appears on the surface, it is absolutely necessary to draw off the wine into another cask, which must be pure, and to be certain it is so, it should be fumigated with the vapour of sulphur. This operation of putting wine into fresh casks must, in all cases, be done at least once a year. New wines de- posit tartar; and, at the periods of fermentation, in spring and fall, this tartar or dregs, being acted on more strongly than the wine, it incorporates again with it, and the wine holding it a second time in solution, does not part with it readily. In drawing off wines which are mouldy, it is necessary to cover the end of the cock which goes into the cask with crape or gauze, to prevent any of the mould getting into the second cask. We cannot too strongly impress the necessity of choos- ing dry clear weather for all operations on French wines. Whenever the wines are drawn off into the new cask, it must never be stirred, but should there be any neces- sity for doing so, it would be well to draw it off again before removal, that any new deposit of tartar may not mix with the wine. If, on drawing off, the Wines are not bright, they must be fined and drawn off again. The neglect of these precautions is the cause of so much indifferent French wines in the market; it is called sick, or not in condition, whereas, if the simple rules we have laid down be attended to, you have the wines in the full perfection of their nature. On Bottling French Wines. The ancient injunction, not to put new wine into old bottles, when they were made of skins, holds equally good, even with glass bottles ; but as it may happen in the country, that one is obliged to employ old bottles, the greatest care must be taken to have them perfectly clean, and especially divested of the crust left on them by Port wines. If the following method be exactly followed for clean- ing the bottles, they will be as good as new. Dissolve eight ounces of potash in two gallons of water