2t2 Practical Remarks on the Diseases of Tradesmen, prove fatal, it is apt to terminate in palsy, and to leave behind it contractions of the hands and feet, with an inability in their muscles to perform their office; and in this miserable state of existence the patient lingers out many years of wretchedness. Means of Prevention. The best means of guarding against this disease is cleanliness; frequently washing the body, and always the hands before eating; changing the body-linen often, &c. Medical Treatment. The medical treatment will consist, first, in guarding against the consequences of inflammation, when the attack is severe, and the patient young and plethoric, by drawing of a quantity of blood, proportionate to the age and habit of the patient. , 2dly, To take off the spasm, by means of various anti- spasmodic medicines in general use, viz. fomentations applied to the belly, by means of flannel cloths wrung out in a warm decoction of poppy-heads, to which some rectified spirits has been added; immersing the body fre- quently in a warm bath ; or taking the patient out of bed, and making him walk on a cold damp floor barefooted, and, at the same time, throwing cold water on his feet, legs, and thighs*, and giving him large doses (three or four grains) of opium. Accidents, Diseases, §c. The treatment of the accidents and diseases to which tradesmen, mechanics, and labourers, are more particu- larly liable, from the nature of their varied callings, pre- vious to treating of those to which each distinct class is exposed from the same causes, may not be irrelevantly premised; as, in the course of mentioning the latter, we shall have frequent occasion to refer to the former. Accidents from Edge-Tools, Hard Bodies, #c. Under this head may be comprehended cuts, bruises, and lacerations, &c. In all recent wounds, the first consideration is to re- move foreign bodies, such as pieces of glass, splinters of * The benefit obtained by dashing cold water upon the extremities in this disease, as well as in that called the iliac passion,appears to be owing to the Sympathy which exists between them and the intestines; the fibres of the latter becoming relaxed, while the sudden contraction on the vessels of the skin, in con- sequence of the application of cold, determines the flow of blood inwardly —Ed.