415 Secrets of Trade. to be employed without extreme caution, and unless the patient is watched from day to day." Quacks are in the habit of destroying tumours of the breast by the use of arsenic. Women will often undergo any torture that is not inflicted with the knife, rather than submit to an operation that would not give them a tenth part of the pain which they are sure to suffer, and in vain, from such destructive applications. They go to a person who tells them of the number of cures he has performed, by means of a specific used for the purpose of destroying cancerous affections of the breast; and in fact, these quacks very frequently do destroy them, and the patient into the bargain. Patients have been known to die in a week, from the application of arsenical preparations. So much for cancer cures. The arsenical caustic, so extensively used under the sanction of the late Mr. Justamond, in cases of open cancer, consisted of two parts of antimony, and one of arsenious acid, fluxed together in a crucible, afterwards levigated, and reduced to the requisite degree of mild- ness by the addition of powdered opium. The following are the symptoms which appear, when the system is under the influence of arsenic: viz. thick- ness, redness, and stiffness of the eyelids, soreness of the gums, salivation, itching over the surface of the body, restlessness, cough, pain in the stomach and bowels, head-ache, &c. radcliffe's purging elixir. 1. Take Socottrine aloes, 6 drachms. Bark rud root of cinnamon, - 1 e , T , , Zedoary, - - - - )of each> *drachm' Rhubarb, the root, 1 drachm. Cochineal, - \ drachm. Syrup of buckthorn, - - - - 2 ounces. Proof spirit, - - - - - 1 pint. Water, - 5 ounces. 2. Take Jalap, the root, ■» 6 ounces. Cape aloes, - ■ - - - 5 ounces. Gentian root, - - - - - 2 ounces. White cinnamon, ~ - - \\ ounce. Orange-peel, - - - 1 ounce. Grains of Paradise, - - ^ ounce. Proof spirit, 2 gallons. Steep for three weeks, strain, and add Scammony of Aleppo, - 1 Jalap, ... - >of each, 1^ ounce. Senna leaves, in powder, - ) 3<s