167 Js>ect;et0 of ©rane.—No. III. G godbold's vegetable balsam. No less than forty-two different vegetables, in the spe- cification of the patent for this nostrum, are directed to be distilled, "for the purpose of extracting their essences, which are to be preserved separately, and apart from each other, in syrups, and are to be mixed with the fol- lowing gums and drugs, viz. gum dragon, gum guiacum, gum arabic, gum Canada, these being dissolved in double- distilled vinegar, with a quantity of storax dissolved in spirits of wine and oil of cinnamon. It is to be bottled, and kept three years before it be fit to be administered for the cure of consumption or any asthmatic complaint."— It is hardly necessary to observe, that no such directions ever are, or indeed ever could be followed ; in short, the "Balsam" is little else than simple oxymel. It is, how- ever, not a little curious, that amongst the forty-two plants enumerated, there should be several which, on distillation, yield prussic acid, such as the bays. It is rather singular, that this accidental circumstance has not been noticed, and turned to account, by some of those worthy disciples of Esculapius who live by the credulity of mankind, and, as Falstaff expresses it, "Turn diseases to a commodity." Godfrey's cordial. The following receipt for this nostrum, was obtained from a wholesale druggist, who makes and sells many hundred dozen bottles in the course of a year. There are, however, several other formula for its preparation, but they are not essentially different. " Infuse ten ounces of sassafras, and of the seeds of caraway, coriander, and anise, of each one ounce, in six pints of water; simmer the mixture until it be reduced to four pints; then add six pounds of treacle, and boil the whole for a few minutes; when it is cold,add three ounces of the tincture of opium." *** The extensive and indiscriminate use of this nos- trum in the nursery, is a subject of national opprobrium, and is equally considered so by foreign writers.—(Vide Foder6's Legal Medicine, vol. iv. p. 22).