The Genuine Golden Rules of Economy. 17 self, even when sensible that it is dragging him to the grave, we see an object that has stronger claims upon our pity, than any other kind of wretchedness incident to human nature. An uncommon anxiety about health, on the other hand, which does not direct the patient to air, EXERCiSEj and proper regimen, butto a promiscuous use of drugs, and violent remedies, on the recurrence of any trifling symptom, argues a diffidence in Providence ; and, if we may use the expression, a mean hankering after life, equally incon- sistent with Christian faith as with Christian fortitude. A mind thus wedded to life, is almost invariably found to unite with a great degree of weakness of understanding, a very moderate share of confidence in Heaven. Let it, however, be understood, that, with regard to health in general, it is not difficult to preserve it; although it is not unfrequently next to impossible to recover it, when lost by a long-continued course of intemperance. The changes effected by nature through the medium of disease, are generally for the better; and it has been re- marked by physicians, how quickly health is regained after the most dangerous fevers, brought on in the process of nature's operations—whereas the chronic diseases induced by a course of debauchery and excess, bring on a degree of debility, which is rarely cured, and, at the same tirae> they deprive of that firmness, vigour, and repelling power, which, when once lost, is difficult to recover. THE GENUINE GOLDEN RULES OF ECONOMY. 1. The present pleasures, produced by a large ex- pence of money, by no means balance the future miseries of a wasted patrimony, dissipated fortune, and a decayed constitution. 2. There is great reason for us to make a reserve of property against the day of decrepitude; because, in old age, we want chiefly those comforts which only money can procure: a comfortable house, a warm fire, delicate living, and a little share of authority, which, in the last stage of life, is exceedingly soothing and acceptable. 3. Perhaps society cannot shew a more pitiable figure, than either a very old man or woman, who, having spent their substance in the flattering gaieties of youth, are reduced, in the most helpless situation, to live upon, acci- D