Origin and Cause of the Use of Amulets, 5fc. 195 of this opinion; for what were the ear-rings which Jacob buried under the oak of Sechern, as related in Genesis, but amulets ? And we are informed by Josephus, in his Antiquities of the Jews, (lib. viii. c, 2, 5), that Solomon discovered a plant efficacious in the cure of epilepsy, and that he employed the aid of a charm or spell for the purpose of assisting its virtues ; the root of the herb was concealed in a ring*, which was applied to the nostrils of the demoniac; and Josephus himself remarks, that he himself saw a Jewish priest practise the art of Solomon with complete success in the presence of Vespasian, his sons, and the tribunes of the Roman army. Nor were such means confined to dark and barbarous ages: Theo^ phrastus pronounced Pericles to be insane, because he discovered that he wore an amulet about his neck; and in the declining era of the Roman empire, we find that this superstitious custom was so general, that the Em- peror Caracalla was induced to make a public edict, or- daining that no man should wear any superstitious amu- lets about his person. In the progress of civilization, various fortuitous inci- dentsf, and even errors, in the choice and preparation of aliments, must gradually have unfolded the remedial powers of many natural substances: these were recorded, and the authentic history of medicine may date its com- mencement from the period when such records began. We are told by Herodotus, that the Chaldeans and Babylonians carried their sick to the public roads and markets, that travellers might converse with them, and communicate any remedies which had been successfully used in similar cases. This custom continued during many ages in Assyria; and Strabo states, that it also prevailed among the ancient Lusitanians, or Portuguese: in this manner, however, the results of experience de- scended only by oral tradition; it was in the Temple of iEsculapius in Greece, that medical information was first recorded; diseases and cures were then registered on * From this art of Solomon, exhibited through the medium of a ring, or seal, we have the Eastern stories which ct :brate the seal of Solomon, and rdcord the potency of its sway over the various orders of demons, or of genii, who are supposed to he the invisible tormentors or benefactors of the. human race. + The discovery of the virtues of the Peruvian bark may here serve as art instance. The story goes, that an Indian (some say a monkey) being ill of a fever, quenched his thirst at a pool of water strongly impregnated with the barlj from some trees having accidentally fallen into it; and that he was in consc^- <|»enoe cured. € c2