259 Direct ions for using the Cold-Bath, &c. Those disposed to gouty affections should not use the i old-bath ; by which is meant every degree of cold under 85°, which always prove more or less touic in its opera- tion. In many cases, where the patient is too weak to bear a bath of 40°, one of 65° acts like a charm: thus rheumatism is benefited by whatever strengthens the system, and particularly the skin; the first degree, i.e. 40°, will bring on the paroxysm, while a bath of 65° is an excellent preventive: hence the Matlock and Buxton waters are so useful. Cold water, as well from its tonic power as from its gravity, tends to remove the debility incidental to the inhabitants of cities and large towns, who breathe an impure atmosphere, give way to luxurious habits of living, or lead sedentary lives. By accelerating the motion of the blood, and promoting the different secretions, it braces and gives permanent vigour to the system—pur- poses which are conceived to be most effectually an- swered by the application of sea-water, not only on account of its greater specific gravity, but also because it is a more powerful stimulant, promoting the discharge from the skin, and rendering people less liable to the in- fluence of cold. The diseases in which the cold salt water is most ser- viceable, are those of the cachectic kind-—in green sick- ness—profuse discharges—chronic inflammation of the eyes—aptitude to abortion—convulsions and rickets of children—in preventing the paroxysms of agues—in re- moving the debility consequent on febrile diseases, and the long-continued use of mercury—in a variety of those chronic affections, termed " nervous complaints," &c. particularly when its salutary effects are assisted by the moderate use of wrine, or such other aliment or medicines as are adapted to the age, sex, constitution and com- plaints of the patient. In scrofulous affections, and the enlargement of bones or tendons, commonly called white swellings, sea-air and sea-bathing afford considerable benefit. The internal use of sea-water, although it has little or no effect on some diseases of the skin, removes worms from the intes- tines of children, and prevents their reproduction; but as children can seldom be prevailed upon to take a suffi- cient quantity of any nauseous medicine, however bene- ficial, other means should be resorted to. Sea-water is