Khewn&tism. 454 CAYENNE PEPPER. Capsicum berries and common salt, of each, one pound ; grind together, and colour with vermillion; some use red lead, but this is injurious. * 2. Capsicum a sufficient quantity, bury in flour, bake till they are dry enough to powder, then, holding them by a pair of pincers, cut them in small pieces: to each ounce add one pound of flour; water and yeast, a sufficient quan- tity to make them into small cakes; bake, slice the cakes, bake over again, powder the biscuit, and sift it. CURR1E POWDER. Coriander seed, eighteen ounces; black pepper, two ounces; Cayenne pepper, one ounce; turmeric root and cumin seed, of each three ounces; seeds of fcenugreek, four drachms. 2. Ginger, pimento, turmeric root, of each one pound; aromatic cloves, one ounce; Cayenne pepper and corian- der seed, of each eight ounces. 3. Coriander seed, thirteen ounces; black pepper, five ounces; Cayenne, one ounce; foenugreek seeds, cumin seeds, of each three ounces; turmeric, six ounces. 4. Coriander seed, one pound; turmeric, eight ounces ; ginger, six ounces; cumin seed, Indian pepper, of each four ounces; black pepper, three ounces; cinnamon, lesser cardamoms, of each an ounce; black tamarinds, two pounds. 5. Rice, thirty-six pounds; turmeric, eighteen pounds; coriander seed, sixteen pounds; cumin seed, nine pounds; mustard flour ; black pepper, twenty-eight pounds; Cay- enne pepper, three pounds eight ounces. 6. Coriander seed, turmeric, of each four pounds; pimento, Cayenne pepper, capsicum berries, of each one pound; lesser cardamom seeds, four ounces; mace, cloves, cinnamon, one ounce of each, used as a seasoning to meat. RHEUMATISM. Mr. Coxe, in the fifth volume of his travels into Poland, &c. mentions, that the peasants of Norway use the following remedy, as effectual in rheumatic cases : they prepare a decoction of oak leaves in beer, and apply a cloth, dipped in the decoction, to the part affected. A remedy unquestionably simple and harmless, if not really effectual.