G2 Outlines of an Useful Establishment. brush, for some minutes previous to going to bed, wili be found a more effectual method of preventing the sense of coldness, and of conciliating sleep, than the immediate application of any thing actually hot. There are various other artificial means of procuring rest, such as opiates, &c. but these can never be used for any length of time, without considerable constitutional inconvenience. Exercise alone can ensure it in its natural form; for, as the immortal Shakspeare observes, ■ ■ " weariness Can snore upon the straw, when resty sloth Finds the down pillow hard." OUTLINES OF AN USEFUL ESTABLISHMENT. There is an Institution, called " The Preservative Society," founded in the county of Northampton in Oc- tober 1789. Its objects were, 1. To circulate printed cautions, for preventing the causes of many of the acci- dents which occasion death;—2. To publish directions for preserving life, under apparent death;—and, 3. To grant rewards to those who assisted in saving the lives of their fellow-creatures in such emergencies. The same society likewise extended its views to the preservation of human life, in various cases of imminent danger, respect- ing which, it was the means of diffusing much useful knowledge, which chiefly consisted in Cautions for the better Prevention of Accidents. E. gr. 1. As most sudden deaths come by water, par- ticular caution is therefore necessary, in its vicinity. 2. Stand not near a tree, or any leaden spout, iron gate, ox palisado, in time of lightning. 3. Lay loaded guns in safe places, and never imitate firing a gun in jest. 4. Never sleep near charcoal; if drowsy at any work where charcoal fires are used, take the fresh air. 5. Carefully rope trees before they are cut down, that when they fall they may do no injury. (3. When benumbed with cold, beware of sleeping out of doors ; rab yourself, if you have it in your power, with snow. And do not hastily approach the fire*. * The Italics are-additional observations by the Editor, to .prevent repeti- tions.