209 The Way to Wealth. have added wings to Ms heels as well as his shoulders. " Those have a short Lent, who owe money to be paid at Easter;" at present, perhaps, you may think your- selves in thriving circumstances, and that you can bear a little extravagance without injury; but 1 " For age and want save while you may, No morning sun lasts a whole day." * Gain may be temporary and uncertain, but ever while you live, expence is constant and certain; and " It is easier to build two chimnies, than to keep one in fuel," as Poor Richard says; so Rather go to bed supperless, than rise in debt." « " Get what you can, and what you get hold, 'Tis the stone that will turn all your lead into gold." ' And when you have got the philosopher's stone, sure you will no longer complain of bad times, or the difficulty of paying taxes. IV. 'This doctrine, my friends, is reason and wisdom. But, after all, do not depend too much upon your own industry and frugality, anc! prudence, though excellent things; for they may be oil blasted without the blessing of Heaven; and therefore, ask that blessing humbly, and be not uncharitable to those that at present seem to want it, but comfort and help them. Remember Job suffered, and was afterward prosperous. 'And now to conclude: "Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other," as Poor Richard says, and scarce in that; for, it is true, " We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct." However, remem- ber this: " They that will not be counselled, cannot be helped and farther, that, " If you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knuckles," as Poor Richard says/ Thus the old gentleman ended his harangue. The people heard it, and approved the doctrine, and imme- diately practised the contrary, just as if it had been a common sermon; for the auction opened, and they began to buy extravagantly. I found the good man had tho- roughly studied my Almanacks, and digested all I had dropped on these topics during the course of twenty-five years. The frequent mention he made of me, must have tired any one else; but my vanity was wonderfully de- lighted with it, though I was conscious, that not a tenth part of the wisdom was my own, which he ascribed to me; but rather the gleanings that I had made of the sense of all ages and nations. However, I resolved to be the