Treatment of Ulcers. 478 the working-classes are exposed. The following may be regarded as the leading features of ulcers in general. Various Kinds of Ulcers. The simple ulcer.—This kind of ulcer is one arising from a superficial wound being neglected.—The sinuous ulcer runs round the integuments, with a narrow, but not callous orifice.—The surface of a fistulous ulcer, on the contrary, is deeply seated with a narrow and callous orifice.—A fungous ulcer is covered with fungous, or proud flesh.—A gangrenous ulcer has a foetid smell, a livid appearance, and is in a stafe bordering upon mor- tification.—There are also scorbutic, scrofulous, and ve- nereal ulcers; as well as carious ulcers, or such as arise from diseased bones.—Inveterate ulcers, are those of long standing, and which resist the ordinary applications. Treatment of Ulcers. Simple applications to this species of sores, are un- questionably the best, such as soothing poultices; the most skilful attention, nevertheless, is required, to remove or destroy fungous flesh, callous parts, &c. as well as caries bones. If an ulcer of long standing be seated on the leg, it should be poulticed, and the edges of it brought close together by slips of adhesive strapping, over which, a bandage, continued from the foot along the leg, some- what tight, should be applied, and afterwards kept moist with spring water. An ulcer may be distinguished from a wound, by the former discharging a thin watery humour, which is often so acrid as to inflame and corrode the skin; also by the hardness and perpendicular situation of its sides, and by the time it has continued, &c. It requires some judgment to say when some old ulcers ought to be dried up. Those, in general, which proceed from a bad habit of body, should, at least, be suffered to continue open, till the constitution be so far changed by proper regimen, or the use of medicine, that they seem to heal of their own accord. Those which are the effect of malignant fevers, or other acute diseases, may, in general, be safely healed a short time after the health has been restored. The cure, nevertheless, ought, not to be attempted too soon, not at any time without having previously used purging medicine and nutritious diet. When wounds or bruises, by wrong treatment, have