Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 309 amid the Wolds of Yorkshire, than many do in the fashionable haunts of Bath, Cheltenham, and Brighton. The Properties and Virtues of these Wells. The old Spa, discovered by Captain Slingsby in 1571, is strongly impregnated with steel, and is much frequented by those for whom tonic remedies are indicated. It rises opposite the Granby Inn, and has an elegant dome over it, erected at the expence of the late Earl of Roslyn, in 1786. While giving a description of this spring, Dr. Monro- observes, that "■ the water of the old spa strikes a light red purple, when six drops of tincture of galls are mixed* with a glassful of it. As it sprung from the earth, it was twelve grains in a pint lighter than common water- On evaporation, a gallon yielded at one. time a scruple,, and at another only eight grains, of which, above one- half was earth. There is another chalybeate, called the Tewit Well, situated about half a mile from the former, and from which it differs but very little. The water of this, on evaporation, yielded at one time, thirteen grains in a gallon; at another, nineteen grains of sediment, of which three-ninths was calcareous earth; the other two-fifths, being set aside, projected crystals of a calcareous Glauber-like salt. Both these waters combine freely with milk, but curdle soap. The Sulphur Wells, as they are called, are situated in Lower Harrowgate, and are neatly inclosed and secured. They were discovered some length of time after the others, and still maintain their early acquired reputa- tion. At first the water is clear and sparkling, throwing up a quantity of air-bubbles. It has a strong sulphureous smell, and is supposed to contain more of this mineral than any other water in England : it tastes salt; in fact, it contains a considerable quantity of sea salt, some ma- rine salt of magnesia, and calcareous earth. It is usually said that Harrowgate water has a taste resembling rotten eggs and gunpowder, an idea not at all inapplicable. Its properties, taken from two to four pints, arc purgative ; in smaller doses it is an excellent altera- tive, and is found beneficial in scurvy, scrofula, and diseases of the skin: it may be used also as a bath or fomentation in these, as well as in the cure of old ulcers, strains, aches, and paralytic debility. It has been found