14-1 Mhicc.Uamom Recipes. glass, or one of tin, or copper, or a thin piece oi' board, pressing the plate (of whatever sort) gently with the hand on every part. Raise the plate, by lifting up one end, and it will be found veined in every direction, by the adhesiveness of the size; immediately lay the plate, thus prepared, on the silk, linen, or other article, and with the hand again gently press on every part of the plate, which will vein or marble the silk, &c. with the same figures as were on the sized plate. If the plate of glass (which is preferable, but exceptionable on account of its brittleness) be not pressed too hard, a second impression, with a beautiful sort of smaller-sized veins, may be had from the first colouring; and if two different colours are de- sired on the same surface, there needs only a repetition of the process with the size, containing staining ingre- dients, and the other favourite colouring substances. A neat sort of tortoiseshell appearance, and a great variety of expressive figures, may be produced in this way, as also by Various actions by the fingers upon the plate, before the size loses its moisture, and likewise by many times folding the silk, linen, or other material of flexible texture. For Sharpening Razors. Take oxyd of tin, levigated, vulgarly termed prepared putty, one ounce; saturated solution of oxalic acid, a sufficient'quantity to form a paste. This composition is to be rubbed, over the. strap, and when dry, a little water may be added. The oxalic acid having a great attraction for iron, a little friction with this powder gives a fine edge even to, a blunt razor. Insect Destroyer. Take of wood mushrooms, or large brown fetid bole- tuses, 6 lbs.; black soap, 2lbs.; grated nux vomica, 2oz.; water, 200lbs. Put the mushrooms bruised, and begin- ning to putrefy, into the water, having previously dis- solved the soap therein. Leave the mixture to putrefy in a cask for some days, agitating the liquid from time to time. When it has become very fetid, the decoction of the nux vomica in water is to be poured into it. This liquor, sprinkled on trees, bushes, plants, &6; in gardens, will entirely destroy or banish every species of inset -.Is. None of them stand this fetid poison.—Journal de Phar- made, February, 1825.