Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 35$ v y as most of the waters of the other wells. The saline con- tents in a wine-gallon are : Grains. Sulphate of soda and magnesia (Glauber and Epsom salt), - 480 Oxydeofiron, - - - ■ - 5 • Muriate of soda (sea salt), - - - - 5 Sulphate of lime, ... - - 40 Carbonate and muriate of magnesia, 25 ' 555 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid, 30.3G Azotic and hepiitic gases, - 15.18 45.54. Medicinal Virtues. Almost incredible cures have been performed by it, when drunk on the spot. Its salts prove attenuant and cathartic, its chalybeate bracing, and its air exhilarating; and, by its containing a small portion of iron, it streng thens the stomach, and is therefore preferable, in many cases, to other saline springs. In mildness, certainty, and expedition of operation, it is almost unrivalled j which renders it peculiarly ser- viceable in hypochondriac and scorbutic cases. It is singularly efficacious in all bilious complaints, obstructions of the liver and spleen, indigestion, loss of appetite, in habitual costiveness, and obstinate obstruc- tions, which lay the foundation of many chronic disorders. Hence so many who have been resident in the East Indies came to visit Cheltenham, and to partake of the benefit of its healing waters. It restores a relaxed habit, whether from long residence * in a hot climate, free living, the use of mercury, or any other Cause. In nervous complaints it has likewise proved extremely salutary; but in such cases it should be used as an alterative rather than as a purgative. In female complaints, at an early period of life, pro- ceeding from too languid a circulation, and likewise at the turn of life, when there is a redundancy of blood, it may be used with much benefit. On the latter principle, it is serviceable to studious sedentary men, of between forty and fifty. The following, according to Dr. Jameson, are the prin- cipal diseases which require a course of these waters: Inflamed and schirrous liver, or spleen—Torpid action