Antidotes to Venomous Bites. 4^0 • See Asiatic Journal, vol. vi. p. 475. five minutes, to create a strong and artificial stimulus, and thus to remove the languor and lethargy that imme- diately succeeds the bite; farther, by rubbing hartshorn on the temples and nostrils, by employing bleeding and electricity, and occasionally brandy, both externally and internally, with frictions of salt, and increased tempera- ture of heat, and blankets ; all those exciting means should be employed until the patient recovers, or until no further hopes are entertained of his recovery. The great object of these applications is to support the vis vita, or power of life, until the constitution, either by its own energy has overcome the virulent effects of the virulence of the imbibed poison, or the remedies exhibited, by mingling with it in the puncture, or meeting it in the circulation, may render it by decomposition inert or harm- less. In discontinuing the remedies that have been recom- mended, a course of gradual diminution should be pur- sued, as they are apt to occasion by their effects a con- siderable degree of debility. The following is a cure given by an intelligent gentle- man of this presidency, with success, for scorpion stings, but I should think it equally applicable to snake bites. Take a pinch of salt of hartshorn and put it on the bite, then drop on a few drops of nitric acid, which may be renewed in a few minutes if it does not succeed in reliev- ing pain. The application of a certain species of stone to the bites of scorpions and other venomous insects, has been long in use among the natives of the country, and with much effect, although Dr. John Davy, in a letter describ- ing an analysis of some specimens procured in Ceylon*, seems to deny any virtues to them. This species of stone appears to be of a woody and spongy nature, and when applied to the liquor of animal poison, absorbs and im- bibes it with avidity from the wound, and which again is easily separated from the stone by immersion in water, in the state of greenish thick fluid, mixt with a portion of blood. It is not to be denied, that this chemico-mechani- cal property of these stones effects very remarkable and instantaneous cures; and is a remedy not at all to be despised, but should be in every one's possession, either for their own use or for the relief of their domestics, and is to be preferred to their having recourse to the in-