531 Horticulture. Americans to answer the purpose of tanning leather, as well, if not better, than bark ; and was not the latter so plentiful in their country, would be generally used by them instead of it. I have been witness to many expe- riments wherein it has proved successful, especially on the thinner sorts of hides, and can safely pronounce it to be, in countries where bark is scarce, a valuable sub- stitute for that article. horticulture* DECEMBER. The Kitchen-Garden.—In this month some sow- ing and planting will be required, and to forward the business of manuring, digging, or trenching vacant ground, laying it in ridges; preparing hot dung, and making hot- beds where early crops are in request; earthing and tying up particular plants to blanch, and to protect some tender plants from frost. All sowing and planting—in the open ground, perform only in open dry weather. ;— The business of sowing and planting is neces- sary only in a few articles, some in south borders and warm quarters, and others in hot-beds all for early crops. Sowing articles—are only a few early peas and radishes on warm borders, and small salading and cucumbers in hot-beds. Articles for planting—are some early beans, and strong cabbage plants and coleworts; and in hot-beds, asparagus, cucumbers, and occasionally mint and tarragon. Continue preparing vacant ground—by occasional ma- nuring, or general digging or trenching in ridges, to enrich for spring sowing and planting. For early crops—of peas, beans, and radishes, dig some warm south borders, and warmest dry quarters of ground. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—The work of this month is to complete any principal planting intended, while open weather, and to forward all winter pruning. Ground intended for planting—with any kind of fruit trees, if improvement in the soil is thought necessary, let it be done according to the intimations given in the two last months; but remark that fruit trees will prosper in any good mellow ground, the soil of which is one or two spades deep, and that is not liable to be very wet; but where the latter unavoidably occurs, endeavour to amend