&Xi On Ike Physical Education of Children, fyc. neither roof nor clothing; sleeps almost every night in a different place, and often with the greatest difficulty escapes starvation. The women of that inhospitable climate require no artificial aid from the hands of mid- wives ; and the only cradle of their children is the shell of the turtle. Nevertheless, this apparently unhappy race of people continually sport, sing, and smile; have a vigorous constitution, and attain a considerable age. Diseases were unknown to them, even by name, till, in the year 1763, the small-pox, and other disorders, were introduced among them; previous to that period, the natives had no other phrase to express the word disease, than by saying, " He lies on the ground." The Californian endures pain with almost incredible fortitude, and awaits his dissolution with such resignation and indifference, as would not disgrace a philosopher. The Savage, as he is called, prefers the active free life of Nature to every other consideration; surrounded with perils, his powers, his courage, his resolution, are awakened, and he is rewarded with health in the field, with independence in his hut, with respect and honour among his tribe. He neither wants, nor desires more: and what addition to his happiness could he derive from another state, with the advantages of which he is unac- quainted, and to the inconveniences of which he could not submit? Let us read the various unadorned speeches of those whom we call Savages, and say, whether sound sense and natural justice be not conspicuous in them. The frame of man, too, in this state, is as much improved, though with a rude hand, and but little advantage, as it is capable of being improved in it: he is formed for a contented equanimity, and to welcome death with calm- ness, after the enjoyment of a life of permanent health. The Bedouin and Abiponian are both happy in their respective condition; but the former shudders at the thought of inhabiting a town, as the latter docs at the idea of being interred in a church when ho dies; accord- ing to their peculiar feelings, it would be the same as if they were buried alive. In Canada, Virginia, the Brazils, and other American provinces, children are generally laid naked on raw cot- ton, in hammocks or cradles covered with fur.—In the province of Peru, they are frequently placed in shallow pits dug in the earth, so as to allow them- room sufficient to move their arms freely above ground, where a few