The Hot-Built. 202 fistic measures along with the topically relaxing appli- cation of warm vapour inhaled by the lungs. Warm bathing appears to be particularly well calculated to relieve those complaints which seem to depend on an irregular or diminished action of any part of the ali- mentary canal ; and the state of the skin produced by immersion in warm water, seems highly favorable to the healthy action of the stomach and bowels. Another very important use of the warm bath, is in that species of eruption termed Herpes*, by relaxing the skin, and rendering it more pervious, and admirably preparing it for receiving the stimulant applications, of tar ointment, mercurials, &c, that are intended to restore it to a healthy state. The constitutions of children seem more extensively relieved by the warm bath than those of adults; and this remedy appears more generally applicable to acute fevers in them than in persons of a more advanced age. When the warm bath produces its salutary operation, it is almost always followed by an easy and profound sleep. In paralytic affections of particular parts, the power- full stimulus of heated water is generally allowed; and in these cases, the effect may be assisted by any thing which will increase the stimulating properties of the water, as, for instance, by the addition of salt. In these cases much benefit may be expected from the use of warm sea- baths. The application of the warm bath to certain parts of the body, e. g. the feet, often produces the most powerful effects in quieting irritation in fever, and bringing on a sound and refreshing repose. The cases in which the warm bath is likely to be attended with danger, are particularly those where there exists a strong tendency, to a determination of blood to the head; and apoplexy has sometimes been thus brought on. The lowest temperature will be required for cutaneous complaints, and to bring on relaxation of the skin during febrile irritation; the warmer temperature in paralysis.— More heat should be employed on a deeply-seated than on a more superficial part. * Dwtinguishedbyau assemblage of numerous little creeping ulcers, in clusters, itching very much, and difficult to heal, but terminating in furfuraceons (hraimy) sc»1p».