Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 347 the biliary organs, the jaundice, which arises from a simple obstruction of the gall-ducts, is still oftener re- moved by both the internal and external use of these waters.—4. In rheumatic complaints, the power of this water, as Dr. Charleton observed, is chiefly confined to that species of rheumatism which is unattended with in- flammation, or in which the patient's pains are not increased by the warmth of his bed. A great number of the patients that resort to Bath, especially those that are admitted into the hospital, are affected with rheuma- tism in all its stages; and it appears, from the most respectable testimony, that a large proportion of them receive a permanent cure. (See Falconer on Bath Water in Rheumatic Cases).—5. In gout, the greatest benefit is derived from this water, in those cases where it produces anomalous affections of the head, stomach, i and bowels; and it is here a principal advantage to be able to bring, by warmth, that active local inflammation in any limb, which relieves all the other troublesome and dangerous symptoms. Hence it is that Bath water is commonly said to produce the gout; by which is only meant that, where persons have a gouty affection, shifting from place to place, and thereby much disordering the system, the in- ternal and external use of the Bath water will soon bring on a general increase of action, indicated by a flushing in the face, fulness in the circulating vessels, and relief of the dyspeptic symptoms; and the whole disorder will terminate in a regular fit of the gout in the extremities, which is the crisis always to be wished for.—6. The colica pictonum, and the paralysis, or loss of nervous power in particular limbs, which is one of its most serious conse- quences, is found to be peculiarly relieved by the use of the Bath waters, more especially when applied externally either generally, or upon the part affected. Dose of the Water. The quantity of water taken daily, during a full course, and by adults, is recommended by Dr. Falconer, not to exceed a pint and a half, or two pints; and in chlorosis with irritable habits, not more than one pint is employed; and when the bath is made use of, it is generally two or three times a week, in the morning. The Bath waters require a considerable time to be persevered in, before a full and fair trial can be made. Chronic rheumatism, habitual gout, dyspepsia, from a long course of high and