Management of French Wines in Wood. 573 the butler how he is to manage the wines in wood, which are not ripe enough to put in bottle. Management of French Wines in Wood. Unless you have an honest wine-merchant, he will always tell you that the wine is much older than it really is; the vintages of several years are very bad, which is known to every body, so that you never hear the wine merchant tell you the wine is of a bad year. Your own taste must, therefore, guide you, as to the age and ripe- ness of the wine. New wines have a violet tinge, are hard and sour in the mouth, and leave an unpleasant sensation on the palate ; but, if the wine be of a fine ruby colour, soft and mild to the palate, having both a pleasant flavour and bouquet (the aromatic odour of the wine, which, in Claret, resembles the smell of violets), you may bottle the wines as soon as you please. When they require to be kept, the following observations must be carefully attended to. In the first place, the casks must constantly be kept filled; ullage is said not to be injurious to Port and Ma- deira, but it is fatal to French wines, therefore the casks must be examined every month, and the ullage filled up with wine of the same quality, if possible, but invariably of the same nature; for if you mix Burgundies or Hermi- tage with Claret, you produce a mixture which possesses no specific character, and becomes, as Dryden has it, " neither flesh, nor fish, nor good red herring." If you neglect filling up every month, the waste be- comes much greater proportionally, owing to the rare- faction of a larger portion of air in the cask, acting upon a larger surface of the fluid, so that if it required only a pint to fill the cask at the end of the first month, it would take at least three pints at the end of two months. We have already made an observation of the superior atten- tion required at the equinoxes: M. Jullien, and most French writers on the subject, attribute it to exhalations from the earth at this season; we would assign another cause, and say of vines, " E'en in their juices live their wonted fires." The equinoxes seem to have nothing more to do with the deterioration of wines, than from their being about the periods of the shooting of the vines in the spring, and the maturity of the grape in the autumn; and it is a re- markable fact, that wines are more liable to fermentation