Appert's Method of Preset-tiny Green-Pease, fyc. o o 2 Water—will now be necessary to all green-house plants every day or two, in dry weather. Fresh earth—ov loosen the earth in the tops of the pots occasionally, especially where the surface appears crust- ed or binding. The Hot-House and Stove.—The hot-house plants are still principally to remain in this preservatory, and the bark-bed heat continued, especially in the pinery, but no fires; they will now require a large admission of fresh air, and frequent waterings ; or in hot-houses having many different sorts of exotics much crowded, some may now"(b. m.) be removed into the green-house or glass case, with the sashes open in front, there to remain five or six weeks, during the hotter part of the season. APPERT'S METHOD OF PRESERVING GREEN PEASE, ASPA- RAGUS, ARTICHOKES, KIDNEY-BEANS, &c. The numerous letters and reports in favour of M. Appert's method of preserving alimentary substances or comestibles, we shall pass over, and confine ourselves to the more useful parts of his observations. After object- ing to the old modes of preserving, by desiccation, or by adding some substance (as sugar, salt, vinegar, &c.) to prevent fermentation, as more or less destructive of the flavour of the things to be preserved, and as more or less unwholesome; he states his own newly-discovered method to consist in, 1st, Placing the alimentary sub- stances in strong glass bottles or in jars; 2d, Accurately stopping the bottles or jars with the finest corks, by driving them in for three-fourths of their length, and fastening them down with wire; 3d, Putting each bottle into a coarse linen bag, made on purpose for it, and placing all the bottles so prepared in a copper, into which water is then poured till it is almost up to the corks ; 4th, The water is then heated to a certain degree, and for a longer or shorter time, according to the nature of the contents of the bottles. The lid of the copper or boiler is made to rest upon the bottles or jars, and a wet cloth is laid round its edge to confine the steam as much as possible. A bottle will sometimes burst with detona- tion. None of the bottles should be completely full, for fear of such an accident. The day after the operation, the corks may be secured still more .by a co vering of pitch or cement.