145 DR. BUCHAN ON CLEANLINESS, PERSONAL, LOCAL, AND GENERAL; Its Beneficial and Salutary Effects; Consequences of the ivant of it, $yc. && the absolute Necessity of it in Camps, and on board of Ships, fyc. fyc. The want of cleanliness is a fault which admits of no excuse. Where water can be had for nothing;, it is surely in the power of every person to be clean. The continual discharge from our bodies, by perspiration, renders frequent changes of apparel necessary. Change of apparel greatly promotes the secretion from the skin, so necessary for health. When that matter, which ought to be carried off by perspiration, is either retained in the body, or re-absorbed by dirty clothes, it is apt to occa- sion fevers and other diseases. Most diseases of the skin proceed from want of cleanli- ness. These indeed may be caught by infection; but they will seldom continue long where cleanliness prevails. To the same cause must we impute the various kinds of Yermin which infest the human body, houses, &c. These may generally be banished by cleanliness alone. Perhaps the intention of nature, in permitting- such vermin to annoy mankind, is to induce them to the practice of this virtue. One common cause of putrid and malignant fevers is the want of cleanliness. These fevers commonly begin among the inhabitants of close, dirty houses, who breathe bad air, take little exercise, use unwholesome food, and wear dirty clothes. There the infection is generally hatched, which spreads far and wide, to the destruction of many. Hence cleanliness may be considered as an object of public attention. It is not sufficient that I be clean myself, while the want of it in my neighbour affects my health as well as his own. If dirty people Cannot be removed as a common nuisance, they ought at least to be avoided as infectious. All who regard their health, should keep at a distance even from their habitations. In places where great numbers of people are collected, cleanliness becomes of the utmost importance. It is well known, that infectious diseases are communicated by tainted air. Every thing, therefore, which tends to pollute ii