<>4 DIAGNOSTIC SIGNS, OR SYMPTOMS, PRECEDING OR ACCOMPANYING DISEASES. (Continued from page 48). Dropsical Swelling, of the whole body, at the conclusion of scarlet fever, manifests a dangerous dis- position, and if not removed on its first appearance, may terminate fatally. Drowsiness, with a difficulty of speech and of recol- lection, and numbness of the limbs, demand the greatest attention, being often the fore-runners of palsy or apo- plexy. Accompanied with pain in the head and at the pit of the stomach, and preceded by shivering, sometimes takes place on the commencement of the fever of small- pox. With a frequent dry cough, and running at the eyes and nose, is generally followed by the eruption of the measles. Ears.—Extreme pain of the ears, is always to be con- sidered as a symptom demanding great attention; since it generally shews inflammation to have taken place, which, if not removed in time, may terminate in deafness for life. Sense of singing in the ears, with head-ach and continual drowsiness, threatens palsy or apoplexy. Eructation.—Frequent acid eructations, denote a V)eakness of the stomach. Eruptions, Scarlet, gives name to the scarlet fever; with which is frequently found, ulcerated throat. It is also generally a symptom in the malignant ulcerated throat. Eruption of pimples, on their first appearance somewhat resembling those of scarlet fever, but having the cuticle or scurf skin a little more raised, and the pimples more clustered, marks it to be the measles. The distinction between scarlet fever and measles, is more easily made, by the eyes and nose suffering an increased discharge in the latter; while in scarlet fever, they look red and inflamed. When the pimples are more distinct and elevated, and the nostrils and eyes are not affected, as in the former case, the disease may be concluded to be small-pox, the eruption assuming a pustular form. It should be remembered, that the termination of this and the former disease, will frequently depend on their treatment during the first stages. A vesicular eruption appears of the size of millet-seed in fevers, and other diseases, where there has been profuse perspiration, or