434 The Miraculous St. Blase. of his touching a young Lady, March 7th, 1G65, at one Mr. Cressell's house, in Charter-house Yard; in a Letter to a Reverend Divine living near that place." This attack obliged Mr. Greatrakes to vindicate himself; and, accordingly, he published a list of his " strange cures." It is a fact, that this man's reputation rose to a prodigious height, but, latterly, declined almost as fast; for the expectations of the multitude that resorted to him were not always answered. THE MIRACULOUS ST. BLASE. This Saint has the honour of a place in the church of England calendar, on what account it is difficult to say. All the facts that Alban Butler has collected of him is, that he was Bishop of Sebaste in Armenia, receiver of the relics of St. Eustratius, and executor of his last will; that he is venerated for the cure of sore throats; princi- pal patron of Ragusa, titular patron of the wool-combers; and that he was tormented with iron combs, and martyred under Licinius, in 316. Ribadeneira is more diffuse. He relates, that St. Blase lived in a cave, whither wild beasts came daily to visit him, and be cured by him; " and if it happened that they came while he was at prayer, they did not interrupt him, but waited till he had ended, and never departed without his benediction. He was discovered in his retirement, imprisoned, and cured a youth who had a fish-bone stuck in his throat, by praying." Ribadeneira further says, that ^tius, an ancient Greek physician, gave the following Receipt for A Stoppage in the Throat: " Hold the diseased party by the throat, and pronounce these words: Blase, the martyr, and servant of Jesus Christ, commands thee to pass up or down!" The same Jesuit relates, that St. Blase was scourged, and seven holy women anointed themselves with his blood; whereupon their flesh was combed with iron combs, their wounds ran nothing but milk, their flesh was whiter than snow, angels came visibly and healed their wounds as fast as they were made; and they were put into the fire, which would not consume them; wherefore they were ordered to be beheaded, and beheaded acord- ingly. Then St. Blase was ordered to be drowned in the lake; but he walked on the water, sat down on it in the