536 Table of the. Probability of Lives. By this table, says the author, we may see, that it may be reasonably hoped, that is to say, we may lay or bet one to one, that a new-bom infant will live eight years; that a child of one year old will live 33 years more; that a child of full two years old will live 38 years more; that a man of 20 complete, will live 33 years and five months more; that a man of 30 will live 28 years more, and so of all the other ages. And he adds the following observa- tidns:—1. That the age at which the longest life is to be expected is the age of 7, because we may lay an equal wager, or one to one, that a child of that age will live 42 years and 3 months longer.—2. That at the age of 12 or 13, we have lived a fourth part of our life, because we can- not reasonably expect to live above 38 or 39 years longer; that in like manner, at the age of 28 or 29, we have lived one half of our life, because we have but 28 years more to live; and lastly, that before 50 we have lived three- fourths of our life, because we can hope but for 16 or 17 years more. But, says he, these physical truths, howr- ever mortifying in themselves, may be alleviated by moral considerations; for a man ought to consider the first fif- teen years of his life as nothing: all that happened to him, all that passed in that long interval of time, is effaced out of his memory; or at least has so little relation to the views and the affairs which after that time take up his thoughts, that it gives him no concern. It is no longer the same succession of ideas, or, we may say, the same life. We do not begin our moral life until after we have begun to regulate our thoughts, to direct them to a certain future view, and to assume a sort of consistency, a relation to what we ought to be afterwards. By considering the duration of life in this light, which is the true one, we shall find from the table, that at the age of 25 we have lived but a fourth part of our life, that at the age of 38 we have lived but half of it, and that we have not passed three-fourths of it until the 56th year of our age. These are the author's observations, to which we shall add, with regard to insurances upon lives, that for insur- ing for one year the life of a child of three years old, wc ought to pay but 2| per cent, for as it has by this table an equal chance of living 40 years, it is forty to one that it does not die in a year. In the same manner we ought to pay but 3 per cent, for insuring for one year the life of a lad of 19 or 20; but 4 per cent, for insuring for one year