Secrets of Trade. 512 head by a comb wet with oil, in which arsenic had been infused for the purpose of killing vermin. The arsenical amulets which were worn during the Plague of London, are said to have occasionally produced mischievous effects. Accordingly, Crato (Epistol. 168) observed an ulcer in the breast, caused by this application; Verzarcha, violent pains and fainting fits; Diemerbroech (de Peste Hestor. 99 Annotat.) and Dr. Hodges (de Peste Lond. p. 239), death itself. sirop de cuisiniere (Kitchen, or Cook's Syrup). This consists of decoctions of sarsaparilla, burrage flowers, white roses, senna, and aniseed, to which cor- rosive sublimate is added; the whole is then made into a syrup with sugar and honey. smellome's ointment for the eyes, consists of half a drachm of verdigris, finely powdered, and rubbed with oil, and then mixed with an ounce of yellow basilicon. (The cerate of resin of the London Pharmacopoeia ). SODAic powders. (See Cheltenham Salts, p. 11). Solomon's anti-impetigines. A solution of corrosive sublimate: used in ring-worm, tetters, or other eruptions of the skin, where milder and less dangerous applications would be more effectual. Solomon's balm of gilead. An aromatic tincture, of which cardamoms form a leading ingredient, made with brandy. It is also sup- posed that the Spanish fly enters its composition. This boasted nostrum is nothing more or less than a simply medicated dram. The Balm of Gilead is now the slang phrase for the gin-bottle ; and every old woman who can afford to purchase a bottle of Solomon, the better to disguise her propensity, extols it to the skies as a sovereign remedy for the " colic and the phthisic;" and in those circles where the Balm of Gilead is not to be attained, a glass or two of Hodges'cordial gin goes down as an excellent substitute. Among modern empirics, Solomon bears the bell. He knew brandy to be the elixir best calculated to give energy to the drooping spirits; and also, that, by adding a little of the powder, or rather the tincture, of the Spanish, that a miracle for the moment might be wrought, that would require, every time, an