97 GENERAL RULES REGARDING SLEEP. 1. In Infancy and Youth;—2. In Manhood;—3. In Sickness;—4. In Old Age;—and, 5. Miscellaneous Par- ticulars. 1. Infancy and Youth.^-The celebrated Locke, in his Treatise on Education, sect. 21, has explained, at some length, his sentiments as to sleep, more especially the rules that should be observed regarding the sleep of children. He justly recommends their being permitted to sleep to their full satisfaction, as nothing contributes more to their health and growth. Children should, for some time, sleep on their backs; but as soon as they get teeth, and begin to live on more substantial diet, their bones and ligaments become stronger, they should be laid to sleep, sometimes on the one side, and some- times on the other, that both may grow alike, and become equally strong. The cradle in which a child is put, ought to be turned directly to that side of the room from which the light comes, otherwise he will be in danger of learning to squint. Sleep is so great a refreshment to children, that we see new-born infants, when they are well, are almost always asleep; but if their sleep is frequently interrupted, they soon become lean and emaciated, and lose their strength. 2. Manhood.—'All the observations in the former part of this subject, are principally calculated for manhood, or middle age; it is therefore unnecessary to recapitulate any of them in this place. 3. Sickness.—Sleep is of infinite advantage to the sick ; for it greatly repairs their strength, helps to concoct and expel the morbific matter, and eases their pains. Invalids, whether from weakness or fatigue, often express an inclination to sleep for, an hour during the day; and this indulgence may be granted them, if it is found that their sleep during the night is not thereby interrupted. Many real or imaginary invalids lie long in bed in the morning, to make up for any deficiency of sleep in the njght-time; but this ought not to be per- mitted, for the body must necessarily be enervated by long continuance in a hot and foul air. A little resolution will enable invalids to surmount this destructive habit. J3y rising early, and going to bed in due time, their sleep