43(; Horticulture. also plant in hot-beds, asparagus, mushrooms, and cu- cumbers occasionally. Hand-weeding and hoeing—now demand particular at- tention, to extirpate the numerous productions of autum- nal weeds, before the winter sets in. Prepare vacant ground—by dunging and digging for present and future cropping. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—Wall trees will still require some attention, to nail in any projecting shoots; to admit all possible benefit of the sun, to forward the ripening and flavour of late fruit, of peaches, grapes, plums, &c. Likewise, in this month, many sorts of the autumnal eating and winter fruits, of apples and pears, &c. will require general gathering. The work of planting and winter-pruning—may also be commenced this month (m. 1.) in several sorts of fruit- trees. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.—In this month the several compartments of the flower-garden, pleasure-ground, &c- should be prepared in the best order, to remain clean and neat for the winter season; and in which may commence general autumnal planting in many sorts of plants, roots, shrubs, &c. required. Preparations for planting— should now be forwarded, by digging vacant beds and borders for bulbous roots, and various fibrous-rooted flower-plants; also compart- ments for shrubbery-planting. Planting—may be performed in all sorts of bulbous and tuberous flower-roots, fibrous-rooted perennials and biennials, all kinds of evergreens, and many sorts of other shrubs and trees. Work in the Nursery.—In the nursery work of this month, is comprehended a great deal of principal busi- ness in preparing for and proceeding in the autumn plant- ing and transplanting of many sorts of young trees and shrubs, and in the works of propagation by seeds, cut- tings, suckers, and layers; for which occasions the ground must be got ready by digging or trenching, &c; also per- form several other necessary works of culture. The Green-House.—In this month, as cold weather and frosts sometimes prevail, finish removing all the plants into the green-house (b. ra.), especially the ten- derest kinds.