Description of the Tobacco Worm. 527 " worming the tobacco;" and as these worms are found most predominant the latter end of July, and the beginning of August, they must be particularly attended to at that season. Uncertainty of the Time of Ripening. As I have just observed, that it is impossible, without experience, to point out the due time for topping the plant, so it is equally as impossible to ascertain the time it will take to ripen in this climate. That can only be known by future observations ; for as it is at present only cultivated in England as an ornament for the garden, no particular attention has, I believe, been hitherto bestowed on the preservation of its leaves. The apparent signs, however, of its maturity are, that the leaves, as they approach a state of ripeness, become more corrugated or rough; and when fully ripe, appear mottled with yellowish spots on the raised parts, whilst the cavities retain their usual green colour. They are, at this time, also thicker than they have before been, and are covered with a kind of downy velvet. If heavy rains happen at this critical period, they will wash this excrescent substance off, and thereby damage the plants. In such a case, if the frosty nights are not begun, it is proper to let them stand a few days longer; when, if the weather be more moderate, they will recover this substan.ce again. But if a frost unex- pectedly happens during the night, they must be carefully examined in the morning before the sun has any influence on them: and those which are found to be covered with frosty particles, whether thoroughly ripe or not, must be cut up: for though they may not at all appear to be arrived at a state of maturity, yet they cannot be far from it, and will differ but little in goodness from those that are per- fectly so. Description of the Tobacco Worm. Having now given every instruction that occurs to my memory relative to the culture of the plant, I shall de- scribe the worm that infests it. It is of the horned species, and appears to be peculiar to this plant; so that in many parts of America it is distinguished by the name of the tobacco-worm. The first time it is discernible is when the plants have gained about half their height: it then appears to be nearly as large as a gnat; soon after which it lengthens into a worm, and by degrees increases to the size of a man's finger. In shape it is regular from its head •i x