Housekeeping and Husbandry. 319 as it is put down, and every quarter of an hour all the time it is roasting, till the last half hour; then take off the paper and make some gravy for it, stir the fire and make it clear; to brown and froth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it with butter, and dredge it with flour; let it go a few minutes longer, till the froth rises, take it up, put it on the dish, &c. Garnish it with hillocks of horse-radish, scraped as fine as possible with a very sharp knife. A Yorkshire-pudding is an excellent ac- companiment. The inside of the sir-loin must never be cut hot, but reserved entire for the hash, or a mock hare. Ribs of Beef.—The three first ribs, of fifteen or twenty pounds, will take three hours, or three and a half: the fourth and fifth ribs will take as long, managed in the same way as the sir-loin. Paper the fat and the thin part, or it will be done too much, before the thick part is done enough. Ribs of Beef boned and rolled.—When you have kept two or three ribs of beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and skewer it as round as possible (like a fillet of veal): before they roll it, some cooks egg it, and sprinkle it with veal stuffing. As the meat is more in a solid mass, it will require more time at the fire than in the pre- ceding receipt: a piece of ten or twelve pounds weight, will not be well and thoroughly roasted in less than four and a half or five hours. For the first half hour it should not be less than twelve inches from the fire, that it may get gradually warm to the centre : the last half hour be- fore it will be finished, sprinkle a little salt over it; and if you wish to froth it, flour it, &c. MUTTON. As beef requires a large sound fire, mutton must have a brisk and sharp one: if you wish to have mutton tender, it should be hung as long as it will keep ; and then good eight-tooth, i. e. four years old mutton, is as good eating as venison. The leg, haunch, and saddle, will be the better for being hung up in a cool airy place for four or five days at least; in temperate weather, a week; in cold weather, ten days. If you think your mutton will not be tender enough to do honour to the spit, dress it as a Gigot de sept heures." A Leg—of eight pounds will take about two hours: let it be well basted. A Chine or Saddle, (i. e. the two loins), of ten or eleven s s