Cookery for the Sick, and for the Poor. 540 of onion. Let it boil very quick; skim it nicely; take oft' the cover, if likely to be too weak ; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A very supporting Broth against any kind of Weakness. Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water, to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A very nourishing Veal Broth. Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten peppercorns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. Salt is wanted. It will require four hours. Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Veal. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin saucepan, with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts, and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion, if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats are more sup- porting, as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. Calves' Feet Broth. Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain and set it by; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yoke of an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. 2. Boil two calves'feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints; strain, andjtakc off the fat.