'Hie Miraculous Cure of Tobit. 517 " Respecting," says he, " the practice of the Arabians in disorders of the eyes, 1 find nothing of consequence in my papers. An oculist, among them, is a distinct pro- fession; and the collyria they apply are secret composi- tions, which pass hereditarily from father to son. The Arabian writers give a number of receipts, most of which are taken from Galen, and the Greek physicians. One composition in Avicenna contains the gall of a crow, crane, partridge, goat, &c. At Aleppo, the gall of the shee-fish, siburus glanis of Linn, was in particular re- quest; but it should be remarked, that they always add to the gall other ingredients, it being a material circum- stance, in that country, that a recipe should consist of a multitude of ingredients. What often struck me in their practice, was the successful application of sharp or acid remedies, at a time I should have been induced to make use of the mildest emollient applications." From this account, given by Dr. Russell, there can be no doubt of gall having continued in use, as an applica- tion to the eye, among the Eastern nations, from the time of Tobit down to the present day. " I have," continues Sir Everard, " in the course of the last three years made many trials of the effects of gall, as an application to the cornea in a diseased state. I have used it pure and diluted; and compared its effects with those of the nitrated ointment of quicksilver; and the solution of the nitrate of silver; and find, in old cases of opacity, it is in some instances, the best application. The gall of quadrupeds, in these trials, gave more pain than the gall offish. The painful sensation was very severe for an hour or two, and then went off. The beneficial effects it produces appear to be in proportion to the local violence at the time of its application. " Since this paper," says Sir Everard, " was read be- fore the Royal Society, my friend Dr. Wells, acquainted me with the following case, published in the Annual Re- gister, for the year 1678. s One of the Paris newspapers gives an account of an extraordinary cure effected by the gall of a barbel, in a case of blindness, in substance as follows: A journeyman watchmaker, named Censier, hav- ing heard that the gall of a barbel was the remedy which Tobias employed to cure his father's blindness, resolved to try its efi'ects on the widow Germain, his mother-in-law, whose eyes had, for six months, been afflicted with ulcers, and covered with a film, which rendered them totally