232 Horticulture. and greatly want a proper regulation, by removing the ill-placed, improper, and superfluous, and training in the eligible and useful supply. But pruning—at this season is required only princi- pally in wall and espalier fruit; seldom in standards. Summer pruning—of all wall and espalier trees, if not forwarded a little last month, now demands our most early attention, before the trees run into a confused dis- order in the numerous shoots of the year, which is of particular importance, both for the advantage of the trees and fruit, as well as to give the trees an agreeable ap- pearance to the sight, when timely trained in regular order. Wall-trees—should have the summer pruning and regu- lation commenced as soon as convenient, particularly in apricots, peaches, nectarines, and vines; afterwards in cherries, plums, pears, apples, &c. to displace the fore- right productions, with other ill-placed, and all very luxuriant and other improper shoots; as also the super- fluous and over-abundant. In summer pruning of peaches, nectarines, and apricots —keep in mind, that as these trees bear mostly on the young wood of a year old, a full supply of the well placed side and leading shoots must be retained in all parts, for next year's bearers; and from which prune away the improper, unnecessary, and superabundant productions. All the retained shoots continue at their full length, as far as the limited bounds of each tree admits, and train them in regularly to the wall. [See May.] Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.—The general business of the flower-garden, pleasure-ground, &c. at this season, is to keep all the compartments of walks, lawns, borders, beds, shrubberies, &c. in perfect neat order. Annuals will require transplanting from hot- beds, borders, &c. seedling biennials and perennials pricking out; new planted articles watering ; and various other necessary works, as explained under the proper heads. Annual flower plants— of many sorts, will now require final removing or transplanting, where they are to flower; some into pots, others into borders, beds, &c. and some to be sowed; observing generally in transplanting these sorts into the borders, &c. it would be of great advantage to take the opportunity of showery weather, if it happens; otherwise must be constantly watered every day till they take root.