16*0 "Tom" Paine on the Yellow Fever. "The yellow fever always begins in the lowest part of a popntdus mercantile town, near the water, and continues there, without affecting the higher parts. The sphere or circuit it acts in is small, and it rages most where large quantities of new ground have been mude by banking out the river, for the purpose of making wharfs. The ap- pearance and prevalence of the yellow fever in these places, being those where vessels arrive from the West Indies, has caused the belief, that the yellow fever was imported from thence : but here are two cases, acting in the same place : the one, the condition of the ground at the wharfs, which being new made on the muddy and filthy bottom of the river, is different from the natural condition of the ground in the higher parts of the city, and consequently subject to produce a different kind of effluvia or vapour: the other case is the arrival of vessels from the West Indies. "In the State of Jersey, neither of these cases has taken place; no shipping arrive there, and consequently there has been no embank- ment for the purpose of wharfs, and the yellow fever has never broke out in Jersey. This, however, does not decide the point, as to the immediate cause of the fever; but it shews that Ihis species of fever is not common to the country in its natural state; and I believe the same was the case in the West Indies, before embankments began, for the purpose of making wharfs, which always alter the natural condition of the ground ; no old history, that I know of, mentions such a disorder as the yellow fever." We Have not heard much of Dr. Miller, but our opinion, had we ever formed one of him, would assuredly have suffered considerable abatement, on discovering that he had appropriated the opinions of the republican Tom Paine, without deigning to acknowledge the source of his information. The following paragraph in particular, will verify our charge. Dr. Miller, however^ does not stand alone for want of originality of conception on the same subject. Dr. Bancroft confirms the opinion of impure effluvia first broached by our author; and every other writer on yellow fever, has equally appropriated more or less of Tom Paine's observations to himself. Dr. Miller has seized upon them wholesale. In Dr. Thomas's very exuberant and verbose practice of physic (see yellow fever), the same speculations (wc were nearly saying peculations), are also retailed and de- tailed, with all the modesty of originality, and with the no less assurance of actual experience. "Tom" Paine's Observations continued. i ', • * f;(4j ill/**. r*V7j -5 Bit V * " A person seized ivith the yellow\ fever in an ({fected part of the town, and brought into the healthy part, or into the countfy,