Housekeeping and Husbandry. which is their reward for the trouble they have had in preparing the feast: such gentry are the terror of all good housewives; to obtain their favourite cut, they will so unmercifully mangle your joints, that a dainty dog would hardly get a meal from them after, which, managed by the considerative hands of an old housekeeper, would furnish a decent dinner for a large family."—Vide Al- manack des Gourmands. I once heard a gentle hint on this subject, given to a blue mould fancier, who, by looking too long at a Stilton cheese, was at last completely overcome, by his eye exciting his appetite, till it became quite ungovernable; and, unconscious of every thing but the mity object of his contemplation, he began to pick out, in no small portions, the primest parts his eye could select from the centre of the cheese. The good-natured founder of the feast, highly amused at the ecstacies each morsel created in its passage over the palate of the enraptured gour- mand, thus encouraged the perseverance of his guest:— " Cut away, my dear sir, cut away, use no ceremony, 1 pray: T hope you will pick out all the best of my cheese —don't you think that the rind and the rotten will do very well for my wife and family !!" Half the trouble of waiting at table may be saved, by giving each guest two plates, two knives and forks, two pieces of bread, a spoon, a wine glass, and a tumbler, and placing the wines and sauces, and the Magazine of Taste, &c. as a dormant, in the centre of the table ; one neighbour may then help another. Dinner tables are seldom sufficiently lighted or at- tended ; an active waiter will have enough to do, to attend upon half a dozen active eaters ; there should be half as many candles as there are guests, and their flame be about eighteen inches above the table : our foolish modern pompous candelabras, seem intended to illuminate the ceiling, rather than to give light on the plates, &c. Observations on the Cooking of Fish. This department of the business of the kitchen requires considerable experience, and depends more upon prac- tice than any other; a very few moments, more or less, will thoroughly spoil fish*; which, to be eaten in per- * When the cook has large dinners to prepare, and the time of serving un- certain, she will get more credit by fried, or stewed, than by boiled fish. It i» also cheaper, and much sooner carved.