Mechanics, Labourers, fyc. 155 spectable and well-conducted MedicalJ ournal*, is taken, on that authority, from the inspection of two extensive manufactories, one a button, and the other a gilt-toy maker. Dangerous Parts of the Process of Gilding, fyc—Its perni- cious Effects, fyc.—Particular Cautions to Gilders, £yc. "There are two parts of the process which are attended with danger from mercury, but in very different degrees. The first, and least injurious, and perhaps not at all in- jurious, if the workmen are clean in their habits, is the application of the amalgam to the metal. This, which consists of gold and quicksilver, is thrown into a small quantity of the solution of mercury in nitric acid, in but- ton-gilding, and the buttons are stirred in it; in toy- gilding, the amalgam is generally diffused with a brush. As little, if any, of the quicksilver is vapoured during this process, the principal danger arises from the work- men unnecessarily touching the materials with the naked hand, and not exerting sufficient care to make thorough ablutions before taking their nieals. " The next process, which consists in driving off the mercury by heat, is highly dangerous, in the old and common method of gilding. This, which is technically named cap-and-pan gilding, is effected over an open stove fire. The articles are placed in a common frying- pan, and every now and then are taken off and shaken in an old hat. During the whole of this time the mercury is very imperfectly carried up the chimney, and, conse- quently, its fumes reach the workmen, more especially when the materials are in the hat. This plan is chiefly now followed in the gilding of toys; but in button-gilding, an apparatus has for some time been employed, to which, if well executed, it seems scarcely possible to add any thing. For this purpose the buttons are enclosed in an open wire cylinder, which is then introduced into another cylinder formed of iron, communicating with a flue, and placed over a stove. At the entrance arc folding-doors, with a small opening for the iron rod, which passes through the wire cylinder, to rest upon, and which has likewise a support at the opposite end, so that it may be resolved within the iron cylinder by the workmen. The Jatter commonly stand several feet distant from the stove. * Sec London Medical Repository, p. 71. x2