Treatment of Infants in some parts of North America. 397 clothes are fastened around the child, that it may receive no injury. Treatment of Infants in some parts of North America. In some parts of North America, infants are generally laid on couches filled with the dust of worm-eaten timber: this simple contrivance answers the useful purpose of keep- ing them dry and cleanly, as the powdered wood absorbs all moisture. When they are able to move, the solicitous mother incites them to meet her, by presenting the food appointed by Nature. Thus it is almost inconceivable that little Savages, at the tender age of a few months, especially in Africa, should possess such strength and agility as to embrace the waist of the mother with their arms and legs, without the least fear; and imbibe the maternal gift while she is engaged in fatiguing pursuits. In that country, it is truly astonishing to see infants two months old creeping about, and others somewhat older walking upon their hands and knees almost as speedily as adults.—On the contrary, in our quarter of the globe, it is not uncommon to see boys several years old nursed either by the breasts of an ill-advised mother, or with spoon-meat on the lap of an effeminating nurse. Such was the habit of the proud philosopher Plotinus, who, at eight years of age, when returning from school, visited his favourite nurse, and greedily partook of his wonted repast. These absurdities, however, I am happy to observe, do not often appear in a country where mothers are equally esteemed for their good sense and native modesty. Upon this occasion, I cannot suppress an idea which has repeatedly occurred to me, when reflecting on the remarkable difference of physical endowments, between man in a state of nature, and man in civilized life. Whence does it happen that the former possesses such decisive advantages over the latter ? It appears to me, that in the primitive modes of living, the human species was more susceptible of that beneficent instinct which directs the animal either to avoid or to inure himself to the noxious influence of external causes, while it enables him to follow, with more scrupulous accuracy, the simple dictates of Nature. The refined European, on the con- trary, is always solicitous to improve upon her, whose laws are as immutable as the seasons. He, indeed, often succeeds in sheltering himself against powers assailing