31S ©oiMfeteepirtg anD ^usbanTJtp.-—No. VI- Housekeeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood ; The wife too must husband, as well as the man ; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. ROASTING *, BEEF. The noble Sir-loin of about fifteen pounds, (if much thicker the outside will be done too much before the inside is enough), will require to be before the fife about three and a half or four hours: take care to spit it evenly, that it may not be heavier on one side than the other; put a little clean dripping into the dripping-pan, (tie a sheet of paper over it to preserve the fatf), baste it well as soon * If the time we. have allowed for roasting appears rather longer than what is stated in former works, we can only say, we have written from actual expe- riments, and that the difference may be accounted for, by common cooks ge- nerally being fond of too fierce a fire, and of putting things too near to it. Our calculations are made for a temperature of about fifty degrees of Fahrenheit. Slow roasting is as advantageous to the tenderness and flavour of meat as slow boilings of which every body understands the importance. The warmer the weather, .and the staler killed the meat is, the less time it will require to roast it.. Meat that is very fat requires more time than we have stated. Beef is in proper season throughout the whole year; but as butchers generally calculate upon • its being a Sunday's dinner, you can seldom depend upon its being tender on any other day. +■ " In the present fashion of fatting cattle, it is more desirable to roast away the fat, than so preserve it. If the honourable Societies of Agriculturists, at the time they consulted a learned professor about the composition of manures, had consulted some competent authority on the nature of animal substances, the public might have escaped the overgrown corpulency of the animal flesh, which every where fills the markets."—Domestic Management, 12mo. 1813, p. 182. ff Game and other wild animals proper for food, are of very superior quali- ties to the tame, from the total contrast of the circumstances attending them. They have a free range of exercise in the open air, and choose their own food, the good effects of which are very evident in a short delicate texture of flesh, found only, in them. Their juices and flavour are more pure, and their fat, •when it is in any degree, as in venison, and some other instances, differs as much from that of our fatted animals, as silver and gold from the grosser metals. The superiority of Welsh mutton and Scotch beef is owing to a similar Cause."—Ibid. p. 150. Jf there is more fat than you think will be eaten with the meat, cut it oft"; it will make an excellent pudding; or clarify it, and use it for frying : for those who like their meat done thoroughly, and use a moderate fire for roasting, the fat need not be covered with paper. If your beef is large, and your family small, cut off the thin end and salt it. and cut out and dress the fillet, (i. e. commonly called the inside), next day as. mock hare : thus you get three good hot dinners.