Housekcejihig and Husbandry. 83 throat, to be from ten to fourteen or sixteen inches, ac- cording to the size of the chimney. It has been ascer- tained^ that redacing smoky chimnies as above, will seldom fail of having the desired effect. Genuine Marking Ink. . Take a drachm of the nitrate of silver (lunar caustic), dissolve it in a glass mortar, in double its weight of pure water. This forms the ink.—-Then dissolve a drachm of salt of tartar in an ounce of water, in another vessel: this is the liquid with which the linen must be previously wetted, then allowed to dry, and afterwards to be written on.—Or, to make Coloured marking ink. Take vermilion, as much as will lay on a half-crown piece, of the best salt of steel, about the size of a small nutmeg; grind or levigate them well together, with linseed oil. You make it thick or thin, at discretion. Purchasing and Preserving Starch. The economical laundress will remember, that the price of starch is regulated by the price of flour; and as it will keep for some years, if covered up in a warm dry place, she will lay in her stock of this article, according to her means, at the time when bread is cheap. It has been recommended, for the sake of economizing flour, that the starch used tor stiffening muslins, and other fine stuffs, in the laundry, should be made of the flour of canary seed, which is considered as superior for that purpose; and also for the purpose of manufacture when in the loom. But perhaps a much better substitute may be found in the starch of fine flour, which forms the dressing paste, or congee, in the Indian looms, as well as the starch in getting up muslins in India. Much, also, of the softness of the Indian cotton, depends upon the palm oil, which, even when not specifically applied, constantly oozes out of the fingers of the spinner and the weaver. Purchasing Soap, fyc. Another great saving will be found in purchasing soap in large quantities, cutting it in pieces of about a pound each, and keeping it in a place of moderate temperature and dryness. If the quantity necessary for one year is first laid in, it ought to be filled up every six months; and thus a smaller quantity of the article will suffice, as much less goes to waste; with a saving of, perhaps thirty per cent. m 2