11(> Dr. Buchan oh Cleanliness. the air, or spread the infection, ought, with the utmost care, to be avoided. For this reason, in great towns, no filth of any kind should be permitted to lie upon the streets. Nothing is more apt to convey infection than the excrements of the diseased. These, in many cases, are known to be highly infectious. The streets, in many great towns, are little better than dunghills, being frequently covered with ashes and nastiness of every kind. How easily might this be prevented by active magistrates, who have it always in their power to make proper laws relative to things of this nature, and to enforce the observance of them? We are sorry to say, that the importance of general cleanliness does by no means seem to be sufficiently un- derstood. It were well if the inhabitants of Britain would imitate their neighbours the Dutch, in the cleanness of their streets, houses, &c. Water indeed is easily ob- tained in Holland; but the situation of most towns in Britain is more favourable to cleanliness. Nothing can be more agreeable to the senses, more to the honour of the inhabitants, or conducive to their health, than a clean town; nor does any thing impress a stranger sooner with a disrespectful idea of any people than its opposite. The peasants in most countries, seem to hold cleanli- ness in a sort of contempt. Were it not for the open situation of their houses, they would often feel the bad effects of this disposition. One seldom sees a farm-house without a dunghill before the door, and frequently the cattle and their masters lodge under the same roof. Peasants are likewise extremely careless with respect to change of apparel, keeping their skins clean, &c. These are merely the effects of indolence and a dirty disposition. JIabit may indeed render them less disagreeable, but no habit can ever make it salutary to wear dirty clothes, or breathe unwholesome air. In camps, the strictest regard should be paid to clean- liness. By negligence in this matter, infectious diseases are often spread amongst a whole army, and frequently more die of these than by the sword. The Jews, during their encampments in the Wilderness, received particular instructions with respect to cleanliness. The rules en- joined them ought to be observed by all in the like situa- tion. Indeed the whole system of laws delivered to that people, has a manifest tendency to promote cleanliness. Whoever considers the nature of their climate, and the