4:39 LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN DURING THE EARLY PART OF THEIR LIVES. ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS, 8cc. BY A. F. WILLICH, M. D. (Continuedfrom p. 402). LECT. II. On the Errors and Prejudices prevailing in the Treatment of Children at an Early Age; on the Dangers attending the Improper Application of Medical Remedies in general; Hints towards radical, but gradual Improvements; and satisfactory Proofs that we are not yet in the Possession of a System, founded on Scientific Principles, supported by Experimental Facts, and consistent with the Moral and Physical Constitution of Man. As the subject of the present Lecture will chiefly relate to a more rational method of managing the physical education of children, I shall commence it with a few general reflections on the errors and prejudices prevailing in the treatment of them, especially at an early age. To avoid and to correct errors, it is only necessary to be acquainted with their pernicious tendency, and to break the slavish fetters of prejudice and custom.—Those happy few who think for themselves, and study the effects of natural causes, will not be easily misled by laws and rules, which are neither warranted by reason noB experience. And though it cannot be denied, that common nurses and servants are ill qualified to conduct this important office, yet fathers are too much accustomed to consider the nursery as the most irksome room in the house; so that children frequently are in a manner or- phans, while their parents are alive. Hence we should not be surprized at the most incongruous methods adopted in the management of infants. Nay, I will venture to assert, that until fathers condescend to take an active share in that department which relates to the physical education of their offspring, and co-operate with the views of a solicitous mother, our improvements will neither be radical nor permanent. That many erroneous notions actually prevail hi this branch of family affairs, will be admitted by every ingenuous mind: the modern system of bracing children by the cold-bath, of suffering them to go with bare legs and thin dresses in winter, to- gether with a variety of improper habits, will, in the sequel, afford ample proofs of thisassertion j especially