Horticulture. many sorts for garden and other plantations; also in the work of propagation, by sowing many kinds of tree and shrub-seeds, &c. planting suckers, cuttings, layers, and ingrafting; likewise in forwarding the digging or trench- ing of vacant ground, and digging between the nursery rows of young trees and shrubs: some occasional work of pruning, with several other requisite works of nursery culture, &c. The Green-House.—Supply the green-house plants with plenty of free air every mild day, gentle waterings, and defend them still from cold, by shutting all close every night, and in frosty and other inclement weather, loosening the earth, giving fresh earth, shifting into larger pots, stripping off decayed leaves, dead wood, &c. The Hot-House.—Continue always a regular heat in the hot-house, by a constant bark-bed, especially the pinery stove, and fires every night and cold days. A high state of heat is necessary for all the hot-house exotics, and in pineries, as the full-grown fruiting pines will now be advancing in young fruit, should have both a good bottom heat supported in the bark-bed, and regular moderate fire every night, and every cold morning, &c. to forward their fruiting freely in proper season ; continuing the pine plants, in general, always plunged in the bark- bed, &c. MARCH. Kitchen-Garden.—Particular attention during this month is required to prepare for, and to sow and plant, many principal crops for the service of the present year, both in the natural ground for the general supply, and in hot-beds for several plants; and to forward some others of more hardy growth, when desired in early perfection. General sowing and planting should now be forwarded ; e. g. onions, leeks, carrots, parsnips, beet, radishes, spi- nach, lettuce, cabbages, savoys, brocoli, borecole, cole- worts, asparagus, peas, beans, some early turnips, sal- syfy, scornozerna, celery, cauliflowers, Alexanders, large- rooted parsley, cardoons, finochio. And of small herbs, as parsley, small salading of cresses, mustard, radish, rape, &c.; cherries, coriander, borage, marigolds, nastur- tiums, corn-salad, elary, fennel-dill, angelia, thyme, savory, marjoram, and hyssop. Plant asparagus, ar- tichokes, cabbages, cauliflowers, horse-radish, beans, potatoes, garlick, shallots, lettuces, coleworts, Jerusa-