The Gout. 85 The season for the blermetting for roach and dace be- gins on the first of July. They are caught here in great abundance, especially after a heavy rain. Their scales are sold to the Jews for the purpose of making false pearls, and are worth from twelve shillings to a guinea per quart. Smelt fishing begins on the 25th of March above London bridge. Very few have appeared here during the last four years. Salmon fishing begins on the 1st of January, and ends on the 4th of September. The salmon caught here are highly esteemed, and sell from five to twelve shillings per pound. Only one was caught here during the last season; they have abandoned the Thames since the opening of the docks, and now frequent the Medway, where they are con- sidered merely as salt-water fish. The dragging for shads begins on the 10th of May, and continues to the end of June. This fish is caught in abundance, and is sold very cheap. Lamprey fishing begins on the 24th of August, and ends on the 30th of March. This fish used to be sold to the Dutch, previous to the commencement of the late war. Barbel are taken in great abundance in the season, which begins on the 1st of July, and ends on the 1st of March. Eels are caught hereabouts very large and fine. The principal method of taking them is by means of pots made of basket-work, laid at the bottom of the river. A great many are also taken by bobbing. Sturgeons are sometimes caught here ; they are con- sidered as a royal fish, and are claimed by the Lord Mayor, who usually sends them to the King. The fisher- men are entitled to a guinea for every fish. In the Thames, near Fulham bridge, is a large shift- ing sand-bank, from which great quantities of sand are taken, and carried to London. The sand is in great re- pute among builders, for the purpose of mixing with lime. —Faulkener's Account 6f Fulham. THE GOUT. A Fragment from an Ancient MS. Blessed gout! most desirable gout! sovereign anti- dote of murdering maladies! powerful corrector of intem- perance! deign to visit me with thy purging fire, and