90 Horticulture. L \ compartments, in the full ground, if dry, mild, settled weather; and some in hot-beds, for early crops. Prepare vacant ground at all opportunities, for early and general crops, by augmentation of dung for manure where most needful; and by digging and trenching the ground in rough ridges, to improve by the weather, till wanted for sowing and planting, which can then be expeditiously levelled down, in an improved fertilized state, for the reception of the respective seeds, plants, and roots. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—Planting, pruning, and nailing, should now be forwarded at all proper op- portunities, both in wall, espalier, and standard fruit- trees, in the garden, orchard, &c. Flower-Garden, Pleasure-Ground, &c.—Tender or curious plants in pots, should now be protected from rigorous frost; such as double wall-flowers, double stocks, double sweet Williams, double rockets, &c. as also any curious tenderish evergreens, and other shrubs; placing them rather under garden frames, or any temporary shel- ter, or awning of mats, &c. Range likewise your pots of tender plants and shrubs in some dry compartment, to guard the roots more securely from the frost. Work in the Nursery.—The principal works in the nursery, at this season, consist, some in preparing ground ready for spring planting, or transplanting various sorts of trees and shrubs, and for sowing seeds, and planting cuttings, layers, suckers, &c. giving occasional pruning to trees and shrubs, and digging between nursery rows thereof; and in affording temporary protection to tender, curious, or valuable sorts from severe frost, and in draw- ing or taking up trees, &c. of proper growth, as required for different plantations, and in some other necessary works. Green-House.—At this season great attention must be paid to preserve the green-house plants from frost in severe weather, and when mild to admit air, and to give occasional waterings.—Keep the windows of the green- house close shut in frosty weather; and in very rigorous weather defend the windows with shutters or mats.—Mo- derate fires evening and morning, or occasionally all day, when the frost is extremely severe. Admit air in open, mild weather, at certain hours, by moderately opening the windows; and keep them shut always at night in wet and foggy weather, and when sharply cold ; give occasional waterings; pick off decayed leaves, wood, or shoots.