458 Plain Directions for Family-brewing. a receipt for ale, twopenny, and table-beer. What is to be said upon each will be very short, because the same method in almost every respect as I have previously laid down for porter, is to be pursued. It is only necessary to observe, that the gains of the common brewers who have opportunities and finances to buy the various articles in large quantities, must be enormous to a degree, when the savings of a small family are so considerable. The following proportions will be found exact for brewing one barrel of ale. £ : d. Malt, 2* bushels 0 15 0 Hops, 2£ pounds - - - - - 030 Sugar just boiled up, allowing for fire and trouble") nor in preparing, 3 pounds - - J 1 Capsicum, Id. coriander-seeds, \d. 4 - 0 0 2 Cocculus Indicus, Id. salt, Id. - - 0 0 2 £1 0 10 The small beer, after your ale is brewed, is supposed an equivalent for coals. £ s. d. A barrel of ale 128 quarts, at 5d. per quart bought") 2 13 4 at the publican's J Ditto brewed at home - - - - 1010 Clear gain 12 6 Observations on A le. Ale is generally brewed from pale malt, but that is merely an optional point; some persons preferring brown, some amber ales. The capsicum and coriander-seeds are to be boiled in the wort; observe the method of boiling, mashing as in porter; but let ale stand to work two or three days, and beat it up well once or twice a day: when the head begins to fall, cleanse it by adding a handful of salt, and a little flour mixed up with the cocculus Tndicus; then proceed to barrel it according to the foregoing directions. The only article which deserves particular attention in the composition of ale, is the coriander-seed, which, though in appearance a simple and almost tasteless berry, is of a vehemently poisonous and stupifying quality. Some idea may be formed of its effects, when chymical experiment has proved to us, that one pound of coriander- seeds equals in strength and stupefactive quality one bushel of malt; it is not therefore to be presumed that 1