430 Sketch of the History of Sugar. honey, which was pressed from reeds, that grew among the Prasii, a people that lived near the Ganges. Tertullian also speaks of sugar, in his book, ". De Ju- jicio Dei," as a kind of honey procured from canes. Alexander Aphrodisaeus appears to have been ac- quainted with sugar, which was in his time regarded as an Indian production. He says, " that what the Indians called sugar, was a concretion of honey in reeds, resem- bling grains of salt, of a white colour, and brittle, and possessing a detergent and purgative power like to ho- ney ; and which being boiled in the same manner as honey, is rendered less purgative, without impairing its nutritive quality." Paulus iEgineta speaks of sugar, as growing, in his time, in Europe, and also as brought from Arabia Felix; the latter of which he seems to think less sweet than the sugar produced in Europe, and neither injurious to the stomach, nor causing thirst, as the European sugar was apt to do. Achmet, a writer, who, according to some, lived about the year 830, speaks familiarly of sugar as common in his time. Avicenna, the Arab physician, speaks of sugar as be- ing a produce of reeds; but it appears he meant the sugar called Tabaxir, or Tabbarzet, as he calls it by that name. It does not appear that any of the above-mentioned writers knew of the method of preparing sugar, by boil- ing down the juice of the reeds to a consistence. It is also thought the sugar they had was not procured from the sugar-cane in use at present, but from another of a larger size, called Tabarzet* by Avicenna, which is the Arundo Arbor of Caspar Bauhin, the Saccar Mambu of later writers, and the Arundo Bambos of Linnaeus. This yields a sweet milky juice, and oftentimes a hard crys- tallized matter, exactly resembling sugar, both in taste and appearance. The historians of the Crusades make the next mention of sugar, of any that have fallen under my observation. The author of the Historia Hierosolymitana (A. D. * Some of the writers say, that it was so called from the name of a place, 2rtXaP Ta€ap(8C, ronoq «1w naXa/utvoc tig Svpiav. Vonstnntiiiu.s a Sccrrtis, MS. quoted from Du Cange Gloss. Graec.—The word Taharzvt signifies white, and is translated by Du Cange, Saccar Album. Herbelpt says that the Per; sians called by that name the hardest and most refined sugar.—Dibjiothapn Orientate, p. 310.