Directions for placing the Bed-Room Light. 117 desk, we have additional advantage, that there is less occasion to direct the eyes upwards, than in sitting. Directions for placing the Candle. At night the candle should he so placed, that we may receive light from it as we do from windows in the day time. Even should it be provided with a green screen, as before described, a weak eye will not long be able to support its glare in a straight line. Were the candle to be elevated at our back, so as to allow the light to come down over our shoulders, we should then experience the same inconvenience which attends that posture in day- light. Hence it is necessary to place it sideways, and to keep the book or paper in a lateral direction. Directions for placing the Bed-Room Light. Where it is necessary to have a light kept up during the night, it ought to be placed in the next room, or at least within the chimney, that it may be entirely out of sight. If neither of these methods be convenient, it should be placed behind, or at the side of the bed, rather than in an opposite direction: for should this circum- stance not be attended to, the light may produce very hurtful effects during sleep, even through the closed eye- lids. % The same attention is requisite to prevent the rays of the sun or moon, either directly or by reflexion from the opposite wall, from striking the eyes of the person asleep. As some men are known to sleep with their eyes open, it would be advisable to employ some one to shut them, that they may not suffer from accidents before-mentioned, as well as to prevent dust from entering, or the natural secretions being suppressed, which is necessary for their lubrication. Those who are troubled with weak eyes should care- fully avoid strong fires, and even hot rooms/as well as all sudden transitions from darkness to light, and vice versa; for heat still more dries the eyes already suffering from want of moisture. Indeed, it is highly probable that the weakness of sight and early blindness, so commonly met with in this country, are, in a great measure, owing to the bad custom of hastening to the fire-side, whether coming from the cold air, or from the dark streets. Weak eyes must be indulged with shady places, and protected against every dazzling object. But green arbours should