Blistering of Children, fyc. and that absorption is carried on in the bowels, as well as the stomach. On tlie Bathing of Children, fyc. Bathing has been likewise too little, and sometimes improperly, employed in the nursery. Like emetics and clysters, it has been dreaded only because its properties have not been sufficiently understood. It would be un- necessary to prove, in this place, its salutary and unpa- ralleled effects in cutaneous eruptions of children, in scrofula or the king's evil, the rickets, and even con- sumption, which destroys about one-third of the number of those who die in the metropolis. It has been very generally, though without foundation, believed, that cold baths only are bracing or strengthening, and that warm, as well as hot baths, produce a contrary effect. This opinion requires but a short refutation. If the temperature of the warm bath exceed the heat of the human boy, or 98° of Fahrenheit's thermometer, it is then no longer a warm, but a hot bath; and as such, ought to be used only in certain diseases, by the direction and advice of a medical practitioner; if, however, the bath be prepared at a temperature varying, according to circumstances, from the 80th to the 85th, or even 96th degree, it then forms a luke-warm or tepid bath. This remedy is truly valuable, particularly to children born of weak and enervated parents; inasmuch as it relaxes the rigid fibres, relieves the spasmodic stricture of the cuta- neous vessels, resolves the tough pituitous humours, which clog the pores of the skin, promotes the discharge of noxious perspirable matter, and imparts tone and vigour to all the functions of the body. It is therefore much to be regretted, that so powerful and excellent a mean of restoring health and energy, cannot be more easily resorted to in domestic economy. Blistering of Children, fyc. Of blisters, I shall say but little. For children, I should give the preference to sinapisms, or plasters made of mustard-seed, horse-radish, and the like, to those prepared of the Spanish fly. The former are attended with the additional advantages, that they sooner affect the skin, and do not act on the fluids with such violence as the latter. They are excellent, and generally safe remedies; the temporary pain they occasion, is in no