196 General Definition of Amulets, fyc. durable tablets of marble; the priests and priestesses, who were the guardians of the temple, prepared the remedies and directed their application; and as these persons were ambitious to pass for the descendants of iEsculapius, they assumed the name of the Asclepiades. The writings of Pausanias, Philostratus, and Plutarch, abound with the artifices of those early physicians. Aris- tophanes describes in a truly comic manner, the craft and pious avarice of these godly men, and mentions the dex- terity and promptitude with which they collected and put into bags, the offerings on the altar. The patients, during this period, reposed on the skins of sacrificed rams, in order that they might procure celestial visions. As soon as they were believed to be asleep, a priest, clothed in the dress of iEsculapius, imitating his manners, and accompanied , by the daughters of the god, that is, by young actresses, thoroughly instructed in their parts, entered, and delivered a medical opinion. General Definition of Amulets, #c. All remedies working, as it were, sympathetically, and plainly unequal to the effect, may be termed amulets, whether used at a distance by another person, or imme- diately about the patient; of these, various are related. By the Jews, they were called kamea; by the Greeks, phylacteries, as already mentioned ; by the Latins, amu- leta, or ligatura; by the Catholics, Agnus Dei, or conse- crated relicks; and by the natives of Guinea, where they are still held in great veneration, fetishes. Different kinds of materials, by these different people, have been vene- jated, and supposed capable of preserving from danger and infection, as well as to remove diseases when actually present. Plutarch relates of Pericles, an Athenian general, that when a friend came to see him, and enquiring after his health, he reached out his hand, and shewed him his amulet; by which he meant to intimate the truth of his illness, and, at the same time, the confidence he placed in these ordinary remedies. Amulets still continue among us to the present day ; indeed, there are few instances of ancient superstition, some parcel of which has not been preserved; and not unfrequently, they have been adopted by men of other- wise good understanding, who plead in excuse, that they are not nauseous, cost little, and if they do no good