23 Observations on Tea, 8#. Proverbs pertaining to Health, Diet, and Physic. An ague in the spring is physic for a king.—Agues come on horseback, but go away on foot.—You eat and eat, but you do not drink to fill you. An apple, an egg, and a nut, you may eat after a slut. Children and chicken must be always picking.—Old young and old long.—They who would be young when they are old, must be old when they are young.—Every man is either a fool or a physician after forty years of age.—After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile. An old physician, a young lawyer.—A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.—Good keal is half a meal. If you would live ever, you must wash milk from your liver.—Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.—He that would live for aye, must eat sage in May. After cheese comes nothing.—An egg and to bed. You must drink as much after an egg as after an ox.— Light suppers make clean sheets.—He that goes to bed thirsty, rises healthy.—Galen.—One hour's sleep before midnight, is worth two hours after.—Who goes to bed supperless, all night tumbles and tosses.—Often and little eating makes a man fat.—Fish must swim thrice. Drink wine and have the gout; drink no wine, and have the gout too.—With this saying, intemperate persons, that have or fear the gout, encourage themselves to pro- ceed in drinking wine notwithstanding. OBSERVATIONS ON TEA, WITH DIRECTIONS FOR CHOOSING IT, AND DISTINGUISH- ING THE GOOD FROM THE INDIFFERENT, &c. DETECTION OF ADULTERATIONS, &c Much has been said and written on the medicinal properties of tea: in its natural state it is a narcotic plant, on which account, the Chinese refrain from its use until it has been divested of this property, by keeping it at least for twelve months. If, however, good tea be drunk in moderate quantities, with sufficient milk and sugar, it invigorates the system, and produces a tem- porary exhilaration; but when taken too copiously, it is apt to occasion weakness, tremor, palsies, and the va- rious other symptoms arising from narcotic plants, while