Of tlie drying of Children. S44 play the strength of their Jungs, and exercise the organs of respiration.. Nature has wisely ordained, that by these very efforts the power and utility of functions so essential to life, should be developed, and rendered more perfect with every inspiration. Hence it follows,that those over- anxious parents or nurses, who continually endeavour to prevent infants from crying, do them a material injury; for, by such imprudent management, their children seldom or never acquire a perfect form of the breast, while the foundation is laid in the pectoral vessels for obstructions, and other diseases. Let us however suppose, that there really prevails a morbid sensation, or pain, which occasions the com- plaints of the infant: such expressions then are very fre- quently the most effectual means of removing the cause. Thus, flatulency, which presses upon the diaphragm, occasions pain, and involuntarily stimulates the child to procure itself relief by cries 3 these are necessarily accom- panied with increased respiration; the safest means of dissipating the stagnant air in the abdominal region. Another cause of loud complaints is, accumulations of viscid matter, or congestions of blood in the pulmonary vessels: these also cannot be relieved more speedily and certainly than by vociferation. Even in those cases where the circulation of the fluid towards the external parts of the body is languid, which very often occurs in children, and produces uncomfortable sensations, there is no better remedy to promote a due and more uniform circulation, than these efforts of Nature. But, independently of any particular causes, the cries of children, with regard to their general effects, are highly beneficial and necessary. In the first period of life, such exertions are the almost only exercise of the infant: thus the circulation of the blood, and all the other fluids, is rendered more uniform; digestion, nutrition, and the growth of the body, are thereby promoted; and the dif- ferent secretions, together with the very important office of the skin, or insensible perspiration, are duly per- formed. Hence it is extremely improper to consider every noise of an infant as a claim upon our assistance, and to intrude either food or drink, with a view to satisfy its supposed wants. By such injudicious conduct, chil- dren readily acquire the injurious habit of demanding things, or nutriment, at improper times, and without necessity ; their digestion becomes impaired ; and con-