393 Touching for the Kings Evil. judicial. The root must never be wetted, nor when fresh gathered, but wiped clean with a dry cloth. It must not be sewn up, or covered with any thing, but always worn naked at the pit of the stomach. If, after wearing, the ends of the fibres stick out, and hurt and prick the sto- mach, thoy must be cut off with a sharp knife as at first. I always cut a little notch round the upper end of the root, and tie the ribbon with a double fast knot, lest it slip out and be lost. When it has been worn a few days, it will shrink, by the heat of the stomach; then the rib- bon must be tied faster. Observe the root be not decayed or rotten, but fresh and green when applied; and it is necessary to have a fresh one every spring and fall. If I put this root about the patient's neck, I am not ashamed to say, ' Pray God give his blessing to these my endea- vours' (Ecclesiasticus, chap, xxxviii. v. 14), or some such short ejaculation; not by way of charm, or such like nonsense, but to remind the patient of our dependence on the Divine help co-operating with the natural means he has provided for our comfort and relief. The expe- rience I have had of the good effects of the vervain root is enough for me: nevertheless, I will just mention, that the great Boyle, in his Essays, has treated of the strange subtility of effluvia: how specific medicines are recon- cilcablc to the corpuscular philosophy, and how ad- vantageous simple medicines are." Touching for the King's Evil. The following proclamation, issued in the reign of Charles I. (April 22, 1634) may, perhaps, afford some gratification to the curious : By the King.—A Proclamation, appointing the time when His Majestie's sub- jects may approach to the Court, for cure of the disease called the King's Euilt. Whereas, by the Grace and blessing of Almighty God, the Kings and Queenes of this Realme, by many ages past, have had the happinesse, by their sacred touch, to cure those who are afflicted with the disease called the King's Euill; and his now most excellent Majesty, in no less measure than any of his Royall Progenitors, hath had blessed succcsse therein; and, in his most gra- cious and pious disposition, is as ready and willing as any King or Qucene of this rc*dmc ever was in any thing, to relieve the distresses and necessities of his good subjects; yet in his princely wisdome, foreseeing that in this (as in all things), order is to be observed, and fit times are necessary to be appointed for performing this great worke of charity; and taking into his Royall con- sideration the great inconveniences which may happen, both in respect of the temper of the season, and in respect of contagion, which may happen in this necrc accesse to his Majestie's sacred person, when the. season of the year is growne warme; Doth hereby publish and declare his Royal pleasure to be, and also will and command, that from the time of publishing this proclamation, no