Directions for Preserving the Buds of Fruit-Trees. 171 When we have put a paring plough, or two, or three, according to business, to work, we are accosted by la- bourers, who are desirous to heap and burn the slices by the acre. Being taken, and fit to begin on, the people work almost night and day, to get on with the heaping and firing. We article with them to spread the ashes when we please; but they generally article, not to be bound to extinguish the fires, otherwise, they must have a differ- ent price, by running the risk of weather longer, and having more labour to perform. In some cases, we work a second tilth by paring the field the cross way, but this depends on circumstances and seasons ; for sometimes our hay calls us, and some- times the season is too far spent at the end of the first operation. If time and economy would always allow, I believe the second tilth ought never to be omitted; but sometimes if we did it, we should have no cole, by losing the season, especially if favourable rains then tempt us to sow, which would, of course, delay the second burn- ing. I have known this cross ploughing, and working with harrows and roll, to have great effect in putting the fire entirely out in some parts of the field, more heathy and dry than others ; though nothing that we could do before would extinguish it. I believe it would be a good general rule to pare and burn as early in May as possible, and follow the burning with another tilth as above. But many persons choose to eat off first a good spring bite of grass, and defer paring to the first of June. In this case, some soils, I mean some fields, with us more than others are dangerous to handle; and if the weather set in very dry, a good deal of mischief may ensue, because, in some instances, I believe, no spreading of ashes, nor other means at present in use, can stop the fire.—Farmer s Journal. Directions for Preserving the Buds of Fruit-Trees for Conveyance. Mr. Knight, in the Trans. Hortic. Society, states that, in Conjunction with Sir C. Monck, he made some expe- riments to discover the most eligible mode of transferring buds from one part of the kingdom to another, the result of which was satisfactory. " It has led me," says Mr. K. " to adopt a better mode of using buds which have be- come somewhat withered, than I previously knew, Se- veral different methods of packing buds were tried ; but r 2 MA