Reflections on the Health, Education, Sjc. of Children. 29 then only we admit that young children are better at home, within the range of a more uniform degree of tempera- ture. No one can doubt that children are born with various dispositions, or the germs of such dispositions; and it is equally true, that by proper and timely management, these dispositions may be so changed and meliorated by the attention of a parent, or those to whom they are entrusted, that not only their little blemishes may be smoothed away, but even those things which more offen- sively distinguish the child, may, by proper discipline, become the characteristic ornaments of the man. " In respect to the desires of children," observes Dr. Parr, " it is hardly possible to lay down any general rule. But the best method of inuring them to disappointments, is per- haps rather to call off their thoughts to some new gratifi- cations, than to drive them forcibly from any favourite pursuit. Their inclinations are keen, but fickle, and there- fore he gives no mean proof of his skill in the manage- ment of the human mind, who makes one weakness the instrument of counteracting another." The temper of a child in the early days of its infancy, and beyond a certain period, is not easily rectified, should it unfortunately have taken a wrong bent. If every little sally of passion and impatience were instantly and properly controlled—if such things as are admissible, were regularly permitted, and those that are improper, as regularly and steadily withheld, the wily little creature would soon learn to distinguish between what is allowed and what is prohibited. But a melancholy reverse will be found, if, on the other hand, no consistency regulates his management: if at one time the slightest indulgence is refused, and at another the most extravagant, and even injurious cravings, are satisfied, just as the whim of the parent may lead him to gratify his ill-humour, by thwarting another; or to amuse his moments of ennui, by playing with his child as with a monkey, and exciting it to those acts of mischief and audacity, for which, in the next moment, it may suffer a severe correction. The effects of such an insensible and capricious line of con- duct, and the serious consequences, must strike home to the bosom of every parent alive to his duty, as at once uncharitable and inconsistent: continually undergoing either disappointment or punishment, Or engaged in extorting gratifications, which he often triumphs at hav-