Horticulture. 437 Oranges and Lemons—and other tenderest exotics not taken in last month, remove into the green-house (b.) The hardier kinds—as myrtles, oleanders, winter cher- ries, geraniums, &c. may remain abroad till towards (m.), if fine weather j but after that time, or before, if cold* or very rainy, house them as soon as possible at any rate, take them all in before (in.) Succulent -plants—finish taking all tenderest sorts (b.); American aloes, and all others (b. m.) Previous to removing into the green-house—clear off decayed leaves, dead shoots, &c. and prune irregular growths; weed the pots, loosen the top earth, and tho- roughly wash and clean the heads. In disposing the plants in the green-house—station the taller sorts more or less back, and the lower plants for- ward, having the small plants in the front. Small plants of myrtles—and other green-house plants of similar temperature, if not room in the green-house, may be placed in deep garden-frames, or in a pit de- fended with frames and glasses. Fresh air—must now be admitted freely every day or night, if mild weather, till (b. m.); then keep close every night. Water—give now very moderately once a week to the oranges, lemons, myrtles, and other woody kinds; the succulents more sparingly. Hot-House and Stove.—As the cold season is now approaching, the bark-bed heat in the pinery or general hot-house is not only necessary, but must have a tho- rough renewal for the winter; and if cold weather (1.), fire heat must be again commenced, continuing to give proper admission of fresh air in warm days, and occa- sional waterings. - Water—Continue to apply occasionally to the plants in general; but less to the succulent kinds than the others. To the hot-house plants in general—give nearly the same occasional culture as suggested last month in the diffe- rent sorts, according as it "may seem necessary in their various orders of growth. Fire heat—in the hot-house, if cold weather towards (1.), begin again for the winter, moderately every evening.