Head-Ach, Spitting oj Blood, 480 nitre. If it proceed from fulness of habit, bleeding and purging will relieve it, also bathing the feet in warm water, and applying leeches to the temples, blisters be- hind the ears, and at the back of the neck, &c. A little aether dropt into the palm of the hands, and applied to the forehead, will sometimes relieve a violent head-ach; vinegar used in the same manner, and snuffed up the nose, will often have the same effect. SPITTING OF BLOOD. This disease generally arises between the ages of six- teen and twenty-five, sometimes later, and may be occa- sioned, as it most frequently is, by violent exertion in lifting heavy weights, running, jumping, wrestling, sing- ing, speaking loud, or blowing wind-instruments, It also proceeds from wounds, fulness of habit, inflammation of the lungs, weak vessels, violent coughs, irregular living, excessive drinking, suppression of accustomed discharges, as piles, &c. It may likewise be occasioned by breathing unwholesome air, or air that is too much rarefied to be able properly to expand the lungs, narrow chest, &c. A spitting of blood is not, however, to be always con- sidered as a primary disease. It is often only a symptom; and in many disorders, if only very slight, is the presage of a favourable termination: and although it is not usually attended with danger, where the discharge of blood this way is unaccompanied, and not preceded by consumption, and where it leaves no cough, shortness of breath, or other affection of the lungs; and where there exists no mal- formation of the chest, and other connexions with the pulmonary system; neither is it dangerous in strong healthy persons, unless the loss of blood be very great from the rupture of some important vessel; still, when it attacks persons of a weak and lax constitution, and of a delicate habit, it is often difficult to remove it. Treatment of Spitting of Blood. In spitting of blood, in proportion to the symptoms, the patient must observe a low diet; carefully avoiding heat, and every kind of bodily exertion; and even speaking, where the case is severe. Cooling purgatives, as manna, salts, tamarinds, a light vegetable diet, ice, and other cooling substances. Cold water acidulated with a little vinegar, should be taken for ordinary drink, immersing the feet and lower part of the body in cold water. If the pa-