428 A SKETCH OF THE HISTORY OF SUGAR, IN THE EARLY TIMES, AND THROUGH THE MIDDLE AGES. BY W. FALCONER, M. D. F. R. S. The use of sugar is probably of high, though not re- mote antiquity (although its adulteration with salt is of a much more modern date), as no mention of it is made, as far as I can find, in the sacred writings of the Old Tes- tament*. The conquests of Alexander seem to have opened the discovery of it to the western parts of the world. Nearchus, his admiral (A. C. 325) found the sugar- cane in the East Indies, as appears from his account of it, quoted by Strabo. It is not however clear, from what he says, that any art was used in bringing the juice of the cane to the consistence of sugar. Theophrastus, who lived not long after (A. C. 303), seems to have had some knowledge of sugar, at least of the cane from which it is prepared. In enumerating the different kinds of honey, he mentions one that is found in reeds, which must have been meant of some of those kinds which produce sugar. Eratosthenes also (A. C. 223) is quoted by Strabo, as speaking of the roots of large reeds found in India, which were sweet to the taste, both when raw and when boiled. The next author, in point of time, that makes mention of sugar, is Varro (A. C. 68), who, in a fragment quoted by Isidorus, evidently alludes to this substance. He describes it as a fluid pressed out from reeds of a large size, which was sweeter than honey. Dioscorides (A. C. 35), speaking of the different kinds of honey, says, that " there is a kind of it, in a concrete state, called jaccharon, which is found in reeds in India and Arabia Felix. This, he adds, has the appearance of salt; and, like that, is brittle when chewed. It is bene- ficial to the bowels and stomach, if taken dissolved in water; and is also useful in diseases of the bladder and kidneys. Being sprinkled on the eye, it removes those * Since writing the above, the author observed that the sweet cane is mentioned in two places of Scripture, and in both as an article of merchandize. It does not seem to have been the produce of Judea, as it is spoken of as coming from a far country. Isaiah, chap, xliii. vcr. 24 ; Jeremiah, chap. vi. vcr. 20.—It is worthy of remark, that the word sachar signifies, in the Hebrew language, in- ebriation—which makes it probable, that the juice of the cane had been early used for making some fermented liquor.