Analysis of Beer, fyc. m much waste of liquor prevented -malt and hops may be had any where, sugar is not difficult to be got; and here perhaps may be seen the reason of the increased demand for sugar of late years, since porter has become an article of exportation, and is brewed in almost every considerable town and city in England. The other necessary articles are neither scarce nor dear, so that no reasonable objec- tion can be urged against the plan. Women can perform the task, and in families where the wife has not much to do, brewing will be both a profitable and pleasurable employment; nothing can be easier. Women are the chief home-brewers throughout England^ and I have endeavoured to render every part intelligible and easy to the meanest capacity. Many books apparently written to instruct, are really intended to blind, perplex, and confound. Most books on brewing are of that stamp. Brewing has been a species of monopoly, and monopolists are always avaricious. Should it be urged that brewing upon this plan would diminish the revenue, we answer, it would not. The increased consumption of malt and sugar, which both pay heavy duties, would more than counter- balance the loss of the excise, and the saving made in small hard-working families would be a comfortable relief, and prevent much of that spirit of complaint which notv pervades the nation. The only persons who might, and that is all chance, sustain an injury, would be great, brewers who have large fortunes, and small publicans, which the legislature and police seem apparently equally anxious to diminish. ESSENCE OF SPRUCE, Is prepared by boiling the twigs of Scotch fir in water, and evaporating the decoction till it grows thick : used to flavour treacle beer, instead of hops. ESSENCE OF MALT, Is prepared by infusing malt m water (first boiled and then cooled till it reflects the image of a person's face in it), pouring off the infusion, and evaporating it to the con- sistence of new honey: used in sea voyages, and places where malt cannot be procured to make beer. black extract. (Hard Multum). From cocculus Indicus, by decoction in water, and evaporation to a stiff tenacious mass; narcotic, intoxi- cating, used in brewing. * Obs,—To make extracts smooth, chyraists sometimes 3 N