Exercise- and Disease. .50 most satisfactory manner. A gentleman afflicted for a length of time with rheumatism, resolved, after every other remedy had been tried in vain, to try the effects of sweating walks. For this purpose, he procured stockings, drawers, and shirts of fleecy hosiery, and applied eight thicknesses of flannel to the chief seat of the complaint, besides warm pantaloons and a great coat. Thus equip- ped, he used to walk, according to the state of the wea- ther, from one to two miles; the consequence of which was a profuse perspiration. On his return, he had always at hand a couple of changes of well-aired flannel, one of which he put on, and then lay down upon a bed not warmed. The result was, that he felt convinced that exercise is much preferable to heated air, or hot water. His complaint completely cured, his appetite increased ; his general health improved, and he became less sensible of cold, or variation of temperature. Consumption.—In the greater part of chronic dis- eases, but especially in consumption, riding on horseback has afforded relief in an almost incredible manner; and, indeed, is not only proper in slight indispositions, accom- panied with a frequent cough and wasting, but, accord- ing to Sydenham, even in confirmed consumption, in which the looseness is succeeded by night sweats, which are the general forerunners of death, in those who perish by this disease. Nervous Disorders.—In nervous disorders, exercise is better than any medicine that can be prescribed. Many have been cured by perseverance in walking; and before they have travelled many days, their complaints have been entirely removed. Bilious Colic.—The great Sydenham says, that he found no remedy so effectual in this disorder, as riding on horseback, provided sufficient evacuations had been previously made, and the exercise was continued for several days afterwards. To prevent the return of the pains which accompany this disorder, he recommends an opiate pill to be taken, morning and evening. Dropsy.—The ancients, it appears, depended much on exercise for the cure of this complaint; and it is worthy of more frequent adoption at the present day, than it seems to meet with. Palsy.—A person threatened with paralytic symptoms, was ordered by his physician to go down to Bath. In making his journey, he thought he would try the effect