579 DR. LOBB'S METHOD OF CURING A SPRAIN. A sprain, (which more properly may be called a strain) whether of the foot, or hand, frequently happens among people; and, if it is great, occasions a painful lameness of the part for a while, and hinders the doing their usual business: and therefore the proposing a me- thod which may hasten the recovery of the part strained, to its natural state, doubtless will be acceptable to the public, and of service to those who may want it.—It may lead us to a right management of the part strained, if we consider the effects of a strain, when it is very great, viz. 1. Such an extension of the tendons and vessels of the muscles strained, that they cannot contract themselves to their natural lengths. 2. That the great elongation of the vessels, (which deprives them of their contractive power) lessens the dia- meter of their cavities, obstructs the free course of their fluids through them, makes them swell, and become pain- ful, and incapable of their usual services, or of being moved by the acts of the will, as before the accident happened.—These effects of violent strains may lead us to conclude that the best remedies are those applications which may best attenuate the obstructed fluids, recover an easy circulation of them, and sufficiently contract the elongated vessels.—For these purposes I advise vinegar, the rectified spirits of wine, such as are burnt in lamps, friction, and motion, in the following manner, viz. Suppose the Ancle to be Sprained. , 1. Let it be fomented with vinegar a little warm, for four or five minutes at a time, once every four hours: this will render the circulation of the fluids in the parts affected more easy, and either prevent a swelling, or pro- mote its subsiding.—2. Let the person stand three or four minutes at a time on both his feet, in their natural posture, and sometimes move the strained foot: and sometimes when sitting with his foot on a low stool, let him move it this way and that, as he can bear it: this will contribute much to contract the over-stretched vessels, and to re- cover a due circulation of their fluids through them.—3. Let a gentle dry friction, with a warm hand, be sometimes used to the parts affected, which will conduce much to the same ends.—4. Two hours after every application of the