Miscellaneous Recipes. 143 Take sour milk, three pints; spirit of salt, and spirit of Vitriol, of each two ounces; compound tincture of laven- der, one ounce. Mix.—Or, Take sour milk, three pints; butter of antimony and cream of tartar, of each two ounces; citric acid, burnt alum, common alum, of each one ounce. Mix for use. Blacking. 1. Take lamp black, six pounds; sugar, six pounds; dis- solve in water, two pints; sperm oil, one pound; gum arabic, three ounces; dissolved in vinegar, two pints; vinegar, three gallons, oil of vitriol, one pound and a half, Mix, secundum artem.—Or, 2. Take ivory black and common treacle, of each twelve ounces; sperm oil, oil of vitriol, of each three ounces; vinegar (No. 18) four pints. Mix.—Or, 3. Take ivory black and treacle, of each two pounds ; neat's-foot oil, eight ounces; oil of vitriol, one ounce; gum tragacanth, two ounces; vinegar, six pints. Mix.— °T> 4. Take ivory black, six pounds; vinegar, water, of each two gallons; treacle, eight pounds; oil of vitriol, one pound.—Or, 5. Take ivory black, one ounce; small beer or water, one pint, brown sugar, gum arabic, of each half an ounce; or, if required to be very shining, the white of an egg.— Or, 6. Take ivory black, four ounces; treacle, eight ounces; vinegar, one pound—used to black leather. Method of Vein-Marbling, and Staining Silk, Linen, Cot- ton, Paper, fyc. By Mr. S. Toplin, of Gainsborough. Make a middling thick size, or paste, of flour and water, to which add a little powdered alum, and then boil it in the manner of glovers' paste, &c. Put some of the size, when cool, into several pots, and mix with it such kinds of colours, or other matters used in staining and dying, as are had in esteem. Have ready a painter's brush to each pot, and with any of the brushes spread a quantity of the fore-mentioned size very even on a flat piece of marble, or other kind of smooth stone, or on a smooth board, or a table, according to the length or width of the piece of silk, linen, cotton, or sheet of paper. On the coloured size, thus spread, lay a strong plate of