Gaming. cantations and ceremonies of an old and vyily moorman, or some superannuated sepoy, performed with an old slip- per, and whose frequent failures never deter them from having implicit faith in so useless a remedy, not always without danger, as scorpion bites are sometimes said to have been fatal, especially if they proceed from the large black kind to be met with in the jungles. Musquitoesy although the last, are not the least of the plagues of India. These insects are, as we all have found, particularly troublesome to new comers. Whether it is that their blood is sweeter, and contains less of the salt than those long resident in the country, is hard to say; but it is known that their bites, if numerous, produce on the former a fever sometimes as severe as that of the measles; and it is in this manner, we are told, that former kings of India used to put to death their nobles. Long as the world has been infested with these pests, it is a matter of surprise that there is not a popular remedy for curing or assuaging the effect of their bites. The best method, however, we are acquainted with is, the anointing the parts with almond oil or cold cream; or even cooling them frequently with a wet towel, often procures great allevia- tion of the intolerable pain. If there should be much swelling or inflammation, bathing the place with goulard water is the best remedy; and if sores or excoriations should appear, some cooling saturnine ointment should be employed, and the part gently anointed with it. To remove these troublesome animals from an apart- ment, perhaps the best method would be to employ that which is practised for catching flies in England : namely, a piece of straw or wicker work, hung in the middle of a room from the ceiling, anointed with bird-lime, having a piece of woollen cloth suspended over it to attract the musquitoes—the cloth itself might also be daubed over with the lime; this will prove an effectual way of des- troying numbers of them. GAMING. It is to be feared that a habit acquired in youth, more frequently than necessity, is the parent of gaming. A harmless game of cards, as it is termed, often repeated, may grow into a confirmed liking of the amusement. When Plato reproved a young man for playing at dice, " What! for such a trifle of money!'—' Custom,' replied Plato, < is no trifle.'"