Sketch of the History of Sugar. substances that obscure the sight."—The above is the first account I have seen of the medicinal virtues of sugar. Galen (A. D. 143) appears to have been well acquainted with sugar, which he describes, nearly as Dioscorides had done, as a kind of honey, called sacchar, that came from India and Arabia Felix, and concreted in reeds. He de- scribes it as less sweet than honey, but of similar quali- ties, as detergent, desiccative, and digerent. He remarks a difference, however, in that sugar is not, like honey, injurious to the stomach, or productive of thirst. If the third book of Galen, " Upon Medicines that may be easily procured," be genuine, we have reason to think sugar could not be a scarce article, as it is there repeat- edly prescribed. Lucan alludes to sugar, in his third book, where he speaks of the sweet juices expressed from reeds, which were drank by the people of India. Seneca the philosopher, likewise speaks of an oily sweet juice in reeds, which probably was sugar. Pliny was better acquainted with this substance, which he calls by the name of saccaron; and says, that it was brought from Arabia and India, but the best from the latter country. He describes it as a kind of honey, ob- tained from reeds, of a white colour, resembling gum, and brittle when pressed by the teeth, and found in pieces of the size of a hazel nut. It was used in medi- cine only. Salmasius, in his Plinianas Exercitationes, says, that Pliny relates, upon the authority of Juba the historian, that some reeds grew in the Fortunate Islands, which increased to the size of trees, and yielded a liquor that was sweet and agreeable to the palate. This plant he concludes to be the sugar-cane ; but I think the passage in Pliny, Hist. Nat. lib. vi. cap. 22, scarcely implies so much.—Hitherto we have had no account of any artificial preparation of sugar, by boiling or otherwise ; but there is a passage in Statius, Sylv. I. vi. 15, that seems, if the reading be genuine, to allude to the boiling of sugar, and is thought to refer immediately thereto by Stephens in his Thesaurus. Arrian, in his Periplus of the Red sea, speaks of the honey from reeds, called sacchar (^ap^ag), as one of the articles of trade between Ariace and Barygaza, two places of the hither India, and some of the ports on the Red Sea. /Elian, in his Natural History, speaks of a kind of