179 Vest Has. forces, Health had never been subdued, had her sub- jects never listened to overtures of peace from the enemy 5 which, as you shall hear by and by, paved the way for the dissolution of the queen's happy government. Excess led the armies of Luxury into the field, and commanded the van; Sickness and Pain were posted in the centre; Poverty and Pride had the command of the wings; and Repentance and Death brought up the rear. Health headed her own troops, and was supported by her two illustrious amazons, Resolution and Pru- dence. The latter drew up the forces with such match- less skill, that their corps were impenetrable by the enemy. Their helmets and coats of mail were tempered with so much art, that they were proof to the enemy's shot. Nor was the queen's army to be surprised at any time by a sudden invasion; for Prudence had erected up and down several watch-towers, whence the motions of the adverse party were easily descried. The dispute was long and doubtful; till at last, the enemy finding no success likely to ensue from open mea- sures of hostility, had recourse to stratagem; for, sending Pleasure as an ambassadress, to mediate between the two contending powers, this artful syren so insinu- ated herself into the favour of the queen's subjects, and sowed such discontent in their breast, that, being gradu- ally won upon by her blandishments and corruptions, they at first began to murmur against the severity of the queen's discipline, and, by degrees relaxing of their alle- giance, they at last revolted openly, and ran over to the enemy. Health being thus overpowered by her adversary, or rather deserted basely, through the treachery of her own subjects, withdrew from earth to heaven, and was speedily enrolled among the divinities; whence she continues to impart her benefits to those distinguished few, who wisely regulate their lives by her golden precepts, and hold no correspondence with Luxury, or her partisans. VESTRIES. Bv 59 Geo. HI. cap. 85, Any person assessed to the poor rates, although such person shall not reside in the parish, may vote in vestry, according to the value of the premises rented. A a 2