286 DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING DISTILLED WATERS, &c. (Concluded from page 246). Succory Water.—From the leaves; eight pounds to the gallon. Spear-wortWater.—From the herb; it is acrid—vomits instantly; and in cases of poison being taken, is preferable to any medicine yet known, as it does not excite any contraction of the upper part of the stomach, and thus defeat its own intention, as white vitriol sometimes does. Strawberry Water.—Fruit bruised, twenty pounds suf- ficient quantity; draw two gallons and a half: very fra- grant. Simple Lavender Water.—Collected in the distillation of the oil: mostly used to scent soaps. Silver-weed Water.—From the herb: is used in dress ing of French gauzes, and although it has neither taste nor smell, common water will not supply its place. Sassafras Water.—From the root: diaphoretic. Saxifrage Water.—From the herb. Small Snail Water.—Baulm mint, hart's-tongue, ground- ivy, flowers of the dead nettle, mallow flowers, elder flowers, of each four ounces; snails freed from their shells, whites of eggs, of each four ounces; nutmegs, half an ounce ; milk, a gallon: distil in a water bath to dryness. 2. Nutmegs, one ounce; water, sufficient quantity: distil a gallon : used in incipient consumption. The Water of Black Cherries.—The fruit with the stones bruised, twelve pounds to the gallon. 2. Almond (bitter) cake bruised, four pounds; draw five gallons: antispasmodic; contains prussic acid, when drawn very strong ;—six pounds of cherry-stones to the pint, is deleterious; expunged from the Pharmacopoeia in 1745. *#* As late experiments have shewn the efficacy of prussic acid, when sufficiently diluted, in phthisis, may not the increase of that disease be referred to the dimi- nished use of this medicine? Vanilla Water.—From the pods: fragrant; used in perfumery. White Poppy Water.—From the flowers: narcotic; much used in some parts of Lincolnshire, every cottager growing the plant for his own consumption in making this water. Water of Pale Roses.—From white roses. Water of Red Roses.—Fragrant, but inferior to that of the common rose.