580 Preservation of Books. vinegar, let the part affected be just wetted with the iec- tified spirits of wine, and then gently rubbed. Uy these means persons to whom I have advised them, have recovered from the effects of very violent sprains in a few days, while some others have been weeks in recover- ing- by different ways of management, such as a continual resting of the strained foot, and disuse of its motions. RECEIPT FOR A DROPSY. Take the large leaves that grow upon the stem of the artichoke; wipe (not wash) them; stamp them in a mortar, and strain out the juice through a linen cloth, forcing it out; then put a pint of the juice into a quart bottle, with a pint of Madeira wine (or Mountain if you cannot get good Madeira). Take three spoonfuls every morning fasting, and three spoonfuls likewise at going to bed; the dose may be increased to four or five, if the case requires, and the stomach will bear. Mind to shake the bottle well, whenever ybu take it. N. B. It is a very safe medicine, being a fine bitter for the stomach, and is among the most approved by expe- rience that is known. THE PHYSICIAN, THE DISEASE, AND THE PATIENT. Dr. Johnson said, that, in sickness there were three things that were material: the Physician, the Disease, and the Patient. If any two of these joined, then they got the victory; for ne Herculus quidem contra duos. If the Physician and the Patient join, then down goes the Disease; for the Patient recovers. If the Physician and the Disease join, that is a strong disease; and the Phy- sician mistaking the cure, then down goes the Patient. If the Patient and the Disease join, then down goes the Physician, for he is discredited.—Bacon. PRESERVATION OF BOOKS. A few drops of any perfumed oil will secure libraries from the consuming effects of mouldiness and damp. Russian leather, which is perfumed with the tar of the birch-tree, never moulds; and merchants suffer large bales of this article to lie in the London-docks in the most careless manner, knowing that it cannot sustain any injury from damp.