124 The Effect*of dfmking large Quantities of Liquors. thrown up with some force by a syringe, might be of more service. Oil has been advised to be given, to help to evacuate the spirit, or to weaken its action. But when the inac- tivity of the stomach is become so great and the danger so pressing, there seems more reason to expect success, from largely diluting that poison, which we in vain attempt to evacuate. When intoxication has been pro- duced by drinking strong liquors, large quantities of water, or weak liquids, drank are found to lessen it very considerably. And though the power of swallowing be lost, yet by means of a pipe (as a catheter) passed be- yond the glottis, or even down into the stomach*, water might be poured in, in such quantity as was judged suffi- cient to dilute and carry on" the liquor in the stomach. To the water might be added with advantage, probably, vinegar, or any kind of acid : or purgatives might be dis- solved in it, to facilitate the poisons passing off by the intestines. A pipe of this kind too would afford the best method of introducing substances into the stomach to promote vomiting. Putting the body into a warm bath, or the legs and feet in warm water, will be of use, by lessening the quantity of blood accumulated in the head and in the larger ves- sels: and some of the water may perhaps be absorbed. With a view to relieve the oppression, bleeding, and opening the temporal artery are advisable. If the pulse is found to become freer and fuller on losing some blood, more may be taken away. Blisters may also be applied with advantage. The coldness of the extremities, and the evident diffi- culty with which the circulation is kept up, point out the propriety of assisting it by warmth and friction applied to the skin (as in recovering drowned persons). Motion, to prevent sleep, may probably be serviceable in such cases. Great care should be taken to loosen the neckband, gar- ters, and every kind of bandage, and that the body should lie in a natural easy posture; on the side is perhaps better than on the belly, though that has been recom- mended, that the stomach might the easier discharge its contents. The breathing should not be obstructed, nor the neck lie low, or in a bent position. * This article was written before the stomach pumps, lately introduced, came into use. Those of Messrs. Jukes, Reid, and Weiss, are now sufficiently known, and may prove equally serviceable in cases of strong intoxication.