540 Drink, fyc, them from the jaws of death. A single drachm of the powder of this root boiled in a pint of water, makes a very strong jelly; and two drachms would afford sufficieat nourishment to an adult for twenty-four hours. He is not acquainted with any substance which possesses equal virtues in nourishing weakly children, who are reduced by diarrhoeas and other evacuations, and re-producing a salubrious mass of blood, so speedily as this excellent root; and what enhances its value beyond any compa- rison, is the circumstance of its being perfectly harmless, or productive of no bad consequences, This, indeed, is a great consideration with respect to children, as it is not a matter of indifference, by what means they are nourished and strengthened. Thus, if we were to nurture them with concentrated animal food, we might also attain the purpose, but their blood would become so heated, and the whole body rendered so irritable, that fevers, in- flammations, convulsions, and apoplexy, might be easily induced. The before-mentioned root, however, is not subject to any of these objections, as it affords a mild nutriment, and agrees with the most irritable constitu- tions. For this reason, every mother may give her child, daily, a small tea-spoon full, or one drachm, of finely- powdered salep-root, reduced to jelly in milk, broth, or soup : it ought, however, to be previously stirred and dissolved in a little cold water, before it is added to the boiling liquid. Drink, 5jc. With respect to drink, Professor Hufeland is decidedly against giving it to children in large quantities, and at irregular periods, whether it consist of the mother's milk, or any other equally mild liquor. It is improper and pernicious to keep infants continually at the breast; and it would be less hurtful, nay even judicious, to let them cry for a few nights, rather than to fill them incessantly with milk, which readily turns sour on the stomach, weakens the digestive organs, obstructs the mesenteric glands, and ultimately generates scrofulous and ricketty affections. In the latter part of the first year, pure water may occasionally be given; and if this cannot be pro- cured, a light and well-fermented table-beer might be substituted. Those parents who accustom their children to drink water only, bestow on them a fortune, the value and importance of which will be sensibly felt through