Horticulture, 134 other necessary works of nursery culture; which, if any now remain, it should be generally finished this month; and other requisite works performed, as directed under their respective heads. All spring planting—of trees and shrubs, should be wholly completed this month. Finish planting out all seedling and other young plants— of deciduous trees and shrubs, as early in this month as possible, before they begin to shoot, as it would then be too late to transplant many sorts successfully. The Green-House.—The exotics of the green-house must still be continued therein, but will now require a large share of free air, frequent waterings, the pots of some fresh-earthed, and others shifted, &c. Admit air—in mild days, from morning till evening; but shut close when cold, and every night. Waterings—will be necessary once or twice a week. Clean the leaves—of oranges, lemons, and of any other exotics that are foul, by washing the large-leaved kinds with a sponge, and the others by watering over the branches and leaves. Decayed leaves, shoots, fyc.—clear away. Fresh earth—the tops of the pots not yet done this spring, previously loosening the old earth. Shift into larger pots, $c.—with some fresh earth, any plants that are in pots or tubs too small; removing with the ball of earth entire, and watering. And where any of the large-growing plants, as oranges, lemons, and American aloes, now growing in the largest-sized pots, are considerably advanced in growth, they should be shifted from the pots into tubs of a larger size ; and any in tubs too small, should be shifted into others of larger dimensions. The Hot-House.—The principal requisite works of this department, are still to support a proper heat by constant bark-beds, and by fires of nights and mornings; with supplies of fresh air in warm daysr and moderate waterings ; and the young pines, and some other plants, require shifting into larger pots. The bark-bed heat—will now require to be renewed with about one-third of new tan, if not done last month; first take up the pots of pines, and remove some of the waste, or earthy old bark, at top, then apply the fresh tan, the old and new forked up together, and directly replunge the pots of plants,