Preventive Cause to Will-making. 105 entitled, in any moderate degree, to the epithet of wise, will not surely think, that when he signs his will he signs his death-warrant, or that the undertaker must of neces- sity follow the lawyer. In fact, it would be foolish to delay the making of a will, even if this were the case; but surely that man's mind must have little fortitude, and less religion, who cannot at stated times think on death with composure, as that which is appointed for all men, and which he can neither retard nor accelerate. But every thing must be subordinate to duty. If the thought of death be a pain, it must be submitted to, be- cause that which suggested it is an obligation binding on all men who are possessed of property, and much more on those who have families, and who are engaged in the connexions of business. Could any man of sense, who died without a will, return to see his family almost beg- gared, his children scattered on the wide world, his busi- ness embarrassed so as to be worth nothing, how much would he be'shocked to think that all this confusion arose from his neglecting so simple an operation as a.will! Would not such a man blush to find his memory despised, and perhaps execrated, for neglecting to do what, if he considered as a trifle, ought the more readily to have been done, butwhat, considered as the means of avoiding much distress and confusion, it was criminal to leave undone ? Preventive Cause to Will-making. One cause there is, which, we firmly believe, has pre~ vented some men from making a will. It is not very honourable to human nature that such a cause should exist, but they who have opportunities of knowing that it does exist, will not object to a truth, though an unwel- come one. We attribute the reluctance which worldly and avaricious men entertain against a will, to that ex- treme aversion they have to the very idea of parting with their property. As their enjoyment of wealth is not in spending, but in hoarding, and is, consequently, a pas- sion which brick-dust might gratify, if it were as scarce as gold-dust, it must be supposed that the imaginary parting with their wealth, will afflict them in proportion to the ecstasies that arise from their imaginary enjoyment. The miser who shows us his gold, has not much more enjoyment of it than we have; the bright metal affects our eyes just as much as his: the employment of the wealth belongs to neither of us. We cannot touch it p