Health, Longevity, and Death; Human Passions, fyc. 11 of death with great composure. Perhaps this proceeds from their innocence, and from their having few ties to engage their attention here. They are observed indeed to Struggle hard in the hour of death, but that is the consequence of a sound constitution. Life with them is not wasted: the whole of it is at once taken from them. It may with propriety be doubted, whether ever a really good man formed, or expressed, the wish of dying sud- denly, from its being preferable to a lingering and painful illness; for surely no man could wish to rush abruptly into the presence of his Maker. Besides, the last illness is not always attended with pain, and how exquisitely consoling to those sensible minds who survive them, are the dying words of a good and pious man. It has been said, that " It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives; the act of dying is not of importance, it lasts so short a time." The act of dying, the expiration of the last breath, is certainly not of importance, inas- much only as it closes the scene of our earthly career; but it does matter how a man dies, in whatever manner he may have lived. It is the most solemn act man can perform. It is that which completes his character, discovers his principles, and affords the greatest consolation, or the greatest misery, to his friends. It is important, because he throws off all disguise. Yet so short is the period allotted for this inevitable act of solemnity, that we are generally inclined to compare the past with the present; and, if we do not distrust the sincerity of a dying man, we are not apt to venerate it. It is good to die well—but it is better to live well. There seems a compulsion in the former; in the latter, all is voluntary. A short Sketch of the Human Passions. As the emotions of the mind are acknowledged to pos- sess considerable influence over the health of the body, the following short tabular sketch of them, giving their sources, varieties, and deviations, will serve to point out the inti- mate connection these subjects have with inquiries re- lative to health, on which longevity may be said to depend. As the mind evidently rules the body, unless we form an idea of the nature of the mind, how can we know how to preserve the health of the body ? We might as well pre- tend to negotiate with a foreign nation, without any