Secrets of Trade. salt. This fact has been confirmed by the experiments of Mr. Richard Phillips, (Annals of Philosophy, No. LX1), who observes, that the " real Cheltenham salts contain no chalybeate property, but are merely sulphate of soda, mixed with a minute quantity of soda, and a very small portion of common salt." It could not be imagined that the salt should contain oxide of iron even in a state of mixture, much less in combination, for carbonate of iron is readily decomposed by ebullition, and the oxide of iron is preci- pitated before the salt can be crystallized. A preparation under the name of Thomson's Cheltenham Salts, is ac- cordingly manufactured in London, by evaporating a so- lution of sulphate of soda and sub-carbonate of soda. " EFFLORESCENCE OF REAL CHELTENHAM SALTS." The preceding salt deprived of its water of crystalliza- tion. " EFFLORESCENCE OF REAL MAGNESIAN CHELTENHAM SALTS," MADE FROM THE WATERS OF THE CHALYBEATE MAGNESIAN SPA. This is asserted to be a sub-sulphate from nature, which combined both a pure and a sub-sulphated magne- sia in its composition; " but, (says Mr. Phillips), neither nature nor art have ever produced such a combination; in truth, it consists of Epsom salt, with portions of mag- nesia, and muriate of magnesia, or muriate of soda." MURIO-SULPHATE OF MAGNESIA AND IRON. This preparation, so named by Mr. Thomson, was found by Mr. Phillips to consist of Epsom salt, deprived of part of its water of crystallization, and discoloured by a little rust of iron, and containing a small portion of/ muriate of magnesia. Thus it appears, that not one of these preparations is similar to the water which is drank at the spa; in order therefore to remedy this difficulty, Mr. Thomson prepared1 the "original combined Cheltenham salts," by eva- porating the waters to dryness: but a very little share of chemical penetration is requisite to shew, that no process of this description can remedy the defect described ; for, as Mr. Phillips has observed, the chalybeate properties of the water must be essentially altered by such an operation. ching's worm lozenges. These consist of yellow and brown lozenges : the former' are taken in the evening; the latter, the following morning. *** Many of the nostrums advertised for the cure of L