174 Rules for the Collection and Payment of Tithes. but shield them from the cold air, which is of far worse consequence than the fly. This plan, however, if our recollection be correct, will succeed only in slight cases, and when the blight is not excessive or continuous, in which case we know, from long practice, there can be no possible remedy, preventive or extemporaneous; and the cultivator can trust only to repeated sowings, and the expectation of a more genial atmosphere. All the numerous contrivances of trapping, fly catching, and dressing of seed, are purely amusing, proceeding from the imaginations of those who had not duly considered the subject. A cold northerly wind will assuredly over- turn all these contrivances; the seed-leaf of the turnip b,eing naturally unable to resist this mal aria, or blight, and, the instant it droops, becoming the lawful prey of its own proper beetle. On the other hand, with a genial • south, or south-western air, this tender and infantine leaf is soon succeeded by a rough one, which defies the bite of the fly, and is out of the reach of the slug. The evolution of gas from prepared seed could obviously have only a temporary, or rather momentary effect. Rules for the Collection and Payment of Tithes. By Mr. Mathew, of Tottenham. Hay becomes titheable when in grass cocks, and is decided not to be so until once tedded; it is therefore necessary that the grass should be shook out in the usual way, and when collected into windrows from the grass cocks, it is then titheable. The usual method of setting out, is by agreeing first with the tithing-man where to commence; and then proceeding regularly to place a small bough, or something of the sort, upon every tenth cock; and as the tithing-man is entitled to the raking, in hay, though not in corn, you are compelled to rake round the tithe cock as much ground as, in your judgment, appears calculated to grow the grass contained thereon; and what is thus collected should be placed upon the cock, and then left to the tithing-man's sole management, with reasonable time for making the same. With me, it is usual to employ the same man through the season for that purpose; and as it is customary to throw the hay into beds, when the grass cocks are shook out, another man is appointed, whose place it is so to arrange the beds, as to bring them sufficiently separated from those allotted for the tithe. If this plan is adopted systematically, no trou-