154 Practical Remarks on the Diseases of Tradesmen, immediate effects of these are exhausted, the complaint is always much more aggravated." Treatment of Mercurial Palsy. Notwithstanding the length of time that the mercurial palsy has been known, we are still unacquainted with any treatment capable of removing it. The French, as usual, administer their ptisans, but without much benefit. In recent cases the paralytic trembling spoutaneously sub- sides, provided the patient removes from the cause, i. e. the mercurial vapour. The late Dr. Lettsom thought sulphur was a specific against it; De Haen, a German physician, according to Dr. Bateman's reports of the diseases of London for 1812, placed much confidence in electricity; and Mr. Pearson says, " that a free exposure to the open air during a dry state of the atmosphere, whether hot or cold, is, on the whole, the most effectual mode of depurating the habit from a mercurial impreg- nation." The Cavalier Sementini (in the 11th volume of the Giornale di Physica), has related five instances of the successful treatment of this disease by the nitrate of silver. He began by administering the eighth part of a grain; and by the time three grains a day were given, the good effects it produced were manifest; and in twenty days more the patient was perfectly cured. Although this remedy has not been employed in this country, it is nevertheless presumed that the most effectual, as well as the most certain means of curing or palliating this dis- order, is to remove entirely from the influence of the mer- curial vapour: the individual, at the same time, should the effects of the disease wear off, ought not, if he can possibly avoid it, to resume the same occupation, from his liability to a relapse. As far as regards button-gilding, the treatment of the disease arising from the materials used in that process, has been tolerably complete; and where this has not proved to be the case, it may be attributed to the inac- curacy of the apparatus, and the carelessness of the workmen, rather than from any defect in the principle of operation. In order, therefore, to explain this subject, we shall present our readers with some notion of the process of gilding, in which there may be some trifling difference in different work-shops, but not of any material consequence, as relates to the minutiae of the art. TUe following account, which we extract from a re-