On Ike, Physical Education of Children, Syc. 367 mote internal prosperity; secondly, it was a prevailing maxim in Sparta, to remove objects of public pity and regret, or in other words, to shorten the life of a being, that in all probability could never be healthy, nor happy. With the same intention, all public midwiyes were ob- liged to bathe new-born infants in wine, in order to ascer- tain whether they were sufficiently vigorous to undergo this singular trial of their constitution. For the Spartans believed,, that weakly children, or such as have a pre- disposition to epileptic and convulsive diseases, would not be able to withstand the powerful stimulus of wine, and would perish under its operation; while those whom Nature had provided with greater vigour, would thus be rendered more hardy and energetic. Treatment of Deformed Children by the Savages of Guiana —The Women of Kamtschatka and their Twins—Custom of the Ostiak Kozaks. However discordant the regulations that subsisted among the Spartans may appear, when analysed by mo- dern principles of ethics and good policy, it is remarka- ble, that they were approved of by the great Aristotle, in his eighth book " on Politics." Nay, it is more sur- prising, that similar customs still prevail among many barbarous nations of the present day, and frequently without any apparent motive or pretext. Thus we are informed by Barrere, a French writer, that the savages of Guiana kill and bury their deformed children, because they do not conceive them entitled to live. According to Chardin, the Mingrelians practise the diabolical prin- ciple, that children who cannot be nurtured, and patients who cannot be cured, ought to be deprived of a life which is a burthen to themselves and others. If a woman of Kamtschatka be delivered of twins, one of them is with- out mercy smothered ; because the natives are contented with one child : and the King of Otaheite is bound, from political reasons, to destroy all the children of his con- cubines. Such flagrant deviations from the human cha- racter deserve to be mentioned only for this reason, be- cause they evince how, in different climates, and under different forms of government, man is apt to forsake the path assigned by nature, when his intellectual faculties remain uncultivated. And with this intention I shall venture to cite another curious custom still prevalent among the Ostiak Kozaks. If we may credit the account