557 Of Poisons. voured by these rapacious invaders. Those that escape are hatched under the sand; and soon after millions at a time of these little crabs are seen quitting the shore, and slowly travelling up to the mountains. The old ones are not so active to return; they become so feeble and lean, that they can hardly creep along, and the flesh at that time changes its colour. Most of them, therefore, are obliged to continue in the flat parts of the country till they recover, making holes in the earth, which they cover at the mouth with leaves and dirt. There they cast their old shells and lie quite naked, almost without motion, for six days together, when they become so fat as to be delicious food. Cautions to Crab Eaters, fyc. These crabs are of considerable advantage to the na- tives ; and the slaves very often feed entirely upon them. In Jamaica, where they are found in great plenty, they are considered as one of the greatest delicacies of the place. Yet still the eating of them is attended with some danger; for even of this kind many are found poisonous, being fed, as it is thought, upon the manchineel apple; and whenever they are found under that noxious plant, they are always rejected with caution. It is thus with almost all the pro- ductions of those luxurious climates; however tempting they may be to the appetite, they but too often 'are found destructive; and scarce a delicacy among them that does not carry its own alloy. OF POISONS. 1. Opium.—When this medicine is swallowed in a large dose, it becomes a poison capable of destroying life. Its first effects are, a disposition to sickness, remarkable faintness, and continued insensible drowsiness. As soon as it is discovered that a poisonous dose of opium is swallowed, an emetic of white vitriol, (twenty grains), should immediately be got down, and the dose repeated every ten minutes till vomiting ensues. After this is effected, the patient should not be suffered to dose, but kept in a state of agitation. 2. Corrosive Sublimate or Arsenic.—When either of these active minerals has been swallowed, the plan of treatment to be followed will be the same in each. An