4G'4 The Toilette. add to each quarter of a hundred weight, one pound of gum arable, and a pint of olive oil. 2. Or to every three pounds add a little gum, two drachms of olive oil, and one drachm of rectified spirit, which will give it a gloss. ®6e ©oiiette,—No. V. TRANSPARENT SOAP. Dissolve almond soap in spirit of wine, filter, and distil off the spirit. WHITE WASH BALLS. White soap, six pounds; starch, three pounds; rose water, eight ounces; rosemary water, four ounces; cam- phor, four drachms; odoriferous species, two ounces. 2. White Spanish soap, one pound ; rose water, three pints; the white of two eggs; liquor of potash, one ounce; boil till hard again ; add oil of rhodium, one scru- ple; oil of cloves, ten drachms; essence of jessamine, one drachm; essence of neroli, half a drachm; and form into squares. 3. White soap, six pounds ; Florentine orrice-root, four ounces; starch, three ounces; styrax, one ounce; rose water, a sufficient quantity. 4. White Spanish soap, one pound; blanched almonds, beat up into a paste with rose water and orange-flower water, three ounces; magistery of bismuth, one ounce ; prepared kali, two drachms; musk, six grains; civet, three grains; oil of rhodium, one scruple; essence of jasmin, one drachm. 5. White soap, starch, of each one pound ; essence of lemons, four drachms; rose water, eight ounces: make into balls of three ounces and a half each. WASH FOR STRENGTHENING THE TEETH AND GUMS. Take Lemon juice, - - - ~lofeach, jounce. Port wine, J Sulphate of quinine, 10 grains. Essence of bergamot, - - t - 3 drops. Mix, and keep in a well-stopped vial for use. A piece of soft linen rag , dipped in this wash, and the teeth and gums moistened with it, after they have been previously cleaned by some powdered charcoal, or other equally simple dentifrice, is the manner of using it. ■ LINIMENT FOR BALDNESS. Take Spirits of hartshorn, - i ounce. Olive oil, - - - - - 1 ounce. Eau de Cologne, . - - - 1 drachm. Mix, and apply to the head twice or three times a day, for three months.