150 Practical Remarks on the Diseases of Tradesmen, numerous instances of injurious effects arising from the long continuance of bodily as well as of mental labour; and, at the same time, of that labour which, if used in a moderate degree, instead of being hurtful, might tend in all probability to conduce to a healthy action of the cor- poreal powers. . Under this head may be included the occupations of children; particularly among those employed in manu- factories, to which we shall refer in its proper place. On this part of the subject, however, there fortunately exists some very strong evidence, and that too, from a most un- suspicious source. On the early Exertion and overstraining of the Physical Powers of Children.—Mr. Owen's Remarks, &c. A few years ago, the injury which, it was natural to suppose, must ensue to young children, from too early overstraining their physical powers, engaged the atten- tion of parliament, and under the influence of Sir Robert Peel, a variety of manufacturers were examined, together with many of the first medical men of the kingdom. It was scarcely reasonable to expect that the former should have observed, or, if they had observed, that they would readily acknowledge, even to themselves, the ill effects which accrued to their young work-people ; and, accord- ingly, we find that, for the most part, they utterly deny that any evil had ensued from the confinement or exer- tion to which they were subjected. We do not mean to insinuate that, in any instance, the manufacturers who were called, stated any thing of which they did not feel themselves convinced; but, accustomed as they must be to employ children, and little as they would naturally feel disposed to indulge in an inquiry, which must neces- sarily take up much time, the probability is, that they would be in perfect ignorance of the subject. Among them, however, we find Mr. Owen, not only acknow- ledging, but remedying, as far as he possessed the means, the evils which arise from a too early employment of chil- dren. In speaking of the children which were engaged in his manufactory at New Lanark, he says, " I very soon discovered, that although these children were extremely well fed, and clothed, and lodged, looked fresh, and to a superficial observer, healthy in their countenances, yet their limbs were very generally deformed, their growth was stunted, and although some of the best school-masters on the old plan were engaged to instruct these children, they made a very slow progress, even in learning a common alphabet."