404 Longing, or Ungovernable Love, fyc. harass the frame by increased excitement. The following may serve as examples: Ungovernable Love. —: Avarice. Anxiety. ■ Heart-ache. — Despondency. As increased sensorial excitement produces various symptoms in common, whatever be the governing nature of the passion, there are also various symptoms common to decreased sensorial excitement under each of these depressing passions: as a greater or less degree of torpor in every irritable part, especially in the circulating and absorbent systems; whence paleness of the countenance, coldness of the extremities, a contraction and shrinking of the skin, and general surface of the body: a retardation and smallness of the pulse, want of appetite, deficiency of muscular force, and a sense of languor which over- spreads the whole frame. Longing, or Ungovernable Love, fyc. Oh ! how the spring of love resemhleth Th' uncertain glory of an April day, Which now shews all the heauty of the sun, And hy and bye a cloud takes all away. The ardent desire which is distinguished by the name of longing, is directed towards objects of various kinds that are absent, and equally relate to places and persons. It is a painful and exhausting emotion, as compounded of hope, love, and fear, and peculiarly agitates the prce- cordia; and hence the striking and beautiful apothegm of the wise man: " Hope deferred niaketh the heart sick." It is felt by children at a distance from home, and who are eager to return to the embraces of their parents; by foreigners who have astrong and unextinguished love for their country, and are anxious to return to the scenes and the companions of former times; and by the youthful pair who have vowed an eternal attachment, and are sure that they cannot live without each other, but whose union is opposed by bars that are felt to be insurmountable. And hence the present variety includes the three modifi- cations of home-sickness, country-sickness, and love-sick- ness. The first is for the most part transitory; the second