335 Horticulture. Removing and taking up—may be performed in bulbous roots lately done flowering, or take up and part the off- sets; likewise take up or transplant scaly bulbous kinds, such as lilies, martagons, &c. when the flower stalks decay, detaching the off-sets, and replanting them; those sorts should not remain long out of the ground. Work in the Nursery.—In the general business of the nursery this month, continue the care of extermi- nating weeds in all the compartments; give occasional waterings tp small young plants, and all plants in pots; and complete all intended budding of fruit-trees an4 others, finishing the whole (m. L): also perform occa- sional pruning, trimming, and training trees, shrubs, hedges, &c. and some works of propagation, by parting roots of fibrous-rooted perennials, &c.; likewise com- mence the preparation of vacant ground (m. 1.), by dig- ging, trenching, &c. for autumn planting. The Green-House.—All the exotics of the green- house being now in the open air, are to continue mostly till the latter end of next month; except very wet wea- ther happens (1.) this, when the more tender small suc- culent plants may be housed. At this season, all the plants will want water often in dry weather; some shifting into larger pots, and others fresh earthed, or the crusted top earth loosened. Hot-House and Stove.—The hot-house plants, al- ways continuing in that department, must have a large admission of fresh air, giving frequent waterings; and iii the pinery, &c. the bark-bed heat is necessary. - In this month, early preparations must be made for shifting the succession pines into larger pots, with some, fresh earth. For this purpose, proper pots, and a quan- tity of rich mellow earth, or light loamy compost, must be ready, together with some fresh tan, to renew the heat of the bark-bed, in which to replunge the pots of pines, after shifting, that the revived heat of the bed may for- ward the emission of new root fibres into the fresh earth uaore expeditiously and effectual. Admit air—freely into the hot-house every day, by opening the glasses considerably in sunny weather. U U