306 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. rhubarb and magnesia, Epsom salts, or other mild ape- rients, for the purpose, as is stated, of removing any vitiated bile, or other offending matter, which may have accumulated in the intestinal canal, and then to begin the following morning, after breakfast, with half an ounce of the water, diluted with two ounces of pure rain water, to be repeated twice a day, at proper intervals. In a few days, if it does not disagree with the stomach, this quantity may be gradually increased to two ounces of the water, diluted as before, three times a day. The dilution, after this, may be diminished, until it can be taken in its pure state, and the dose of water be increased, by de- grees, till it ultimately amounts to four ounces, four times a day, making,. in the whole, one pint in the twenty-four hours, which is the most it has ever been found necessary to prescribe in one day, even in the most obstinate cases of intermittent fevers brought from the island of Walcheren. In irritable stomachs, the water may sometimes produce nausea, though it rarely may vomiting; these unpleasant effects, however, are easily removed, by the addition of a tea-spoonful of brandy, the compound tincture of car- damoms, lavender, or other aromatic tincture, in each dose, paying attention, at the same time, to the state of the bowels during the course, by removing costiveness whenever it may supervene. The following formula is given by Mr. Waterworth for its safer and more agreeable exhibition: Take Chalybeate aluminous water, 5 ounces. Compound tincture of cardamoms, lofeach iounce. Syrup or ginger, - J 1 Confection of opium, - - - 2 scruples. The third part of which is directed to be taken three or four times a day. It is sometimes found advantageous to combine it in intermittents, with the bark in powder, to prevent a re- turn of the paroxysms. The beneficial effects of this water is not limited to its internal exhibition ; it may be used externally, and with advantage, as a lotion, in scrophulous sores, foul ulcers, scrophulous ophthalmia, and in all cutaneous eruptions of the skin. The best way of applying it externally, is to wash the affected parts with it three or four times a day, and after- wards to lay on a compress, or folds of linen rags, wet with it, and renewed as often as they become dry.