380 Horticulture. leaves are about an inch, or inch and half broad, prick- ing them into nursery beds of rich light earth, three inches asunder; shade and water them till they take root. Cabbage plants-of the July sowing, plant out plenty (b. m.) for young winter cabbages, and cabbage cole- worts ; hoe and earth the stems of advancing crops. The August-sowed young cabbage plants —for next summer's early and first main crops, prick in nursery-beds three or four inches asunder, giving water; may also sow a finishing small crop, (b). Red cabbage— early planted will now be in tolerable full cabbaged head (m. 1.) to cut for use as occasionally wanted. Lettuces—raised last month, should now be thinned, and plant some largest (b. m.) for late autumn crops, and for winter; and some on warm borders (m. 1.) for winter and early spring, &c. Fruit-Garden and Orchard. — In this month most sorts of wall and espalier fruit will be ripe and ripening, also many sorts on standards; and as the principal sum- mer pruning and training in wall and espalier trees, was finished in the preceding months, that operation will now be inconsiderable, only to displace any autumnal after- shoots, or to reform casual irregularities, and to extend to the wall the elongated shoots of the former training. Give still proper attention to wall-trees and espaliers in general, it being a particular merit to continue them always well trained, appearing regular and agreeable to sight, and greatly beneficial to the trees and fruit. The regulations in wall and espalier trees—now required, are principally to complete all that is necessary in the operation of summer pruning and training (b. in.) Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.— As in this month and next, various kinds of plants, shrubs, &c. may be planted, for furnishing the different compartments where necessary, preparations for that occasion may now be commenced at proper opportunities, and the several articles planted, as hereafter explained. Continue in good order—all parts of those grounds, by trimming disorderly growths; hoeing and raking borders and other compartments; clipping edgings, and hedges, mowing, sweeping, and rolling grass, and gravel. Digging~ma.y be forwarded in vacant beds and bor- ders for bulbous roots, and other perennial and biennial flowering plants, to be planted this and next month. 1