'Time of Topping the Tobacco, fyc. 52£ they might be reared without doors. A square yard of land, for which a small quantity of seed is sufficient, will produce above five hundred plants, and allow proper space for their nurture till they are lit to transplant. Directions after the Plants appear, &c. Having sown the seed in the manner directed, on the least apprehension of a frost after the plants appear, it will be necessary to spread mats over the beds, elevated from the ground by poles laid across. These, however, must be removed in the morning, soon after the sun ap- pears, that they may receive as much benefit as possible from its warmth, and from the air. In this manner proceed till the leaves have attained the size of about two inches in length, and one in breadth, which they will do in about a month, or near the middle of May. One invariable rule for their being able to bear removal is, when the fourth leaf is sprouted, and the fifth just appears. Then take the opportunity of the first rains, or gentle showers, to transplant them into such a soil and situation as before described. The land must be ploughed, or dug up with spades, as mellow and light as possible. Raise, with the hoe, small hillocks, at the distance of two feet, or a little more, from each other, taking care that no hard sods or lumps are in it, and then just indent the middle of each, without dibbling the holes as for some other plants. When your ground is thus prepared, dig up the plants in a gentle manner from their native bed, and insert a plant gently into the centre of each hillock, pressing the soil around it with your fingers, and taking the greatest care during the operation, that you do not break off any of the leaves, which are at this time exquisitely tender. If the weather proves dry after they are thus transplanted, they must be watered with soft water, in the same manner as is usually done to coleworts, or plants of a similar kind. From this time, great care must be taken to keep the ground soft, and free from weeds, by often stirring with your hoe the mould round the roots, and pruning off the dead leaves that sometimes are found near the bottom of the stalk. Time of Topping the Tobacco, fyc. The difference of this climate from that in which I have been accustomed to observe the progress of this plant, will not permit me to direct with certainty the time which