420 Singular Case of Poisoning. vember. When they are picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them; brush them with the yolk of an egg, and then roll them in bread crumbs; spit them on a lark spit, and tie that on to a larger spit ; ten or fifteen minutes at a quick fire will be enough; baste them with fresh butter while they are roasting, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are well covered with them. For the sauce, fry some grated bread in clarified butter, and set it to drain before the fire, that it may harden: serve the crumbs under the larks when you dish them, and garnish them with slices of lemon. SINGULAR CASE OF POISONING. The following ridiculous, and extraordinary instance of poisoning, was related to M. Dutens by an English nobleman, who was an eye-witness of the scene.—"Lord Oxford kept a mistress, who was extremely capricious. One night, when they were sleeping together, after having quarrelled, he was awakened by the cries of his mis- tress; who beat her face, tore her hair, and exhibited every mark of the greatest despair. He questioned her, and pressed her to tell him the cause of her distress. At last he learnt from her, that, in order to avenge herself for the quarrel which they had had together the day before, she had poisoned him at supper, and had also poisoned herself. Alarmed at this declaration, he called up his servants, and sent for several physicians. They came; antidotes were speedily and properly administered; and after they had both vomited copiously for some hours, every body was surprised at the violent bursts of laughter of the woman; who, falling into, an elbow-chair, was more than a quarter of an hour before she was able to explain the cause of such ill-timed gaiety. She at last declared, that neither Lord Oxford nor herself had been poisoned; but that she had only wished to be revenged upon him, by the alarm which she had given him, and in which she had so well succeeded. Lord Oxford thought the jest rather too serious; and as it was possible that she had thought of giving that turn to the transaction, only after the effect of the emetics, he resolved never to sup with her again!"