5uG Lobsters' Spawning Time, fyc. changes. The main body of the army is composed of females, which never leave the mountains till the rain is set in for some time, and then descend in regular battalia, being formed into columns of fifty paces broad and three miles deep, and so close that they almost cover the ground. Three or four days after this the rear-guard follows: a straggling undisciplined tribe, consisting of males and females, neither so robust nor so numerous as the former. The night is their chief time of proceeding; but if it rains by day, they do not fail to profit by the occasion; and they continue to move forward in their slow uniform manner. When the sun shines, and is hot upon the sur- face of the ground, they make an universal halt, and wait till the cool of the evening. When they are terrified, they march back in a confused disorderly manner. They try to intimidate their enemies; by often clattering their nip- pers together, as if to threaten those that disturb them. But though they thus strive to be formidable to man, they are much more so to each other; for they are possessed of one most unsocial property, which is, that if any of them by accident is maimed in such a manner as to be incapable of proceeding, the rest fall upon and devour it on the spot, and then pursue their journey. Spawning Time, $c. When, after a fatiguing march, and escaping a thousand dangers, they have arrived at their destined port, they prepare to cast their spawn. The peas are as yet within their bodies, and not excluded, for the creature waits the benefit of sea water to help the delivery. For this pur- pose, the crab has no sooner reached the shore, than it eagerly goes to the edge of the water, and lets the waves wash over its body two or three times. This seems only a preparation for bringing their spawn to maturity; for without farther delay they withdraw to seek a lodging upon land : in the mean time, the spawn grows larger, is excluded out of the body, and sticks to the barbs under the tail. This bunch is seen as big as an hen's egg, and exactly resembling the roes of herrings. In this state of pregnancy, they once more seek the shore for the last time, and shaking off their spawn into the water, leave accident to bring it to maturity. At this time whole shoals of hungry fish are in expectation of this annual supply; the sea to a great distance seems black with them; and about two-thirds of the crabs' eggs are immediately de- m