Horticulture. 334 prick, and plant all necessary crops of the season; and to plant slips, off-sets, &c. of aromatic and other pot- herbs. Lettuces—sow white and green cos, brown Dutch, imperial, Cilicia, and white and green cabbage-lettuce (b. m. 1.) for autumn, winter, and next spring. Onions—arrived to full growth in large bulbs, and the stalks and leaves withering, should be pulled up, spread to dry and harden, and housed. Pickling articles—will now be proper to gather in various sorts, as cucumbers, kidney-beans, nasturtium berries, radish pods, love-apples, capsicums, small onions, artichoke bottoms, &c. Potatoes—now well increased in size, may be taken up in larger quantities, but let the main crop continue in growth till October. Fruit-Garden and Orchard. — At this season many sorts of fruit will be ripening; and those upon wall-trees and espaliers should have all possible assist- ance, by continuing the trees trained close and regular, to admit the beneficial effects of the free air and benign influence of the sun, that the fruit may attain'its peculiar perfection in growth, ripeness, and flavor. Occasional pruning and training — in wall-trees and espaliers, will still be required; and if any principal sum- mer pruning, &c. remains to be done, complete the whole now as soon as possible. No pruning in standards is particularly required at this season. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground. — Con- tinue to keep all parts of the pleasure-ground, &c. in neat order, by hoeing, raking, and cleaning the borders, beds, and shrubberies; clipping edgings and hedges; roll- ing gravel, and mowing grass, &c. Sowing, planting, and removing— will be necessary in several sorts of seeds, plants, roots, off-sets, slips, &c. Articles to sow — are principally auriculas, polyan- thuses, anemones, ranunculuses, seeds of bulbous roots, &c. (b.m.); all in large pots, either to move to shade in summer or shelter in winter; or may all be sowed in a bed or border. Planting—is necessary in the several autumnal flower- ing bulbs, to flower the same season; and most sorts of small bulbous off-sets; also plant off-sets and. slips of several fibrous-rooted perennials.