Recipes for mak ing Ceiurhte Family Wines. 291 Strawberries require to be squeezed through a searce, as lor making ices; and every pound of fruit should be well mixed with half a pound of fine sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Their colour is lost in some degree, but it may be restored by art when they are used. Apricots are gathered when ripe, yet somewhat hard ; are cut lengthwise, and have the stones removed with a knife: they are then bottled, and to each bottle twelve or fifteen kernels of the fruit are added. In all other respects they are treated like the gooseberries. Peaches require a similar operation. The author has found by experiment, that syrup of raisins preserves the aroma and pleasant acidity of fruits infinitely better than sugar.—(Vide " Na- tural and Medical Dieteticon," p. 185 et seq.) SOME RARE AND SEASONABLE RECIPES FOR MAKING GENUINE FAMILY WINES. CURRANT WINE. Red currants, seventy pounds, bruised and pressed; brown sugar, ten pounds; water, a sufficient quantity to fill up a fifteen-gallon cask: yields a pleasant red wine, rather tart, but keeping well. 2. White currants, one sieve, red currants one gallon, press; to each gallon of juice, add three gallons of water; to ten gallons of liquor, add thirty pounds of sugar, and ferment: when you bung it up, add brandy, two pounds to each ten gallons of wine. 3. Juice eleven quarts, that is, the produce of a sieve; sugar, twenty pounds; water, a sufficient quantity to fill up a nine-gallon cask; ferment, and when it has done working, add brandy, four pounds: for half a hogshead, use currants, three sieves, eighty-four pounds; brandy, one gallon. BLACK CURRANT WINE. Berries, twenty pounds; brandy, two pounds to four pounds; water, twelve gallons to fourteen; yeast, two spoonfuls; fermented for eight days, then bottled and well corked: yields a pleasant, rather vinous, cooling liquor, of a purple colour; or they may be made into wine like the common currants: by the first process the wine is a dark purple, rather thick, but good. 2. Juice of boiled fruit and water, equal parts; to each quart of liquor, add sugar, one pound; and ferment. «