482 Treatment of Piles, These affections are the consequence of habitual cos- tiveness, fulness of habit, hard riding, excesses of various kinds, the suppression of some long-accustomed discharge, and from the use of aloes taken as purges, abuse of fer- mented liquors, &c. They are mostly met with in people of a robust habit, in those who lead sedentary lives, and in pregnant women. The piles are by no means dangerous, although they often prove tedious, troublesome, and extremely disagree- able; and in some cases are to be viewed as a salutary evacuation. In some instances, however, they are apt to degenerate into fistula,-a disease still more dangerous and harassing. Treatment of Piles. In treating the piles, particular attention should be paid to the cause that gave rise to them; and as a bound body is one of the most frequent, the bowels should be kept regularly open by gently aperient medicines; for example:— Laxative Medicine for Piles. 1. Take Lenitive electuary, 2 ounces. Powdered jalap, ----- 2 drachms. Nitre, - - - - - - If drachm. Syrup of buckthorn, enough to make an electuary. X){ which let the patient take the hulk of a large nutmeg occasionally. 2. Take Flour of sulphur, 1 ounce. Lenitive electuary, - - - 2 ounces Cream of tartar, .3 drachms. Syrup of roses, enough to make the whole into an electuary. To be taken as above. 3. Take Castor-oil, \ ounce, to 1 ounce. Though, in the bleeding piles, the discharge of blood be greater than one could suppose the body able to sustain, it seldom proves fatal. It has been deemed imprudent by some to check the bleeding piles, when they frequently recur, and the flow of blood is inconsiderable. It may, however, be laid down as a rule, to which the bleeding piles form no exception, that discharges, of whatever kind, which, while they do not abate inflammatory predisposi- tion, are profuse, weakening and unnatural, as being deviations from the healthy state, will require more of suitable attention and restriction. By the occasional use of gently aperient medicines, the patient may acquire the habit of obtaining motions at stated times of the day, without straining. But should none be procured by this means, he may use clysters of tepid water, with soap and oil.