Health, Longevity, and Death. The assertion has been made by those who have at- tained a great age, (Parr, and Henry Jenkins, for instance), that they adopted no particular arts for the preservation of their health; consequently, it might be inferred, that the duration of life has no dependence on manners or customs, or the qualities of particular food. This, how- ever, is an error of no common magnitude. Peasants, labourers, and other hard-working people, more especi- ally those whose occupations require them to be much in the open air, may be considered as following a regulated system of moderation, and hence the higher degree of health which prevails among them and their families. They also observe rules; and those which it is said were recommended by Old Parr, are remarkable for good sense; namely, "keep your head cool by temperance, your feet warm by exercise; rise early, and go soon to bed; and if you are inclined to get fat, keep your eyes open and your mouth shut*." In other words, sleep mo- derately, and be abstemious in diet;—excellent admo- nitions, more especially to those inclined to corpulency. The advantages to be derived from a regular mode of living, with a view to the preservation of health and life, are no where better exemplified than in the precepts and practice of Plutarch; whose rules for this purpose are excellent; and by observing them himself, he maintained his bodily strength, and mental faculties unimpaired, to a very advanced age. Galen f is a still stronger proof of the advantages of a regular plan, by means of which he reached the great age of 140 years without having ever experienced disease. His advice to the readers of his Treatise on Health is as follows: " I beseech ail persons who shall read this work, not to degrade themselves to a level with the brutes, or the rabble, by gratifying their sloth, or by eating and drinking promiscuously whatever pleases their palates, or by indulging their appetites of every kind. But whether they understand physic or not, let them consult their reason, and observe what agrees, and what does not agree with them, that, like wise men, they may adhere to the use of such things as conduce to * It is stated by others, that the latter part of this maxim was—" Never cat till you are hungry ; nor drink but when nature requires it." James Donald, au old man who lately died in Dunbartonshire, aged at least ninety-three (some imagine one hundred years), always made it a rule to walk at least two miles every day, either out of doors, in good weather ; or within in bad. t A celebrated physician, born at Pcrgamus, in. Asia Minor, auno dom. 131. e