Crabs living in the Mountains, fyc. 555 through the middle and joined together; for each side looks like four lingers, and the two nippers or claws resemble the thumbs. The body is covered with a shell, bunched in the middle, on the fore-part of which there aire two long eyes of the size of a grain of barley, as trans- parent as crystal and as hard as horn. A little below these is the mouth, covered with a sort of barbs, under which there are two broad sharp teeth as white as snow. With these teeth they can easily cut leaves, fruits, and rotten wood, which is their usual food. But their principal instrument for cutting and seizing their food is their nip- pers, which catch such an hold, that the animal loses the limb sooner than its grasp, and is often seen scampering off, having left its claw still holding fast upon the enemy. In fact, it loses no great matter by leaving a leg or an arm, for they soon grow again, and the animal is found as per- fect as before. Mode of living in the Mountains, fyc. This, however, is the least surprising part of this crea- ture's history: and what remains, were it not as well known and as confidently confirmed as any other circumstance in natural history, might well stagger our belief. These ani- mals live not only in a kind of orderly society in their re- treats in the mountains, but regularly once a year march down to the sea-side in a body of some millions at a time. They choose the months of April or May to begin their expedition; and then sally out by thousands from the stumps of hollow trees, from the clefts of rocks, and from the holes wrhich they dig for themselves under the surface of the earth. At that time the whole ground is covered with this band of adventurers. The sea is the place to which they direct their march with right-lined precision ; they neither turn to the right or left, and even if they meet with a house, they will attempt to scale the walls to keep the unbroken tenor of their way. But though this be the general order of their route, they are upon some occasions compelled to conform to the face of the country ; and if it be intersected by rivers, they are then seen to wind along the course of the stream. They are commonly divided into three battalions; of which, the first consists of the strongest and boldest males, that, like pioneers, march forward to clear the route and face the greatest dangers. These are often obliged to halt for want of rain, and go into the most convenient encampment till the weather