203 The Way to Wealth. Richard says; and farther, " Never leave that till to- morrow, which you can do to-day."—If you were a ser- vant, should you not be ashamed that a good master would catch you idle ? Are you then your own master ? Be ashamed to catch yourself idle, when there is so much to be done for yourself, your family, your country, and your king. Handle your tools without mittens; remem- ber, " that the cat in gloves catches no mice," as Poor Richard says. It is true there is much to be done, and, perhaps, you are weak-handed, but stick to it steadily, and you will see great effects; for " Constant dropping wears away stones; and by diligence and patience the mouse ate in two the cable; and little strokes fell great oaks." ' Methinks I hear some of you say, " Must a man afford himself no leisure ?" I will tell thee, my friend, what Poor Richard says—"Employ thy time well, if thou meanest to gain leisure, and, since thou art not sure of a minute, throw not away an hour."—Leisure is time for doing something useful: this leisure the diligent man will obtain, but the lazy man never; for a life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things. Many without labour would live by their wits only, but they break for want of stock; whereas industry giveth comfort, and plenty, and respect. " Fly pleasures, and they will follow you. The diligent spinner has a large shift; and now I have a sheep and a cow, every body bids me good morrow." II. ' But with our industry we must likewise be steady, settled, and careful, and oversee our own affairs with our own eyes, and not trust too much to others; for, as Poor Richard says, ' " I never saw an oft-removed tree, Nor yet an oft-removed family, That throve so well as those that settled be." '* And again, " Three removes are as bad as a fire;" and again, " Keep thy shop, and thy shop will keep thee;" and again, " If you would have your business done, go ; if not, send." And again, ' *.* He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive." ' And again, " The eye of a master will do more work than both his hands ;" and again, " Want of care does us more damage than want of knowledge;" and again, " Not to oversee workmen, is to leave them your purse open."