Analysis of Beer, #c. 402 ground into a fine powder, undiscoverable in the liquor, is but too much used, to the prejudice of the public. Heading—Salt of steel is the most proper, though not to be recommended; but a mixture of alum and copperas, being much cheaper, has obtained the preference. Alum is a great drier, and causes that thirst which some beers occasion, so that the more you drink, the more you want. Alum gives likewise a smack of age to beer, and is pene- trating to the palate. The properties of copperas are well known as dangerous and destructive, and therefore need no comment. Salt—is highly useful in all beers; it gives a pleasing relish, much as it does to meat, and also fines the liquor. Having thus analyzed beer, and presented its various component parts to the public view, we shall leave a choice to every individual to prepare it to his own laste. When a man has been long blind, and has his eyes opened, it does not often happen that He walks into a ditch. Here however, further to promote general information, it must be added, that by Act of Parliament, no common brewer shall have in his house or brewhouse, more than 101b. of sugar or treacle, under the penalty of 100/.; but the public need not be told how easy it is for those who have large detatched warehouses, cooperages, &c. &c. to make compounds, or prepare any ingredients, where ex- cisemen and informers have no access; and as the persons employed in their preparation are subject to the penalties of the law, it will cease to be wonderful that no informa- tion takes place. It is not therefore men of large capitals who are endangered by this act, but small beginners, who have not conveniences to prevent discovery, and yet cannot get a livelihood without disobeying the injunctions of the legislature of the country. We shall now conclude with recommending to all per- sons to make the experiment, feeling persuaded they will be convinced of the propriety of brewing for themselves; they can suit themselves in taste, in strength, in flavour, in quantity ; they will have beer much cheaper; they will have it more wholesome. Every person may judge of his own taste in beer. Grains of paradise, which are of a warm and pleasant quality, cardamom-seeds, and cinnamon, lin- seed, allspice, and a variety of flavours, may be chosen by different persons. Much unnecessary time spent in public- houses will be saved, much unprofitable discourse avoided,