Observations on Tea, fyc. 20 found that a lesser quantity of this dyed tea, will give a deeper colour to the same proportion of water, than if it were genuine;—2. The colour it gives the water, will also be of a reddish brown, whereas it should be dark;— 3. When the leaves have been washed, by standiug a little, they will look greener than good Bohea;—4. This dyed tea is generally much larger; it is therefore a good way, always to buy the smallest-leaved Bohea;—5, The liquor, which should be smooth and balsamic to the palate, tastes rougher and more harsh;—6. If milk be poured into it, it Will rise of a reddish colour, instead of a dark or a blackish brown;—7. A little copperas put into this liquor, will turn it to a light blue, instead of a deep blue, inclining to black;—8. Spirit of hartshorn makes the good tea of a deep brownish colour, after it has stood awhile, like new drawn tincture of saffron ; but it has not the same effect on bad tea. Green tea may also be counterfeited, by dyeing bad Bohea with green vitriol. This also is easily detected : 1. By putting a piece of gall into the infusion, it will turn it presently to a deep blackish colour, which would not be the case were vitriol or copperas not present; for galls do not naturally tincture tea;—2. If the infusion made of this tea, be of a pale green, and incline to a bluish dye, it is bad ;—3. Spirit of hartshorn will give it a slight purple tinge, and throw down a small sediment, instead of a deep greenish yellow, after it has stood about six minutes. These directions will serve to detect adulterated teas, a species of fraud by no means uncommon at the present day; and may prove equally serviceable to the whole- sale dealer, the retailer, or the private individual who purchases for his own and his family's consumption; thus a reciprocal test may be established between the seller, who ought to purchase none but genuine articles, and the consumer, who ought to have the best, and most wholesome in the market, for his money. Observations on the Manner in which the Tartars, Japanese, and Chinese prepare their Tea. The Tartars boil it in milk ; but this method, it is said, causes obstructions and relaxations of the vessels through which the liquor is to pass into the body; it is therefore adviseable that corpulent, cachectic, and hypochondriac persons, should abstain from using it in this manner, and from mixing milk or cream with their tea. Besides,