148, Practical Remarks on tjie Diseases of Tradesmen, The brutes themselves set us an example of cleanliness. Most of them seem uneasy, and thrive ill, if they be not ( kept clean. A horse that is kept thoroughly clean, will thrive better on a smaller quantity of food, than with a greater, where cleanliness is neglected %. Even our own feelings are a sufficient proof of the necessity of cleanli- ness. How refreshed, how cheerful and agreeable does one feel on being shaved, washed, and dressed; espe- cially when these offices have been long neglected. Most people esteem cleanliness; and even those who do not practise it themselves, often admire it in others. Supe- rior cleanliness sooner attracts our regard than even finery itself, and often gains esteem where the other fails. We shall conclude this article by recommending the practise of that virtue to people of all stations and con-, ditions in life. We do not indeed pretend to rank clean- liness amongst the cardinal virtues; but we would recom- mend it as necessary for supporting the dignity of human, nature; as useful and agreeable to society, and as highly conducive to health. PRACTICAL REMARKS ON THE DISEASES OF TRADES- MEN, MECHANICS, LABOURERS, &c. &c* Preliminary Observations. From the various employments to which mankind are indebted for their comforts and luxuries, some of the most serious disorders to which the human body is liable, have their origin; whence the deduction to be drawn, must naturally depend upon how far the waste of life is a ne- cessary consequence of such occupations; or whether it be only an unfortunate or but avoidable consequence. *{ If, on the one hand," observes a French writer, " man has rendered nature tributary, and compelled her to afford all those stores which can serve to in- crease the pleasure of his existence; on the other hand, medical philosophy recognises a multitude of grievous evils, arising from the very same source with so many useful and ingenious inventions. The almost infinite number of arts, of trades and professions, are not exercised with impunity, and thousands perish victims to the state of life they have embraced." The most elevated as well as the most degraded pro- fessions, are equally subject to maladies of more or less importance; as if, in a manner, the universality of the evil rendered it less deplorable. It must, however, be un- questionably admitted, that after all the stress that has been laid upon the occupations of men, much, if not