Ill Secrets of Trade. %* The word elixir is of Arabian origin, viz. elech- scher, or elekscir; which means an essence, or pure mass, without any dregs. essence of vitriol. (See Elixir of Vitriol). ESSENCE OF BITTER ALMONDS. The preparation sold under this name, for the purposes of perfumery, &c. consists of one part of the essential volatile oil of bitter almonds, and seven parts of rectified spirit. ESSENCE OF COFFEE. The cassia pulp is said to form the basis of this article. ESSENCE OF COLTSFOOT. This preparation consists of equal parts of the balsam of Tolu, and the compound tincture of benzoin, to which is added, double the quantity of rectified spirit of wine; and this, egad! is a pectoral for coughs. If a patient with affection of the lungs, should recover during the use of such a remedy, it ought certainly to be designated as a lucky escape, rather than as a skilful cure. ESSENCE OF MUSTARD (WHITEHEAD'S). This consists of oil of turpentine, camphor, and a portion of spirits of rosemary, to which is added a small quantity of the flour of mustard seed. Whitehead's Essence of Mustard Pills.—Balsam of Tolu,. with resin. Ready-made Mustard.—This is made up with currant- wine and sugar: formerly must, or grape-juice, was employed for this purpose; whence the name ?rats£ard. ESSENCE OF PEPPERMINT. A spirituous solution of the essential oil, coloured green by spinach leaves. ESSENCE OF SENNA, PREPARED, (SELWAY's). This is a concentrated infusion of senna, in combina- tion with an alkali. It is well adapted for domestic use. *.%* Dr. Cullen used to say, that senna was one of the best purgatives, if it could be divested of its griping quality; this, however, he was unable to obviate, as he was not aware of its cause, and therefore conjoined it with aromatics, instead of those salts which might be capable of increasing the solubility of its oxidized ex- tractive, or the purgative activity of the infusion. Soluble tartar and alkaline salts are its most useful adjuncts; it