Prescriptions. and cold, and vapour-baths have been prepared; and, as the supply of water is abundant, invalids whose cases may require the use of bathing in any shape, will here find every convenience for the administration of this most important remedy. The wells are in the centre of some very beautiful grounds, situated to the south-east of the town, adjoining the Bath and Bristol road. The surrounding scenery is remarkable for its richness and variety; and the walks and rides have been laid out with much taste and judg- ment. On Monday the first of May, 1815, the new pump- room was opened, and every thing contributed to give this event a most interesting and animating character. The band of the South Gloucester Militia was stationed under the colonnade of the new building; the walks and room were crowded', and in the course of the morning several thousand persons drank of the spring; all of whom testified their delight at the beauty and gaiety of the spectacle, and the admirable accommodations which had been provided for the health and recreation of those who may frequent the place. PRESCRIPTIONS. Solvent Drops, in Gravel and Stone. Take eight ounces of potash, and four ounces of the fresh calcined salt of tartar; mix, and put them into a glazed earthen vessel; then pour upon them a quart of boiling, soft spring-water; let the infusion remain twenty- four hours, stirring it now and then ; and afterwards filter it for-t.se: the dose is from thirty to sixty drops, taken in half a pint of veal broth, milk and water, or linseed tea, twice a-day, fasting, and abstaining from all acid.— (In Stone and Gravel, and Bilious Obstructions). %* This is the secret by which the late Dr. Chittick acquired so much pro- fit and reputation, and which is now sold by several empirics, under another name, at a very high price. Madame Nouffler's Remedy for the Tape-worm. Take male fern root in powder, two to three drachms, in a glass of peppermint water, fasting, in the morning. Two hours afterwards, take the following bolus: Calomel, - 5 grains. Gamboge, - - 8 to 10 grains. Make a bolus, to be washed down with green tea.