The advantage of Candles over Lamps, fyc. eyes. No artificial darkness during the day is ever so uniform, but that one eye must exert itself more than another, and necessarily sutler by this change. Persons with weak or diseased eyes, who spend the whole day in an apartment darkened with green curtains, injure their sight still more by this pernicious practice. It is far more prudent to repair to clear day-light and fresh air, and to direct the eyes to distant prospects, than to confine them to the close atmosphere of a room, and to the sight of near objects. Lastly, it is an error, that weak eyes, when employed in minute vision, ought to have a faint light; for by this practice they are still more weakened. Thus green spectacles are very hurtful to some eyes, as they deprive them of that light which is neces- sary to a distinct perception of objects. Conduct to be observed in Weak Eyes. The artificial light of candles and lamps is detrimental to weak eyes; not, as some imagine, on account of the light being too strong for the eyes, but because the flame of a candle too powerfully illumines the eye in one point, and does not uniformly stimulate the retina. The best Defence of Weak Eyes by Candle-light, fyc. The means used to prevent the great stimulus from the rays of light are, in general, so regulated, that the screen may not only cover the flame, but also concentrate the greatest part of the light. Thus the room is darkened, and only a small spot above and below the apparatus is illumined; a practice highly injudicious. The study-lamps, with large round screens, seem to be purposely contrived to impair the soundest eyes, by their continued use. The green parchment screens for- merly used, were likewise objectionable; for though they admitted the free access of light on both sides, they pro- duced too great a shade before the eyes. The best and most proper mode of defence of weak eyes by candle- light, is a flat screen, projecting about two or three inches over the forehead; or even a round hat, with a brim of a proper size. The advantage of Candles over Lamps, bjc. Those who are afflicted with weak eyes, should always use two candles, so placed that the flame be neither too low nor too high for the eye. This is a circumstance of great importance; as the light, when placed too low, is