469 CORNAllO'S SECRET OF LONG LIFE—RESTORATIVE PROCESS •^-OBSERVATIONS ON THE PULSATION OF THE HEART, &c. The secret of Cornaro's longevity seems to have been, a gradually increasing temperance, " in omnibus," and probably, after a certain time of life, abstinence from the " opus magnum." The source of physical and moral Health, Happiness, and Longevity,— " Reason's whole pleasure, all the Joys of Sense, Lie in three words—Health, Peace, and Competence. But Health consists in Temperance alone; • And Peace, Oh Virtue ! Peace is all thy own."—Pope. Intensive Life can only be purchased at the price of Extensive.—If you force the heart to gallop as fast during the second, as it does during the first stage of life, and make the steady fire of 42 to blaze as brightly as the flame of 21, it will very soon be burnt out. Those who cannot be content to submit to that dimi- nution of action ordained by Nature, against which there is no appeal,—as it is the absolute covenant, by the most attentive and implicit observance of which we can only hope to hold our lease of life comfortably,—will soon bring to the diminished energy of the second stage of life, the paralysis of the third. " The length of a man's life may be estimated by the number of pulsations which, he has strength to perform. Thus, allowing 70 years for the common age of man, and 60 pulses in a minute for the common measure of pulses in his whole life, would amount to 2,207,520,000; but if, by intemperance, he forces his blood into a more rapid motion, so as to give 75 pulses in a minute, the same number of jmlses would be completed in 56 years; consequently, his life would be reduced 14 years." From 40 to 60, a witty French author tells us, is "La belle saison* pour la Gourmandisefor the artificial pleasures of the palate, it may be, and the bon vivant cul- tivates them as the means of prolonging the vigour of youth, and procrastinating the approach of age. Restoration may certainly be considerably facilitated, by preparing and dressing food so as to render it easily * And for culinary operators from 25 to 40. Before the former, they can hardly accumulate sufficient experience; and after the latter, they every day lose a portion of their "ban gout" and activity.