Rural Economy. more of the mixture. A little train oil may be applied after the maggots are removed, as sometimes the skin will be hard by applying too much of the liquid. Besides, the fly is not so apt to strike when, it finds the smell of the oil, which may prevent a second attack. This method Of destroying maggots is superior to any other, and it prevents the animal from being disfigured by clipping off the wool, which is a common practice in some countries. How in every Year to procure plenty of New-laid Eggs at Christmas. Let the hens be set upon eggs as early in the year as possible, not later than March. A hutch should be made for the hen and chickens, twenty-four inches long, twelve inches wide, and eighteen high, divided in the middle, so as half to be open and half very close ; let down a door to keep them very warm in the night; and when wet or very cold, if made light, it may easily be put under shelter. The chickens are to be fed with plenty of boiled eggs for twelve or fourteen days; if too much relaxed, eggs are a speedy cure. Chickens hatched early will be nearly as large as the hens at Midsummer, and in November and December will always lay plenty of eggs, and will sit upon eggs very early the next spring: this will produce an early breed of poultry. The best fowls for laying are not very large ; and the white ones do not lay so well in <;old weather. Remarks.—Poultry should roost very warm in-winter; and in summer the house should have air, and be cleaned every week. Many die through drinking dirty water. An earthenware fountain keeps the water clean, and preserves their health in hot weather. After three years, hens cast their feathers later and later every year, and are hardly in full feather until December or January; seldom lay eggs until March or April, and then only twenty or thirty, and no more for that year. Hens should not be kept above four years, nor cocks above three. By this method six hens will lay more eggs than twelve in the usual way. The Frog, a Destroyer of Caterpillars. A gentleman writes that, one summer walking in a . friend's garden, a very fine frog leaped upon the path he stood upon: being an admirer of nature, he watched it under a gooseberry-bush, where there happened to lay a large leaf of a tulip; the frog immediately mounted on