Mechanics, Labourers, fyc. 215 When bruises are of a serious and alarming nature, attended with much discolouration of the skin, the pa- tient should apply, as soon after the injury as possible, a number of leeches, proportioned to the extent of the injury, as well as lose blood from the arm, and put him- self on low diet; after which, the bruised part may be bathed as before advised, and a poultice of elder and camomile flowers, thickened with crumb of bread, ap- plied in equal quantities of vinegar and water. This poultice is peculiarly proper when a wound accompanies the bruise. It may be renewed twice or three times a day. Wounds from Pointed Instruments. Punctured wounds are produced by sharp-pointed in- struments, and are more dangerous than any other kind, from the liability to locked jaw, on any of the nerves being wounded ; and the inflammation which is attendant on them, runs to a considerable extent. Here fomenta- tions and poultices should be used, and, if constitutional symptoms run high, it will be proper to call in a sur- geon, who will, if necessary, make a free incision into the wound, and adopt other means, as circumstances may suggest. Scalds and Burns. On being scalded or burnt, it is recommended to place or plunge the offended part into a bucket or other conve- nient vessel of cold water, or to pump upon it; retaining it for a time under this process, until the pain be less sensible on taking it out. The water should frequently be changed, that its temperature may be as considerably below that of the part, as it was when first placed in the bucket. The longer this is deferred after the accident, the less benefit will be derived from it. After the cold water has been used long enough, which, in the first in- stance, should be adopted without a moment's delay, the parts may be kept moist with equal parts of milk and lime-water, or even water alone, by rags wet with them, constantly applied to the part, and passing over them a stream of air from a pair of bellows, until a certain de- gree of cold, or sense of freezing, is felt. By this simple process, a large piece of skin that has been burnt to the appearance of charring, and surrounded with a high de- gree of inflammation, has been perfectly cured in a very short time.