Cautions against Empirics. 501 would learn, from clerical authority, what distemper has deprived them of a friend;—2. That it would excite more attention to the nature of epidemics, especially those connected with the seasons;—3. That we may also learn to appreciate, with more scrupulous accuracy, the ope- ration of medicines in general; and,—4. That it would serve as an effectual check on every species of domestic and foreign quackery. Although I do not wish to insinuate too many novel proposals, yet I think it would answer the most desirable purpose, if an annual memorandum were annexed to the bills of mortality, stating the exact and attested number of those who have fallen victims to the most celebrated nostrums advertised in newspapers. Such a regulation would be perfectly consistent with justice; as we are now obliged to pay for a considerable part of the daily prints, in which we are pompously informed of their wonderful effects. Perhaps some apology may be necessary for trespassing upon the rugged path of empiricism; but I can speak positively from the experience of many unfortunate in- dividuals, who have either fallen victims to fatal credulity and delusion, or whose health has suffered irreparable injury; hence, T claim indulgence for those invectives and demonstrations which are directed against so baneful a practice. , If the public were in possession of a system of educa- tion, founded on just principles, such mistaken notions and glaring impositions could not prevail. But how, it will be asked, can this desirable object be effected? It is doubtful, whether the example of the more enlightened would alone be sufficient: it appears to me indispensibly requisite, that youth of both sexes, in public and private schools, should be made acquainted with the constitution of the human body; they should be instructed in the elementary knowledge of the animal economy, particularly with respect to those parts of the frame which are most vulnerable, and essential to life. There can be no doubt, that the moral and physical attributes of human nature are inseparable; so that the cultivation of the one, with- out the other, must frequently lead to paradoxical and inconsistent actions. Nothing, indeed, is more common than that propensity which the most judicious persons display in search of general rules for regulating the com- plicated art of education. Had the great Author of