194 Origin and Cause of the Use of Amulets, fyc. frequently sung or chanted, and to which a greater de- gree of efficacy was ascribed; and a belief in the cura- tive powers of music has even extended to later times. In the last century, Orazio Benevoli composed a mass for the cessation of the plague at Rome. It was per- formed in St. Peter's church, of which he was Msestro di Capella, and the singers, amounting to more than two hundred, were arranged in different circles of the dome; the sixth choir occupying the summit of the cupola. Origin and Cause of the Use of Amulets, fyc.—Jacob's Ear- rings, fyc. The origin of amulets may be traced to the most re- mote ages of mankind. In our researches to discover and fix the period when remedies were first employed for the alleviation of bodily suffering, we are soon lost in con- jecture, or involved in fable; we are unable to reach the period in any country, when the inhabitants were desti- tute of medical resources; and we find among the most uncultivated tribes, that medicine is cherished as a bless- ing, and practised as an art, as by the inhabitants of-New Holland and New Zealand, by those of Lapland and Greenland, of North America, and the interior of Africa. The personal feelings of the sufferer, and the anxiety of those about him, must, in the rudest state of society, have incited a spirit of industry and research, to pro- cure alleviation, the modification of heat and cold, of moisture and dryness; and the regulation and change of diet and habit, must intuitively have suggested them- selves for the relief of pain; and when these resources failed, charms. Amulets and incantations were the na- tural expedients of the barbarian, ever more inclined to indulge the delusive hope of superstition, than to listen to the voice of sober reason. Traces of amulets may be discovered in very early history. The learned Dr. War- burton is evidently wrong, when he assigns the origin of these magical instruments to the age of the Ptolomies, which was not more than three hundred years before Christ; this is at once refuted by the testimony of Galen, who tells us that the Egyptian King Nechepsus, who lived six hundred and thirty years before the Christian era, had written, that a green jasper cut into the form of a dragon surrounded with rays, if applied externally, would strengthen the stomach and organs of digestion. We hav« moreover the authority of the Scriptures in support