218 f^ouafe&eepmg anD f^uafcantirg.—No. IV. House-keeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood; The wife too must husband, as well as the man; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. Kitchener on Carving, fyc. Ceremony does not in any thing, more commonly and completely triumph over comfort, than in the admi- nistration of "the honours of the table." Those who serve out the loaves and fishes, seldom seem to understand, that he is the best carver who fills the plates of the greatest number of guests in the least portion of time. To effect this, fill the plates and send them round, in- stead of asking each individual if they choose soup, fish, &c. or what particular part they prefer ; for as they can- not all be choosers, you will thus escape making any invidious distinctions. A dexterous carver (especially if he be possessed with that determined enemy to ceremony and sauce, a keen appetite), will help half a dozen people in half the time one of your would-be-thought polite folks wastes in mak- ing civil faces, &c. to a single guest. It would save a great deal of time, &c. if poultry, es- pecially large turkeys and geese, were sent to table ready cut up. Fish that is fried, should be previously divided into such portions as are fit to help at table. A prudent carver will cut fair*, and observe an equi- table distribution of the dainties he is serving out, and re- gulate his helps by the proportion which his dish bears to the number he has to divide it amongst, taking into this reckoning, the quantum of appetite the several guests are presumed to possess. " Study their genius, caprices, gout— They, in return, may haply study you : Some wish a pinion, some prefer a leg, Some for a merry-thought, or sidesbone beg— * Those in the parlour should recollect the importance of setting a good .ex- ample to their friends at the second table. If they cut brend, meat, cheese, &c. fairly, it will go twice as far as if they hack and mangle it—as if they had not half so much consideration for those in the kitchen, as a good sportsman has for his dogs.