222 Housekeeping and Husbandry. The good folks of this metropolis are so often disap- pointed by having fish which have been kept too long, that they are apt to run into the other extreme, and sup- pose that fish will not dress well, unless it is absolutely alive. This is true of lobsters, &c. and may be of fresh- water fish, but certainly not of some sea-fish. Several respectable fishmongers and experienced cooks have asserted, that they are often in danger of losing their credit by fish too fresh, and especially turbot and cod, which, like meat, require a certain time before they are in the best condition to be dressed: they recommend them to be put into cold water, salted in proportion of about a quarter of a pound of salt to a gallon of water. Sea-water is best to boil sea fish in, and let them boil slowly till done; the sign of which is, that the skin of the fish rises up, and the eyes turn white. It is the business of the fishmonger to clean them, &c. but the careful cook will always wash them again. Garnish with slices of lemon, finely-scraped horse- radish, fried oysters, smelts, or whitings, or strips of soles. The liver, roe, and chitterlings, should be placed so that the carver may observe them, and invite the guests to partake of them. N. B. Fish, like meat, requires more cooking in cold than in warm weather; if it becomes frozen*, it must be thawed by the same means directed for meat. To Boil a Leg of Lamb. S-hake a little flour over the lamb, tie it in a clean cloth, and put it in the water when it boils: if it weighs six pounds, boil it an hour and a half; take off the scum as it rises, and boil it in a good quantity of water; send it to liable with spinage, carrots, and melted butter; caper sauce, or gooseberry sauce, is also very good with it. To Dress a Hind Quarter of House Lamb. Boil the leg in a floured cloth, an hour and a quarter, cut the loin into chops, fry them, and lay them round the leg, with a bit of crisp parsley on each; serve it up with spinage or brocoli. * Fish is very frequently sent home frozen "by the -fishmonger, to Trhom nn ice-house is as necessary an appendage (to preserve fish) as it is to a confec- tioner.