425 Valuable Plant. tion of the soil to promote and forward the putrefactive fermentation; if the mass of vegetables is speedily con- verted by putrefaction into mucilage, there can be no doubt but you acquire manure. And this will depend on the weather: if a very cold, or cold and wet season fol- lowed, the whole perhaps might be nearly lost; but if the weather is moderately moist, and very warm, the fermen- tation will be speedy. Nothing less than a very great crop should be ploughed in: a large mass putrefies in quite a different manner from a small one: a thin crop might not putrefy at all, that is,, in union with the land. A degree of putrefaction ensues wherever any animal dungs, but the soil is very little better for it; but turn in so much dung, that the incumbent earth and the dung shall together feel an excited fermentation, the benefit will be great. But after all, the question yet remains, whether a great crop of clover, buck-wheat, and tares, mown green, for soiling on the farm, will not, in the con- sumption by cattle, yield more and better manure than can result from ploughing them in? I must own, in my opinion, they might. The experiment, fairly tried, would be both difficult and expensive; and it would demand many repetitions to ascertain it decisively. Valuable Plant. The magny of Mexico, the plant from which is drawn the liquor called pulque, of universal use and celebrity in that country, is not a native of Florida, but thrives as well as if it was. It forms a plant, when full grown, from five to eight feet high in the body, and from ten to eighteen inches in diameter; the leaves of it, if I may be allowed the term, (for they appear more like huge limbs than leaves, but they must be called leaves as they are the only lungs of the plant), descend from the top to the ground, and are so thick and heavy, that two or three would make a man's load. At the age of from six to eight years it flowers, by shooting up a stamina from ten to sixteen feet above the plant, gorgeously hung with flowers like a May-pole. Just before it sends forth this exuberance, a change in the colour of the plant indicates its near approach, when a bowl-formed cavity is cut in the head of the plant, and a cane introduced in the side of it to draw off the liquor. Each plant contains from 50 to 150 gallons of liquor, and dies immediately after; but is succeeded by suckers left in their culture to keep up a constant succession. This a u 2