General Rules regarding Sleep. 00 for that purpose. Among the rules he has laid down, one of the most important is, not to sleep till two hours after any meal. Indeed, he contends, that walking a little after meals, facilitates digestion. He also recom- mends the following maxims: not to sleep, if you can avoid it, in the open air, or when the ground is moistened by dew, or upon cold stones, or in a damp place, or upon beds or chairs that are varnished, or on chairs or stones heated by the sun, as such indiscretions occasion colds, palsies, or other disorders. In regard to sleeping in the open air, we see many common people, particularly in the country, take a very long nap upon the grass, in the day-time, without any inconveniency. But those who are not accustomed to that practice, are liable to catch cold, if they happen to fall asleep even on a garden bench ; for the system be- comes warm .during sleep, and if a current of cold air affects any part of the body, a torpor of that part is necessarily produced. But it will be still more unwhole- some to sleep in the open air during the night, and few can do it without injury to their health, unless they had been accustomed to it. In these climates, the night is, in general, too cold; and in hot countries, as on the coast of Guinea, the dews that fall are so extremely noxious, that it is accounted certain death to sleep all night in the open air. Sleeping in a carriage is not much to be recommended; and many have suffered severely, by sleeping in that state with the glasses down. The following miscellaneous rules may, in various cir- cumstances, merit attention: 1. It is an indispensible rule, that fat people should avoid soft beds, and should sleep little, and rise early, as the only chance they have of keeping their bulk within due bounds.—2. It is a good rule to lock the door of your bed-room, and to secure the windows, previous to going to rest, so as to prevent your being suddenly and hastily roused by any person coming into ^e room; and you should also examine the room can ully, that no cat or dog, or any other animal, may disturb your sleep, the alarm of which may be highly injurious.—-3. It often happens, that if a young person has not slept very well, he feels a weariness in the morn- ing, which is best removed by exercise; for that weari- ness must have been occasioned by an obstruction of indigested perspirable matter, which, by exercise, may