581 MOVEABLE FEASTS. Shrove Tuesday regulates most of the moveable feasts. Shrove Tuesday itself is the next after the first new moon in the month of February. If such new moon should happen on a Tuesday, the next Tuesday follow- ing is Shrove Tuesday. A recently published volume furnishes a list, the introduction of which puts the reader in possession of serviceable knowledge on this point, and affords an opportunity for affirming, that Mr. Nicolas's book contains a variety of correct and valuable informa- tion. (Moveable Feasts, from Tables, Calendars, fyc. for the Use of Historians, Antiquarians, and the Legal Professions, by N. H. Nicolas, Esq.J Advent Sunday, is the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew, November 30th, whether before or after. Ascension Day, or Holy Thursday, is the Thursday in Rogation week, i.e. the week following Rogation Sunday. Ash Wednesday, or the first day in Lent, is the day after Shrove Tuesday. Carle, or Care Sunday, or the fifth Sunday in Lent, is the fifth Sunday after Shrove Tuesday. Corpus Christi, or Body of Christ, is a festival kept on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday; and was instituted in the year 1264. Easter Day. The Paschal Sabbath. The Eucharist, or Lord's Supper, is the seventh Sunday after Shrove Tuesday, and is always the first Sunday after the first full moon, which happens on or next after the 21st of March. Easter Monday,") are the Monday and Tuesday following Easter Tuesday, $ Easter day. Ember Days, are the Wednesdays, Fridays, and Satur- days, ai'ter the first Sunday in Lent; after the Feast of Pentecost; after Holy-rood Day, or the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, viz. 14th of September; and after St. Lucia's day, 15th December. Ember Weeks, are those weeks in which the Ember days fall, The Eucharist. See Easter Day. Good Friday, is the Friday in Passion Week, and the next Friday before Easter day. Holy Thursday. See Ascension day. Lent, a Fast from Ash Wednesday, to the Feast of Easter, viz. forty days. Lord's Supper, See Easter day.