Biographical Portrait oj' Valentine Greatrakes. 433 Mrs. Greatrakes, as this lady was always ready to relieve the sick and indigent, as far as lay in her power. This boy was sorely afflicted with the king's evil, but was, to all appearance, cured by Mr. Greatrakes laying his hands upon the parts affected. Several other persons appeared to be cured, in the same manner, of different disorders. He acquired considerable fame in his neighbourhood; but, being cited in the Bishop's Court, at Lismore, and not producing a license for practising, he was prohibited from laying his hands on any person for the future; but he still continued to do so till January, 1665-6, when he came to England, at the request of the Earl of Orrery, in order to cure the lady of the Lord Viscount Conway, of Ragley, in Warwickshire, of a continual violent head- ache. He staid at Ragley about a month, but failed in his endeavours to relieve this lady; notwithstanding, he is said to have performed several miraculous cures here, in the presence of several eminent and skilful persons. A declaration of his cures in Warwickshire was pub- lished by Mr. Stubbe (who was a witness to them) at Oxford, in 4to. in which the author maintained, "that Mr. Greatrakes was possessed of a peculiar temperament, as his body was composed of some particular ferments, the effluvia whereof being introduced, sometimes by a light, sometimes by a violent friction, restore the tem- perament of the debilitated parts, regenerate the blood, and dissipate all heterogeneous ferments outof the bodies of the diseased, by the eyes, nose, mouth, hands, and feet." This publication was "A Letter," addressed to the Hon. Robert Boyle, Esq. who, in a private letter to the author, expressed his displeasure at being thus pub- licly addressed on such a subject, particularly as Mr. Stubbe endeavoured to shew that Mr. Greatrakes' gift was miraculous. Mr. Glanville, also, imputed his cures to a sensitive quality inherent in his constitution; and others (perhaps with greater probability) to the force of imagination in his patients ; Mr. Boyle, however, having witnessed Mr. Greatrakes'performances in April, 1666, acknowledges his remarkable cures. This extraordinary man afforded much matter for the press, and various pamphlets were published pro and con, particularly one in 4to and supposed to have been written by Mr. IJavid Lloyd, Reader of the Charter-house, under the title of " Wonders no Miracles; or, Mr. Valentine Greatrakes' gift of healing, examined, upon occasion of a sad effect 3 i 2