Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 303 Mahomed's Baths. These are ascertained by a native of India, and com- bine all the luxuries of Oriental bathing. They are adapted either for ladies or gentlemen, and the system is highly salutary in many diseases, independently of the gratification it affords, particularly to those who have resided in the East. A little further eastward there is a1 similar establishment on the same principle, kept by Mr. Molineaux; and in the same place^ Mr. Dick has dry sulphuric baths. Chalybeate Spring. The spring, which lies about half a mile west of the church, has of late years been much frequented. It was analysed by the late Dr.Marcet; who stated, that it might be advantageously used in all those diseases where tonic remedies were indicated. The proprietors have erected, in the lodge style, a neat building; and constant attend- ance is given during the season. SO UTHAMPTON. Southampton is distant from London seventy-seven miles. It is agreeably situated on a kind of peninsular point; and is equally adapted for health, pleasure, and commerce. Baths. Near the west quay are commodious warm-baths, which may be engaged at all times: terms, four shillings each bathing, or a guinea for six. Further on towards the channel, are Mr. Goodman's commodious and well-fre- quented baths and machines. In addition to these ac- commodations, bathing machines have lately been con- structed at the Cross-house, near Itchin Ferry. Botanic Spa Gardens. These gardens are elegantly fitted up, and well worthy of attention. During the season, a band plays twice a week, from six till nine. The chalybeate spring is well attended, and has become more popular since it has re- ceived so many natural embellishments. At the upper part of the gardens is a conservatory, filled with the choicest plants, and where there is also a choice selec- tion of botanical books for public use. The following are the terms of admission to subscribers: a practice rarely adopted, and never without the greatest circumspection, parti- cularly in cases of insanity, where there is a violent head-ache, or excessive heat in the head. Although cold airnsions are very tranquillizing, and may be made without danger. o q