Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 355 that produced by the water of the old well—a slightly bitter and saline taste; and for two years after the esta- blishment of the Spa, the water possessed a strong odour of hepatic gas, which, by constant pumping, (from its great celebrity) is now seldom discovered in it. In May, 1809, the temperature was 52°, when the atmosphere of the room was 60°, which is a degree and a half colder than the water of the old well. The specific gravity was 1.0054, and it accordingly raised the boiling point to 214.5. Essex Well, Situated in a field once the property of Lord Essex, is about 320 yards directly above the old Spa, and oppo- site to Montpelier Wells, on the west side of Badgeworth road. The saline spring issued at the depth of forty feet from the side of that next Bay's Hill, but the well was sixty feet deep, and covered over with a small square building of brick. The water has a slightly saline and bitter taste, without any flavour of hepatic gas. Lord Sherborne's Well. Owing to the celebrity of the above-mentioned springs, this place became more and more crowded every year, and for several seasons both wells proved insufficient to supply the whole of the company. In consequence of this increased demand for,water, in the year 1802, the earth was bored in more than forty places, adjoining the town, under the direction of Dr. Jameson, in hopes of finding a new spring, but without success. He caused a hole to be made with a boring machine, in the lane ad- joining the Lower Spa, which yielded only twelve gallons of water in twenty-four hours, of a saline, sulphureous, and chalybeate nature. In hopes of discovering the source of this spring, Dr. Jameson determined to bore higher up in the lane; and in the month of October, in the same year, he discovered a saline spring at the depth of forty feet, which supplied a gallon of water in four minutes, from a hole of only two and a half inches in diameter. From experiments made in 1806, Dr. Jameson ob- serves, "it is always beautifully transparent, and sparkled in the glasses. The temperature was from 51° in com- mon to 53° in the hottest season, and generally two de- grees colder than any of the other mineral springs. The