400 On the supposed Degeneracy of the present Age, fyc. principles of the corrupt Romans, or "those of the placid Greenlanders, with respect to the conjugal state, are more rational and consistent with the welfare of nations, it is not very difficult to determine : and this considera- tion will, at the same time, lead us to the reply of the second and third problems. In the temperate climates of Europe, there can be no doubt that early marriages, together with the prevailing habits of intemperance and luxury, have principally con- tributed to produce that diminutive size of the human species, which we now witness in the numerous instances of women, and effeminate men. In order to prevent, or check, this growing evil, it has been imagined, that a more hardy education of infants, would restore those degenerating nations to their primi- tive mental and bodily vigour. There is much truth mingled with error in this hypothetical assumption. Were 1 called upon to deliver an explicit opinion on the subject, I should be induced to declare, that a proper method of educating youth is indeed a necessary, but by no means the only requisite to the attainment of the perfect growth, and progressive developement of children. The radical and principal evil must be traced to an earlier period of their existence—to their parents. After reflecting on the remote, though probable causes of this degeneracy, it cannot be denied, that it chiefly arises from those early and unqualified marriages, against which the legislators of Greece had provided by positive laws. According to these, no young man or woman was permitted to approach the altar of Hymen until they had attained a certain age. In this public manner, the state deemed it necessary to decree, by supreme authority, what had often been, and still is, neglected by those who are the natural guardians of families and their progeny. As, however, the ill consequences thence arising in modern times, have not yet been of such magnitude as to demand the attention of the legislative power, it is incumbent on every rational inquirer, to point out the evil, and thus to pave the way towards its removal. In every department of national prosperity, this freedom of inquiry has ever been considered as an imprescriptible privilege of authors, and public teachers.