368 On the Physical Education of Children, fa. of Mr. Weber, a respectable traveller who has visited that nation, the Ostiak women, when delivered on their peregrinations in the severest winter, instantly bury the new-born infant under snow, where they leave him till he begins to cry. Upon this signal he is removed to the bosom of his mother; as it is imagined, that the alterna- tions of heat, and cold have a beneficial tendency to strengthen the child. After the lapse of four or five weeks, a fire is made in the midst of the hut, which the mother crosses three times, and this concludes the rites of child-bed : having performed that ceremony, she again joins her husband, Mho is at perfect liberty to receive her, together with the child, or to abandon both, accord- ing to his pleasure. We trust, however, for the sake of humanity, that the latter resolution is rarely, if ever, adopted, even among savages. Influence of the Soil and Climate on the Moral and Physical Condition of Mankind, &c. It deserves to be previously remarked, that every attempt at improving the soil or surface of a country, is likewise attended with certain changes, affecting the susceptibility of man for those impressions which take place in consequence of his being more or less exposed to external agents. Thus we have, by an industrious culture of the soil, rendered our climate less severe, and, as it were, removed it farther from the frigid zone; we have, by mixing the productions of all climates, enriched bur body, as well as our mind, with the peculiarities of t southern nations ; acquired their sensibility, lively ima- gination, and early understanding; but also, to a certain degree, their indolent and sensual habits. Nay, we venture to pronounce, that the insupportable degree of selfishness, so common in modern times, or that disgust- ing system of self-happiness, more or less originates from irregular and improper modes of living: hence that general propensity displayed by the plurality of the most sensible and ingenious, to appear more than what they really are, and to bestow on external objects that value which belongs to intrinsic merit—to virtue. True ambition is only so far laudable, as it requires no foreign aid. We are, however, concerned to observe, that disin- terested and independent actions begin to vanish from thcv page of history, as if they were destined for a more happy age. Serious employments have in a great measure been