224 Housekeeping and Husbandry. To Broil Salmon. Cut some slices an inch thick, and season them with pepper and and salt; dip them in sweet oil, or rub them with butter; fold them in pieces of writing paper, and broil them over a slow fire six or eight minutes; serve them up in the papers, with some anchovy sauce in a tureen, or plain melted butter; if the salmon is dried, soak it for two or three hours; then put it on the gridiron, and shake over it a little pepper; it will take but a short time; when done, serve it up with melted batter. To Souse or Pickle Salmon. Boil it in the usual way for eating, as before directed, after which, take it out and boil the liquor with bay- leaves, pepper-corns, and salt; add vinegar when cold, and pour it over the fish. Lobster-Sauce. Melt some butter in a little milk, with a little flour and a bit of lemon-peel in it; then add some cream; take out the lemon-peel, and put in the lobster, cut in small pieces, with a little of the spawn; simmer all together about ten minutes. Shrimp-sauce may be made in the same way, or the shrimps put into plain melted butter. To Pot Mackarel. Clean, season, and bake them in a pan, with spice, bay- leaves, and some butter; when cold, take out the bones, lay them very close in potting-pots, and cover them with clarified butter. Gooseberry Fool. Set two quarts of gooseberries on the fire in about a quart of water; when they begin to simmer, turn yellow, and look plump, throw them into a cullender to drain the water out; then with the back of a spoon squeeze the pulp carefully through a sieve into a dish; make them tolerably sweet, and let them stand till cold; take two quarts of milk and the yolks of four eggs: beat them up with a little grated nutmeg, and stir it softly over a slow fire; when it begins to simmer, take it olf, and by de- grees stir it into the gooseberries; let it stand till it is cold, and serve it up: if it is made with cream, it does not require any eggs; the cream should not be boiled.