342 ■Ring Worms. appellation of ring-worm of the scalp, (the Porrigo scu* tulata of Willan). This disease, which is peculiar to children,"has long been a source of terror in schools; having materially injured many respectable seminaries. In families it has been a tedious and very expensive visitor; remaining, in many instances, for years, resist- ing protracted and painful modes of treatment, and ex- cluding the little sufferers from desirable places of in- struction. Ring worm is well known to be a very unmanageable disease, and viewed in this light, it is most certainly an affection of importance, and an efficacious remedy is. worthy the attention of the public. A malady so well known, does not require a tedious definition. In its progress, two states, or stages are dis-^ tinguishable: the first may be called the irritable, the second, the indolent stage; to this latter, the plan about to be proposed is particularly applicable. In those cases which have resisted the ordinary means, which are of long standing and obstinate, the following treatment has been very efficacious: the head should be frequently shaved, and kept covered with an oiled-silk cap, or in- stead of which a thin bladder has sometimes been used. An ointment should be formed by mixing together sper- maceti cerate, and finely pulverised supertartrate of potash, in such proportions as to make it of a very firm consistence ; of which a piece of the size of a nutmeg, or larger, according to the extent of the surface affected,, should be well rubbed on the part with the palm of the hand, every night, for three or four minutes. The head should be well washed with soap . and water every third Internal medicines are'seldom requisite inthis advan- ced stage, except where the character of the affection is irregular, or there is a peculiarity in the constitution of the patient; in which cases some modification of treat- ment will necessarily be required: these variations will readily be made by any respectable practitioner.. The above plan, if diligently adopted from three to six weeks, will seldom disappoint the expectations of those who try it, even in the most inveterate cases. night, previously to the lication of the ointment.