Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 857 vessels of the skin, and to cure cutaneous diseases in a powerful manner. It is likewise useful in many bilious cases. No. 3. The Weak Sulphuretted Saline Water—is pumped from within three feet six inches of the bottom of the same well, under the room which supplied the former water, and is delivered by the middle brass cock. No. 4. The Simple Saline Water—conveyed by a pipe from Bescroft-well, distant about 170 yards, on the other side of Badgeworth road, is discharged by a small cock in the circular counter. The well, 42 feet deep, is covered by a tall brick building, thatched oven Waters in the Octagon Turret. In the lower corner of Montpelier field is a small octagon building, adjoining the Gothic cottage, which contains three pumps, with the following waters, viz. Chalybeated Saline, pumped from a well 40 feet deep, immediately under the building; Strong Chalybeated Sa- line, brought by a pipe from a well under the Gothic cottage, 55 feet deep; and Weak Saline Water, conveyed by a pipe from a well 40 feet deep, six yards beyond the Gothic cottage. This last has so little chymical impregnations, that it has been denominated the milk well. Waters in Hygeia House. This spacious building, surrounded by a viranda and stone pillars, and situated at a short distance from the baths, contains three pumps with the following kinds of water: Carbonated Steel Water, rising out of a black ferruginous mould, a few yards from the house; Chaly- beated Weak Saline, rising out of blue clay in the area of the house; and Weak Sulphuretted Saline, rising out of blue clay immediately under the house. Allslone Villa, New Spa. Mrs. Smith, proprietor of Allstone Villa, has lately discovered on her grounds (which are only about three minutes walk from High-street) a mineral spring, the water of which has been analysed by Mr. Frederick Ac- cum, of London, and found to contain, in a pint, 13l£ grains of salts, and two cubic inches of fixed and common air, which is nearly double the quantity of salts that the other wells, about the neighbourhood of Cheltenham, hold in solution. The strongest of them only contain