178 Health, an Allegory. was it long before she was invested with the sceptre, by the concurring voices and acclamations of the people. Her reign was long and prosperous, and her subjects were happy. Nor indeed could less be expected from a queen, that founded her government upon the unerring laws of nature, which were as obligatory upon herself as upon her people; nor could the royal authority itself dispense, at any time whatever, with a breach of those primary statutes. Her first minister was Virtue, who had an unbounded ascendancy over her mistress. Beside this premier favou- rite, there was another, who was almost a constant associate of the queen. The name of this pretty sylvan was Cheerfulness. She was generally apparelled in green, of a mild and composed aspect, liable to have her features sometimes brightened by a smile. Many other virgins joined the train of this princess, and were adjudged to be of British extraction. There was Inno- cence dressed in white, with a curious blush of crimson on her cheeks; she was handed along by Prudence, who wore a good deal of solicitude in her countenance, and seemed to step with great caution. She was indeed an armed satellite, and had more of severity than sweet- ness in her brow. But there was a most beautiful, that justly challenged a particular description; a lady who so closely adhered to the white-robed fair, that it is said they were never seen apart. She had a most lovely sere- nity in her visage, and a softness not to be delineated by a human pen. The assistance of the imagination must here be called in, and the portrait wear an angel's face. Though she was highly admired by the gazing crowd, yet she seemed to borrow none of her happiness from the applauses and adoration of the multitude. It is further given out, that, fond as this lady was of the court of Health, she rarely makes her appearance in the courts and palaces of other monarchs; and the reason assigned, is her inseparable attachment to the female above-men- tioned, who was arrayed in a garment of spotless white. In process of time, there arose a powerful enemy to the queen—Luxury, an absolute monarch, who proclaimed war against Health. The armies of the former were prin- cipally Asiatics, and more numerous than those of Xerxes, which drank up whole rivers as they marched; or than those of the Macedonian madman, who conquered all but Jiiroself. Vet notwithstanding the number of the tyrant s