234 THE MAKTXG OF THE BODY I have as good a proof/' answered the second : " the wall must be mine, for it begins my garden/' So they quarrelled these two silly 23eople, who as neighbours ought to have loved one another; and no one can tell how they settled the dispute ! It is a good thing that the outer ear and the middle ear do not quarrel in the same way about their wall, for that is what the drum of the ear (tympanic memhrane) is to them. 'Tis a sort of wall ending up the larger field of the outer ear, and beginning the smaller garden of the middle ear. Like the country men's wall, it is used by both of them. ^" Eat-a-tat-tat-tatbeat the air waves that began when the word ^' duty " was said against the drum of the ear, and going through it they find themselves in a small cave of a curious shape. The middle ear you will find it called in the picture. From it leads another passage called by a long name— The Ear-Pipe (Eustachian Tube). I once knew a lady who had very delicate ears, and once when we were travelling together among the high mountains she got a bad pain in her ear. She tried to enjoy looking at the beautiful scenery and large snow- fields, but the pain soon got so bad that she had to give it up and go to bed in the quaint little wooden hut in which we were staying. After a few days of great suffering she said that she felt some nasty fiuid run- ning down into her throat, and then the doctor, for whom we had sent from the large town in the valley, said that she would soon get better, for that she had had an abscess in her middle ear, which was now broken, and that all the nasty matter was running away down the ear-pipe (^eastacldan tuhe) into the stomach. You will not, I hope, have forgotten that we spoke of it in Chapter XXYIII. when we learnt about the throat chamber (pJiarpix) and the doors leading into it. Air is very heavy. If we took a bit of wood measuring exactly an inch every way, and if we could weigh the air that just covered that bit of wood, we should find it