THE COATS OF THE GULLET II3 names will not be a difficulty, and all the less so because these names express their uses and construction. 1. The Outer Coat {Muscular) is made of muscles, some going up and down, some going round the tube. It is those that go round the tube which force the food on- wards and which enable us to eat or drink while lying down. Perhaps you thought that the water you drank ran down, or the food you ate tumbled into the stomach. People say, The food slipped down the throat,'' but this is not the case. Food does not slip down, ^^o ! Each sip we drink and each mouthful Ave eat is pushed down by the muscles in the outer coat (inuscular) of the gullet (oesophagus), Next time you see a horse drinking in the village pond or the city trough, notice his position. You will see that the water has to go up hill as he stoops over to get it. It is those muscles that grasp it or push it onwards, whether up hill or down making no difference. 2. The Inner Coat (Mucous) is, as its name tells, a coat with many glands which secrete mucus. It is not smooth, as in the inside of the mouth, but is all crumpled up in folds. By this plan the gullet gets a longer lining than would be possible if the lining were smooth, and so, as every bit of it has many wet mucous glands, much more mucus is poured into it. This it needs to keep it soft and wet, and to enable the food to pass through it easily. 3. The Middle Coat (Connective) is neither muscular nor mucous. To it is given merely the duty of connect- ing the other two coats together, without letting them ever touch each other. Did you ever swallow a button or a pin, or something that you wished you had not swallowed Directly it has gone you want to get it back, but you cannot, for the gullet (oesophagus) has shut up—or contracted—and will not let it return. The gullet is the narrowest part of those pipes which carry the food, and this being so is another reason why the teeth should be well used. They should be made to do their own work and chew the food, so that none should be sent down the gullet until it is ground small enough H