18 THE MAKING OF THE BODY Both these definitions sound difficult, and what some of you would call dry;" but nothing is dry if once it is understood, so let us try to understand what is meant by them. You will remember that in the last chapter two sorts of growing were mentioned—the growth from small to large, and the growth of repair or mending. In order to make it easier we will now only consider the first sort of growth, from small to large. If a thing is to get bigger something must be added to it. This every one will see. You have a bit of beef; you want it to be bigger ; you tell the butcher to add another piece of meat to it. You have a length of calico; you want it longer, so you take another length and join them together. You are making a rice-pudding ; some one runs in and says— " More people are coming to dinner." So you add more rice and more milk, and the result is that the pudding has grown larger. Kow read the wise man's answer to my question again —" Growing is the assimilation of certain portions of the environments by the animal that grows." The new rice and milk that you added to the pudding were mixed up with the other rice and milk that were already there, the fresh materials became part of the old pudding, and it—the same pudding—became larger. Whatever is around us, and not in us, is our environ- ment. Before the new rice and milk were added to the already mixed pudding they were the environment of the pudding—they were outside and around the pudding; but when they were added to it they became part of it. Human bodies are in the world ; all around them is air and vegetables, beasts and fowls. These things sur- round them ; they are " certain portions of their environ- ment." In order to grow they must take them into themselves. Human bodies, already consisting of cer- tain things, must take into themselves, or assimilate, cer- tain other things. In some w^ays like the pudding which, already consisting of certain things, had to have more milk and more rice taken to it and mixed up with it, so that it should become larger.