THE MAKING OF THE BODY 98 There is a limit to the number of this kind of hillock. Some people have seven, some ten, on their tongues. If you turn to the picture on page 94 you will see them quite plainly. They are arranged at the back of the tongue in the shape of the letter A, without its crossway line. To them is given the power of tasting bitter things, and you may have noticed, if ever you have taken quinine medicine, how you do not seem to taste it till it has all but gone down your throat. Bitter as it is, it passed the thread hillocks {filiform papillce) without affecting them; it slipped over the mushroom hillocks {fungiform papillce), and they took no notice; but when it reached the ramj^art hillocks {circumvallate ^:>ap^7Z^B), they were influenced by it. The little nerves in them, which you will see in the picture, carried the news to the brain that they had been touched by something bitter, and the command probably came from it to make an ugly grimace. Why we taste and how we taste is not yet know^n fully, but we do know that things to be tasted have to pass right through the wet skin {mucous membrane) of the tongue, and really touch something in the little hillocks before the nerves will take the news to the brain. You know that some people like dainty cooking and good things to eat, while other persons do not care much what sort of food they have so long as they have enough. The reason of this very often is that the skin of the tongue {mucous membrane) is finer on some persons' tongues, and the nerves in the hillocks more numerous,- than is the case with others. Thus the flavour gets more rapidly through the more delicate skin, and small diffe- rences are more quickly noted and told to the brain, for even in these little hillocks {papillm) there are some carrier nerves to do nothing else but take news to the brain. In the matter of taste, as in other things, "use is develojDment," and the men whose business it is to spend all their days in tasting different sorts of tea, as the great chests arrive from India, China, and Ceylon, get such a