THE BRAIN COVERS—OUTSIDE THE SKULL 63 vessels. From it are created little fr(^sli new (jells. Each new one pushes the older one forward as a new one is created, and this new one in its turn becomes an old one as a still new^er one comes into being, and these little cells make new hair. So you see the hair near the end is the old hair; the hair near the head is the ne^v fresh young hair. The Shaft {or Stem) of the hair is the part which we all see. Long and thick hair is such a great beauty, that it is curious why more girls do not take pains to obtain it. Frequent brusliing and washing in warm water with soda are the best ways to get good, long, and thick hair. The people in different countries have different ideas about hair. The women in Egypt and the Eastern lands do not think it modest or becoming to show any hair at all, and they cover their heads and ears with long draping cloths, while the ladies of Japan undergo the most elabo- rate hair-dressing. Indeed, the process takes so long a time that it is not usually done more than once or twice a week. Each hair is brushed and pomatumed and gummed until it lies in its proper place. To rest the head on a pillow would ujDset it all, so the Japanese women forego pillows, and sleep by resting their heads on small neck- rests, w^hich allow^ the hair to remain untouched. Is it not a strange custom ? The second covering of the skull is called the Scalp. There is but little need to pause over the scalp, for you have already read something about the skin, fat glands, and the muscles, and when thfese form the scalp they are not essentially different than when elsewhere. But I should like you to carefully study the picture (Fig. 25), from which you wdll see how the hair roots and the grease {sebaceous) glands lie in amid the fat cells, sweat pores, sweat glands, and sweat ducts. I have seen these Ked Indians in their own homes in Canada, if one can use the beautiful word home for their miserable tent huts. One man called "The Mountain Bull" was pointed out to us, who boasted that he had got the scalps of fifteen men in his tent. I do not know if it was true, for these savages know but little more al)out