112 THE MAKING OF THE BODY mouth or nose. That is because it has been jerked up out of the road to the lungs so vigorously that it had to find an exit somehow, and so it got out by the nose passage as well as by the mouth. As you can imagine, it is of the utmost importance that the food should not go either into the nose, the ears, or the lungs, so in the throat chamber {pharynx) there are some marvellous and beautiful arrangements to help the food to go into the . one place that does want it, namely, the stomach. But these arrangements have more to do with the lungs than the stomach, so we will let the food pass by now, and I will tell you about them when we speak of the lungs. Interesting as the throat chamber [pharynx) is, we must not linger over it any longer than the bit of food must linger in it. If we had time now we might explore the passage which leads from this roomy throat-chamber to the nose. Every one knows that if he has a cold, the water and secretion seem to run down from the nose into the throat. If you look at the picture you will see exactly how this happens. Later you will also hear of the tube that goes from the throat to the ear, and which bears the long name of Eustachian; of this also we could learn more if we could linger, but we must hurry after the mouthful of bread, which by this time has left the pharynx and entered The Gullet {(Esophagus). This is a kind of tube like a very narrow stocking, about nine inches long. It is easily tickled or iniuenced. Directly it feels the food it allows it to pass, and then immediately closes behind it and pushes it down. The food goes on a little way, say about an inch, and then that inch of gullet closes up behind it, and so the food has no choice but to go on till it reaches the stomach. The gullet {oesophagus) has three coats— I. The outer coat (muscular); 2. The inner coat (mucous); 3. The middle coat (connective), I am always glad when the names of the body parts about which you learn are easy, and these gullet-coat