WHERE WE FEEL MOST thigh. This is because the touch corpuscles {tactile corpuscles) are close together there, while over the duller places they are farther apart. Look at your hands, can you see the little lines in it going this way, and turning in that direction ? And do you notice how inside the hands, at the ends of the fingers, the little lines are placed round and round in circles, ending in the middle with quite a tiny one Look now at the back of your hand. There you do not see the lines going in circles or wavy figures, but the skin seems to be in small wrinkles or smooth star- like figures. If you look at the skin of the sole of your foot, you will find the lines much more plainly marked, and larger than those on your hand. In other parts of the body the skin is quite smooth. In or among these lines, always hidden away under the upper skin (epidermis), are the nerves of feeling, and in these parts the little lines show that they are present. In different places these touch corpuscles (tactile cor^ puscles) have different powers. Some have the capacity for rapidly feeling heat; these are chiefly placed on the cheeks, the eyelids, and the elbow. Why do you put your iron near your cheek ? " asked the squire's daughter, when paying a cottage visit. " To try its heat, my honey," replied the burly, good- tempered washerwoman. " I should try it with my hand, I think," said Miss Dainty ; it might scorch my face. Why don't you Well, it's our custom, missy, to put it to the cheek, though I daresay other parts would do as well," was the kindly but unscientific reply. No, it would not," some one could have answered; " experience has found out that the cheek has greater powers of feeling gradations of heat, and science has found out that this is so because the touch corpuscles there are numerous and peculiarly sensitive to that form of feeling." Did you ever wash your face in water that was top hot ? If so, you will remember that the cheeks suffered^ but not so much as the eyelids. In these delicate eye-