ix TO TEACHERS jeer, at Miss Sympathetic, but I believe teachers will find her helpful ; and if not, if they will tell me, I will abolish her in the next edition. With Chapter XXIII. we start on the journey of the food. It seems strange to have omitted all mention of the various chemical changes that occur to food as it travels, but I have purposely refrained from referring to anything which I could not explain fully, even if elementarily ; and the chemistry of nutrition is in itself a subject for another book. We follow the food over the tongue, Chapters XXIV., XXV., past the teeth—Chapters XXVI. to XXXII.—down the pharynx and through the stomach and into the intestines before we leave it. These chapters I have always found create much interest, especially if the earlier stages of the journey are recalled before a fresh start is made. Chapters XXXIII., XXXIV., and XXXV. are less easy but not less important. It would have been simpler if we could have renamed the chyle and called it lymph before we followed it into a lymphatic vessel; but as that could not be done, I have followed it as chyle until it was safe in a lymphatic trunk, and then more rapidly sketched the travels of the other lymph materials. In Chapters XXXVI. and XXXVIL I have told of some of the evils of alcohol drinking, a matter on which the teacher can use- fully enlarge, if his or her experience tallies with mine, that it is the erroneous idea that strong drink keeps the cold out," or that "beer gives strength," that starts and keeps many in drinking habits. One of the most fruitful sources of class discontent and antagon- ism is the idea that the rich only can get the food necessary to produce strength. What a crop of social evils are growing from the one root of ignorance of food values ; but as the subject is too vast to be included in this book, I have been obliged to be content with chatting and telling anecdotes, which the teacher, however, can confirm as being based on scientific fact, which can be ex- plained should time or the capacity of the pupils allow it. In Chapters XXXVIII., XXXIX., and XL. we follow the air as it journeys. These chapters are easy, and if the epiglottis is not quite understood, an enlarged drawing of Fig. 68, on the blackboard, will make it plain. I have found that if the pupils breathe fast, or hold their breaths, it helps to illustrate this lesson. Blood and its circulation is dealt with in Chapters XLL, XLII., XLIIL, XLIV., and XLV. It will greatly aid if the teacher can get the cliildren to understand and like the wood- cuts, but it may be found necessary to draw them even more rudimentarily on the blackboard. Fig. 72 we can hardly expect children to understand, but I have been so fearful that my simple explanations will make them fancy they "know all about physiology," that I have sometimes put in a more difficult illustration in order to excite admiration and provoke them to humility. The table of the stages of the blood's journeyings should, perhaps, in most cases, be