227 THE VOCAL CORDS You must not imagine that because they follow the movements of the second ring muscle [cricoid) that therefore the pitcher {arytenoid) cartilages have no dealings with the first ring—the shield ring (thyroid). On the contrary, they are firmly attached to it by two bands of elastic fibres, and these fibres are called The Vocal Cords. Now the duty of the pitcher cartilages, with their muscles, is to move the vocal cords nearer to or further from each other. When they are near together, the air, in passing through them, makes a noise, and we speak. When they are further off from each other, no sound issues, but we can take in more air into the lungs. As the air comes out of the windpipe it hits these cords, which we can use or not use according to our wish. I wonder if you understand, or if it would make it easier to add, that these pyramids are connected with the front of the second ring (cricoid)^ and the back of the first (thyroid). Thus they and the bands which hold them go across the windpipe, leaving a very little space through which the air has to pass. I do not suppose that any of you have been in the desert, but it will interest you to learn that there is no noise in those great sandy plains. All around they stretch; the strong sun and the blue sky above; yellow, red, grey fine sand on every side; and no sound amid it all. I have stood in the desert where Mahomet learned his lessons. I have seen the plains to which Moses fled. Both are silent. Why is thisT' you will ask. *'Is there no wind there?" Yes, plenty strong fresh winds, and hot, dry exhausting breezes, but there is nothing for them to strike against, and so they sweep over the flat land and cause no noise. Sound is the result of the air striking certain obstruc- tions which stand in its way. The air leaves the lungs and comes up the windpipe. If we want to speak we bid certain obedient muscles to stretch the cords. When they are tight, the air hits them and causes them to vibrate, and sound is the