THE MAKING OF THE BODY not become bigger. AH the growing power is then used by the body in repairing itself. When the boiler of a steam-engine is worn out, the men have to make another in the big, noisy workshop, take it to the engine, and fit it in. If a screw gets loose, or broken, the engine has to be stopped; the men come and tighten it up, or put in a new one. And you have all noticed, when you have been on a railway journey, that at the large stations two men go round the train and look to the wheels. One puts grease into the. wheel- boxes, and the other hits the wheels to find out by the sound if they have any little crack or flaw in them, or if they have got hot by going quickly round. All this is done for the engine because, clever as the engine-makers are, they cannot find out a way of making the engine mend or repair itself ; but to our bodies is given the power of mending and repairing themselves. It has been said that human bodies entirely re-make themselves every seven years. I do not think that we can be sure of the truth of this statement so far as the time of seven years is concerned, but otherwise it is correct. Our bodies in certain ways re-make themselves, not in all ways. We have all seen people who have had a leg or an arm cut off. The limb once removed does not grow again. In some animals it does. If the lobster lose its claw it gradually grows again, and once more in its life it has got two claws; but this great power is not given to the human body. Neither can our bodies repair themselves if they have been wrongfully damaged. They can keep themselves in good order, and repair that which gets naturally worn away ] but if, for example, the stomach is injured by too much strong drink, it cannot again become quite so healthy and vigorous as it was before the evil habit was begun, though it will get much better by degrees if alcohol is avoided. If the little holes in the lungs get stuffed up by cold and become hard and solid, instead of soft and porous, they cannot repair themselves and become " as good as new." No ; in our bodies, as across other things, are written