WILLIAM HARVEY deeper than this, and then the doctor must be consulted and obeyed. JSTow you know a little about the circulation of the blood, you will like to hear about the great man who discovered it, William Harvey. Your teacher will tell you about his noble life and his patience and devotion to the truth, but I will tell you some of the reasons which he gave for thinking that the blood circulated all over the body in the way that we all now know it does. People would not believe in Harvey's discovery then, though he argued it must be so because— I. If a vein is cut we can stop the flow of blood by tightly pressing it at the side furthest from the heart. II. If an artery is cut and bright red blood comes out, we can stop it flowing by pressing it at the side nearest to the heart. If you stop to think a moment, you will see that both of these facts are proofs that the blood leaves the heart by the arteries and returns to it by the veins. III. In the veins are little valves which are arranged only to allow the blood to travel in one direction. TV. The pulse corresponds to the beating of the heart. You can easily prove this for yourself. Put your finger on your wrist until you feel a small regular movement. Now bend over till your head nearly touches the floor. After a few moments you will hear a thumping in your head. If you listen to it and feel the pulse in your wrist at the same time, you will soon find out that they both beat together. The reason that you " feel your pulse," as it is called, is because the artery leading to the hand is nearer the surface than most of the arteries. As the heart gives its great squeeze it jerks more blood into the arteries, and they, being already full, have to expand to take more in until what is there can be hurried along, and this movement you can feel if you put your finger on the artery. If I were teaching you I should like to be asked questions, and I can imagine some child asking me now. What makes the blood return to the heart ? It is