72 THE MAKING OF THE BODY brain than it is where it is enclosed in the spine (verfe- hral column), and called the spinal cord. Jnst as the little brain {cerebellum) governs the mnscles of the limbs, the oblong marrow {medulla ohlongaia) governs the mnscles of the lungs and the heart, as well as those that are used in swallowing. It has some control also over the secretion of the spittle, as well as the organs for tasting, seeing, hearing, and talking. Altogether, this inch and a half bit of brain is an important governor in the kingdom of our body. In different countries there are different ways of exe- cuting criminals. In Burmah the executioner hits the condemned person a sharp and hard blow at the back of the neck, under which is placed the oblong marrow. It is not painful, and death is instantaneous, for you know we cannot live without breath; and if the oblong marrow {medulla oblongata) is injured the lungs stop working, and as air is necessary to life, the j^erson whose "neck has been broken," as we say when the oblong marrow {medulla oblongata) has been injured, dies at once. There are other reasons wdiy this part of the brain is so important, but you must learn of them Avhen we come to the chapter on the nerves. The Brain Bridge {Pons Varolii) is, as its name shows, a bridge which connects the two parts of the little brain {cerebellum) together. "Two parts," I seem to hear you say; "we did not know that the little brain had two parts." Yes \ both the iDig brain {cerebrum) and the little brain (cerebellum) are divided into two halves. You wdll see the picture of the big brain on p. 65. Each half is called The Half-round or Hemisphere of the Brain, and it is separated from the other half by a deep cleft or chasm. The bridge {pons varolii) connects the two hemi- spheres of the little brain {cerebellum). Eight in l^etween them, sharply dividing the tw^o parts, runs the oblong marrow {medulla oblongata), and yet if they are to do their work properly they must be joined. To unite them is the object of the bridge {^ons varolii),