13 THE BODY AS A MACHINE lY. The human body and the machine are "both preserved by use.—In disuse there is death " has said one of the wise ones^ and it is true of both the machine and the human body. Mr. Darwin, in his great book, tells how all hogs, hundreds of years ago, used to have tusks, with which they bored and got their food; but w4ien that animal was taken by man and put in a stye and fed, he had no further use for his tusks, and so in each generation of pigs the tusks got shorter and weaker, till gradually they disappeared altogether — by disuse they died. And how soon the machine falls to pieces if it is not used ! The iron corrodes, the screws get loose, the boiler becomes rusty, and after a long period of idleness the engine is found to be *^all but unfit for use.'' And now we come to the last of our five. Y. Each part of the human body or the machine depends on some other part, without which it would be useless; and without it the whole would be either use- less or less powerful.—St. Paul, who wrote so much that is wise and deep, speaks of this scientific fact in one of his long letters—the one he wrote to the Corinthians (i Cor. xii. 12). He says: ^^For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body. ... If the foot shall say. Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? . . . But now are they many members, but one body. . . . And whether one member suffer, all the members suft'er with it.'' If you think, you will see how true this is. If your head aches, you feel ill; if your heart is diseased, though all your other organs may be quite well, yet you are ill, and will probably die of it. If your lung is stuffed up, all your body is kept air-hungry, and soon gets weak. This is also true of the machine. Each part depends upon the other; and thus it is necessary to keep the boiler clean, the wheels strong, the funnel straight, or one damaged part will cause injury to the whole.