71 THE BRAIN—THE OBLONG MARROW {cerehelluw), but it has been proved that it has a great deal to do with the power of walking and running. To stand upright is a very difficult matter. I daresay it seems to you quite easy to do so, hwi if you notice you will see that most animals Avith four limbs use them all for walking. The human being only uses his hind legs for walking, and thus he has his front ones, or arms, as we prefer to call them, free for other purposes. The power of balancing ourselves and managing our muscles when we walk or run resides in the little brain {cerebellum). The knowledge of how to do it is learnt un- consciously, partly by example, and partly because our parents have always done it before us; but if by any any accident the little brain {cerebellum) is injured, the poor patient no longer is able to manage his muscles, and his limbs go in all sorts of directions. There was once an old lady whose little brain {cere- bellum) had been injured, and she had therefore, to some extent, lost the power of controlling her muscles. She used to fancy she was leaning forward and going to fall when she was quite upright, and she would sometimes hit herself against the table or mantelpiece because she had not understood she was so close to them. Her big brain {cerebrum), her oblong marrow {medulla oblongata)J her bridge {pons varolii) were all in good health, but she was powerless to be useful, and so was unhappy because her little brain {cerebellum) having got an injury, she could no longer get her body to obey her will. The Oblong Marrow {Medulla Oblongata) is placed at the top of the backbone, through which, you will remember, the spinal cord runs. Indeed, the oblong marrow {medulla oblongata) is only the enlarged end of the spinal cord as it enters the head. It is the most important of the four parts of the brain, for if it is injured instant death takes place. It is, as you will remember, the end of the spinal cord. It is about an inch and a half long, and half an inch thick, and if you will look at the picture you will see it is rather broader at the end where it joins the other parts of the