iii PREFACE The house we live in should, I sup230se, be more interesting to us than any other structure, and every one might be ex- pected to have some knowledge of the structure, mechanism, and functions of the body which he inhabits. In my experi- ence, however, gathered in various sjDheres of life—as a doctor, as a sanitarian, as a lecturer, and as one cognisant of the modes of living and of thought, in various parts of the kingdom, and among many classes—I have found both among rich and poor a general, profound, and disastrous ignor- ance of nearly all that relates to the construction and the working of the body in health and disease. Even our in- structors in the press show habitually the most appalling ignorance of elementary facts. A week or two ago I made a small collection of cuttings from the news^Dapers which undertook, on the occasion of the operation which Mr. Glad- stone underwent for cataract, to give to their readers some idea of the structure of the eye and the nature of the opera- tion. One leading paper gravely explained that he had had a film scraped from the cornea ; another described an ima- ginary dispersion of opaque humours. On the whole, it was clear that not one writer in twenty had any conception of the structure of the eye, or was aware that the operation consisted in extraction of the lens, which had become opaque, through an incision made in the cornea. Nor is this merely a matter of curious observation. It is this absence of the preliminary study of the structure and functions of the body in health and disease, which places the mass of our popula- tion at the mercy of the whole herd of pill-vendors, bone- setters, and fraudulent quacks, who flourish nojv in thousands among us, whose vile practices do much to deteriorate the health of the people, and who annually rob them (espe- cially the poorest) of a vast sum of money. It is a present popular belief that disease comes by Providence and goes by pills. The fact is that disease comes mainly by ignorance of the structure and functions of the body, neglect of the laws of health, and failure to understand how the body is kept in health ; how each part of it is constructed, what are its needs, and how its working parts can be maintained in good order. There are other reasons why I am glad to preface this book with a few words of approval and recommendation. I applaud its object, and I commend its method. In the work of the National Health Society, we have found tliat the greatest