THE EYELASHES 245 First, eyebrows add to the beauty of the face. Did you ever see any one without eyebrows, or with such light-coloured ones that they hardly showed^ If you have, you will know how much that row of little hairs over each eye adds to the appearance of the face. Secondly, eyebrows are useful to prevent the perspira- tion rolling down the forehead into the eyes. Some people perspire very much. If this profuse perspiration ran into the eye it would be injurious or troublesome, so nature has provided little brushes that catch it, and prevent it going further than it should do. The eyelashes are the hairs that grow on the edge of the eyelids. They, like the eyebrows, have a twofold use—they serve to make the eyes more beautiful, and they warn the eye of the approach of dust and flies and little bits of leaves and things that might otherwise be driven into it by the wind. Have you ever seen a fly flying straight towards your eye ? Quick as thought you close it, though sometimes not quickly enough; but in any case the eyelashes close before the eyelids, and keep off some of the things that might otherwise go into and injure the eye. I remember once, when we were driving in a very lonely part of the country, coming across a young man who had got off" his bicycle, and was sitting, evidently in great pain, on the bank. We went to his assistance, and found that he had got something in his eye. "Strange, too," he said, when we had got it out, and he was thanking us, " for when I face a wind I nearly always ride with my eyes half shut, and look through my lashes." He had learnt by experience the use of his eyelashes. But useful as eyebrows and eyelashes are, it is the eyelids that are the real protection of the eye. There are two, the upper and lower lid, and they close volun- tarily by the action of a delicate but strong muscle, which is formed like a ring round the eye. This muscle is called The Small Circle Muscle (prhicularis). The eyelids are lined by one of those wonderful skins