THE MAKING OF THE BODY 152 some form, not only at meals, but at all hours. This is not a good habit, and one that should not be en- couraged; for at first children only ask for water, but in later life they want beer, and too easily turn into the public-houses for a drink, to the ruin of their own health and the destruction of the happiness of those who love them or depend upon them. A full-grown man who does active work, or takes a good walk every day, should not drink less than 3 or 3 J pints every day of water or tea, coffee or cocoa. Women, as a rule, do not do such active work as men, and so they do not need so much liquid; but in most cases people drink too little rather than too much. I have told you about water, as if water were the only liquid that it was possible to drink; but, as you know, this is not the case. In England we have cocoa, coffee, tea, beer, and wine to drink ; and some people like taking spirits. It is commonly supposed that beer gives strength; and there can be but little doubt that a great many of the people who ruin their health and sadden their homes by taking too much strong drink began the sad habit by drinking beer, as they say, to make them strong," or by taking spirits ^^to keep the cold out." Neither does either. Beer does not give strength. Spirits do not ^'keep the cold out." Nowhere is it so cold as in the Arctic regions. A while back a brave set of men offered to go and try to find Sir John Franklin, who was, alas ! lost amid those vast lonely ice-fields. The ship was built and packed, and a plenti- ful supply of whisky, gin, and brandy was put in for the men's use; and all safely reached the land of ice and snow, and soon began their search. A " nightcap," as they called it, was served out to each one as he was huddled up in the skin bag that served for his bed and blankets, and then the last man out took an extra strong dose himself, and joined the others; and they were only too glad when morning came if they found no one's ear ready to drop off or his nose dead, because circulation had stopped and the frost had bitten it.