24 THE MAKING OF THE BODT wiser folk look reproachfully when hands are grubby or bodies left untubbed. Sweat glands, sweat ducts, and pores of the skin are all over the human body, but there are not so many of them in some parts as in others. The legs and back have about 600 to every square inch, but in the hands and feet there are more, the palms of the hands having as many as 2500 in the square inch. If all these little perspiration pipes which are over the body were fastened together, they would reach for more than thirty miles. Just think of thirty miles of pipes to keep clean ! Yes, but that is not given us to do; all that is asked of us is to keep the skin clean, so that their little mouths may not be choked by dirt. You will soon know when they are so choked, for they will look like tiny black spots, and should be pinched out. If the mouths of the sweat ducts are closed, the little glands are hindered from doing their proper work, for then the sweat cannot get out, and so the blood has to be still burdened with the impurities which it was the duty of the sweat glands to collect, and the sweat ducts to convey to the skin, to be got rid of by their pores or little mouths. Sometimes people have to be fed by these little mouths in their skin. Once in the Hospital I saw a child who had had a terrible illness. She had had an abscess in the long tube that passes away from the stomach. It had been cut away by the skilful surgeons, and for some days she was not able to take any food. So the nurses lifted her gently out of bed, and put her into a milk bath. The pores in the skin all opened their tiny mouths and took in a little milk. It ran down the sweat ducts, through the upper skin (eiiidermis)^ and past the colour cells, until it reached the dermis. There it met with the tiny vessels holding blood—blood that was always moving; though, as the little child was sick and weak, it did not move so quickly as it does through your veins. However, the blood moved, or the child would have