i8o THE MAKING OF THE BODY Shut up within narrow walls it rushed swiftly and strongly; divided into three channels it lost some of its force, while it moved but slowly when it had many little beds through which to wander. The same thing is true of the speed of the blood as it flows through the vessels. The aorta is the large vessel into which the blood goes immediately after it leaves the heart. Well! it starts in the aorta at a speed of one foot a second. As it passes more and more branches it gets slower, until, in the smallest vessel {capillary)^ it goes very slowly—at the rate of one inch a minute; but since these capillaries are so very small and short, it only takes about a second to get from one end to the other, and from them the blood enters a small vein. Here it travels rather more quickly, and as it gets nearer the heart, into larger and larger veins, it gets quicker still, but never quite so quickly as when it started in the aorta, because, even in the biggest veins, there is twice as much room for it as in the aorta, and, therefore, the blood travels only half as quickly as it did when it first left the heart. These capillaries are everywhere, but just now we are thinking and speaking only of those which are in the lungs. There are a great many of them, and they are closely packed all around not only the air cells at the end of the air passages, but also around the air passages or bronchial tubes themselves. When I tell you of numbers you probably do not take them in, but perhaps if I tell you that some one has said that if all these little hair-like pipes (capillaries) which are in the lungs could be fastened together they would reach to America and back, and when I tell you that it takes six days to get to America in the fastest steam- boat, you will perhaps be able to understand a little about the enormous number of these tiny vessels into which the one big artery divides. What is their use A very important one. We have followed the blood from the heart to the capillaries around the air cells.