WHAT IS GROWING? 19 There are various things that bodies must take in. and various ways of taking them in; and there are all sorts of marvellous contrivances in human bodies by which they take in and make part of themselves certain portions of the outside world. This is what assimilation means. It is adding and mixing, and yet something more than adding and mixing. We imagined the meat and the calico made bigger by the addition of more meat and more calico. These were added together, but not mixed together. We imagined the pudding had become larger because more rice and more milk were added and mixed; but the human body has to do more than add or mix ; it has to take certain portions of the things that surround it, and add them, and mix them, and also assimilate them, or work upon them, until they leave off being them- selves and become part of the body itself. The word ''assimilate" comes from the Latin word similis, like; and if the human body will grow, it has to take a cabbage, or some meat, and first make it similar or like to itself, and then add it to itself, or assimilate it. While people are growing it is very important that they should hold themselves straight. It is told of one great Emperor that he felt this so strongly that he commanded that every young man among his people should be drilled, and taught to hold himself upright. He was often rough in his manners, and one day, when he was reviewing his soldiers, he saw among them one with stooping shoulders and bent head. The lad was a clever fellow and generally respected, only he held his body badly. ''Bring that man here," he commanded, and the slouching fellow stood before his sovereign, himself tall, strong, and erect. "Why do you stoop?" asked the Emperor. "I can't help it, please, your majesty," returned the man. "But it does not please my majesty to see you stoop," was the reply; "but it shall please it to punish you for it. Degrade him," he ordered, turning to the officer. Was not that a hard punishment for a bent back, but it need not be told that it served as an example,