THE MAKING OF THE BODY 58 as to make the air, as it passes through the nose, have a longer journey. It may be asked, ''Why should the bone be so constructed that the air should have a longer journey ?" The reason is simple. The lungs are very beautiful and delicate organs. Every breath we take should go through the passage of the nose, which is made longer by the aid of the scroll-like bones {Inferior turhinated), till it reaches the mouth, goes down the throat, and into the lungs. The longer the air is in the body before it reaches the lungs, the more likely it is to be warm, and so the lungs will not be chilled by the cold or damp. '' She will never live to old age," an old servant said of one of my school-fellows. " She does not use her nose; she breathes through her mouth." I do not suppose the old servant knew the reason of her opinion; but it was but too well founded, and my school-fellow died of some illness of the lungs before she was twenty. She did not use her nose passages, but took her breath in by her mouth. While it was still cold and damp it went into her lungs, and gave them cold. The Two Tear Bones (Lachr/jmal) are made like little troughs, and their duty is to carry the tears from the eyes to the nose. This is why people, who have so much pain and sorrow that they weep, frequently blow their noses. The tears are secreted in the eyes, and then run down the little channels in the lachrymal bones, and find their escape through the nose. The lachrymal bone is marked 2 in the picture. The Ploughshare {Vomer Bone) looks like that part of the farmer's plough which goes under the ground. You cannot find it in the picture, because it is inside the nose, its use being to run down the middle of the nose and divide it into two nostrils. Yery much depends on this bone whether the person's nose is large or small, long or short. "She has an undeveloped vomer," you might say next time you wish to tell any one that So-and-so has a small nose, but I think it would sound very foolish if you did. These are the seven bones which have to do with the