iv PREFACE obstacle to the improvement of the general standard of health is the profound ignorance of a large proportion of the people of all that appertains to their personal physique. In dealing with sanitary legislation, we are met everywhere with the same difficulty. It is of little use talking of the value of fresh air, of the selection of nourishing economical dietaries, or of the virtues of cleanliness, to those who are ignorant of the nature of breathing, and of how resi^iration and oxidation are carried on, or of the parts, processes, and functions of diges- tion, or of the structure and uses of the skin. To talk of blood- poisoning to those who know nothing of the blood, and of nervous exhaustion to those to whom brain and nerves alike are empty words, conveying no concrete image, is very largely a waste of time. This book, then, has before it a large sphere of usefulness in the schoolroom, in the home, and for reading classes. Nor need the elder people despise it because it is written in care- fully chosen words of great simplicity, and because it aims at a vivid picturesque diction which habitually resorts to the imagery of common life. This book appears to me to be valuable in many ways. It has an evident value, first, as mere knowledge—an acquisi- tion which cannot be over estimated ; it will, I think, be found delightful, in the next place, as a fairy tale which is true, a brilliant and attractive introduction to a new wonderland which lies beyond the realm of fiction, and here I may venture to ]3raise it as being imaginative in diction and accurate in. fact. I do not think that any scientific pro- fessor could have succeeded in freeing his mind so thoroughly from the technical phraseology, and in bringing to its lessons so much of fresh and sympathetic suggestion. Whoever reads the book will rise from its jDerusal richer in new knowledge, and inspired with a sense of the relation of self to the great outer universe, which is at once impressive and reverential. I should wish to see it in the hands of every parent, of every teacher, of every journalist, and of every child in the kingdom. Its perusal has been to me a source of vivid pleasure, not unmingled with instruction ; and if this little book receives that wide circulation, which may, I think, be predicted and hoped for it, it will, I am sure, tend to add in no small degree to the healthfulness and happiness of this and of the succeeding generation. ERNEST HART, D.C.L., Chairman of the National Health Society, Editor of the British Medical Journal,''^