THE FOUR SORTS OF TEETH 109 Bi means two, and these teeth get their name because they have two caps or ridges on their tops which enable them to cliew the food. If you think a moment you will see that a thing with an unequal surface will be able to smash and so reduce something else to pulp more quickly than if the surface were Hat and smooth. This is why the eight chewers {l)icu>!picl^) have two ridges. 4. The Grrinders (Molars). Eight you have now. Twelve your teacher has, because grown people cut four more molars when they get their wisdom teeth. Wisdom teeth, however, do not often last very long, and indeed eight grinders {7noIars) are quite equal to the work that they have to do for a human being. They are the true grinders, and their work is to grind the carbonaceous food that is put into the mouth. They are to be seen at the extreme left of the picture. They have four or live ridges, and as the food is moved these ridges grind it into fine pieces. If you look into the mouth of a cow, or a horse, you will see how large and strong the molars are, for as they live on corn or grass, they need teeth to do a great deal of grinding or mill work. Just as the fearers or dog teeth {canine) can be best seen in a dog, so the grinders (molars) can be best seen by Avatching a cow. You will notice how she licks up the hay or wet grass into her mouth with lier long pliable muscular tongue, and then grinds, and uiind-, and grinds it with her grinders ())iohws) until it is a wot brown or green mash. All the four sorts of teeth work when food is put into the mouth; but, as a rule, }u\)ple do not make the teeth do all they ought to do. The food is too often swallowed before the teeth and the spittle have done their work, and this causes pain, discomfort, and illness. "If one person neglects his work it means that another person nmst labour more." This law works in the body of each of us as it does in the larger world. If the food is not chewed enough, it gives the stomach and its servants more work t(^ do, and they get tired and ill. Meat shoiUd be chewecl thirty-two times before it is allowed to leave the teeth workshop. Bread need not