vii TO TEACHERS. ^' Nature, the dear old Nurse, Took the child upon her knee, Saying, Here is a story book Thy father has written for thee."—Longfellow. " You are not guilty because you are ignorant; but you are guilty when you resign yourselves to ignorance."—Mazzini. Any one who lives among the poor must be struck with sadness by the fact that they are stunted in body, and often handicapped in life by their physical weaknesses. This condition is not caused so much by poverty as by ignorance. Wishing to help, I began to speak of sanitary rules and hygienic laws, but I found that even such statements were not accepted unaccompanied b}'" the democratic "Why?" I accordingly started physiology lessons in the school, and gave talks about simple anatomy to the njothers at their ''Meetings." Science is great enough to attract the humblest human minds, and so interesting did my simple explanations of how we are made become, that the children voluntarily stayed in after school hours, and ignorant women asked questions, and cared to understand the answers. One naturally wants to give to many what a few have enjoyed or been helped by, and thus this little book has been written. Let me say at once that it is not intended for any but the most ignorant—for the childish minds, whether they are lodged in young or old skulls. I had written many more simple illustra- tions, but the exigencies of school reading-book requirements have obliged me to cut them out. The usefulness of the book, however, so largely depends on how it is taught, that I venture to write a few suggestions to the many who, as teachers, will, I hope, allow me to count them as my friendly fellow-workers. Chapters I., II., and III. are intended to make the pupils think of, and so to become interested in, their own bodies—in what they do and do not do. Country children will not be so familiar with, locomotives as town children, but all have, I suppose, seen some sort of machine and wondered at it. These chapters may be objected to on the ground that they are hardly physiology or anatomy ; but they serve as a thought foundation on which to build the structure of fact that follows, and as such I hope the teacher will teach them. ■ The plan of this little book is, first, to make the children think about their bodies ; second, to teach them what is absolutely necessary concerning the skin, bones, muscles, the brain, and the nerves to enable them to understand the func- tions of the organs. Then my effort has been to follow the food, the drink, and the air as they journey towards their goal—assimi- lation. After that I speak of the legs and arms, and then of those