X TO TEACHERS committed to memory. Few children could be expected to think accurately enough to think it all out. Chapter XLVI. deals with the portal circulation, easy if the pupil has once mastered the law of circulation. Chapters XLVIL, XLVIII., XLIX., and L. are not difficult, but neither are they interesting. These might have been put among the other bone chapters, had I not thought that so many bones to- gether might become a hindrance, if not a final barrier, to progress. The lesson can be made interesting by the pupils being allowed to feel and count each other's, or their own bones. Chapter LI. always gives pleasure, and I hope my elder readers will forgive my childish examples. Chapter LIL, where an odour's wanderings are followed, is not wholly easy—the nose bones are so com.plicated ; but shreds of paper twisted into approximate shapes can give an idea—to imaginative minds. Chapter LIII. will be appreciated by those who master it. It will make it plainer if the pupil quite understands that Figs. 97, 98, and 99 are views of the back, the front, and the inside of the larynx respectively. Chapters LIV., LV., and LVI. I enjoyed writing, and I enjoy teaching. The sound journey is not too long, and it is all so dainty and pretty. The children must be reminded of the diminutive size of this wonderful organ. Chapters LVIL, LVIII., LIX., and LX. are best taught with an eye model, but should this not be forthcoming, an onion is helpful, for its coats lie, like the eye coats, close together, and like them form the thing itself. If there is any view to be seen, the children might try a "topsy" for their amusement and edification. These chapters are long, but even now, as the teacher well knows, I have been obliged to omit much about the complicated structure of the beautiful instrument. The right study of the healthy body is so often confused with that of disease that I have been most careful to avoid mention of ailments. It has seemed to me that childish minds had better learn only of the body in the beauty of its health. In certain cases I have, how- ever, felt obliged to refer to accidents which, having caused inter- ruptions to the normal regularity, have proved its very existence. I send my little book out with fear, knowing how very far short it falls of what it might be ; but if it starts in any one a wish to know more about their bodies, it will have done its work. I send it forth with hope too, for I remember my own sense of abundant joy when a similar book taught me something about the making of the body. I send it out too in the confidence (a confidence founded on my privilege of calling many teachers my friends) that those who use it will kindly tell me how I can make it more useful, and if it reaches a future edition, where I can make it more clear. HENRIETTA O. BARNETT.