I08 THE MAKING OF THE BODY look at the bit that is left, you will see the marks of all the eight biters {incisors) left clearly on it. They are sharp chisel sort of teeth, and have the poAver of biting and gnawing. They are large and well deve- loped in such animals as rats, rabbits, or squirrels, who use them much in gnawing their food. These are the teeth that are shown on the right side of the plate. 2. The Dog Teeth {Canine), of which there are four, are the next to be considered. They are placed, one on each side of the biters {incisors). Their business is to tear the meat food. It is not easy to see them in the mouth of a human being, but they are very prominent among the teeth of cats and dogs and tigers. Once I had a dog Avho was in all ways a nice character, with one exception. He was very fond of biting the naked legs of little boys and girls. He used to dart after them, bounding and barking as if in high good-humour. The children used to run in play Avith him and laugh at his fun, w^hen all in a moment his four biters {incisors) were buried in their legs. Then there was fear and crying and pain. We did all we could to break Eex of this habit, but all unavailingly, so at last I told him that if he again bit a child I should have to send him to the dentist to have his tearers or dog {canine) teeth out. He was so sensible that he almost seemed to under- stand, but the fat, bare legs of a little chap of six proved too much for him one day, and he bit the boy. So to the dentist went Rex, who first of all put him under chloroform, which so affects the carrying-to {afferent) nerves that for a time they cannot deliver news of pain to the brain. Then while he was quite unconscious of suffering he filed down his four canine teeth until they were on the same level as the biters {incisors) and the chewers {hicus^nds). Poor Eex ! he seemed sorry to lose his power of tearing his meat, and we had to feed him on sop afterwards, but anyhow the children were left in peace. 3. The Chewers {Bicuspids), of which there are eight, come next to the tearers or dog {canine) teeth.