264 THE MAKING OF THE. BODY This is a long lesson, and I expect you will think that yon have now learnt all there is to learn about the eye. So I must tell you that, long as these lessons are, you have only learnt a very little about it. I have not told you of the rods and cones, of the nine layers of the net- work coat {retina), of the yellow spot, of the black spot, nor of the wonders of the muscles and pulleys that work and move the eye or keep the crystal glass {crystalline lens) in its place and doing its duty. All this I have not explained because it is too difficult for you to under- stand. When you get older and your brains stronger, you can get another book and learn about it. I can, though, tell you that all is very interesting and very beautiful. *^Try a topsy," said a boy of fourteen to his grand- father. "A what, my dear? " asked the old gentleman. " A topsy, grandad. It is quite easy. You bend forward and look at the view through your legs, or if you are a girl—which you aren't—you put your head down near to the ground and screw your body round till you get your eyes bottom upwards. Do try it ?" "I am afraid I can't manage it," replied the aged man. ^^But why do you like it." **It makes the view look so much better, and has something to do with what's inside your eye," was the unscientific reply. Could you tell him more about the cause ? Anyhow you will probably take his advice and "try a topsy" before you are "too old to manage it." As you do you can wonder whether the extra beauty that you will see in the colours of the landscape is not caused because that part of the retina that is usually used to seeing the land is now asked to report news about sky colours, while those messengers which have told the brain so often that the sky is blue are now working away to carry news about the purples and russets and greens and greys which travel with the rays from the landscape, and as they are not tired or worn out they are doing it with more than usual clearness or vigour.