196 THE MAKING OF THE BODY sent out along the arteries by the big jerk that the heart gives ; but what makes it return by the veins ?" This would be a question which I should welcome, because it would show thought on the part of the pupil. To it I can only answer that it is the law of Nature, that while we have life and are healthy, the blood should flow onwards to the heart. While we have life. Life ! wonderful fact that no one can explain. But I can tell you one very important way in which the blood can be helped back to the heart, and that is by taking exercise. How cold your hands and feet get if you sit still for long together. The reason of this is because if you move, the muscles contract and expand as you know, and in so doing they squeeze the veins flat and force the blood on, leaving them empty and fit for more blood to flow into them. The little pocket valves refuse to allow any of the blood to go back, so all it can do is to go onwards, though that is sometimes hard work, for from the toes to the heart is all up-hill! " Oh ! she's fainted ! Sit her up. No ! put her down. Hold her head 1 Lay her flat! " I heard half-a-dozen excited voices say one day as I joined a little crowd gathering round a poor thin woman who had dropped in the street. I pushed my way through the people and began to undo her dress round her neck, and at the same time begged the kind would-be helpers to stand aside. Ay 1 ay ! we will leave her to you, as you seem to know all about it," they said; and so I laid her flat, opened her dress, fanned her to get more air, and dashed cold water on her face, and I rubbed her hands and body. Why 1 Now you know why. 1. I laid her flat, so as to make the return of the blood to the heart easier. In the meantime all the little vein pouch valves were full, as the blood was not going on, and they would not allow it to go back. 2. I opened her dress at the neck, so that the gullet should not be pressed into the windpipe, and prevent the air going into the lungs.