114 THE MAKING OF THE BODY to pass through it easily. And yet the mouthfuls should not be too small. can't take the pill/' a child said in plaintive tones. Nonsense/'replied his mother; "you can if you try." "I really can't; I have tried," said the little fellow; and he was j^robably right, as you will now understand, because you know something about the coats of the gullet. The object to be swallowed must be large enough to touch both sides of the inner coat (mucous), or else the middle coat {connective) will not feel it and be able to tell the outer coat {muscula7') to contract and push down whatever it is that has to be sent to the stomach. Some j)eople wrap up their pills in bread, so as to make them large enough to touch each side of the gullet, while others float them down in water. When I was a little girl I recollect hearing my grand- father tell a tale. He said that one day as he was pass- ing the alehouse in the village where we lived he heard a great noise. Men spoke with loud voices, but they were not quarrelling. Fear was in their tones, and he heard a woman's voice begging that the doctor should be im- mediately sent for. My grandfather was not a doctor, but he thought he might help, and so he entered the inn. There he saw a sad sight—a man sitting on a chair, black in the face, and struggling for breath. A dozen voices soon told the cause of the man's condition. *'He bet," they said, "that he could swallow a whole potato, and it has stuck in his throat." There was no time to lose if the man's life was to be saved; so my grandfather, Avho was well known to all in the village, did not wait for any one's permission, but seized a fork and put it down the man's throat. It soon reached the potato, which was firmly wedged, half in the throat-chamber {pharynx)^ half in the gullet (oesophagus). You will see how the man's life was in danger: the potato covered up and closed the passage leading to the lungs, so that no air could go into them or come from them; and it was so big that it had stretched the muscular rings which go round, the gullet so Avide that they could not easily contract again. The fork reached