4+ THE MAKING OF THE BODY tliin, like the coils of rope in each one being connected with the other. One part of the stihstance of whicli the fibre of the voluntary mttscle is made is thicker than the other, and lets less light through it : so when the wise ones looked through the microscope they saw this sort of muscle look as if it were in stripes, and this is why it is called striped muscle {^friaied) The wilftil or involuntary mttscles. although they do not obey our will, yet frequently respond to our feelings. '•I will not obey you,'" they seem to say, "but I will sympathise with you.'" They contract, or come together, by sudden fright. When a person has been very much alarmed we sometimes hear that his "hair stood on end.'' People have often thought that this was just an expression to explain how frightened the poor creature was, but it is also a physiological fact. Fear will make the involuntary (smooili v.nsfrijjed) muscles contract, and the hair will thus l3e pushed upwards and will stand on end. One day I had to go and tell a dear friend that her father had unexpectedly died. He had l3een ill a long- time, and she had devotedly given much thought to him; btit nevertheless the shock was great. Her gentle face grew quite pale, and I thought she was going to faint= She tttrned white becati>e the muscles of the blood-vessels, tliotigli they are involuntary mtiscles. reply to the feelings, and contract. The blood cannot then get through quickly enough, so the veins, little and big, become empty, and the complexion loses colotir. When a person has been very ill, and has spent a long time in bed, his muscles get weak, his legs and arms become what we call ''flabby,'' bttt the doctors wotild say that '"the muscles had lost their tonicity."' The best cure for them is to u>e them : but sometimes the patient is too weak to do this,, and then the doctor gives physic called ''tonics,'"' which are intended to help the muscles to regain their power of working or con- tracting.