THE MAKING OF THE BODY 86 being carried to the brain. The doctors did all they could for him, and the good nurses attended him with devotion, but the spinal cord could not be mended. This man had always been very ticklish, and one day when the nurse was washing his feet she unintentionally tickled them. In a moment he kicked out and wriggled, as people do who do not like having their feet touched. He himself did not know he had been tickled, or that he was kicking out. The sensory nerves took the news to the spinal cord, but as part of it was crushed, it could not carry the information to the brain. As you know the grey matter, or nerve cell, has the power to receive the sensations and to command action, and some of that grey matter is in the spinal cord, arranged in the queer shape that you see in figure 37. So there was no need to go to the brain for orders. The grey nerve cells in the spinal cord were able to manage that small matter, and so from it, through the front nerve {ctnterior), went the command— "Wriggle, or kick, to get away from the tickling." But in the brain, and the brain only, is the seat of consciousness or knowledge, and there also dwells that wonderful j^art of us which is called our will, by which we can decide what to do, whether it be about a little thing, concerning "what we shall eat, or what w^e shall drink, or wherewithal we shall be clothed," or whether it be about a big thing, concerning our duty to those to whom everything is due from us, or about our nation's welfare, or our own part in that big warfare for all that is right against all that is evil. In the spinal cord there is no consciousness, no will. Its grey matter can only take the sensations it receives, and reply accordingly; but if they go to the brain the will can command any action after thought has decided. Tor instance, suppose you are in the room with your mother, or the dear baby. Mother perhaps has been poorly all day, and has just dropped off to sleep. A mis- chievous brother pinches you, or makes great fun. As your spinal cord is uninjured, the news gets to your brain. Your impulse is either to laugh or to speak out, but you