TO TEACHERS viii marvellous organs by which we hear, see, smell, and speak. The book has been differently arranged to many of its kind, in the hope that the idea of the air, the food, the blood, sounds, smells, and light taking journeys might appeal to the fancies of children, who ever delight in movement. Chapter IV. So much entirely depends on the age of the children whether they are taught the proper anatomical names or only my English versions of them. Should the children be troubled by the difficult words, I should suggest omitting them, and for this purpose all the scientific terms have been put in parentheses and italics, so that in reading they may be entirely skipped. In all cases, however, where the names are not likely to create a distaste for the subject, it would be well to press the pupils to master them. After each lesson is read, it is suggested that the teacher should first get from the children what ideas they have obtained from the reading, and then correct them, instead of reiterating the lesson in the usual way. I have been amazed after reading these chapters, as I have done in the course of writing this book, to groups of girls or semi-educated people, to find the erroneous impressions that the simplest state- ments have given. Words are but symbols, and as such often mis- understood ; but as it is the facts and not their word clothing that we wish to teach our pupils, it is of the first importance to discover what ideas the words have conveyed to them. Chapter Y. This lesson is dull, and will have to be enlivened by the teacher. Chapter VI. If the reels on a string could be shown, it would help, and counting and naming them, as has been done with the vertebrae, would give interest. Chapters VII., VIII. are both dull and difiicult, but they must be mastered if the pupil is to be more than moderately interested in physiology. Chapters IX., X., and XI. I have always found evoke interest. Elastic is easy to get, and the pupils can illustrate what they learn by the movements of their own limbs. If a class is being taken, it is well to let all the children do the exercises : it makes them feel a scientific interest in their own personality. Chapters XII. and XIII. are hard, and may be taken as four lessons if necessary, for the bones and their positions should be accurately learned. If the children touch the parts of their heads and faces, it becomes easier. Chapter XIV. is interesting if not easy. I have chatted about Japanese and Red Indians, to give the child mental breathing time between the outside and inside skull brain coverings. Chapters XV., XVL, XVII., XVIII., XIX., XX., XXL, and XXII. have been written with extra care, but simple as I have tried to make them, there still remains to the teacher the still more diffi- cult task of making them real to the children. These are chapters which must not be confused : the pupil must definitely learn the difference between nerve fibres and nerve cells, between reflex action and the ganglionic system. Physiologists will laugh, if not