lOI WHAT ARE GLANDS ? Yoii can imagine that a preparing gland {secreting) is like a careful housewife who goes out on to the wide open common and gets sweet herbs out of it. Many other people have seen and passed those herbs. It is only the good house-mother who picks them and brings them in, and makes health-giving drinks and sweet- smelling medicines from them. These she stores care- fully away till the need arises for them, and then there they are, all ready for use. In like manner the preparing {secreting) glands work, take from the blood those materials which have been let pass by other organs, and make them into another and a fresh material to be put to good uses. The separating gland {excreting) has a different use. Like the other sort of gland, it takes materials from the blood, but when it has got them, or separated them, it does not use them to make anything else. Ko ! it merely sepa- rates them. If the preparing gland (secreting) can be likened to the careful house-mother, it can be said of the separating gland {excreting) that it does the work of the scavenger. From the blood it takes the materials that are not wanted, and evicts them out of the body. If you recall the facts about the sweat glands, with their ducts, you will be able to understand that they are separating {excreting) glands. The finger that you have put into your mouth will have told you that the mucous membrane which lines it and covers the tongue is wet. What makes it wet ? There are two causes. First, the whole of the mucous membrane is full of tiny glands, such as we have been speaking of, which have for their work the calling forth of a watery fluid from the blood and emptying it out, so that the mucous membrane may be kept wet. Secondly, there are in the mouth some special glands, called The Spittle-making Glands {Scdimry). They are preparing glands {secreting), and their work is to prepare the spittle {saliva). Spittle is very useful. It keeps the mouth moist, and it also aids the food to digest.