DIRTY AIR In 1757, not very long after the English first went to live in India and trade with the Hindoos, the natives tried to get rid of the English. They made war against us, and gained several victories. The English fought bravely, for they were fighting not only for their homes and fortunes, but for their lives and liberty; but at last the enemy was too strong for them, and one of the native princes, called Surajah Dowlah, took 146 English men and women prisoners, and put them into a tiny room below ground where there was only one small window. It was intensely hot, and the prisoners were weary and very thirsty. They all crowded to the window to get what air they could. This was not wise, as they thus kept the air from getting into the room ; but which of us, who are often self-seeking in little things that do not much matter, can blame them who were struggling for their lives ? But it was all of no use. 'Not enough air could get into the room through that tiny window to feed all their lungs, and in the morning it was found that no less than 123 were dead. They had died because there was not enough air to go into their lungs and fill their air cells and purify their blood, and so the dark blood had poisoned them, and they had met death. It is told that some of the positions of the dead bodies told tales of unselfishness and love even during that dreadful night. One lady was found who had evidently held her husband's head up towards the window until she herself had dropped from want of air. This is a dreadful story, and it is not often that such sad results happen from want of fresh air. No ; as a rule people do not die from want of air, but they become weak, and poorly, and low-spirited. If only everybody would open their windows more, and make it a rule to sleep with the window open but one little inch, even if it be only one, at the top, in the winter as well as in the summer, they would all become Healthier, Wealthier, and Wiser. But if fresh air is necessary for people when they are well, it is still more necessary for those that are sick.