THE MAKING OF THE BODY 22 parts, where the skm feels very soft, it is only about ^^^jth of an inch. After the pin, which we imagine can see, has gone through the upper skin {ejpidermis)^ it will reach a very narrow layer of cells; you will see it marked h. These cells contain colouring matter, and whether a person is dark or fair depends on the kind and the amount of colour that is in these cavities or cells. A negro is black, an American Indian copper-coloured, a Chinese yellow, because they have different sorts of this colouring matter in the layer of cells. If we could peel off his outer skin, and take out of the cells some of the colour, we should be able to turn any man, no matter what colour he is now, into a white man. These cells are called the colour cells {Malpi[iliian layer). If our imaginary travelling pin once got through these colour cells, it would reach the true skin (de/"rnis), marked c in the picture. Here it would meet with nerves and blood-vessels. When the nerves are touched pain is caused, and if broken or pricked the blood-vessels let out the blood, so then both pain would be felt and blood would flow. The nerves and blood-vessels are twined in and about the true skin (dermis), which itself consists of tissues, or flesh that is elastic and yet clings together. If you look carefully at Fig. i, you will see that the top of the colour-holding cells (McdpigUian layer)., marked h in the picture, is flat, while the bottom is jagged, allow- ing the true skin {dermis) to run up into it, while bits of the colour-holding cells branch downward in among the true skin (dermis). This uneven arrangement enables the nerves and blood-vessels to go up nearer to the upper skin (ejjidermis), and at the same time gives more room for the cells that hold the colour than if they were narrow and straight. These little mounds or hillocks in the true skin (dermis) are called papillae. Still following the pin, we must imagine it going through the dermis till it reaches the land of fat. Here it will meet with cells or little cavities filled with fat or oily substance. In fat people these cells are full and