AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 336 of the bowel, changes take place both in the strangulated portion and in the intestine above. The changes at the seat of constriction concern the circulation in the loop of intestine involved. The first effect of the constriction of the blood-vessels is engorgement of the veins, followed by oedematous infiltration of the loop and exudation of fluid into the peritoneal cavity or the sac of the hernia ; haemorrhage may also occur into the intestinal wall. The constricted loop is at first swollen, glistening, and purplish. As the swelling increases, the constriction becomes tighter, until finally the circulation in the intestinal loop may be entirely arrested. The result is that the portion of intestine involved dies unless the constric- tion is relieved ; the loop loses its glistening appearance, becomes flaccid and soft, swells up and becomes foul. The gangrene first occurs and is most marked at the actual seat of constriction. Perforation of the intestine occurs as a result of the gangrene, and generally takes place at the seat of the constriction. If, however, the constriction is relieved before these changes have occurred, the intestine gradually resumes its normal condition. The intestine above the constriction becomes dilated and often attains a large size from the development of gas and the accumulation of foul fluid within it. It is also congested, so that it can usually be easily distinguished from that below not only on account of its dilatation, but on account of the marked congestion of its walls. On the other hand the intestine below the obstruction is pale and empty. The fluid contents of the intestine above the obstruction rapidly undergo decomposition, and furnish the so-called ' fsecal' vomit, which is really putrefying intestinal contents. After a time, paralysis of the bowel above the constriction results, so that, even though the obstruction is subsequently relieved, the paralysed intestine may not drive on its contents. The causes of death in acute intestinal obstruction are gangrene of the bowel, peritonitis, and stercoral auto-intoxication. Even though the strangulation be relieved by operation, death may still occur from peritonitis, from perforation of the affected loop, from paralytic distension or kinking of the intestine, from auto-intoxication, or from septic pneumonia resulting from the entrance of putrid vomited matter into the air-passages. Diagnosis of the situation of tJie obstruction.—It is not only difficult to diagnose the nature of the obstruction before operation, but also to determine its position. Acute obstruction more often involves the small intestine than the large, obstruction involving the colon—with the exception of volvulus—^being usually chronic ; even in the latter, the severe symptoms often do not set in at once. When the small intestine is affected, the pain usually begins immediately and is very severe, whilst vomiting commences earlier and is more troublesome, and there is generally more severe collapse than when it affects the large bowel. On