FRACTURES 9 of a feeder to which an india-rubber tube is attached. The tube can be passed through the space which always exists behind the last molar teeth on the sound side, and the patient can thus be fed without disturbing the bandage. At the end of three weeks the bandage may be discontinued and soft food may be taken. Solid food requiring mastication should be interdicted until the end of the fifth week when the union is fairly firm. The patient need not be confined to bed. A mouth-wash of sanitas or chlorate of potash should be used and is often very comforting. The patient can suck it in with the lips or it can be poured in through a tube behind the last molar teeth, and then ejected after the mouth has been rinsed out. There are numerous other methods of treating fractures of the lower jaw, but those described above are the ones most generally applicable. Fixation of the fragments by wires or plates is rarely called for, but may be necessary when it is impossible to secure proper co-aptation by other means, as, for example, when there is a double fracture of the jaw. The great drawback to wiring is that the fracture is almost always compound and septic, and the operation may be complicated by suppuration about the fracture followed by necrosis and possibly want of union. Hence it should not be employed unless absolutely called for by the failure of other methods. If, however, the proper alignment of the teeth cannot be maintained by any other means, then it is quite necessary to wire or plate the fragments, because proper mastication will be interfered with permanently if there is any great defect in this respect. Wiring may also be useful in fractures at the angle when there is marked displacement of the posterior fragment ; in this situation the operation can be carried out without opening into the mouth. Particulars of the operation are given on p. lo. (c) Fracture of the Condyle.—Fracture of the condyle often leads to stiffness of the jaw and pain on mastication. It seems almost hopeless to expect good union with any mechanical appliance, and the joint almost invariably becomes stiff from the adhesions following the fracture. The methods of treatment which suggest themselves are to cut down and wire the fragments, to commence movement at once with the view of obtaining a false joint, or to excise the condyle in the manner described in speaking of anchylosis of the jaw (see p. 17) ; of these, excision of the condyle followed by early movement is probably best. {d) Fracture of the Coronoid process.—This is a rare injury which is practically always compound, and is generally the result of gunshot wounds. The fracture may be comminuted, and the fragment, to which the temporal muscle is attached, may be drawn upwards so that it does not unite with the jaw. In these cases the movement may be seriously interfered with, owing to the loss of the connection between the temporal muscle and the jaw. The wound must be purified and then enlarged, should this be