INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 127 seen, and large hot fomentations (see Vol. I. p. 12) should be applied around the throat and renewed every two or three hours. This relieves the stiffness and pain in the neck considerably. In the ordinary cases the frequent employment of sprays of weak sanitas or Condy's fluid, as hot as the patient can bear them, is comforting and relieves the pain on swallowing. In addition to tliis, astringent and antiseptic applications should be made directly to the affected area, and this is best done by painting them on ; a useful fluid is one composed of equal parts of liquor ferri perchloridi, and glycerine ; if this proves too irritating, the proportion of the two may be altered by adding more glycerine. This should be applied every four hours. Another useful paint is composed of glycerine of carbolic acid one part, and water two parts, applied in the same way. A mixture of equal parts of guaiacol and olive oil is also much used. The feeling of stiffness in the throat and the pain on swallowing will be relieved by suck- ing lozenges containing chlorate of potash and cocaine. In children, in whom the fever is often considerable, liquor ammoniie acetatis in doses of 2 to 6 drams (according to the age), every four hours may be given until the tem- perature subsides. In most cases the pain which is provoked by the involuntary swallowing of saliva is so considerable that it prevents the patient from sleeping, and in adults a dose of opium, best given in the form of Dover's powder, will be necessary for the first night or two. The patient should alw ays lie upon one side, so as to aUow the saliva to run out of the mouth rather than down the throat. When the glands are very tender, any movement of the neck gives rise to pain, and it may be necessary, therefore, to fix the head between sandbags or, in the case of children, to apply a large mass of cotton-wool around the neck so as to restrain the movements. When the affection is more acute, the iron and glycerine application is, as a rule, too irritating, and glycerinum acidi tannici may be substituted for it. Under these circumstances, too, a soothing and efficacious anti- septic application is a spray containing carbolic acid and tincture of iodine,! applied by a Siegel spray apparatus (see Fig. 41) every two or three hours for two minutes at a time. SlEGEL's SpRA'i- a PI'ARATUS. B Acidi caibol. . . . . . . Jij. Lin. iodi . . . . . . . Jj. Spirit, vini rect. . . . . . . Jij. Aq adgxij. Instead oi tlie lin. lodi, the tincture (sss.) may be used.