LUDWIG'S ANGINA 115 and the hyoid bone and upwards beneath the mucous membrane. They are usually situated between the genio-hyoglossus muscles and above the mylo-hyoid. More rarely they occur far back along the raphe and occasionally are met with to one side below the angle of the jaw. These cysts are sometimes confounded with ranulae, from which, however, they differ fundamentally. They are thick-walled, situated beneath the mucous membrane, and do not present the purplish appearance charac- teristic of a ranula. If there is any alteration in the colour of the mucous membrane, it is a somewhat yellowish tinge from the contents show- ing through the wall. A ranula, on the other hand, is situated partly in the mucous membrane. Dermoids are always deeper and, when large, project into the neck as well as into the mouth. TREATMENT.—The cyst always requires extirpation, any other treatment being followed by recurrence. When possible, it is best to remove the cyst from the neck rather than from the floor of the mouth, although quite small ones may be removed safely from the latter situation. When they are removed through the neck, the wound is aseptic and heals at once, and the only disadvantage is a slight scar ; this, however, need only be small, as the cyst is easily separated by the finger, and, after having been isolated, can be opened and its contents squeezed out so as to enable it to be removed through a small opening. On the other hand, if the cyst is removed from the mouth, a large cavity is left amongst the muscles, and putrefaction and severe sepsis are likely to occur ; in all cases in which removal from the mouth is performed, it is well to make a counter-opening in the submaxillary region and introduce a drainage tube. The cyst is best removed through a median incision between the chin and the hyoid bone, the muscles being separated in the middle line. As soon as the cyst is reached, its wall is separated from the surrounding structures by a blunt dissector or by introducing a finger through the wound and sweeping it round the cyst wall. This can usually be done without opening into the mouth, even though the cyst extends right up to the mucous membrane, as there is no adhesion between the two. The cyst is now turned out entire if it is small enough to be delivered through the opening, or if not, an incision may be made into it and its contents squeezed out sufficiently to enable the cyst wall to be pulled through the opening. If the cyst is large and lies deeply among the muscles of the tongue—especially if it is situated in the lateral region of the neck rather than in the middle line—a smaU drainage tube may be inserted for the first forty-eight hours. LUDWIG'S ANGINA. This is a streptococcal infection of the tissues in the floor of the mouth leading to acute cellulitis of the neck of a very dangerous character. The condition usually arises from a sore in the floor of the mouth or the