196 AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL further reason for operation is that when a muscle ^is completely torn across, the ruptured ends curl up, so that the smooth outer surfaces of the muscle are opposed, and these unite very imperfectly. The method of suture of muscles is described in Vol. II. p. 63. When the rupture occurs in the course of disease, such as typhoid fever, we have to deal with degenerated muscular fibres, and the chances of sound heahng after suture are comparatively slight, quite apart from the fact that the patient is probably not in a condition to stand an operation. Operation is also not so necessary in these cases, because the ends of the degenerated muscle do not tend to curl up as do those of a healthy muscle. We do not therefore suggest operation here. NON-PENETRATING ABDOMINAL WOUNDS. These may be inflicted with a sharp instrument, such as a knife or a bayonet, by bullets or by blunt instruments ; in the latter case the wounds are contused. The important question in all wounds is whether the peritoneal cavity has been opened, and if so whether there is also injury of the abdominal viscera. In non-penetrating wounds of the abdominal wall there is little shock or bleeding, but the latter varies with the position and nature of the injury. Unless the wound becomes infected and suppuration occurs, the patient recovers rapidly. TREATMENT.—The first point that should be ascertained in every case is whether the wound penetrates the peritoneal cavity. Before making a full examination the external wound and the skin around must be thoroughly disinfected, so as to avoid carrying infective material into the deeper parts of the wound and possibly into the peritoneal cavity; for it must be borne in mind that even when there is actual penetration, the instrument causing it may not have carried infective material further than the surface, especially if the wound is smah. Instead of passing a probe to see if there is penetration of the abdominal wall, the wound should be enlarged so as to expose the opening in the muscles at any rate, and then the deeper parts should be disinfected before going further, taking care that no strong antiseptic gains access to the peritoneum ; the condition of the parts beneath the muscles may finally be investigated. If no opening is found in the peritoneum, a small drainage tube should be put in at one end of the wound, and the muscles and skin sutured in layers. A stitch may be passed through the muscles opposite the point at which the drain emerges and its ends knotted and left long, so that it can be tied when it is certain that the wound is aseptic and that drainage may be safely discontinued ; this is an important point, as, if a drain is left in longer than two or three days, ventral hernia is extremely likely to occur through the small opening left in the abdominal wall. When the muscles are divided transversely to their fibres the skin wound nuist be opened up and the torn muscles stitched together as