AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 58 up on the surface in other parts of the tongue, and then the patch appears bluish or (where the epitheUum is thicker) whitish, and is often indurated and fissured. The affection generally occurs between the ages of forty and fifty, and is more frequent in men than in women. It is usually attributed to long-continued irritation of the tongue. Smoking, alcohol and the irritation of carious teeth are potent factors in its production. Syphilis predisposes to it in a marked degree, and it is always well to examine the blood for the Wassermann reaction in every case that comes under notice, as the syphilitic cases are often greatly benefited by the administration of salvarsan. The disease is very important on account of the complications which are apt to arise. Treatment has little effect, except in the earlier stages of the syphilitic cases, and the tendency is for the trouble to spread over the whole tongue ; the mucous membrane of the cheek may also be affected. The patches, which at first are small and of a bluish tint, generally thicken, and in long-standing cases the condition described as ' ichthyosis lingute ' may occur, and may be accompanied by wide- spread cracks and fissures. After the condition has remained stationary for years, warty growths may develop, which, although non-malignant at first, are very likely to become the seat of epithelioma. In other cases, one of the fissures deepens, its edges harden, and epithelioma develops. It is on account of this great liability to the development of epithelioma that the disease is so important, for the subjective symptoms are usually slight, and in the milder cases the condition is only discovered by accident. TREATMENT.—On account of the great risk of epithelioma in these cases, care must be taken to avoid irritation of the inflamed surface. For example, smoking, the free use of alcohol, and the consumption of very sweet or highly spiced foods should be prohibited ; possibly the use of mild tobacco may be allowed to habitual smokers, but it is best to give it up completely. The diet should be regulated and any dyspeptic condition treated. All stumps, rough teeth, or badly fitting tooth-plates must be attended to, because it is generally in connection with some injury from these causes that the epithelio- matous condition arises. All patients whose blood reacts positively to the Wassermann test should at once undergo treatment by salvarsan (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). Caustics and irritants should be avoided, and the local treatment should consist essentially in soothing applications. Alkaline mouth- washes, such as bicarbonate of soda (gr. x-xv to the oz.), chlorate of potash (gr. v-xv to the oz.), and applications such as glycerinum boracis, or glycerinum acidi carbolici (diluted to i in 40) may give much relief. Salicylic acid and strong solutions of chromic acid cause irritation and should not be used. Butlin advocated the employment of ointments containing drugs such as borax, cocaine or morphine, in a basis of two