466 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES and is liable to frequent trouble with his truss which incapacitates him in many ways. He is often exposed to violent strains which cause the hernia to slip down behind the truss, he nearly always wishes to pursue occupations or amusements demanding full vigour, and he may be out of reach of medical aid for considerable periods. We therefore strongly advise that, unless there be some definite contra-indication, a hernia in a young adult should be operated on by one of the methods described in Chap. XXX. The principal contra-indication is some-illness which makes the patient an invalid or absolutely forbids operation. On the other hand, however, feeble, old people with flabby abdominal walls, who are accustomed to wear a truss and do not object to do so, in whom the truss keeps up the hernia satisfactorily and whose occupation is sedentary, need not be urged to undergo the operation. In alcoholic and bronchitic subjects, operation is inadvisable. The question is often raised as to whether the hernia is really cured by operation or not. In practice, it is found that the vast majority of operations done in childhood and youth are completely successful if done on proper lines (see Chap. XXX.), and even in elderly subjects the success is much greater than might be expected. The least satisfactory cases are those in which a strangulated hernia is operated upon without any attempt being made to perform a radical cure. Here the abdominal opening and the neck of the sac have been enlarged at the operation, and when the patient begins to get about there is frequently a larger hernia than before, and this comes through a canal which is now cicatricial instead of muscular, so that there may be great difficulty in getting a truss to keep it up. Operations upon cases in which there is much cicatricial tissue seldom bring about a radical cure ; nevertheless it is often necessary to perform an operation on the lines of the ordinary radical cure in these cases, the object being rather to enable the patient to wear a truss than to dispense with one altogether. Palliative treatment.—^This consists essentially in the employment of trusses ; particulars of these are given in connection with the individual hernise (see Chap. XXX.), but we may h.ere indicate the general principles Fig. 151.—Single Truss for Inguinal Hernia.