121 MALFORMATIONS OF THE PHARYNX be thoroughly cleansed, and if possible the sac should be emptied and washed out by means of a tube, and for a day no food should be taken by the mouth. Half an hour before the operation a subcutaneous injection of morphine (gr. J) and atropine (gr. should be administered. The head is turned to the right side and a free incision is made along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle from the hyoid bone to the supra-sternal notch. The deep fascia is divided and the omo-hyoid muscle is separated from the depressor muscles of the hyoid and pulled outwards or, if necessary, divided. The vessels with the vagus nerve are pulled outwards with a retractor, while the trachea, thyroid gland and depressors of the hyoid are pulled inwards. If the thyroid gland is enlarged the left lobe may require removal, and it may also be necessary to tie and divide the inferior thyroid vessels. The sac is now exposed behind the oesophagus, and if necessary it can be made more evident by passing a bougie into it from the mouth. It is then cleared from its surroundings and its neck defined. If the neck is narrow, it should be tied close to its origin from the pharynx, a clamp applied farther out, and the pouch divided between the ligature and the clamp, swabs being packed around so as to prevent soiling of the tissues ; the sac is then removed. The mucous membrane is scraped out of the stump, and undiluted carbolic acid applied, though some prefer to cauterise it with the thermo-cautery ; in fact it is treated like the stump of an appendix. The next step is to bury the stump by a series of Lembert's sutures or by a purse-string suture. Finally another row of sutures are passed between the muscular coats above and below so as to close the weak spot in the wall of the pharynx. When the opening into the pharynx is wide and cannot be closed by a ligature the sac must be cut away, the opening closed by sutures, and then the line of incision invaginated by Lembert's sutures and the muscular defect closed as before. A large drainage tube is inserted down to the neighbourhood of the pharyngeal incision in case the latter should give way, and the skin incision is sutured. Some advise a preliminary gastrostomy which is subsequently used for feeding the patient, and is allowed to close after a week. This, however, does not seem to be necessary. After-tyeatnient.—The patient should be fed by the rectum for three or four days, so as to avoid all chance of endangering the line of union in the pharynx. Instead of this, a tube may be passed into the stomach through the mouth and left in : this is apt to be rather irksome to the patient or it may be displaced by the act of vomiting. At the end of the three or four days, water and liquid foods may be given, and at the expiration of six or seven days soft solids may be commenced. The patient need not be kept in bed for more than four or five days, and during that time the head should be kept as still as possible. Should the'pharyngeal wound give way—as will be shown by saliva