70 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE hypoglossal nerve backwards ; this will bring him to the external carotid artery from which the lingual artery arises. In spite of preliminary ligature of the lingual, however, the bleeding during the removal of the nsevus may be profuse, so that, in very extensive cases, it is well to control the circulation by temporary ligatures passed through the substance of the tongue well beyond the area of excision. After the naevus has been removed and the larger vessels have been tied, oozing is arrested by the sutures which bring the edges together and which should be inserted deeply through the wound and tied firmly. Occasionally, however, it may be found necessary to apply the actual cautery before the temporary ligatures are removed. LYMPHANGIOMA. This is the usual cause of the condition known as ' macroglossia ' the typical form being a congenital lymphangioma of the tongue. The superficial vessels are usually dilated and tortuous and give rise to vesicles on the surface of the organ towards the tip and edges. At first the tongue is soft and does not cause much inconvenience, although it occasionally swells and becomes inconveniently large. The superficial dilated lymphatics are easily injured, and injury may be followed by inflammation of the tongue and considerable thickening ; as a result the tongue is liable to repeated inflammatory attacks which leave the organ firmer, harder and larger than before. After a time the tongue may become too large for the mouth and be firmly pressed against the teeth of the lower jaw ; it may even hang out of the mouth permanently. As a result, the pressure on the lower jaw causes the alveolar border and the teeth to project forwards, and this deformity becomes irre- mediable if it is allowed to persist. The patient may also suffer from difficulty in breathing, masticating and swallowing. A similar condition may be met with in von Recklinghausen's disease. TREIATMBN'T.—In former days, ignipuncture, electrolysis, or scarifications were employed, but they never cure the condition, and only serve to set up inflammation and increase the growth of the tongue. The only method which promises success is excision of wedge-shaped -portions of the organ including as much as possible of the lymphangiomatous mass. These operations are no doubt dangerous and may be followed by severe lymphangitis, just as are operations for hydrocele of the neck and other lymphangiomatous tumours. When, however, repeated attacks of inflammation have occurred and a typical macroglossia has been produced, the lymphatics are widely blocked already and there is not the same risk of spreading lymphangitis. Notwithstanding this risk the condition of the tongue is far too serious to be left alone. Before operation the mouth must be cleansed, all fur removed from the tongue, and the teeth scaled and cleaned. A wedge-shaped portion