TREATMENT OF IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA 473 carried up through the neck upon a director inserted beneath it. The contents of the sac are now inspected and the loop is gently pulled down so as to examine its condition at the seat of constriction ; if the bowel at once expands and does not show any loss of polish, it may be safely reduced. The condition of the circulation in tlie Ijowel and its mesentery should also be examined so as to ascertain if the vessels are thrombosed, as this might interfere with its vitality. Before returning the loop, it is well to flush it with salt solution, especially if there has been much fluid in the sac. The omentum, if adherent and thickened, is pulled down until a normal portion is reached, and is then transfixed with a ligature threaded on an aneurysm needle ; the omentum beyond the ligature is removed and the stump returned into the abdomen. It is inadvisable to return omentum from a strangulated hernia into the abdomen as it may be a source of septic infection and may lead to intra-abdominal adhesions. Care must be taken in removing it not to go too near the tranverse colon, otherwise a kink may be caused ; at least an inch of omentum should be left between the point of ligature and the colon. When there is no doubt as to the propriety of returning the boieel, the operation shoiild be completed by a radical cure. Tlie additional time occupied by this is trivial, and the immense advantage in performing it lies in the fact that not only is recurrence prevented, but the radical cure is done under much more favovu'able circumstances than if it were under- taken after the wound has healed, when a large amount of cicatricial tissue will be present. In performing the radical cure, the sac should be excised, as it is generally in a bad condition and if left would probably be a source of infection. This should always be done, even when a radical cure is not undertaken. Before removing the sac, care must be taken to ascertain that no structures are adherent to its neck. The sac is sometimes abnormal and possesses constrictions or diverticula, and it is important that its entire extent should be exposed ; in an inguinal hernia, for example, the external oblique should be slit up to allow of this. If there is any doubt as to the vitality of the bowel, or the asepsis of the contents of the sac, it is a good plan to drain the abdomen through a stab-wound in the neighbourhood of the hernia and also to put a tube beneath the skin incision. This is more satisfactory than inserting a tube along the canal in which the hernia lay—a proceeding which would almost certainl}/ nullify the radical cure. Difficulties in the operation for strangulated hernia.—The two chief difficulties in the operation are the recognition of the sac wall and adhesion of the contents to the sac. When there is much omentum adherent to the sac wall and very little fluid, the layers of the omentum may be actually separated imder the impression that the coverings of the sac are being removed. If there is any doubt, the best plan is to get as