159 BURNS WOUNDS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. These may be produced by violence from within or from without ; the latter are the result of stabs, bullet wounds and the like. The most common injuries are those which occur from within, such as the unskilful employment of bougies, swallowing sharp-pointed or angular bodies, such as needles, tooth-plates or forks ; rupture of the oesophagus sometimes occurs during very violent vomiting. TREATMENT.—If the wound is not immediately fatal from injury to important structures in the neighbourhood, such as the large blood- vessels, it is invariably followed by suppuration in the cellular tissue of the neck and mediastinum, and this in its turn may lead to general septic disease. The obvious treatment is to open up the tissues in the vicinity of the injury sufficiently to provide effectual drainage, and at the same time if possible, to close the opening into the oesophagus. This may be done without any great difficulty as far as the portion of the oesophagus which lies in the neck is concerned, but as regards the intrathoracic portion, a much more severe procedure is necessary (see p. 169). BURNS. Burns from swallowing boiling water rarely occur in the oesophagus, as the water seldom reaches farther down than the lower end of the pharynx owing to the muscular contraction. Burns from caustic fltiids are most important, because, if not immediately fatal, they give rise to serious trouble afterwards. When a caustic fluid is swallowed, the chief effect is produced on the more constricted portions of the canal, and the escharotic effect is most marked at the junction of the oesophagus with the pharynx, and in the neighbourhood of the cardiac end. The sloughs which follow the action of the caustic may be superficial or deep, and after they have separated ulcers of varying depth are left, which heal slowly and are followed by severe and irregular contraction of the lumen of the oesophagus. The stricture thus formed is often extensive and its satisfactory treatment is very difficult. The symptoms of these injuries are usually unmistakable.- There is a history of swallowing boiling fluid or a caustic, followed immediately by intense pain, excessive thirst, and frequently hsematemesis ; considerable dyspnoea is often present. Death may occur very early from acute gastritis ; if the patient does not die, the painful symptoms subside after a time and the separation of the sloughs is usually accompanied by much dysphagia. Sometimes the whole thickness of the wall of the oesophagus may be destroyed and a communication formed with the cellular tissue outside, leading to diffuse cellulitis or a peri-oesophageal abscess. TREATMENT.—-There are three main indications in treatment. The chemical agent causing the mischief must be neutralised as soon