CANCER 303 should be performed. This can be done if the patient wishes it, and it may prolong his life for a few weeks, but it is questionable whether it is really worth while. 2. Of cancer obstructing the pylorus- — In these cases the exit from the stomach is mterlered with comparatively early, and therefore the surgeon is frequently called in while the disease is still limited and while operation is more hopeful. The chief procedures at his disposal are the following : («) If the growth is limited and mobile, pyloro- gastrectomy, i.e. excision of the pylorus and a considerable portion of the adjacent stomach—-particularly the lesser curvature—may be per- formed, followed by gastro-jejunostomy ; {b) if the growth cannot be removed, gastro-jejunostomy may be performed ; (r) failing cither of these procedures, a duodenostomy or jejunostomy will prevent the patient dying of starvation. If possible pyloro-gastrectomy should be chosen because that opera- tion not only relieves the ol^struction, but also may rid the patient of the disease, for a considerable time at any rate. The points in favour of pyloro-gastrectomy are a small tumour, mobility of the pylorus, and absence of enlarged glands, or at any rate, only slight infection of them ; the condition of the patient should of course be such as to enable him to stand an operation that must necessarily be of considerable severity. Against pyloro-gastrectomy, on the other hand, are extensive disease, involvement of the glands, adhesion of the pylorus to the surrounding structures showing that the disease has passed the limits of the wall of the stomach, or such a feeble condition of the patient as not to warrant a prolonged operation. Formerly, the operation performed in these cases was pylorectomy, but a study of the method of spread of the disease along the lesser curvature and of the distribution of the lymphatic vessels and glands has shown that the only safe procedure is to carry the line of section through the stomach from the left end of the lesser curvature to the centre of the greater curvature, thus removing all the lesser curvature and half the greater as well as the pylorus. In addition, all the glands above and behind the pylorus must be removed, together with those along the coronary and right gastro-epiploic arteries and along the upper border of the pancreas. The operation of pyloro-gastrectomy is performed as follows ;—■ Pyloro-gastrectomy combined with gastro-jejunostomy.—Before jiroceed- ing to operate, a few days may sometimes be devoted with advantage to preliminary treatment, as these patients are almost invariably suffering from extreme malnutrition when they first come under notice. This will depend entirely upon the degree of stenosis of the pylorus ; if this is very marked nothing is gained by delaying the operation, as absorption from the stomach, even of highly digestible substances, is very feeble, owing to the catarrhal and atrophic condition of the mucous membrane.