ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION the other hand, meteorism is a more prominent and earlier feature in obstruction involving the large intestine, and may reach an enormous degree in a volvulus of the sigmoid flexure. Evidence of movement of dilated coils can seldom be observed in acute obstruction, but is often seen in the chronic form. It is practically impossible to make a diagnosis as to the actual seat of obstruction in the small intestine. It has been said that the higher up in the bowel the obstruction has occurred, the less is the amount of urine secreted; but that really depends rather upon the tightness and suddenness of the strangulation than upon its actual seat. TREATMENT WHEN THE PATIENT'S CONDITION IS GOOD. In acute intestinal obstruction there is no medical treatment ; the only thing that can give the patient a chance is immediate operation. It is true that a few cases in which the symptoms have pointed to acute intestinal obstruction and which have not been operated upon have recovered, either when left entirely alone or under the administration of opium, but these are extremely few in number and the diagnosis is exceedingly doubtful. It would be most reprehensible not to operate on a patient because there is an infinitesimal chance that recovery might occur without operation. As soon as the diagnosis of obsiruciion has been made, operation should be carried otit forthwith and quite independently of the ability to diagnose the seat or nature of the obstruction. The only question of treatment preliminary to operation has reference to the administration of morphine, which the medical attendant is some- times tempted to prescribe as soon as he is called in and before he has made his diagnosis. Given in this way, morphine is most dangerous, because the character and urgency of the case may be masked and operation may be delayed too long. When, however, the diagnosis has been made, and while preparations are going forward for the operation, there is no objection to the administration of gr. ^ to ^ of morphine with atropine (gr. -jiir to -j-J-o) and scopolamine, hypodermically, as it relieves the urgent symptoms, causes diminution of the vomiting and the shock, and improves the patient's general condition—sometimes to a surprising degree—besides facilitating the anaesthesia. Morphine should, however, not be given—even as an immediate preliminary to operation—when obstruction has lasted for some time, because it may increase "the already existing paralysis of the bowel and therefore diminish the patient's chance of recovery after operation. In making preparations for the operation it must be borne in mind that the patient is collapsed and the operation—which must involve considerable manipulation of the intestines—will indubitably tend to increase the shock. Hence all the precautions mentioned in Vol. I. IV. z