138 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS The ancesthetic.—In adults, especially if the growths be limited to a large central pad, nitrous oxide anjesthesia is sufficient. When, however, there are other hypertrophies, such as enlargement of the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates, a more prolonged anaesthesia is necessary, and for this purpose gas followed by ether or a mixture of chloroform and ether is probably the best. A prolonged anaesthesia is always advisable when operation is undertaken for the relief of marked deafness. In the majority of cases in children it is best to give one of the anaesthetic mixtures, such as the A.C.E. or the C.E. mixture, and the anaesthesia may be completed by giving pure ether by the open method. The anaesthetic may be carefully pushed until the palate is sufficiently relaxed to enable the operation to be easily carried out, but at the same time the cough reflexes should not be abolished and the patient should be able to swallow the blood as it accumulates in the pharynx. This method allows three or four minutes' good anaesthesia, which is usually sufficient, but if necessary it may be prolonged by giving chloroform through a Junker. In giving the anaesthetic, the existence of nasal obstruction must be remembered and therefore free mouth-breathing must be allowed, and a gag inserted if necessary. The instruments.—For the removal of the growths a post-nasal curette —such as some modification of Gottstein's—a ring knife and adenoid forceps are required. The points to be attended to in choosing the curette are that its top cutting edge should be fairly strong and not too thick, and that it should be attached by two bars which are parallel and which do not meet at an angle as in many of the instruments (see Fig. 49). It may be provided with a hook or cage to catch the growth, and it is well to have curettes of different sizes. The best forceps is some modification of Lowenberg's, such as Juracz's (see Fig. 50). The operation under gas.—In this method the patient is usually anaesthetised sitting upright in a dental chair, but the supine position may be used if preferred. The patient should face a strong light or, better Fig. 4g.—Modified Gottstein's Post-nasal Curette. Fig. 50.—Juracz's Post-nasal Forceps.