22 AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS dividing any bridge of bone which interferes witli its easy extraction. It is only rarely that an external opening is required. Care must be taken that all the necrosed bone is removed and that no spicules are left behind. No dressing is necessary, except possibly a temporary plug of iodoform gauze if there is much oozing, but this should not be kept in for more than a few hours, otherwise it will become extremely foetid. The mouth should be washed out frequently with an antiseptic mouth-wash, such as peroxide of hydrogen' (lo vols.), sanitas, or Condy's fluid, and the drainage tube introduced into the cavity from outside should be retained until the sinus closes, which it usually does rapidly. The diet should be liquid or semi-solid at first. Steps must be taken to counteract the tendency to closure of the jaws that is so often associated with necrosis in the neighbourhood of the ascending ramus, and therefore, when the necrosed fragment has been removed, the mouth should be kept open by a wedge placed between the teeth on the sound side ; provided that the new bone is so iirm that it will not break, repeated active and passive movements should also be carried out. The patient should sleep with the wedge in the mouth, so secured that it cannot slip. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE.. This affection is not common and chiefly occurs in the upper jaw, especially about the orbital margin and in the neighbourhood of the malar bone ; it may also be met with in the lower jaw in the neighboiu"- hood of the angle. The treatment is similar to that of tuberculous disease of bone elsewhere (see Vol. II. p. 453). When the disease is superficial, the tuberculous focus should be removed quite early, and in all cases the incisions should be so planned as to injure the parts and scar the face as little as j)ossible. PHOSPHORUS NECROSIS. This condition is fully described in Vol. II. p. 450. ACTINOMYCOSIS. This affection is dealt with in Vol. II. p. 458, but certain of its features are best marked in connection with the lower jaw, and require notice here. The lower jaw is a common seat of actinomycosis which leads to the formation of a slow growing tumour of variable size, which may be mistaken for sarcoma. The source of infection is often a carioiis tooth or an ulcer of the gum. The swelling is generally near the angle of the jaw where it commences as an indurated mass, the skin over which has a characteristic bluish-red appearance. Small yellowish pustules soon