AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 496 when it is empty. After emerging from the saphenous opening tlie hernia, as it enlarges, travels upwards towards Poupart's ligament and outwards over the femoral vessels ; this is an important point to bear in mind in attempting reduction. Femoral hernia generally occurs in adults, and is very rare before puberty. It is most common in women, and is indeed the commonest form of hernia in adult females. When it becomes strangulated, the constriction is usually in the neck of the sac ; but in a large and much distended hernia the neck is pressed firmly against the edge of Gimbernat's ligament, and mere division of the former will not always permit the reduction of the hernia. The pressure against the sharp edge of Gimbernat's ligament injures the neck of the hernia so severely that gangrene is more common and occurs earlier than in other forms of strangulated hernia. REDUCIBLE AND SIMPLE IRREDUCIBLE FEMORAL HERNIA. The hernia may be reducible or irreducible, and of the latter there are the various forms already spoken of on p. 461. The treatment of the reducible form is either by truss or by operation. In simple irreducible hernia a truss often causes so much pain that operative interference becomes imperative. Trusses.—The truss employed in femoral hernia resembles that used for the inguinal variety, except that the pad is bent at a more acute angle to the spring and that there is no perineal band. The measurements which should be sent to the instrument-maker are the same as for inguinal hernia, except that the saphenous opening should form the starting- point and termination of the pelvic measurement, instead of the ex- ternal abdominal ring. Nothing need be added to the remarks made on p. 482 concerning the management and application of the truss. In reducing the hernia the thigh should be flexed and strongly rotated inwards, the neck of the sac drawn directly downwards, and pressure exerted upon the hernia, at first downwards and inwards, and finally directly upwards. Radical cure.—The radical cure of femoral hernia is not nearly so satisfactory as that of the inguinal form ; but at the same time in patients who lead an active life it is best to perform it, as they often suffer much pain from the truss, while the hernia is almost always irreducible and the radical cure will, at any rate, allow the truss to be applied without any pain or risk of injury to the sac or its contents. Besides obliterating the neck of the sac, it is necessary to do something to reduce the size of the femoral canal, otherwise recurrence almost invariably takes place. Unlike the inguinal canal, the femoral is not bounded by active muscular fibres which close it every time the muscles contract, but is a rigid tube surrounded by fibrous tissue.