CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION the ascending and descending colon, it may be impossible to approximate the divided ends, and vmder such circumstances the surgeon may either insert a Paul's tube into the upper end and sew up the lower, or both the divided ends may be closed and a lateral anastomosis effected with some more movable part of the bowel, such as the ileum to the transverse colon in cancer of the ascending colon, or the ileum or the transverse colon to the sigmoid flexure in cancer of the descending colon. We may describe excision of the c£ecum as an example of the method of removing a tumour of the intestine Excision of the cceciim.—When the growth involves the c;ecum and the ileo-csecal valve, and it is found on detaching the re- flection of the peritoneum from the caecum to the ab- dominal wall that the tumour has not spread outside the wall of the bowel and can be removed, the line of resection will go on the one hand through the lower end of the ileum and on the other through the ascending or transverse colon, the ileo-caecal valve being removed together with the Ccecum (see Fig. 133) ; at least six inches of the bowel on each side of the growth should be removed on account of the tendency of the disease to spread along the sub- mucous lymphatics for a ' . Fig. 133.—Lines of section for Excision of the considerable distance. The C/ecum. By making the incisions along the dotted lines exact seat of division of the the^bl^J-^upply ot the remainder bowel is also determined by the distribution of the blood-vessels and the extent to which it is necessary to remove meso-colon in order to extirpate the glands ; unless the former point is attended to, part of the bowel left behind may not have proper blood-supply. This is especially important in excising portions of the transverse colon. In the case of cancer of the cajcum, the extent of large intestine removed is usually that supplied by the ileo-colic artery. The peritoneum is di\'ided as it is reflected from the outer side of the cacum to the al^dominal wall, and the bowel is separated and brought out of the wound. The distribution of the glands in the meso-colon is studied and the amount of the meso-colon which will require removal is