194 AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL SIMPLE CONTUSIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. This condition is comparatively rare, for the abdominal wall usually yields before a sudden blow and so escapes much bruising ; when severe contusion of the abdominal wall is present, there is frequently injury to the abdominal contents as well, and this constitutes the great importance of these cases. Locally, there are the signs of contusion—namely, effusion of blood and tearing of the deeper tissues ; this is sometimes associated with rupture of the abdominal muscles [vide infra). TREATMENT.—The patient should be put to bed, and a firm many-tailed bandage of flannel applied around the trunk outside a mass of cotton-wool, so as to support the abdominal muscles and keep them at rest. Shock, if present, must be suitably treated. If a haematoma forms it should be treated like a haematoma elsewhere ; if it is large and does not become absorbed within two or three weeks, the most satisfactory method is to incise and drain it. Haematomata situated towards the posterior part of the abdomen are rather prone to suppurate, probably because there is bruising not only of the whole thickness of the abdominal wall, but also of the large intestine beneath, and bacteria may pass directly from the latter into the contused tissues. The patient must be kept quiet in bed. If symptoms of peritonitis arise, they may be due to some unsuspected rupture of the abdominal contents or to deep-seated suppuration in a haematoma involving the peritoneum. RUPTURE OF THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. Rupture of one of the abdominal muscles may occur either from external violence or from sudden contraction of the muscle itself. The latter condition is not strictly an injury of the abdominal wall, but it is convenient to refer to it here. When a muscle is imptured as the result of external violence, the one usually involved is the rectus, although some of the lateral abdominal muscles may also be torn. The rupture may be complete, but in the great majority of cases it is only partial. The injury is associated with sudden severe pain and some degree of shock. Vomiting is not uncommon and the pain is increased by vomiting or pressure. There may be some paralysis of the intestine accompanying the injury, especially when the force has been transmitted to the abdo- minal contents. In the course of a few hours a haematoma forms and may obscure the nature of the injury. As the blood becomes absorbed, the gap in the muscle may become evident to touch, and the thickened ends may be felt above and below, while the abdominal wall may bulge forwards in the interval. When the abdominal viscera are not injured, the patient progresses satisfactorily, but pain on throwing the abdominal