GASTRIC ULCER irrigation not to damage the stomach wall or to over-distend the organ. This is especially useful when the stomach is distended with clot. Works on medicine must be consulted for further details of the non- surgical treatment of gastric hccmorrhage. Operation.—When it is determined to open the stomach to arrest the bleeding, the most stringent precautions must be taken against shock (see Vol. L p. Ii8) and all the stages of the operation must be carried out with the greatest rapidity consistent with safety. The abdomen is opened by the usual vertical incision (see p. 215) and the anterior surface and greater curvature of the stomach are examined both by sight and by touch ; the first part of the duodenum should also be inspected. A chronic ulcer on the anterior surface of the stomach or in the neighbourhood of one of the curvatures is readily detected by the alteration in the peritoneal coat, by the induration around it, and by the loss of substance over the ulcer, which can be felt by the finger. If an ulcer is found on the anterior surface it is treated in the manner described on p. 279. In the majority of cases the ulcers which give rise to free haemorrhage are either on the posterior wall or towards one end of the stomach, and if the whereabouts of the ulcer is difficult to make out, an incision should be made into the stomach three or four inches in length parallel to the two curvatures and rather nearer the greater than the lesser. Im- mediately this is done, the ends of the incision and the central points on each side should be seized in volsella forceps, which are raised by assistants so that a large lozenge-shaped opening is formed, which allows the passage of the hand. The organ is then rapidly emptied of its contents, which mainly consist of blood. If the bleeding is coming from a large vessel, it can often be seen spouting as soon as the gastric contents have been removed, and it must be compressed at once by a sponge held in long forceps, while the surgeon decides how to deal with it. If no spouting vessel is seen, the entire mucous membrane must be methodically examined, beginning with the anterior suface, which can be easily in- spected by everting it through the opening and sponging each portion carefully as it is brought into view. If no ulcer can be seen on the posterior surface from the incision in the anterior wall, a hole may be made in the greater omentum sufliciently large for the assistant or the operator to introduce a hand along the posterior wall of the stomach, and push the mucous membrane up to or through the opening in the anterior wall (see Fig. 104). This is easy if there are no adhesions fixing the posterior surface, and in this way the entire posterior wall may be examined. If no ulcer or bleeding point is found in this situation the finger should be pushed through the pyloric opening which, if of normal calibre, should admit it freely ; if it be too contracted to admit the finger or if an ulcer be felt in that situation, the incision in the anterior wall may either be prolonged up to the pylorus,