96 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGTJE and it is not much more troublesome to drill them at the end of the operation. If the disease encroaches upon the lower jaw itself, it will be necessary to remove a portion of the bone. It is very important not to remove the entire depth of the bone (see p. 45), if it can possibly be avoided, and, while it is stiU more undesirable merely to peel off the periosteum and remove it in these cases, every legitimate attempt should be made to save some portion of the thickness of the jaw so as to retain the proper form of the bone. Another condition in which division of the jaw is essential for satisfactory access to the growth is when the latter has spread on to the floor of the mouth in the neigh- bourhood of the frenum. In these cases there is no possibility of getting suffi- ciently free access to the back of the symphysis without division of the jaw. For this purpose the operation introduced by Syme is very useful. Syme's operation is per- formed as follows: The lower lip is split verti- cally in the middle line and the incision in the skin is carried down to the hyoid bone. It wiU often be found advisable to continue the incisions outwards on each side from this point so as to expose the sides of the tongue more freely (see Fig. 35). A central incisor tooth is extracted and the jaw sawn through its socket ; the soft parts are separated from the bone and the two halves of the jaw pulled forcibly apart so as to expose the whole of the anterior portion of the floor of the mouth and the tongue, taking care, however, not to tear the growth. The rest of the operation is carried out with scissors, the mucous membrane being divided weU free of the growth on either side and close to the jaw, and the tongue muscles snipped through close to the hyoid bone. A thread should be passed through the base of the tongue so as to keep it forward after the disease has been removed. The whole of the affected area of the tongue, including the contents of the submaxillary triangle, is then removed. Fig. 34.—Langenbeck's Method of Excising the Tongue. The divided ends of the jaw are pulled forcibly apart and good access is obtained to the side of the tongue and floor of the mouth. The incision is the same as that shown in the preceding figure.