145 SYPHILIS the pharynx should be brushed over with a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine, the back of the pharynx is brightly illuminated and a fine electro-cautery point is pressed against one of the enlarged follicles, and the current turned on. This is repeated on six or eight follicles at a sitting, and at intervals of four days or so, until all the enlarged follicles are destroyed. In the meanwhile, some slightly astringent gargle should be employed, and the patient should use his voice as little as possible. When the follicles are not markedly enlarged, as is the case when the trouble is due to excessive smoking, or dyspepsia, the best treatment is to apply glycerine of tannic acid, or glycerine andtinct. ferri perchloridi (one part in three), over the affected area thi-ee times daily with a large camel's-hair brush. Relief may also be obtained by inhalations of chloride of ammonium or by menthol sprayed through the nose by an atomiser. ATROPHIC PHARYNGITIS. A more rebellious form is the atrophic pharyngitis, which is generally associated with atrophic rhinitis, and is secondary to that condition. There is much tenacious mucus in the pharynx, which feels constantly dry ; when examined, the pharynx presents a glazed reddish appearance streaked with black crusts. TRIllATMENT.—A weak alkaline solution, such ascarbonate of soda (gr. XX. to the ounce), syringed through the nostrils three or four times daily, is often useful. Inhalations of chloride of ammonium, spraying the throat with menthol, or painting it with glycerine and borax may also be tried in turn. SYPHILIS OF THE TONSIL AND PHARYNX. The tonsil is one of the commonest seats of a primary chancre in the mouth. The treatment is similar to that of primary chancre else- where. The injection of salvarsan (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.) is especially indicated owing to its effect in causing rapid healing of the sore. Locally the sore may be powdered with calomel and starch (one part in three). In secondary syphilis the tonsil is frequently the seat of the congestion that occurs in the early stage, and also of mucous patches. The latter spread from the tonsil over the soft palate and the uvula and, although they may ulcerate in the centre, their raised white edge is quite characteristic. Here again the treatMient must be that of secondary syphilis. Occasionally very severe suffering is caused and there is extreme dysphagia from the presence of these ulcers on the fauces. Under these circum- stances salvarsan should be injected intravenously or the patient should be placed as rapidly as possible under the influence of mercury, either by the use of inunctions or by intramuscular injections (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). IV. L