CHRONIC PROCTITIS 539 When the ulceration is limited to the lower part of the rectum and refuses to heal under milder treatment, it has been suggested to remove the whole of the mucous membrane over the sphincteric area and to detach that above it for some little distance, so as to enable it to be brought down and sutured to the skin at the anal margin—as in Whitehead's operation for piles (see Chap XL.). In extensive cases, with severe pain and no sign of healing, a temporary inguinal colostomy should be per- formed, after which the sphincters should be kept dilated and the rectum irrigated from the inguinal opening. This will usually allow healing to occur, after which any contraction may be remedied by dilatation with bougies. At a later period the colostomy opening may be closed in the usual manner (see p. 507). For those cases occurring as part of a general ulcerative colitis, the local treatment of tlie rectum may be effected by means of zinc ionisation. For this purpose the rectum is filled with a solution of sulphate of zinc (gr, X to the ounce), the pelvis being raised so that the fluid passes as high up the bowel as possible. A special rectal electrode connected with the positive pole of a constant current is introduced into the I'ectum, two flat electrodes connected with the negative pole are placed over the sacrum and abdomen, and a current of 20 milliamperes is turned on and allowed to flow for fifteen minutes. The effect of the electrolysis is to force the zinc ions into tlie deeper layers of the mucous membrane, and good results have been obtained in this way. The treatment is repeated every seven to ten days. PAPILLOMATOUS PROCTITIS. This may occur alone, but is usually met with in connection with the ulcerative form. It is characterised by the presence of a large number of warty vegetations which spring from the glandular elements of the mucous membrane and vary mirch in size and extent. There is no induration about tlieir bases. The symptoms are similar to those of ulcerative proctitis, and the diag- nosis is made by the proctoscope; if the vegetations are large they may prolapse through the anus. The condition is generally only a part of a widespread affection of a similar nature throughout the entire large intestine. Malignant disease is very apt to supervene. TREATMENT.^—This is most unsatisfactory, except in tlie rare cases in which the disease is local. In that case the best way of proceeding is to destroy the vegetations by the thermo-cautery or the galvanic loop. The sphincter should be fuUy dilated under a general anaesthetic, after which it may be possible to bring down the whole of the affected area through the anus, or to deal with it through a speculum, unless it extends unduly high up. In the latter case it may be necessary to divide the sphincters and the posterior wall of the rectum back to the coccyx in the middle line so as to give access to the upper part of the rectum.