AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH condition is one in which there is a probabihty that the exploration will lead to the immediate adoption of some remedial treatment; if there is any uncertainty as to the feasibility of remedial measures, the surgeon must feel confident that the procedure will not be dangerous in itself. Typical examples of the utility of exploratory operations are the following : When there is a tumour in the neighbourhood of the pylorus which is freely movable and accompanied by symptoms of dUated stomach, an early exploration should be carried out, because the enlargement may be inflammatory, and an exploratory operation wUl enable the surgeon to proceed to pylorectomy or gastro-jejunostomy which will probably cure the patient. Should the swelling turn out to be a malignant tumour, the exploration will show whether excision of the pylorus is advisable and, if not, the patient's condition may be improved by a gastro-jejunos- tomy. Again, exploration is often of benefit in obstinate cases of pain and dyspeptic symptoms, as it may reveal the presence of adhesions or bands, or of trouble in some other organ, such as the appendix or the gall-bladder, the removal of which will relieve the symptoms. Or again, it may reveal the presence of an ulcer or cicatricial contraction as the result of an ulcer, and these adhesions and contractions may be suitably treated. On the other hand, to perform an exploratory operation on a patient who evidently has extensive cancer of the stomach, and on whom there is very little chance of performing gastro-jejunostomy and relieving the symptoms, or on one who is obviously not in a fit condition for any severe operation, such as excision of the pylorus, is merely satisfying idle curiosity. At the present day there is too great a tendency to the employment of an exploratory laparotomy to the exclusion of other methods of diagnosis. It has happened somewhat unfortunately that large irremovable tumours have been met with when the abdomen has been opened, and improvement, or even apparently a complete cure, has followed the operation. This has undoubtedly given a fillip to exploratory laparotomy even in hopeless cases, under the impression that the tumour might dis- appear as a result of the laparotomy. It is probable that these tumours are not malignant. We know that in the case of the stomach, an exten- sive fibromatosis of the organ is not infrequently met with (see p. 253) which is indistinguishable, macroscopically, from carcinoma. To cut into an abdomen containing a typical cancerous tumour on the chance of the laparotomy leading to the disappearance of the tumour is a practice that cannot be too strongly deprecated. But whenever the symptoms point to some condition that is remediable, or when there is doubt as to the applicability of several methods of treatment, an exact diagnosis is imperative and an exploratory laparotomy should be done. No exploration should be practised, however, even in these cases, unless the surgeon is prepared to carry out forthwith any method of treatment that seems most suitable.