OBSTRUCTION AFTER LAPAROTOMY after the operation, but complete obstruction may l:ie delayed somewhat longer. The explanation of this set of phenomena is that a coil of intestine becomes adherent to the raw surface left in the abdomen, and becomes kinked and fixed with lymph. The result is that the bowel above becomes distended with flatus, and thus the kink is increased until ultimately the obstruction is complete. TREATMENT.—Unless the kink is relieved the patient may die of exhaustion from the pain and vomiting, or of poisoning by the de- composing contents of the intestine above the obstruction. Prophylactic.—The frequency of this accident in the early days of intra-abdominal operations, such as ovariotomy and hysterectomy, has led to various improvements in the technique in order to avoid it ; these consist essentially in the formation of peritoneal flaps which are stitched over the raw surfaces, so that the latter shall be covered by peritoneum. Another important point is to see that no blood is left in the peritoneal cavity. Palliative.—The occurrence of distension, colicky pains, and vomiting after laparotomy should always engage the surgeon's most serious atten- tion, and although it may not be necessary to re-open the abdomen on the first appearance of the symptoms, this must be done unhesitatingly and without delay if they continue or get worse. It may happen that the kinking is not great, that the adhesion is slight, and may stretch, and that the condition may be recovered from ; it is well to operate, however, unless improvement is evident in two or three days. Immediately the symptoms occur, enemata containing turpentine must be administered in order to promote active peristalsis, and so possibly to detach the bowel ; a saline purge should also be given. No food should be given by the mouth, as it increases the abdominal distension, but rectal feeding may be employed ; salol in ten-grain doses may be used with the object of diminishing decomposition of the intestinal contents. The jiosition of the patient should be arranged so as to produce a certain amount of dragging on the attached coil ; thus, when the accident occurs after a.pelvic operation, the buttocks should be raised and the patient placed in a modified Trendelenburg position. Opium should be avoided, but belladonna may be given, as it soothes pain and promotes peristalsis ; it may be usefully combined with strychnine. It is important to remember that the adhesive material is soft during the first few days, and that the bowel can then be easily detached, whereas if several days are allowed to elapse, organisation of the adhesions occurs and renders detachment of the bowel difficult and increases the risk of tearing its wall. Hence, however reluctant the surgeon may be to reopen an abdominal incision if it can possibly be avoided, he must not delay the operation too long.