320 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES gently unlocked and withdrawn from the wound, the temporary stitches tied and the wound closed. In these cases the question of subsequent gangrene of the bowel is especially important. When the bleeding has been arrested, it is weU to flush out the abdomen with hot sterihsed saline solution (see p. 245). This is done partly to remove clots which, if left behind, may organise and give rise to trouble- some adhesions, and partly to fill the blood-vessels with fluid. If necessary, a saline intravenous or subcutaneous injection may also be employed. As a rule the abdominal wound can be closed without any drainage ; when, however, slight oozing is still going on, it is well to introduce a drainage tube into Douglas's pouch, but it need not be left in for more than twenty-four hours. TREATMENT OF RECENT INJURIES TO THE INTESTINAL WALL. The prognosis of intestinal rupture is very grave, the average duration of life from the time of the accident being about forty-eight hours, and there- fore the operation must be done as soon as possible after the receipt of the injury ; at a later period the chances of eradicating sepsis are very slight and attempts to do so by extensive manipulation of the inflamed intestines and peritoneum give rise to the most profound shock, of which the patient will probably die. Hence, unless the operation can be performed during the first few hours (certainly within the first twenty-four), it is better, in most cases; to leave the patient alone in the slight hope that the inflammation will become localised and followed by the formation of an abscess. When therefore the surgeon is called to a case of this kind, he should go prepared to operate so as not to lose any time. Appropriate measures should be taken to reduce the shock to a mini- mum, particularly the employment of stimulants combined with rectal or subcutaneous injections of hot saline solution. As soon as the surgeon has made up his mind whether to operate or not, it is well to administer a full dose of morphine and atropine, as the shock is often much diminished by the relief of pain ; the pulse improves at the same time and the faecal extravasation diminishes because the intestinal movements cease. Morphine, however, should never be given before the surgeon has made up his mind with regard to operation, because the improvement which foUows is sometimes so marked that he is apt to leave the patient alone and so allow him to die of peritonitis. While the preparations for the operation are being made, the skin should be shaved and disin- fected, and everything done so as to reduce to a minimum the time during which the patient is under the anaesthetic. These points are fully dealt with in connection with injuries to the abdomen (see p. 199). As regards the anaesthetic, the intravenous method of giving ether is advantageous in cases otherwise suitable for it. Spinal anaesthesia would