AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 296 and to its right side. When vomitirig and wasting are combined with visible peristalsis and the presence of an enlarged pylorus the diagnosis is certain. The mistake generally made is to look upon the case as one of simple marasmus. If the condition is unrecognised or comes under treatment too late, the child continues to vomit and waste, convulsions set in, and death occurs from exhaustion. TRBATMBISTT.—The experience of our colleague, Professor G. F. Still, and others, seems to show that much may be done by purely medical treatment if the case is taken in hand early enough ; and it seems probable that, in future, surgical intervention will be reserved for the cases which come under notice too late for medical treatment and for those in which medical treatment fails, and consequently the results of surgical treatment will apparently be less favourable than formerly. [a) Medical.—In all cases this should be given a fair trial in the first instance, for experience shows that a number of cases are cured by it alone. The essential point in the medical treatment is frequent lavage of the stomach, and with this should be combined the administration of previously digested food and, if necessary, rectal feeding. If the patient is very wasted, and particularly if surgical intervention is likely to be required, subcutaneous infusions of normal saline solution may also be employed. The lavage of the stomach is an easy matter. The child soon gets used to it and does not resent it ; indeed, the relief gained is very noticeable. It should be done at least once daily, and oftener if the distention and discomfort seem to demand it. It is effected by means of a No. 10 Jaques's red-rubber catheter and a glass funnel, the fluid used being warm water containing a little bicarbonate of soda or boric lotion. About two ounces of fluid are introduced at a time and then syphoned off, and the process repeated until all curd has been washed out of the stomach. If the catheter be lubricated with a little glycerine, the child will swallow it readily and suck at it contentedly throughout the operation. The food should always be given in small quantities—two to four drams at a time—and it is well to peptonise it. White wine whey, and raw meat juice or very weak peptonised milk are favourite foods in the practice of Professor StUl. Food should be given every hour or two according to the child's condition. Only in bad cases will it be necessary to have recourse to rectal feeding. When the vomiting is intractable it may be used as a preliminary to surgical intervention. Each enema should consist of about two ounces of peptonised milk with a few drops of brandy, and may be given every four hours. Subcutaneous saline infusions maybe called for if the child is very ill, and are specially useful as a preliminary to operation. The infusion may be made with a hollow needle connected by rubber tubing with a funnel through which four to six ounces of sterilised salt solution at the body