INJURIES 319 the intestines, swabbing away blood, or clot from the coils as quickly as possible and then returning coil after coil into the abdomen until the seat of haemorrhage is found. The best plan is to begin at the junction of the ileum with the Ccecum and examine and put back the coils of small intestine from that point; subsequently, the meso-colon can be examined in the same manner. When the bleeding point has been found, it may be compressed whilst the woimd is enlarged or the intestines arranged so as to make it as accessible as possible. The further procedure will depend upon the nature of the injury ; when this is a mere slit, the bleeding point can usually be seized in forceps, a ligature applied, and the slit stitched up with fine catgut, taking care not to puncture other vessels with the needle. A transverse tear of the mesentery is a much more serious matter and generally takes place close to the intestine ; should it occur at the root of the mesentery the patient will probably have bled to death before surgical assistance can be obtained. The importance of these cases is due not only to the free bleeding to which they give rise, but also to the serious damage to the blood-supply of the corresponding segment of the intes- tine ; when the tear is at all extensive, the portion of intestine from which the mesentery has been detached may be completely deprived of its blood-supply and will subsequently become gangrenous. It is im- certain how much of the mesentery may be thus detached without causing gangrene, but it is not very much ; if it is detached for two inches or more, gangrene is practically certain to occur, and under such circumstances it becomes absolutely necessary to remove the corre- sponding portion of the bowel and unite the two ends either by end-to-end suture or by lateral anastomosis. When the rent is less than an inch long, it may be sufficient to tie the bleeding points and re-attach the mesentery to the intestine by sutures. This question of interference with the intestinal blood-supply nnist be considered even in vertical rents, because the bleeding vessel may supply a considerable section of the intestine, and its ligature may lead to gangrene in the area of dis- tribution of its branches just as if that portion of the mesentery had been torn away from the bowel; a certain amount of the intestine may therefore have to be excised in these cases also. When the injury is situated at the root of the mesentery, it is extremely difficult to tie the bleeding points, and attempts to do this sometimes lead to further laceration of the vessels, because the forceps are very apt to tear through or the mesentery may become damaged still further by the manipulations. When there is much trouble of this kind, the simplest plan is to leave on the forceps which secure the bleeding point. Their handles are left protruding through the abdominal wound, which is stitched up completely except at the point where the forceps emerge ; here temporary stitches are inserted, and these are tied when the forceps are removed. At the end of forty-eight hours the forceps may be