AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS Fig. I.—Hammond's Wire Splint. The stout wire frame is twisted at a, and the ends of the wire cut short and turned down out of the way. Fine binding wires (6 and c) are passed between each tooth so as to fasten the opposite sides of the frame together and form a series of compartments, each containing a tooth. following is the method of application—it is well to get an expert dentist to fix it. If the fracture is situated at all far back, it is necessary, in the first place, to take a mould of the teeth in the lower jaw while the fragments are temporarily replaced in position ; the splint can then be properly fashioned before adjusting it. If it is necessary to take a mould, this is best done under an anaesthetic in the manner usually adopted by dentists, while the fragments are held firmly in their proper position by the surgeon. A cast is taken from the mould in plaster of Paris and upon this the wire frame is modelled. If, however, the fracture is near the canine tooth, there will be plenty of room for the necessary manipulations, and a mould need not be taken. The splint consists of a frame of fairly stout iron wire, plated or nickelled, which is applied around the necks of two or more sound teeth on each side of the fracture immediately above the mucous membrane of the gum ; it is usual to pass the wire between the third and fourth teeth from the frac- ture on each side. The wire is then made to fit accurately against the neck of each tooth embraced in the splint; the ends are brought together, twisted, cut short, and bent up out of the way, so as not to irritate the mucous mem- brane of the lip. The stout wire framework thus moulded round the teeth is secured in place by binding its two sides with fine silver wire introduced between each tooth (see Fig. i, c). The splint is thus divided into a series of compartments, each of which is occupied by a tooth. The fractured ends are held firmly in apposition while the splint is being applied ; when complete, the splint keeps the fracture in position. When there are only a few sound teeth on either side of the fracture, it is wise Fig. 2.—Kingsley's Splint. The inter-dental portion fits over the teeth in the lower jaw, to which it has been moulded.