APPENDICITIS 427 reached the bottom of the wound, the funnel of gauze is spread out and a fresh strip of gauze is hghtly packed in between it and the tube (see Fig. 150). When inserted in tliis way the greater part of the packing which Ues around the tube can be puUed out comparatively readily, the only part which adheres firmly being the envelope. If the cavity is large or tortuous one tube may not suffice, and similar tubes must be inserted into the other recesses. This gauze packing not only sets up adhesions and drains away serum, but it also prevents the escape of intestine should the patient vomit or strain. The wound should be left quite open in most cases, but if it is large one or more through-and-through stitches of silkworm-gut or silk may be put in at each end, but there should be no marked narrowing of the opening. The ordinary antiseptic gauze dressings should now be applied and fixed on with a firm many-tailed bandage. After-treatment,—General treaiment.—^The patient is put back to bed, and it is well to place him in the ' Fowler position,' i.e. to prop him up on pillows in a semi-erect posture. The idea of this is that any dis- charge which forms shall run down towards the pelvis, which is less dairgerous than if it ran upwards towards the diaphragm. As a matter of fact, however, the importance of this position has been greatly exag- gerated in these cases, for if the wound is packed in the manner we have described, the infected area is shut off very quickly and the discharge wells out of the tube and does not spread in the abdominal cavity. In general peritonitis, however, it is very useful, and even in the above cases, the patient is more comfortable in this position if it is not carried to an extreme. Saline infusion is of great value in these septic cases, and as soon as the patient is put back to bed, a pint of normal saline solution should be introduced into the rectum, and it is well to add to it twenty grains of aspirin and thirty grains of bromide of potassium so as to diminish the post-operative pain. If he cannot retain the solution in the rectum, as is not infrequently the case at first, the saline solution (without the aspirin and bromide) should be injected into the axillfe (about twelve or fourteen ounces into each, and later on continuous saline proctoclysis (see Vol. I. p. 115) should be employed for several hours. If possible, morphine should be avoided, as it increases the flatulence and the tendency to paralytic distension of the bowels, and more aspirin and bromide should be given instead ; if that does not act, small doses of heroin (gr. yly) may be used. If, however, scopolamine and morphine or atropine have been administered before the operation, as is often done, the after-pain is generally slight. The chief troubles after operation in these cases are from flatulence and sleeplessness. For the former the administration of eserin or pituitary extract, the use of the long rectal tube, and enemata containing rue, assafoetida, or tiu'pentine (see p. 211) should be employed. After thirty-six to forty-eight hours attempts should be made to get the