305 CANCER branches of the hepatic artery are exposed in doing this and should be divided between two hgatures. After the omenta have been divided, the growth is separated by the finger from the structures, posteriorly, so as to allow the whole mass to be drawn well up into the wound. As the adhesions are divided, the tumour comes right up into the wound until finally the operation can be com- pleted entirely outside the abdomen. Care is taken that all the glands along the greater and lesser curvatures are separated and left in con- nection with the pyloric end of the stomach. Any enlarged glands behind the stomach are left until after the tumour has been taken away. The gastro-epiploica sinistra artery should be divided at this stage between two ligatures opposite the point at which the line of section of the stomach will reach the greater curvature. The next step is to clamp the duodenum on each side of the proposed line of section through it. The forceps on the proximal side of the incision through that organ should be powerful clamp-forceps that will crush the walls of the gut together and avoid all risk of the escape of the contents of the portion of the stomach removed. Those on the distal side are merely to occlude the lumen temporarily and need not be so powerful ; they may have their blades covered with rubber. The surgeon now cuts through the duodenum and an assistant raises the pyloric end of the stomach and pulls it out of the abdomen over to the left, together with the tumour. It is then covered up in abdominal cloths and kept out on the abdomen away from all risk of fouling the peritoneal cavity, whilst the surgeon proceeds to suture the distal end of the divided duodenum in two layers in the usual manner. This must be done very carefully, as experience shows that if leakage occurs, it is almost always from the end of the duodenum. In order to make absolutely sure both of occlusion of the bowel and the avoidance of sepsis, some surgeons use powerful crushing- clamps, such as those shown in Fig. 110, and divide the bowel on the proximal side by the actual cautery, the adjacent parts being carefully protected from the heat by thick pads and good retraction. A ligature is then tied round the end of the duodenum on the distal side of the crushing-clamp and the latter removed. This closes the duodenum without any risk of contamination from the divided end of the bowel. The closed distal end is then invaginated by a double layer of continuous Lembert sutures, so that there shall be no possibility of leakage. The proximal end of the duodenum is now lifted well up, with the crushing-clamp attached, and the separation of the stomach proceeded with. The great omentum is ligatured with a series of interlocking ligatures (see p. 318) right up to the proposed line of section in the stomach—namely, about half-way along the greater curvature. In doing this, the greatest care must be taken not to damage the middle colic artery which lies in the transverse meso-colon. The omentum is then divided between the stomach and the ligatures, the glands being left in