136 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS downwards and inwards. The mucous membrane at the sides of the tonsil generaUj' tears through, but at the lo\\ermost part it may be necessary to divide it with scissors (see Figs. 46-48). In some cases the operation is easy : in others it is very difl&cult. The tonsil may be ver\- friable and break into small pieces. The degree of anaesthesia required is greater than that for the ordinary guillotine method, and on this ground alone the operation has been very adversely criticised, especiaU}' for children. It is, however, gaining in favour. Aftcy-ireaUncnt.—The patient should be kept indoors for a day or two and confined to his room so as to avoid cold. Before performing an operation such as tonsillotomy, the hygienic conditions of the house should be inquired into, for if the operation is done in a house in which the drains are defective, serious septic sore-throat is apt to foUow. As a local application some mild antiseptic gargle, such as chlorate of potash and boric lotion, is all that is required. Soft food should be given for the first four or five days. POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS. We are indebted to Dr. H. Lambert Lack, Surgeon to the Throat Department of the London Hospital, for the foUowmg paragraphs. Adenoids are most common in children, but are met with up to thirt}^ or even later, and thej- tend to atrophy during adolescence. They may be hereditary ; distinct evidence of former adenoids such as deafness, malformation of the jaws, and open mouth are often seen in the parents of adenoid children. They are more common in cold, damp climates and amongst certain races, such as the Hebrews. The most common exciting causes are nasal catarrhs, the exanthemata, diphtheria, sore throats and whooping cough. PaiJiology.—The gro^^•th is a hypertroph}' of the normal tymphoid tissue of this region and forms a mass in the vault of the naso-pharj-nx ; from this mass two bands usually extend downwards and to each side and become lost behind the posterior pillars of the fauces. Isolated nodules of h'-mphoid tissue are also seen lo^^•er dowTi in the pharj-nx and occasional!}" extend on to the upper part of the nasal septum. Not uncommonly masses are found filling Rosenmiiller's fossae (the deep depressions in the lateral wall of the pharjmx behind the Eustachian tubes), and these masses may be adherent to the lips of the tubes. SyDipionis.-—^The presence of adenoid growths may be productive of various troubles. There is a great susceptibility to repeated attacks of ' cold in the head,' catarrh, and obstruction of the Eustachian tubes, and, in the more severe cases, to recurrent attacks of suppurative otitis. The obstructed nose renders mouth-breathing necessar y, and children who have adenoids may be generally recognised by the open mouth and the stupid expression, which may be actually associated with ineptitude for