APPENDICITIS 429 weeks, and it is well to keep the patient more or less recumbent for that time. When he begins to get about, he should wear a belt with a large pad over the cicatrix. If no hernia is evident after about a year, the belt may be discarded. A considerable number of cases in children and young adults recover without any hernia, but in older people hernia is common after suppuration in the abdomen. If a hernia occurs it can be repaired later on (see Chap. XXX.). In some cases free pus is found on opening the abdomen ; in other words, the infection has spread to the general abdominal cavity and general septic peritonitis has occurred. The peritonitis may be still limited to the neighbourhood of the appendix and in that case the pus should be mopped up and the appendix removed, the procedure being similar to that detailed above. In other cases, however, the infection is more widespread and the case is one of general septic peritonitis following on appendicitis. The treatment of septic peritonitis is similar to that for the same condition occuring after rupture of the bowel, and is considered in Chap. XXVIIl. ; here we may say that although the peritoneum may have become generally involved, the appendix should, nevertheless, be removed, otherwise the patient will have little or no chance of recovery. 3. Operation at a later period when a large circumscribed abscess is present.—Here there may be two different conditions, according as the abscess is or is not adherent to the abdominal wall. If it is not adherent to the abdominal wall, the problem is similar to that in the second set of cases—namely, to evacuate the pus across a healthy peritoneal cavity, and at the same time prevent a general infection of that cavity. The conditions differ, however, in that here there is a much larger collection of pus to deal with and that probably the pus is not so virulent. The operation is similar to that just described up to the evacuation of the pus (see p. 424). A small opening is then made into the abscess and the pus steadily mopped away as it escapes ; then the opening is enlarged and the pus is sponged out of the abscess cavity as thoroughly as possible. The question now arises whether the appendix should be removed or not. It is a great advantage to remove the appen- dix if possible, as the wound will heal more rapidly and satisfactorily and with less risk of an obstinate sinus ; there is also less chance of other complications and there will be no necessity to operate at a later period for removal of the appendix. Hence if it is feasible to find and remove the appendix, it should be done. If, however, it means an extensive and difficult search with great risk of soiling the peritoneal cavity, it is wiser not to undertake it but to be content with the evacuation and drainage of the abscess. In that case, a large drainage tube is inserted into the abscess after it has been emptied, the parts are cleaned up, gauze packing is arranged around the tube where it passes through the healthy peritoneal cavity, the protective packing is