352 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES intussusceptum soon becomes so thick that it cannot be squeezed out of the intussuscipiens without considerable force, and attempts to reduce it in its swollen condition often lead to splitting of the peritoneal coat of the bowel and may indeed rupture all the coats. Adhesive peritonitis also occurs between the opposed peritoneal coats of the intestine—that is to say, between the reflected layer of the intus- suscipiens and the outer surface of the intussusceptum, provided that the latter is still alive. If, however, the intussusceptum is gangrenous, no peritoneal adhesions form between it and the ensheathing layer except at the neck of the intussuscipiens where the two layers of the intestine may become matted together. The occurrence of peritonitis at the neck of the tumour has a twofold result. While on the one hand it forms an obstacle to reduction, on the other hand it is Nature's protection to the patient, because, if firm peritoneal adhesions occur around the neck, he may live, even though the intussusceptum becomes gangrenous and separates. The continuity of the bowel may thus be restored without any communication having formed with the peritoneal cavity. The symptoms of intussusception are briefly those of acute intestinal obstruction, to which are superadded others so distinctive that an intussusception can generally be diagnosed without difficulty. The onset is rapid and accompanied by collapse and vomiting and the other general symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction (see p. 330). The collapse, however, may pass off speedily and the child may apparently recover and remain well for a time. The most common special symptoms are constant tenesmus, which is especially marked when the intussusception is of the colic variety, or when an ileo-csecal intussuscep- tion has reached the lower part of the large intestine ; there is a constant desire for the bowels to act, and this is not fruitless, as in other cases of intestinal obstruction, but is accompanied by the passage of mucus tinged with blood and sometimes with a certain amount of faecal matter. In some cases, however, tenesmus may be entirely absent, and there may be no passage of blood or mucus, especially if the child is seen soon after the onset of the symptoms. A rectal examination should never be omitted ; on withdrawing the finger it should be examined for the presence of blood and mucus. It is a useful plan to wipe the finger on a piece of lint or cotton-wool; small amounts of blood are then more easily seen. An abdominal tumour soon forms, which is sausage-shaped and is most commonly found in the right iliac or lumbar region ; it is not always easily made out, even when the patient is under an anaesthetic, because it may lie under the ribs and may be entirely concealed there. Usually^ however, it can be felt under an ana2sthetic, especially if a bimanual examination is made with the aid of a finger in the rectum. The tumour varies somewhat in consistence, and it can often be noted that it changes its position and alters its shape. A very important practical point is that the absence of an intussusception should not be assumed