530 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS allowed to escape. If the gut can be drawn down close to the skin it may be possible to suture the cut edge of the mucous membrane to the skin margin with a few points of silkworm-gut (see Fig. i8o). A drainage tube is introduced into the bowel so as to keep the cut surfaces apart. In three or four days dilatation is commenced, and kept up by insinuating a well-oiled little finger into the bowel, and this must be continued for a long time so as to prevent contraction. If necessary a plastic operation may be done later. When the bowel is at some distance from the per ineum it will be impossible to bring it down and stitch the mucous membrane to the skin as described above. Under these circumstances dilatation alone must be relied on to keep the opening patent after the operation. A useful plan is to cause the child to wear a small india-rubber plug or teat, fastened in position by a T-bandage ; this, and stretching of the parts by the passage of a finger daily, may suffice to keep the stricture open until the child is old enough for a plastic operation to be performed with some prospect of success. It is quite impossible to do this at an early age owing to the smallness of the parts, and the child should be at least five or six years old before any attempt of the kind is made. The steps of the plastic operation consist in separating the mucous membrane above the stricture, excising the latter, and suturing the separated mucous membrane to the skin at the anal margin. When diligent search shows that the rectum is not present in the pelvis, and especiahy when the peritoneal reflection has been opened and still the end of the gut cannot be found, there is no alternative but to perform colostomy, if the child's life is to be saved. This is a most serious procedure, and, quite apart from the risks pertaining to it in a new-born infant, it is a terrible calamity to inflict on the child, and many parents will quite rightly decline to permit it when the situation is explained to them as fuUy as it ought to be. If colostomy is decided upon, it must be done through a median incision, because it is impossible to say how much of the lower end of the gut may be absent. A median supra-pubic laparo- tomy is performed, the end of the bowel is found and brought out through the wound, a Paul's or Colher's tube is inserted, and the end of the bowel secured in position as for an ordinary colostomy with immediate opening of the gut (see p. 381). Elaborate operations—such as bringing down the bowel to the anal opening after it has been found by abdominal section—are hardly possible in infants a few hours old, though one case of recovery has been reported. There is nothing for it but to make an artificial anus—at any rate, temporarily ; should it be deemed possible to bring the rectum down at a later period, that may be attempted when the child is a few months older. It is hardly necessary to remark, however, that, even at this age, the child is scarcely likely to stand what must necessarily be a most severe operation.