INGUINAL^ HERNIA 481 or even to demonstrate the method ; the person in charge of -the child must apply it herself on several occasions in the surgeon's presence. If the flannel bandage keeps up the hernia efficiently it should be worn continuously for eighteen months or two years and then left off; if the hernia has now disappeared, well and good; if not, a radical cure (see p. 483) should be done. If trusses are employed in very young children they must be covered with india-rubber, and great care must be taken to keep the skin under them dry and clean. Two or three trusses should be provided for each case so that each can be cleaned after removal; the skin is washed and powdered, and boric lint is applied between it and the pad of the truss. With a careful and intelligent mother, who sees that the hernia does not descend during the changing of the truss, the result may be very satis- factory ; a careless one will often mismanage the child to such an extent Fig. 160.—India-rubber Trusses for Inguinal Hernia in Young Children. The pad is inflatabli-. The left-hand truss is for a unilateral, the right-hand for a bilateral hernia. that the skin becomes excoriated beneath the pad, and the truss has to be left off. Further, poor patients can only afford one truss, which soon becomes foul and irritating. The ordinary spring truss, although con- stantly recommended, is not at all satisfactory in children under two years of age ; the body is most difficult to iit, the child is growing rapidly, and the pad is usually either inefficient or exerts injurious pressure. When the abdominal ring is very large a flannel truss will not act ; in an infant, in whom the conditions are unfavourable for a radical cure, the truss shown in Fig. 160 may be tried ; this consists of a broad india- rubber band encircling the pelvis, to the front of which are fixed one or two pads of india-rubber, according to the nature of the case, which are distended with glycerine, water, or air—the latter by preference—and kept in position by india-rubber perineal straps. Should the truss fail to keep up the hernia radical cure must be performed, and, as we have already said on p. 465, operation is preferable to treatment with trusses in all these cases. The steps of the operation are detailed on p. 483 ; after it we do not use any bandages or dressings, as they only become soaked with urine (see Fig. 167). IV. I I