AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 54 stitches. In performing the operation the tip of the tongue should be lifted up with two fingers of the left hand so as to make the frenum taut, and the latter is snipped across with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors. The two fingers of the left hand then push the tip of the tongue forcibly back so as to enlarge the incision thus made without running the risk of dividing any of the veins that a more extensive incision would involve. In the less severe cases in which stitches are not required, no anaesthetic is necessary, as the entire procedure occupies only a few seconds. No special after-treatment is called for. INJURIES. WOUNDS. The most common wound of the tongue is laceration from a bite, such as frequently occurs in epileptics, the tongue being protruded between the teeth and bitten as the jaws come together during the convulsion. This accident sometimes occurs when a child is running with the tongue protruded and falls upon the chin, snapping the jaws together and biting the tongue. Incised wounds of the tongue are rare. TRE ATMEITT.—In epileptics the frequency of this occurrence must be borne in mind, and when a fit is imminent, a cork, a roll of bandage, or a piece of wood should be inserted between the teeth, and held there during the fit so as to prevent the tongue being bitten. These injuries usually heal without any trouble, but in some cases severe septic inflam- mation may ensue. As a rule, the hcsmorrhage is not severe enough to call for any special treatment for its arrest. When the bleeding is serious the patient should be placed in a good light, the mouth opened wide, the tongue protruded and the cut surface dabbed over with a pledget of wool soaked in a lo per cent, solution of cocaine. Any spouting vessel should be seized in artery forceps and tied with catgut ; if the surface simply oozes, a pledget of wool soaked in adrenalin chloride (i in looo) applied to the surface, or a piece of ice wrapped in muslin and placed in the mouth, will check it readily. When the wound is large, it is a good plan to put in a few catgut stitches deeply through its edges so as to press the lateral surfaces together ; this arrests the bleeding and closes the wound. An antiseptic mouth-ivash {e.g. equal parts of a saturated boric solution and water, a tablespoonful of sanitas to the pint of water, or a weak solution of permanganate of potash) should be used at frequent intervals. For forty-eight hours the patient should be kept on a fluid or semi-fluid diet, which is passed along the sound side of the mouth, the head being held over to that side in order to facilitate the passage of the food ; immediately afterwards the mouth should be rinsed with the mouth-wash prescribed.