237 METHODS OF EXAMINATION localised thickenings, and also to give some idea of the extent of the cavity ; it is not a reliable method. Attempts have been made to inspect the interior of the stomach from the mouth by means of an instrument similar to the cystoscope. This method, known as gastroscopy, requires special apparatus, is difficult to carry out, and is of such small value that it is hardly worth noticing. In most of the cases in which such a method would give results of value the diagnosis can be made readily by simpler means. Quite I'ecently an improved form of gastroscope, modelled largely upon the cystoscope. has been introduced by Rovsing. It is used as an adjunct to an exploratory laparotomy and is passed through a small incision in the wall of the stomach. The cavity of the stomach is distended and examined by transillumination, or the mucous membrane can be examined visually (A nnals of Swgerv, Sept. 1912). A certain amount of information may be obtained by means of the X-rays. Tumours of the stomach may sometimes be detected by their shadow ; foreign bodies of a metallic nature, such as pins or coins, that have been swallowed can be readily distinguished and located. The stomach area may also be mapped out with some amount of accuracy by the rays after the administration of substances which are opaque to them. For instance, the patient is made to swallow a thick emulsion of the oxy- chloride of bismuth, which is diffused evenly over the stomach and casts a shadow with the rays ; any encroachment upon or irregularity of the normal gastric area can be seen on the fluorescent screen, or by means of radiograms. This salt of bismuth is innocuous, and at most a gentle laxative is required for its complete evacuation. It is obvious, however, that all these methods are open to so many fallacies that they cannot be looked upon as more than mere accessory methods in difficult cases, and further, that none which involve the passage of an instrument are permissible if there is any suspicion of ulcer or even of an actively ulcerating growth, and thus their applicability is still further limited. EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY. This is the most valuable method of all, and in some cases it may be indispensable for an accurate diagnosis. In addition, it has the advantage that it may be the first step in the treatment. The advisability of doing an exploratory laparotomy in a surgical aftection of the stomach must, however, be carefully weighed. If it be evident from external examina- tion and a consideration of the various symptoms that no remedial measure is possible, then exploratory laparotomy is not justifiable, even though the surgeon may not know the exact site and nature of the disease, as it would merely be indulging curiosity. Before he decides upon an exploratory operation, the surgeon must feel satisfied that the