METHODS OF EXAMINATION 231 EXAMINATION OF THE STOMACH CONTENTS. This is a method of great vahie, and often yields most important information. It is unattended with danger, and is not therefore contra-indicated even in cases of ulceration or growth. The essence of the method is to administer a ' test meal ' consisting of certain quantities of particular foods ; samples of the gastric contents are then removed by means of a soft, red rubber stomach tube during digestion at stated times after the ingestion of the meal and submitted to analysis. We are indebted to Dr. W. D'Este Emery, Pathologist to King's College Hospital, for the following account of the technique employed and the inferences that may be drawn from the results. EXAMINATION OF THE CONTENTS OF THE STOMACH AFTER A ' TEST-MEAL.' This method of diagnosis has been formerly practised largely— especially in America and on the Continent—and numerous procedures, some of which are highly complicated, have been introduced. These may have been successful in the hands of their inventors, but have not come into general use, and it is probable that most of the information which is of real value to the surgeon can be obtained by the simpler methods which alone will be mentioned here. Much of the information which was formerly obtained in an indirect and uncertain way by the examination of the ' test-meal ' is now more easily and certainly acquired by the use of the X-rays after a bismuth meal. This is especially the case with regard to the motor functions of the stomach, which will therefore not be mentioned here. The test-meal should be given on an empty stomach, so that the material obtained for examination may not be mixed with the partiallv digested remains of a previous meal. In most cases it will be sufficient for the patient to take the test-breakfast fasting, in the early morning. But if there is any evidence of dilatation it is advisable to wash out the stomach with warm water the last thing the previous night until tlie washings come away clear. Numerous test-meals have been proposed, but the simple form advo- cated by Ewald is probably as good as any and is generally used. It consists of a slice (about two ounces) of bread or dry toast and about half a pint of water or of weak tea without milk or sugar : milk and butter should be especially avoided, as they may contain organic acids which would complicate the chemical analysis of the material after digestion. The patient should be instructed to swallow as little saliva as possible whilst the test-meal remains in his stomach. After one hour it is to be removed, using a soft india-rubber tube, which should have two bevel- edged eyes. As a lubricant, pure liquid paraffin is best, as it is tasteless,