570 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS membrane above is attached as soon as divided to the free margin of the skin below by a suitable number of sutures. The complete ring of pile-bearing mucous membrane is thus removed. ' Bleeding vessels throughout the operation are twisted on division. This brief description comprises the several stages of the operation. ' It is better to commence the separation of the mucous membrane from the skin at the lowest point, and deal with the two sides in succession, before completing the circle above, so that any oozing that may occur shall be below the work as it proceeds. The incisions must be made through the mucous membrane, and not through the skin. It is very important that no skin should be sacrificed, however redundant it may appear to be, as the little tags of superfluous skin soon contract, and eventually cause no further inconvenience. If this precaution be taken, there is no fear of stricture. ' The attachment of the mucous membrane and piles to the sphincters is so slight that I either employ the closed scissors as a raspatory, or use my fingers in their separation. The firmest adhesions are always found at the highest and lowest points, where the fibres of the external sphincter converge. With a very little patience the whole of the hemorrhoidal plexus can be isolated and the membrane drawn down, leaving the external sphincter almost bare and cleanly dissected. Up to this stage of the operation there is practically no haemorrhage, for, as is well known, the arteries which supply the rectum run immediately beneath the mucous lining, and not in the loose tissue separating it from the sphincters. These are, however, necessarily cut in the next step, which consists in the trans- verse division of the mucous membrane just above the piles. To prevent haemorrhage, it is advisable to cut through the bowel by degrees, and twist each bleeding vessel as it is divided. After securing the vessels, before making any further incision in the bowel, I attach the free edge of the piece of mucous membrane first divided to the corresponding portion of skin at the verge of the anus. The procedure is repeated until the entire circumference of the bowel is secured to the skin. By this means I almost invariably secure healing by first intention. For the purpose of suturing the mucous membrane to the skin, I always employ carbolised silk, and I never take out the stitches as I find they come away by themselves without creating the needless alarm to the patient which their removal generally occasions. Indeed, after the operation, there is no real necessity ever to look at or touch the parts again. ' Whilst the patient is still on the table, I introduce into the rectum a suppository containing two grains of extract of belladonna, give the external parts a final dust with iodoform, and place over all a strip of oiled lint, which is retained in position by a T-bandage. ' For the first few days, with highly neurotic patients, I keep a bag of ice in close proximity to the rectum, and I generally recommend a dose of castor oil to be taken on an empty stomach on the morning of the