449 CHRONIC TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS the relative frequency in the two sexes, but, judging from the frequency with which operations are performed, females seem to be much more often affected than males. Symptoms.—It is not easy to diagnose the disease in the early stages. It may begin insidiously, or it may be acute and spread rapidly and be mistaken for typhoid fever or general tuberculosis. The following are the chief symptoms: The patient complains of malaise, headache, and thirst, does not sleep well and suffers from night-sweats. The appetite is soon lost, and there may be occasional vomiting. The bowels are irregular and there is constipation or diarrhoea, or alternations of the two. After a time abdominal pain occurs which is increased by exertion or it may be only a feeling of weight ; it is rare for pain to be marked at the commencement of the disease. There is generally an evening rise of temperature, but in some cases there is none ; in others the tempera- ture, after being normal for a considerable time, may suddenly rise in the evenings and assume a hectic type. In all except the acute cases, the patients are able to get about in the early stages, but from time to time they have to lie up on account of general weakness or of increasing pain. After some weeks or months, liowevc, the patient has to take to bed altogether either on account of progressive weakness or more com- monly of gradual swelling of the abdomen, pain, and shortness of breath. As the disease goes on, there is a rapid increase in the malnutrition and emaciation, the skin becomes pale, sallow, and dry, the cheeks sink in^ and the patient acquires the abdominal aspect. The local conditions found on palpating the abdomen depend on the pathological changes already described and, also to a great extent, on whether fluid is present in the abdomen or not. When fluid is present, the abdominal wall is tense, with big veins running over it and the lower ribs are everted. Fluctuation is often indistinct and the fluid changes its position slowly as it makes its waj- among the adherent intestines. Sometimes the fluid is encapsuled and forms tumours often mistaken for ovarian or dermoid cysts, or the broken-down glands may form large abscesses. In other cases there may be little or no fluid present; the intestinal coils become adheient, the mesentery contracts, the omentum is thickened and shrunken, and hard masses are formed in the abdomen. In these cases the thickened omentum may be felt as a sausage-shaped mass running transversely across the abdomen about the level of the umbilicus. The percussion note is variable. The intestinal coils are irregularly distended with gas, there may be marked meteorism and, when there is partial ol)struction, the coils may be seen through the abdominal wall. The splenic dullness may be increased, while the liver dullness is not uncommon^ diminished. The stools are light in colour from imperfect digestion of fat. The disease is often associated with various complications, such as