CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 371 the disease spreads to the peritoneal coat, and then infection of the peritoneum occurs and cancerous nodules form all over it and give rise to a cancerous peritonitis accompanied by effusion of fluid into the peritoneal cavity. The intestine above the stricture becomes greatly dilated, and—in the early stages, at any rate—the walls are much hypertrophied ; in the large intestine the longitudinal bands are greatly thickened and may be mistaken for prolongations of the disease. The mucous membrane above the stricture becomes inflamed and may ulcerate, and the bowel may even give way in that situation. The situation of these strictures varies very much ; they occur most frequently towards the lower end of the sigmoid flexure or at the com- mencement of the rectum. Other favourite seats arc the caecum and the flexures of the colon. Complete obstruction will ultimately result, unless the patient dies of some intercurrent affection ; the closure of the lumen of the bowel may be brought about in various ways. Most conmionly, perhaps, it results from blocking of the narrow opening by some foreign body, such as hardened faeces, or pieces of undigested food; in other cases the obstruc- tion is due to inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane above the stricture. Occasionally the tumour may cause a volvulus or an acute intussusception, but in these cases the symptoms are typical of acute intestinal obstruction. The symptoms are indistinguishable in most respects from those already detailed (see p. 362); but in a malignant stricture, especially when it is low d(jwn, there is often the occasional passage of blood-stained material, and a large cjuantity of mucus due to colitis above the stricture. The presence of a tumour may or may not be detected ; this depends to a great extent on the situation of the disease and on the amount of growth present, and also on the degree of abdominal distension. When there is quite a narrow constriction no tumour can be made out from the outside, and cases have occurred in which a surgeon has passed his finger along the whole colon from the cfecunr down to the sigmoid flexure after the abdomen had been opened and has failed to detect a stricture which was found post mortem in the transverse colon. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE AND MALIGNANT STRICTURES. This varies according as the obstruction is incomplete or complete. I. When the obstruction is incomplete.—The ideal treatment is to remove the stricture (whether it be simple or malignant) while the patient is in a comparatively good state of health, and then to restore the continuitj^ of the intestine by anastomosis. If the existence of a tumour can be made out there must be no delay in opening the abdomen either to remove the disease if that is possible, or, if not, to perform some operation, such as a short-cuxuit or an enterostomy, to B B 2