475 TREATMENT OF IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA which the surgeon is not sure whether it will recover or whether it will become gangrenous. An important point is the condition of the circula- tion in the loop after dividing the stricture ; if this improves during the course of the operation the loop will probably recover. If small greyish patches or hcemorrhages beneath the peritoneal coat are present in a bowel not yet actually gangrenous, subsequent perforation is very likely to occur ; the danger of returning bowel into the abdomen in this condition is very great. When the condition of the bowel is suspicious it used to be the practice to return the bowel into the abdomen and to leave the doubtful part just in- side the hernial aperture after having relieved the constriction and washed Fig. 156.—Diagram illustrating the methods of treating a loop or strangu- lated INTESTINE WHEN GANGRENE IS IMPENDING OR IS ACTUALLY PRESENT. In a the suspected loop (shown dotted in the figure) is returned just within the ring, through which free drainage, in the direction of the arrow, is provided. In i a Paul's tube has been inserted and a fa;cal fistula established. the loop with salt solution ; large drainage tubes and a few strips of gauze were also introduced into the canal up to the doubtful part of the bowel. The reason for this plan was that no second operation to replace the bowel in the abdomen would be required should recovery of the gut take place, while it was hoped that the affected portion would be shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions, and that the con- tents would escape along the drains (see Fig. 156, a) should perforation occur in the suspected loop. The suspected coil, however, may easily be dragged away from the opening by peristaltic action unless it is fixed by stitches—a plan to which there are many objections ; while if the strangulated loop is large, perforation might occur at some part not in the neighbourhood of the drainage. A better plan is to divide the neck of the sac, cleanse it and the suspected loop, and pull down the latter beyond the constriction, and then