AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 368 raw surfaces may be covered by portions of this structure, which may be either completely detached, or (where large surfaces have to be covered) left with sufficient attachment to retain their vascular supply ; omentum adheres readily to the raw area, and this procedure may diminish the chance of reproduction of the old adhesions. The most difficult cases are those in which there is widespread matting of the bowels together. Sometimes the bulk of the small intestines form a matted mass drawn up towards the upper part of the abdomen, and the bowel is so involved that attempts to free it are out of the question ; the surgeon is then face to face with a very serious problem. Two alterna- tives have been proposed—namely, to excise the whole mass of adherent intestines and unite the divided ends, or to do a lateral anastomosis between healthy intestine above and below the obstructed mass. Both of these procedures are very grave, and may be quite out of the question. In very severe cases almost the whole of the small intestine is involved, and to cut it out or to shut it off from the intestinal circuit by an anastomos'!s might lead to the patient's death from starvation. On the other hand, when the mass, although so matted that it cannot be separated, is quite small, and involves not more than a few feet of small intestine, the best plan is to excise it. Excision is much better than simple short-circuiting, because after the latter procedure, loops of intestine are left in which intestinal contents accumulate and undergo decomposition, whereas excision and subsequent union restore the normal passage of the bowel at once. The choice between excision with union of the gut, and short-circuiting by lateral anastomosis without excision will be determined mainly by the condition of the patient and the probability of his surviving the more prolonged operation of resection. It must, however, be admitted that when such extensive adhesions exist, it is seldom that either plan can be adopted. When the matting is very extensive, it may be possible to ascertain where the kinks are most acute, and to anastomose the adjacent coils in situ. Fortunately, however, most of these cases are tuberculous, and after opening the abdomen great improvement often foUows; further, Avhen the surgeon is certain that the obstruction is due simply to matting of the bowel, he will have less hesitation in administering drastic purgatives. When the obstruction resulting from adhesions has become complete and the operation is done for the acute condition the outlook is very grave indeed. It may be that separation of some narrow contracting band over the bowel will liberate it sufficiently to permit the onward passage of the intestinal contents. It may be that there is a limited kink which separation of adhesions will free, or excision of the kinked portion with re-union of the bowel may meet the requirements of the case. But, when these extensive adhesions exist, it is generally difficult to do any good by operating. A lateral anastomosis or a temporary enterostomy above the obstruction will probably afford the patient the best chance.