CONGENITAL STENOSIS OF THE PYLORUS temperature are run slowly into the subcutaneous tissues of the axilla, groin, or abdomen. During the treatment, the child must be kept warm and free from draughts and a daily record of the weight charted. Medical treatment should be persisted in as long as there is a gain in weight or, at any rate, no progressive loss. A steady progressive loss of weight should be looked upon as an indication for surgical interference. These children are liable to gastro-intestinal disturbance after they begin to retain the food by mouth, and several have died from severe diarrhoea after the pyloric trouble had apparently disappeared. {b) Surgical. There are three methods of surgical treatment that may be considered. Hitherto we have employed divulsion of the pylorus (Loreta's operation) in all cases. Other surgeons, notably Mr. H. J. Stiles, favour gastro-jejunostomy, while the late Mr. Clinton Dent preferred pyloroplasty. The choice between the operations is a somewhat diiticult one. It seems obvious that in these young children—often not more than six weeks old and terribly emaciated—one should choose the operation that can be done most rapidly, that will cure the disease, and leave no bad after-results. We chose Loreta's operation because of its rapidity, and we have been very satisfied with the results—recurrence has only taken place in two patients. Gastro-jejunostomy seems a particularly severe operation in these children, although it has been done successfully several times, and there is also the uncertainty attaching to the future of the subjects of this operation. Lastly, pyloroplasty, though theoretically the best operation, is troublesome owing to the great thickening of the pylorus and the consequent difficulty in suturing that structure after it has been divided. Whatever operation is performed certain preliminaries should be observed, as success largely depends on them. The room must be at a temperature of 75° F. or more, the child should lie upon an india-rubber hot-water bottle and have its extremities swathed in cotton-wool. Everything must be ready before the anaesthetic is begun, and the stomach should be washed out just as this is going to be given. Loreta's operation.—After disinfecting the skin—for which acetone, followed by 2 per cent, iodine solution in rectified spirit is best—an incision inches long is made through the linea alba from the xiphoid cartilage downwards. The parietes are very thin and the peritoneal cavity may be opened at the first incision. This exposes the liver, which is hooked up with the finger, and the dilated stomach at once comes into view. The stomach is seized and pulled out of the wound, and the enlarged pylorus brought out. The rest of the stomach is then pushed back, the pylorus packed off by an abdominal cloth, and a horizontal incision about three-quarters of an inch long, made into the anterior gastric wall some little distance from the pyloric ring. The edges of the incision are