APPENDICITIS 433 abscess goes on suppurating, while it soon ceases to produce pus if it is drained efficiently. Pelvic abscess.—It is sometimes possible to open these by insinuating a finger along the wall of the pelvis from the original wound, but when the abscess is of considerable size, it is generally better to open the abdomen in the middle line, with the precautions mentioned on p. 424, and then to break through into the abscess cavity after carefully packing off the intestines, wipe out the pus and establish drainage, either through the anterior abdominal wall or through the posterior fornix of the vagina in the female. When possible, it is well to pass a tube down through the vagina even though the abscess has been opened from the front ; a tube and packing must also be introduced into the anterior opening, but this can be rapidly shortened and removed, the drainage of the abscess being carried on by the vaginal tube. The question of drainage into the rectum is referred to on p. 430. Subphicnic abscess.—The pus may occasionally travel upwards, and form a subphrenic abscess. A subplirenic abscess resulting from appendicitis may occur in various ways. The pus may track up behind the peritoneum and the ascending colon and collect in the cellular tissue beneath the diaphragm ; this is most likely to occur when suppuration has occurred behind the ciEcum and has infected the cellular tissue. The abscess so formed may point in the lumbar region or it may penetrate the diaphragm and pass into the pleural cavity, giving rise to a localised empyema ; the latter complication is, however, rare. In other cases when the tip of the appendix lies in front of the ascending colon near the liver, the pus may form in that situation, and either form a local abscess there or spread up between the liver and the diaphragm and form a subphrenic abscess ; the latter may penetrate the diaphragm and lead to a localised empyema, or the lower lobe of the lung may become adherent to the upper surface of the diaphragm and the pus may be evacuated through the bronchi. In other cases these subphrenic abscesses apparently form as the result of infection through the lymphatic vessels and there may be no direct connection between the abscess beneath the diaphragm and the inflanmiatory focus around the appendix. The size of the abscess and the rapidity with which the symptoms supervene vary very much ; the trouble may not appear until a con- siderable time has elapsed since the commencement of the appendicitis. The sympto)ns are pain in the upper part of the abdomen, increase in the liver dullness, friction sounds over the hepatic region, tenderness, and high temperature. When the abscess is foul, gas may occasionally be present and may diminish the liver dullness. Diaphragmatic breathing is absent, but unless the pus penetrates the diaphragm, there are no physical signs of pleuritic effusion. The liver is pushed downwards, there is no IV. FF