346 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES The symptoms are usually very severe, with marked collapse and early and great distension of the abdomen. Volvulus of the caecum is quite rare and is generally associated with imperfect fixation of the ascending colon. The most common seat of volvulus is in the sigmoid flexure, and we shall therefore only refer to that situation, as the symptoms and treatment are very much the same wherever it occurs. In volvulus of the sigmoid flexure, there is a twist of the sigmoid loop, varying from a half to one or more complete circles, and the result is interference with the circulation of the blood through the meso- sigmoid, the amount of interference being directly proportionate to the severity of the twist. The torsion also interferes with the passage of intestinal contents, and complete obstruction follows. These is subse- quently an enormous development of gas and great distension of the abdomen, the distension being much greater in the loop itself than in the intestine above. Unless the condition is relieved, lymph soon mats together the base of the loop and renders it difficult to untwist. In severe cases the interference with the circulation increases and gangrene of the loop may set in, commencing at the seat of constriction ; peritonitis occurs early. The upper part of the loop is usually rotated so that it passes in front of the lower, but in some cases exactly the opposite takes place. Occasionally the volvulus may be very complicated ; the small intestine may also be involved, and may even be wound round the large. The symptoms differ somewhat from those of internal strangulation, and a suspicion of the true state of affairs may often suggest itself before operation. The patients are usually older than those who are the subjects of internal strangulation, although this is a point upon which no great stress can be laid. There is often a previous history of constipation, one of the chief predisposing causes of the mischief being prolonged distension of the loop of the sigmoid, which leads to stretching of the meso-sigmoid by its weight. The onset is sudden, but the pain, although severe, is not usually quite so bad as in internal strangulation, whilst the colic is more marked, the vomiting is not so urgent, and the collapse is usually not so great. One of the chief symptoms which gives rise to a suspicion of this condition is early and very marked distension of the abdomen. TREATMENT.—The essential points are to undo the twist and prevent its recurrence if possible; but this is frequently very difficult, partly because the torsion is often complicated and also because the parts at the root of the twist become glued together. At the same time, however, it is absolutely essential, and the first thing to be done is to bring the loop out of the abdomen, otherwise it is impossible to see the precise condition of affairs. Even when this is done, the enormous distension of the coil usually hides the seat of volvulus, and attempts to manipulate the bowel are apt to cause rupture of the peritoneal coat, at any rate. Therefore, as soon as the distended loop has been brought out of the abdomen, it should be packed around with abdominal cloths, a dish placed beneath