AFFFXTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 412 severity of the onset and the aspect of the patient. When an attack of typical appendicitis commences with very severe pain which lasts some time, and passes on into the usual inflammatory condition, the pro- bability is that serious trouble is present—often gangrene or perforation. When the attack begins with rigors, or when there is severe constitutional disturbance, the probability of grave disease is also great ; the presence of diarrhoea instead of constipation is bad, and generally indicates a severe septic condition. The state of the pulse and temperature are unreliable guides, especially if they are not markedly elevated; on the other hand, the aspect of the patient is of importance. A patient who has had severe pain at the commencement, although it may be much better when the surgeon sees him, whose pulse and temperature are normal or only a little above it, but who has a grey, anxious look, feels ill, and has a dirty or dry tongue, will often be found on operation to have a gangrenous appendix. On the other hand, if the pain at the com- mencement was moderate, the patient's expression little altered, if the tongue is only slightly furred and is moist, if the temperature is not raised more than a degree or two and the pulse no faster than would be expected with the corresponding temperature, and if there is no lump in the abdomen and the rigidity is not particularly marked, the patient may very likelj- recover without operation. If under treatment these symptoms subside entirely, or practically entirely, within forty-eight hours, the question of an operation is not immediately imperative. If, however, the symptoms after quieting down begin to increase again and the temperature at the end of the third or fourth day is still raised, pus is probably forming, and an immediate operation is advisable. The diagnosis of the condition of the appendix is, however, so uncertain that it is always a great responsibility in any case to decide against immediate operation in the acute stage. TREATMENT.—^The problem presented to the surgeon is, firstly, whether operation is necessary ; and secondly, if that is the case, whether it should be performed at once or at some future period. Patients come to the surgeon under two sets of circumstances ; namely, after they have recovered from an attack and are quite well—i.e. during the quiescent stage—or while they are still in the acute stage. TREATMENT IN THE QUIESCENT STAGE. The general trend of surgical opinion at the present time is to advise appendicectomy after the patient has had one attack ; for, w hile it is true that he may not have a second, the probability is that he will, and it may be a serious one ; the risk of an operation in an otherwise healthy patient is much less than that of a second attack of appendicitis. Exception must of course be made in cases in which there is grave constitutional disease, such as uncompensated disease of the heart, advanced Bright's