484 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES An essential part of any operation is the complete obliteration of this structure, for, if it be left patent, the hernia will come down into it again however the canal may have been dealt with. It is most important not only that the sac should be removed, but that not even a dimple should be left at its neck. Obliteration of the sac may be effected in several ways. The one most often employed is ligature and removal of the whole sac and displace- ment of the stump. A needle carrying a double thread is passed through the peritoneum just above the neck of the sac, after it has been cleared both of its contents and its coverings, and these threads are tied on each side and the sac cut away. One end of each thread is left long, the Fig. 162.—Method of treating the neck of the sac by Ligature in the Radical Cure of Hernia. In a the neck of the sac has been ligatured and the sac itself cut away, b and c show how the ends of the ligature around the neck of the sac are passed through the abdominal walls, so that when they are tied the peritoneum is drawn flush over the ring and all trace of a hernial dimple is obliterated. peritoneum is separated from the muscles by the finger, and the ends of the ligatures are then carried through the abdominal muscles from behind forwards at a point well above the ring, so as to drag the stump well away from the hernial orifice (see Fig. 162). This is a very efficient method, but it must be done thoroughly. If the sac is ligatured a little below the neck, a funnel-shaped projection is left into which a hernia may again find its way. It is, therefore, essential to remove the neck as well as the body of the sac, and in order to do this satisfactorily it is advisable to slit up the external oblique. The vas must be separated from the neck of the sac. It is also important to see that none of the contents are adherent to the neck of the sac or protrude through it, otherwise they may be injured. The neck of the sac itself must be carefully cleared ; neglect of this precaution has led, for example,