501 UMBILICAL HERNIA a radical cure should be performed, unless some strong contra-indication is present. The best subjects for radical cure are spare people with strong abdo- minal walls ; it is not so satisfactory in fat persons with lax abdominal walls, but it enables them to wear a suitable support. The radical ciu'e in an adult with a fair-sized hernia and with considerable separation of the recti, is done as follows :— A large elliptical vertical incision, including the thin redundant skin and the umbihcus, is employed. This incision should be made so that the long axis of the ellipse hes parallel to, but on one side of, the middle line ; the cicatrix will then not correspond with that in the deeper parts when the edges are stitched together. In fat people with a pendulous abdomen, it is well to extend the incision tranversely on each side from the centre of the elliptical one, and to remove some of the subcutaneous fat, undermining the flaps, especially the lower one, for this purpose. The sac is then freed, its neck is delined all roi:nd the opening in the abdominal wall, and the sac itself incised at some point where there are few or no adhesions. The adhesions in the interior are now separated by the finger, and, when the liowel has been returned, it is well to ligature and remove the greater part of the omentum and return the stump into the abdomen. It is generally impossible to keep the sac entire, and the question arises how to deal with it, as it cannot be twisted or hgatured satisfactorily. Attempts to separate the peri- toneum from the sides of the opening and to unite it by a continuous suture are unsatisfactory, as there is a good deal of tension and the peri- toneum is certain to tear. In our opinion it is better not to attempt this ; according to the size of the opening, we pass two or three mattress sutures through the muscles and peritoneum wall from above downwards, and these bring the edges of the opening together transversely without difficulty as they take a firm hold on the fibrous walls. These sutures bring the peritoneal surfaces on opposite sides of the ring into apposition, and then a continuous suture should be made to unite the superficial edges of the ring which project forwards. Although this secures good approximation at the time, the cicatrix is apt to vield later on. and two plans have been introduced to strengthen the parts. A good plan is to insert a support of silver wire.i This may either be made by interlacing silver-wire sutures in various directions, or preferably, a ready-made silver filigree (see Fig. 169) may be fixed over the opening. The hernia is dealt with in the usual manner, and the peritoneum is sewn up with catgut. A plate of silver filigree, much larger than the opening, is now placed on the outer surface of the subperitoneal tissues, the muscles being raised sufficiently to enable its edge to be fixed firmly beneath them. The edge of the plate is then fixed ^ See Willy Meyer, Annals of Surgery, vol. xxxi., 1902.