141 POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS be not too deep, the blood will soon be expectorated and the dyspnoea will pass off. Should the patient become cyanosed, the throat should be vigorously sponged out to excite a reflex, and the finger should be pushed down into the larynx to remove any clot that may be within reach. In extreme cases the child must be inverted, and artificial respiration adopted, and, should this fail, tracheotomy will be necessary ; this fortunately is an extremely rare event. Immediately the operation is finished, the patient is rolled over on to his face, the mouth is sponged clean and the gag loosened, as the stretching of the mouth tends to maintain the haemorrhage. After-treatment.—The patient should be kept in bed for one or two days, after which he may be allowed to get up and, if fine, may go out of doors about the third or fourth day. The first food given after the operation should always be cold for fear of exciting haemorrhage ; but after twenty- four hours in children, and usually after forty-eight in adults, ordinary food may be given. As a rule it is not well to bother the patient with any active after-treatment, but the nose and ears should always be carefully examined. At the first sign of inflammation of the drum or of increase in deafness a blister should be applied to the mastoid region and the nose should be washed out with a simple alkaline lotion. Moreover, if at any time a bloody or muco-purulent foetid discharge collects in the nose oi" throat it should be syringed away with a solution of boric acid. Should there be any haemorrhage, an ice-cloth should be applied to the face and ice given to suck ; if it be really profuse or prolonged, it may be necessary to check it by means of the tannic and galHc acid paste. It is generally advisable to give the cliild a go(.)d purge on the second night to clear away any ill-effects of the blood which has been swallowed. Results.—The result of the operation is nearly always extremely good. The difficulty in breathing usually disappears after a few days and the deafness, if due to Eustachian obstruction, also rapidly recovers. In some cases, however, these symptoms require further treatment. Other symptoms are more slow to go ; but the habit of keeping the mouth open, the peculiar speech, the facial expression, etc., all generally disappear in tnne, especially if the parents take pains to teach the child. The improvement in the general health is frequently remarkable. If the removal be thorough, recurrence will he very rare; but after imperfect operations, recurrence is common. The younger the patient the greater is the risk of recurrence, especially if the patient subsequently suffers from one of the acute exanthemata, from repeated sore throats or nasal catarrhs. With children under the age of seven a guarded prognosis must invariably be given with regard to this point, but in patients over ten it may be stated with some confidence that the growths will not return, if the operation has been done with care and thoroughness.