LINGUAL GOlTRE (THYREO-GLOSSAL TUMOURS) of the tongue, so planned as to include the greater part or the whole of the lymphangiomatous region and to redirce the size of the organ to its proper limits, should be removed ; this should be done before deformity of the jaw has occurred. The bleeding generally stops when the edges are brought together ; persistent oozing may be checked by the application of adrenalin chloride (i in looo). The edges of the wound are then brought together by catgut sutures inserted deeply, and a mouth-wash of boro-glyceride or sanitas is used. LINGUAL GOITRE (THYREO-GLOSSAL TUMOURS). In connection with the thyreo-glossal duct which runs from the isthmus of the thyroid gland to the foramen caecum of the tongue, tumours of varying sizes are occasionally found, which consist of thyroid tissue and have received the name of lingual goitre. Sometimes they form small tumours about the size of a cherry in the region of the foramen caecum, sometimes they press back the epiglottis and give rise to dysphagia, and occasionally the tumour projecting from the base of the tongue is connected along the middle line of the organ with another projecting in the neck over the centre of the hyoid bone. The chief symptoms to which these tumours give rise are those of difficulty in deglutition and articulation. They are also liable to sudden variations in size owing to haemorrhage into their substance, and their vascularity is such that they may give rise to alarmingly severe bleeding if they are wounded. In several of the recorded cases the normal thyroid gland has been absent. TREIATMEINT.—For two reasons this should not be undertaken unless the size of the swelling renders it imperative. In the first place profuse haemorrhage may occur during the operation in spite of the greatest care, and in the second place, myxoedema may follow their com- plete removal. Operation must be undertaken, however, if deglutition, respiration, or articulation are much interfered with, and it seems to be agreed that the best way to remove these tumours is by means of the galvano-cautery. A lo per cent, solution of cocaine, to which a few drops of adrenalin chloride (i in looo) are added, is applied to the affected area upon a cotton-wool mop, and then, by the aid of the laryngeal mirror, the loop of the galvano-cautery is slipped over the tumour and made to surround its base. On no account must the cautery be used too hot, neither must it be tightened up too quickly ; if it is, serious bleeding may occur. This procedure only cuts off the projecting portion of the tumour flush with the surface of the tongue, but published cases show that this is sufficient, and it has the great advantage that the surgeon knows that he has left some active thyroid tissue behind. Should it be necessary to remove the tumour entirely, as may be the