IMPERFORATE ANUS AND RECTUM 53T When there are fistulous communications.—The only cases of this kind whicli are at all likely to be successful are those in female infants in which the fistula opens into the vagina. The immediate treatment will depend on the condition present. When there is a fistulous communication with the vagina, a line probe bent at the end is introduced along the fistulous track from the vagina, and its point is turned downwards and pressed against the anal dimple or the skin in that region if no dimple exists. The point of the probe is cut down upon by a median incision from the centre of the perineum to the coccyx. When the bowel has been found, it is opened as already described, sutured to the skin if possible, and kept dilated afterwards (see p. 529). The fistulous track into the vagina should be left until the patient has grown up ; by that time the fistula may have closed so completely that nothing further is necessary ; should it persist it may be closed by dissecting out the fistulous track and suturing the mucous membrane of the vagina and the rectum separately. When the fistula communicates with the bladder or the urethra, the treat- ment is extremely difficult. In the former case the risks of suppurative nephritis are very great, and the child usually dies. It may be possible to open the rectum from the pejineum when the communication is with the urethra, and the bowels should then be regulated so that the faeces are kept solid, and therefore less likely to find their way into the urethra. This may be successful, and the child may escape suppurative nephritis. When, however, the opening is into the bladder, the gut generally terminates high up in the pelvis, and cannot be reached from the perineum. Here an inguinal colostomy is the only alternative. The bowel should be divided across as near to the bladder as is consistent with proper invagination of the lower end, as little of the bowel as possible being left in connection with the bladder. The upper end is then fixed into the wound, after a Paul's tube has been tied in (see p. 381), whilst the lower end is invaginated and sutured. This is an operation of the greatest severity in a child of this age, and few will survive it ; even should the child live, it will grow up with a permanent artificial anus, which can never be remedied. In face of such a lamentable prospect the parents will probably refuse to allow the operation. MUZ