276 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH way to prevent this is by the administration of turpentine enemata and aperients and the frequent use of the flatus tube. By the end of the third week the patient may be allowed to get up and may be considered well. For full details of after-treatment, see p. 209. Treatment of complications arising after the operation.— Of Bleeding : This is usually the first complication to manifest itself. Occasionally, severe bleeding may occur during the course of the opera- tion itself, but this is always easily arrested by ligature. The most serious form of bleeding met with in connection with this operation occurs within a very short time of the completion of the operation and is due to oozing from an unsecured vessel at the site of anastomosis. There is an impression prevalent that this complication is more common since the introduction of the large clamp for the posterior operation. The clamp prevents any bleeding at the time that the sutures are inserted, but if the inner or haemostatic suture has been at all carelessly applied, bleeding may occur when the clamp is released, and will not be noticed owing to completion of the anastomosis. The first warning the surgeon generally has is the alarming pallor of the patient, who becomes faint after the operation and vomits large quantities of blood, subsequently also passing altered blood per rectum. This condition is alarming and really dangerous and should not occur if due care be taken over the operation. There is a tendency in some quarters to look upon the operation as one that should be performed with great rapidity, and the natural result of undue hurry is to insert a faulty haemostatic inner suture. If this suture picks up mucous membrane, submucous tissue, and the sero-muscular coats each time the needle is inserted, if it is evenly spaced and drawn uniformly tightly everj/^vhere as it is introduced, there should be no risk of any recurrent bleeding. To make sure, we always relax the blades of the clamp for a few moments, after the posterior half of the suture has been inserted, and again just before the suture is completed. The surgeon is thus enabled to see at once if his suture has arrested the bleeding or not. If it has not, the bleeding point should be clamped and tied. It is possible that the recent appearance of this complication may be due to the practice of cutting away a considerable quantity of the mucous membrane of the stomach and jejunum. Removal of a small elliptical portion of both is undoubtedly helpful as facilitating accurate suture; but if a large area is excised, the cut edge of the mucous membrane may somewhere retract and may not be taken up in the haemostatic suture ; bleeding is then very liable to occur. If the complication occurs, the patient should be placed bolt upright in bed with an ice-bag to the epigastrium, and made to swallow small pieces of ice, so that they may be carried direct to the seat of bleeding. Gallic acid and pil. saponis co., or pil. plumbi c. opio, may be given, and adrenalin chloride may also be tried. Unfortunately the existence of bleeding is usually not discovered until a large quantity of blood has been