TREATMENT OF REDUCIBLE HERNIA 467 underlying their use. The typical truss consists of a spring of tempered steel surrounding some part of the circumference of the pelvis ; to this is attached a pad so designed as to occlude the hernial orifice. In the ordinary single truss (see Fig. 151) the spring encircles the trunk on the affected side ; one end is attached to the pad, while the other is continued round the other half of the pelvis by a strap attached to the pad by a stud. Most trasses are supplied with a perineal band which is fastened behind to the spring and in front to a stud on the pad. The pad varies in shape and in the material of which it is constructed, the shape depending essentially on the kind of hernia. It is usually a metal plate of suitable size and shape, firmly padded with horse-hair and covered with some soft material like chamois leather. Pads are also covered with india-rubber and may contain glycerine or air. Every truss should be Fig. 152.—Truss for Inguinal Hernia. Thu fio. 153.—Spring Llver Truss. spring passes round the sound side of the pelvis. made specially for the patient who is to wear it, and great care should be taken to shape the pad so as to retain the hernia. If a double truss is required, it may consist either of a single spring or, better, of two separate springs encircling the corresponding halves of the pelvis and fastened together behind. A very comfortable form of truss is shown in Fig. 152 in which the pad is attached to the spring by means of a ball-and-socket joint. Another form is the spring lever truss (see Fig. 153) which consists essentially of a pelvic and a perineal band, the pressure being made on a specially shaped pad by means of a spring. This is a very comfortable truss, but the pressure is slight and the pad is easily displaced. It is useful in small hernia; in subjects who do not have to undergo much strain. A properly fitting truss should fulfil the folloitnng conditions : It should not inconvenience the wearer when sitting, while it should be powerful enough to keep up the hernia during any movement of the body ; this can rarely be effected without some spring apparatus. The size and H H 2