AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 526 gradually approaches the primitive gut until finally the septum between the two disappears and leaves a single tube. Simultaneously, the anterior part of the cloacal slit is shut off from the alimentary canal and forms the urethra and the perineum. Various malformations may be met with (see Fig. 177). Thus the rectum, and in some cases even the large intestine also, may be absent; here, however, the anal depression is often well marked, but it also may be wanting. On the other hand, the rectum may be fully developed and the anal depression may be absent ; or both may be present, but divided from each other by a definite septum. Hence the presence or absence of the anal depression gives no clue to the condition of the rectum. The deformities may be grouped into the following classes :— I. The rectum and the anal dimple are both developed, but are separated by a septum. Of this variety there are two distinct types. In the first there is merely a thin septum separating the interior of the two parts; in the other and more common condition there is a fibrous cordlike structure of variable length reaching from the one to the other. The peritoneum comes into close relation with this cord in front. As the upper end of the bowel becomes distended it is pressed down upon the apex of the anal depression and gives the impression of the existence of a mere septum; but it is not so, for there is a reflection of peritoneum between the two, and a knife thrust through the apparent septum would open the peritoneal cavity (see Fig. 178). 2. The entire rectum, or a part of it, or even of the large intestine, is absent, but the anal depression is present. 3. There is no trace of an anus, but the rectum is present. Occasion- ally, both anus and rectum are absent. 4. The anus may be developed, but imperforate, and the rectum may have formed a fistulous communication either with the skin—in which case the fistula opens in the neighbourhood of the perineum—with the scrotum, the penis, or, more frequently, the bladder or urethra Fig. 178.—Imperforate Anus. Diagram to illustrate how the peritoneal reflection intervenes between the dilated rectum and the imperforate anal dimple.