224 GENERAL REMARKS ON LAPAROTOMY of overcoming these objections, and these will be referred to in their proper place. Another plan which has been a good deal used is to strip off the mucous membrane for a short distance from the distal of the divided ends, and then to push the other portion of the intestine into the interior and sew this cuff on to the portion of the intestine so introduced. With the view of preventing constriction of the intestine during suturing and also of facilitating the union, many artificial aids have been introduced of which we may specially mention Mayo Robson's bone bobbins. These enable the line of union to be quickly and accurately united without undue constriction of the canal. Perhaps the apparatus which has attained the greatest popularity has been Murphy's metal buttons, which consist of two halves, one of which is introduced into each end of the bowel; the intestine is then drawn in by a circular suture over the stem of the button, and then the two halves are locked together and the wall of the bowel is approximated. There are many objections to Murphy's buttons, and their use has been generally abandoned. For instance, if the button has been badly applied, it may cause gangrene of the bowel and lead to perforation ; it may become blocked by fceces; fistulce may form; bleeding may occur ; the button may be a long time in separating ; it may remain in situ or it may pass upwards instead of downwards and require removal by a second operation. We have already referred to some of the objections to end-to-end suture, and though a certain diminution in the calibre of the intestine may not be of great importance in the case of the small bowel, it may seriously interfere with the action of the large intestine. This to some extent is remedied by dividing the bowel obliquely so that the two surfaces which come into apposition have a larger diameter than if they were simply divided at right angles to the canal. Among other difficulties is the risk of non-union, especially at the junction of the mesenteric borders already, referred to. With the view of strengthening the junction, omental grafts have been much recommended. These may be used in two ways. In the one a thin piece of omentum is entirely detached from the rest and is wrapped round the line of union ; it generally retains its vitality and adheres to the line of union and thus forms an additional barrier against the escape of intestinal contents. In the other the piece of omentum is left attached at its base so as to have a certain amount of vascular supply. When the omentum is thin, however, the latter plan is not necessary, and it is objectionable, as it leads to an adhesion of the intestine to the omentum and may give rise to disagreeable symptoms. Another difficulty in connection with end-to-end union is that the calibre of the two portions to be united may not be the same, and leakage may therefore occur. This is especially marked in the case of