4o6 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES definite rigidity of the muscles over the right iliac fossa, and in some cases a swelling may be felt when this rigidity can be overcome, e.g., by deep breathing. The abdomen is more or less tender at first, but the tenderness soon becomes localised ; indeed, in many cases the whole tender area can be covered by a florin. On examining per rectum, a tender spot can sometimes be detected high up and to the right side. These symptoms point to an appendicitis with extension of the in- flammation to the peritoneal surface, both of the process itself and of the intestine in the vicinity ; were the parts exposed, the appendix would be found to be swollen and injected, and it and the various coils of intes- tine around it would often be more or less glued together by lymph. These symptoms generally indicate inflammation in connection with a concretion in the appendix or with a kink or stricture ; they may, however, indicate an actual perforation, although the symptoms are then usually more severe. The condition generally ends in resolution, but may go on to suppuration. When resolution occurs, the temperature begins to fall about the second day and generally reaches the normal at the end of the week, and there it should remain if no suppuration has occurred. The rigidity of the abdomen soon diminishes, and the fullness—which is not a hard swelling as it is when suppuration is occurring—rapidly decreases; in an ordinary attack the patient ought to be well at the end of a week or ten days. These cases, however, are very prone to relapse, and the relapse may occur either after a long interval of complete health, or the patient may hardly have recovered from one attack before another occurs. These relapses indicate the presence of some of the permanent changes to which we have already referred (see p. 401). Early and frequent relapses usually indicate the presence of a concretion, or inflammation and ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane beyond a kink or stricture. When long intervals occur between the attacks, obliterative appendicitis is not uncommonly found ; this, however, may be complicated with distension and inflammation of the process beyond a stricture. In some cases the symptoms are not so acute, but the relapses are very frequent. The pain is then often of an acute colicky character lasting at most only a few hours, but not accompanied by any marked swelling, any distinct peritonitis, or much fever ; the patient may be confined to bed for weeks with recurrent attacks of this pain every two or three days. This condition is termed ' appendicular colic,' and often indicates a concretion or a stricture with distension of the appendix beyond. At any time this appendicular colic may pass into the more serious acute appendicitis. In a third group of cases the symptoms are much more severe. The onset is more or less sudden, and there is usually severe vomiting and intense pain at first. In some cases there may be a definite rigor and the