EPITHELIOMA 107 divided, such as the thyroid, Ungual and facial veins ; these should be clamped as they are cut. The mass is now free below and in front and can be turned backwards. The digastric muscle will now be seen, and the relation of this structure to the affected area is noted. When the disease in the tongue is far back, the glandular enlargement often involves the muscle, or at any rate will occur both above and below it, and special care must be taken to remove all the fat and glands from its vicinity. Should the glands be adherent to the muscle, there need be no hesitation in removing the latter. The jugular vein can now be secured above the glandular mass by turning the latter backwards and insinuating an aneurysm needle around the vein so as to ligature its upper end. It is then divided below the ligature, and the isolated portion of the vein is taken away with the glandular mass. The next point demanding attention is the spinal accessory nerve. The glandular mass is replaced in position, pulled well forwards, and the knife is carried through the deep fascia just along the edge of the sterno- mastoid and the parts are detached from the muscle with a dissector until the nerve comes into view. We have never found any difficulty in ascertaining its position, as the handle of the knife or the dissector in stripping off the fascia from the under-surface of the sterno-mastoid generally causes sufficient irritation of the nerve when it touches it to lead to contraction of the muscle. The nerve usually runs right through the mass of glands, but we have rarely found it actually infiltrated. It generally runs in a channel between the glands, and may be isolated by slipping a probe along this channel. Great care is necessary in getting down to and opening this canal to avoid cutting through cancerous glands, and the surgeon should work well from the outer side. The most difficult part of the operation is to clear the fat and glands above the nerve, especially when there is much enlargement in this situation. For- tunately there are few important structures in this region and free removal is unaccompanied by danger. The best plan is to divide the muscle in a line corresponding with the posterior incision in the skin and above the point at which the spinal accessory nerve enters it, leaving enough of the muscle above to enable the ends to be stitched together afterwards. As the division of the muscle proceeds, the incision must be very cautiously deepened because glands are very often adherent to its under-surface. Should this be the case, portions of the muscle must be left in connection with the glands so as to avoid injuring them. The ends of the muscle are thrown upwards and downwards, and a good view of the area beneath is obtained, so that all that is necessary is to divide the fascia behind and above the affected area. Behind, the incision is deepened until the splenius is exposed ; the fascia attached to the atlas is then divided and the glands and soft tissues peeled off the deeper parts and pushed down in one mass. The lower part of the parotid gland is now exposed in the wound, and must be examined carefully as enlarged glands are often