INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 57 TREATMENT.—I. Of ' thrush ' : The strictest cleanliness must be observed with regard to the feeding vessels ; the proper sterilisation of the milk, from which the organism usually comes, is also most important. The best application is glycerinum acidi carbolici diluted with about three parts of water, or glycerinum boracis, and painted on several times a day. A dose of calomel (gr. i-iv, according to the age of the patient) should be given occasionally, and the patient should be placed under the best hygienic conditions possible. 2. Of the ulcerative form.—The treatment of the inflammation of the tongue in these cases is merely that necessary for the treatment of the ulcerative stomatitis (see p. i8). 3. Of Jierpetic inflammation.—This condition calls for little treatment beyond the use of antiseptic mouth-washes, such as chlorate of potash (gr. XV to the oz.) or sanitas. In the later stages a more astringent mouth-wash, such as one containing alum (gr. ij-v to the oz.), is useful. SUB-ACUTE SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS. The sub-acute forms of superficial glossitis are chiefly of clinical and pathological interest, as there is little to be done for them in the way of treatment. Chief among them is the condition variously described as 'wandering rash,' or 'ringworm of the tongue,' in which smooth, red, slightly elevated patches of a circular or oval shape occur, generally on the dorsum of the tongue. These run together, or the rings enlarge and lose their circular shape, or disappear in one place and appear in another. The condition is usually discovered accidentally, although in some cases it gives rise to troublesome irritation. The disease occurs mainly in children, and its cause is unknown. TREATMENT.—Tonics should be given, and various local anodyne and antiseptic applications may be employed. Although the condition does not yield readily to treatment, the patient may be assured that it is not likely to be followed by any serious result. CHRONIC SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS. Chronic superficial glossitis is variously described imder the names ' leucoplakia,' 'ichthyosis,' or 'smokers' patch.' The condition is not very amenable to treatment, but it is of great importance owing to the complications which may follow ; the more severe forms often end in epithelioma, so that the patient must be kept under observation. The disease varies in severity, the least severe form being probably that which occurs in connection with smoking. The condition is one of chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue, the sub-mucous tissue being also infiltrated with cells, and the papillae disappearing and leaving in parts smooth shiny patches which show up well on drying the tongue. The epithelium may become heaped