207 TUMOURS colon) can often be made out in front of them, whereas in splenic and ovarian tumours this is not the case. If they reach as low as the pelvis they can usually be pushed up by the finger in the rectum and an interval can then be made out between the pelvic organs and the tumour ; this serves to distinguish them from ovarian tumours. In the case of a renal tumour there are usually some indications such as haematuria or albuminuria, pointing to implication of that organ. The simple tumours may be distinguished from malignant ones by their slow growth, the absence of cachexia and a certain amount of mobility, which, however, may only be made out when the patient is under an anaesthetic. These tumours may cause the patient a great deal of trouble from their size ; the chief symptoms are a dragging sensation, pain from pressure on the lumbar plexus, often nausea and vomiting, which inter- feres with the nutrition of the patient, dyspnoea from pressure on the diaphragm, jaundice from pressure on the bile-duct, or obstruction of the bowels. TREATMENT. —The removal of simple tumours is desirable and has been carried out successfully even though the tumour has been of large size. Some surgeons advise that the peritoneal cavity should be opened, the intestines pushed out of the way, the posterior layer of the peritoneum incised, and the tumour shelled out. For large tumours, however, a large curved incision in the lateral region of the abdomen similar to that used for large kidney tumours (see Vol. V.) gives better access. The muscular wall of the abdomen is divided, the peritoneum defined and separated forwards and pushed aside, the capsule of the tumour opened and the growth shelled out. Special care must be taken in separating the tumour over the large vessels, especially the vena cava, and, should the growth penetrate into the mesentery, injury to the mesenteric vessels must be avoided. If any large mesenteric vessel is divided, the nutrition of the corresponding portion of the bowel will be affected, and in that case it will become necessary to open the peritoneum and excise the portion of bowel which would otherwise become gangrenous. Similarly, care must be taken in separating the kidney not to injure the renal vessels, and in separating the spleen not to tear that organ. Should either of the latter accidents occur, the organ involved must also be removed. As a rule, however, if the capsule of the tumour is opened, the growth can be shelled out without serious trouble. If the peritoneum has been opened, it should be sutured, and the wound in the abdominal wall stitched up without drainage.