EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY 209 passed off before the operation. On the day preceding the operation a soap-and-water enema should be given, and on the morning of the operation the rectum should be washed out about an hour before it takes place. In cases in which the stomach is thoroughly out of order, or the operation is to be performed on the stomach, a stomach tube should be passed and the stomach washed out on the day preceding the operation, and again just before the antesthetic is administered. If the patient is nervous, a narcotic should be administered on the night preceding the operation, so as to give him a good night, and morphine (gr. J) with atropine (gr. jl-^) are the best for this purpose. Further, in some cases, gr. J of morphine and gr. j}y-^ of scopolamine may be administered h5^podermically about an hour before the operation, and if this is done a much smaller quantity of anaesthetic is necessary. In feeble patients or in cold weather, it is well to clothe the trunk and the limbs with thick gamgee tissue so as to keep them warm, and also to administer a pint of saline solution (temp. 100° F.) containing an ounce of glucose, per rectum, about an hour before the operation. In very feeble patients it may be well also to introduce saline solution into the axillae during the operation ; about 12 to 14 ozs. can be slowly injected into each axilla. The preparation of the skin has already been described (see Vol. I. p. 100). The choice of the anaesthetic must be left to the anaesthetist, but the best seems to be ether given by the open method. In very feeble patients the shock is apparently less if the operation is done under spinal anaesthesia. After-ireaiment.—The bed should be warm ; but unless the patient is very collapsed, all hot bottles should be removed before he is put back to bed. If however the collapse is severe, the hot-water bottles may be placed around him outside the blankets, but on no account must they be put close to the body, otherwise burns are extremely apt to occur. If electric light is available, a better and safer plan is to hang two or three 32-candle power lamps from a cradle placed over the thorax and extremi- ties and covered with a blanket. If the operation has been prolonged or severe, a saline enema should be administered, containing an ounce of glucose, and after an hour or so, continuous protoclysis may be com- menced (see Vol. I. p. 115). In chronic cases the patient should be placed in the recumbent position in the first instance, but he will be more comfortable if the trunk is raised on pillows after the lapse of two or three hours. In the case of acute suppurative affections, such as appendicitis, Fowler's or the semi-recumbent position should be employed from the first, and this is also advisable in cases of gastro-jejunostomy. If there is much pain after the operation, the cause must be ascertained; if it is due to tightness of the bandages, these should be loosened; if to distension of the bowel with gas, an enema should be given, and a flatus tube passed. Aspirin and trional (gr. 10 of each) may also be adminis- tered by the mouth if there is no great amount of vomiting. The use of morphine should be avoided as much as possible, because this often leads IV. p