AFFECTIONS OF TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR ARTICULATION 13 the wall. The surgeon stands in front, and, having wrapped lint round his thumbs, he places one on each side along the upper border of the lower jaw just behind the last molar tooth, the palm of each hand being beneath the symphysis. Steady pressure is then made by the thumbs vertically downwards, while the palms beneath the chin press the latter backwards. As the jaw is felt to yield, the bone is pushed bodily back- wards. Stimson has pointed out (' Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations ') that the chief obstacles to reduction are the tense external lateral hga- ments of the temporo-mandibular articulations, and that the best way to relax them is to depress the chin fully before pushing the bone bodily backwards. As a rule, the condyle slips backwards directly it reaches the eminentia articularis and the mouth closes with a snap ; the sur- geon's thumbs may be bitten if he is not careful. Hence as soon as the condyle begins to move back, the thumbs should be slipped off the bone into the recess between the cheek and the jaw. If this procedure fails, the patient should be placed under an anaes- thetic, when the dislocation can generally be reduced without difficulty by the same procedure. When reduction is very difficult, a piece of wood bound round with lint should be introduced between the last molar teeth on each side, and the chin should then be forcibly elevated so as to lever down the condyles from the temporal fossa ; when the teeth almost meet, the jaw should be pushed forcibly backwards. All cases of recent dislocation can be reduced by one of these methods. The treatment of unilateral dislocation is practially the same as that of the bilateral form. It is well to depress both angles of the jaw, but chiefly the one on the dislocated side ; the backward pressure should be made on that side also. The dislocation is very apt to recur if the patient laughs or opens his mouth too widely, and therefore an elastic jaw bandage should be applied in order to support the chin and, at the same time, allow the patient to open his mouth to some extent and feed himself. After about five days the bandage may be left off during the day, but it should be worn at night for at least another week. There is usually no risk of permanent stiffness, because the patient voluntarily uses his jaw and no massage is necessary. In those cases in which dislocation occurs without any violence there is no stiffness or pain after it has been reduced, and no special after-treatment is necessary. UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS. If a dislocation of the jaw remains unreduced, the condition of the patient is very deplorable, although a certain amount of power of approximating the lips is regained after a time and the dribbling of saUva, which occurs at first, may disappear. A certain amount of lateral mobility may also occur, enabling tlie patient to masticate