THE ■ ACUTE ABDOMEN ' AND ITS TREATMENT Vomiting is present in a number of abdominal cases, and is not at first of any important diagnostic value. It occurs early in rupture of the stomach, and is also one of the early symptoms in appendicitis or in strangulations. It is the persistence of the vomiting which is of import- ance, as this points strongly to some mechanical obstruction ; temporary vomiting is usually only an early and reflex effect, which passes off very soon. The character of the vomited materials may also be a guide : for example, fteculent vomiting usually means obstruction, while the presence of tilood suggests ulcer of the stomach. Collapse is strongly suggestive of rupture of a viscus, of an internal strangulation, or of htemorrhage, and may be very marked in these cases. Its degree depends to a great extent on the severity of the case, and (in cases of rupture of a viscus, more especially) on the suddenness and amount of the extravasation. A slight leak, gi'adually increasing—as in an old ulcer of the stomach—will not have the same effect as a sudden and free escape of the contents of the stomach or bowel into a previously healthy peritoneal cavity. In internal strangulation also, the amount of collapse depends on the suddenness and tightness of the strangulation. On the other hand, collapse is absent or only slightly marked in inflam- matory affections. If it is present along with other symptoms pointing to appendicitis, it indicates either perforation or gangrene of the appendix. The presence of collapse is a strong indication for operative interference, although in some cases it may be advisable to wait for two or three hours to allow the collapse to pass off to some extent—unless indeed the collapse is due to haemorrhage. Rif^or.—The occurrence of a rigor generally indicates some inflam- matory condition and not infrequently ushers in an attack of acute suppurative appendicitis. Pulse.—Increase in the pulse-rate is common in all these cases, and may set in almost at once in perforations and other grave conditions. It usually rises more slowly in inflammatory affections, in which an early and marked rise in the pulse-rate is a very bad sign : a rate of 120 or over is serious and is in favour of immediate surgical intervention. The character of the pulse is also of great importance ; a small, running, and irregular pulse is a very bad sign, and no time must be lost if operation seems otherwise desirable. Pyrexia.—Elevation of temperature in the early stage implies inflam- mations rather than strangulations, herni;e, or twists ; but even in inflam- matory affections the temperature may not have risen when the patient is first seen, and in perforations it may be subnormal. If, therefore, the temperature is found to be raised in a case beginning with the usual symptoms of peritonism' and seen early, the affection in all probability is ' The term ' peritonism ' is usually employed to denote a condition of general irritation of the peritoneum, as often occurs in the cases we are speaking of here, as opposed to a general inflammatory condition or ' peritonitis.'