INJURIES 321 also be useful were it not that there is a possible danger of further extravasation of the contents of the bowel, as the result of moving the patient into the upright or lateral position in order to insert the solution into the spinal theca. Unless there is a very clear indication as to the seat of the injury in the bowel, the abdominal incision should be made on one side of the middle line. No doubt in some cases, the ruptured intestine remains motionless beneath the badly brused abidominal wall and the more fixed portions of the bowel cannot of course move out of the way ; these cases may possibly form exceptions to the above rule, but in the great majority, even of punctured wounds, it is best to open the abdomen near the middleline. If it is necessary, in order to gain access to the injured bowel, the rectus may be subsequently divided transversely. In these cases the surgeon's first duty is to save the patient's life, and there should be no hesitation in enlarging the incision in such a way as to secure the best and easiest access to the injured parts. If there is a rupture of the bowel of any size, intestinal contents will almost certainly appear on opening the abdomen, or if not, will be seen on lifting up the omentum or pressing back the intestinal coils. The actual seat of rupture may be diagnosed to some extent by the nature of the material extravasated. Thus a sour-smelling fluid, containing undigested or partially digested food, probably comes from the stomach ; if it is chyme or mi.xed with bile, it comes from the duodenum ; if fluid, yellow and somewhat faecal, from the small intestine ; and if semi-solid and darker, from the lai'ge intestine. If neither blood nor intestinal contents appear on opening the abdomen, it is well before closing the wound to pass the small intestine in review from the caecum upwards, and the large bowel from the caecum downwards in order to ascertain whether there is a rent in the peritoneal coat or even a perforation which has become temporarily plugged by prolapsed mucous membrane. Non-penetrating wounds.—Even in rents of the serous or mus- cular coat alone, it is important to approximate the edges, because bacteria may pass through the wound and lead to peritoneal infection, and also because adhesion to other coils may occur and give rise to troul)le subsequently. When the mucous membrane is not perforated, it suffices to approxi- mate the edges of the rent in the serous coat by a fine, continuous catgut Lembert's suture (see p. 223). When there is either a tiny puncture into the lumen of the bowel, or when, as sometimes happens, there is a perforation at the end of a split of the serous and muscular coats, the mucous membrane must be tucked in and a double row of Lembert's stitches applied. It is not necessary to suture first the mucous and then the sero-muscular coats unless there is a widely gaping wound ; a double row of Lembert's stitches will suffice. There is practically no soiling of the peritoneal IV. Y