258 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH Before beginning rectal feeding the lower bowel should be emptied and cleansed by the administration of a copious warm-water injection; at least an hour must then elapse before the nutrient enema is introduced. The best position for the patient is lying on the left side with the pelvis slightly raised on a pillow placed under the hips. A long soft rubber oesophageal tube is greased {gl}'Xerine must not be used) and carefully passed from six to twelve inches into the bowel; to the end of the tube a glass funnel is attached, and into it the enema (warmed to 99° F.) is poured. For the first ten minutes after the introduction of the enema the nates should be pressed together with a towel, and the patient ought to remain undisturbed for an hour. The pressure under which the fluid is introduced should not exceed that due to a column of water two feet high ; the fluid, flowing in slowly, finds its way into the sigmoid flexure and the descending colon, and therefore does not excite the desire to evacuate. This avoidable complication is often due to a sudden distension of the rectum which usually occurs if the injection be shot into the bowel with a syringe. The volume and exact composition of the enema must depend upon the state of the mucous membrane of the large intestine. It is generally desirable to intro- duce at least two and a half ounces (80 grms.) of proteid, three and a half ounces (100 grms.) of carbohydrate, and five drams (20 grms.) of fat per diem. This, if 50 per cent, were absorbed, would represent a quarter of the energy required by a patient lying in bed in a room at 62° F. The constituents of the enema must be unirritating and easiljr absorbed ; the following have been used with success and are usually retained without trouble :— Glucose . . gvj. Albumose ' . gij. Ox serum . • 5 Milk . . giv. Milk . . gvij. Milk . . . gij. Starch (raw) • Sj- Glucose or Starch 3^j- Salt . . . 3ss- Sextis horis. Sextis horis. Sextis horis. Occasionally it is found that the addition of a few minims of liquor pancreaticus improves absorption, but this preparation must not be added to an enema containing more than 10 per cent, of starch, lest the mucous membrane be irritated by the strong solution of sugar which would be rapidly formed. The proteids in eggs and milk are not so readily absorbed as those in serum, but the latter has been known on rare occasions to give rise to slight urticaria. The prolonged administration of albumose may lead to colitis. Nutrient enemata must not be stopped if the first few be returned ; a tolerance is often established after two or three have been given. If, however, tolerance be not established, an ounce of red wine added to the enema has frequently been found to produce the desired result. If no formula proves satisfactorj^, even when only three ounces are introduced at a time, recourse must be had to a small boiled starch enema (i oz.) containing ten to twenty minims of tincture of opium followed an hour later by a nutrient injection. The rectum must be washed out daily with an enema of warm normal saline. Nutrient suppositories cannot be recommended, for, even if they were absorbed, more than sixty would be required daily to supply the necessary energy. The absorption of fat is found to be so variable a factor in different individuals that it is often wise to adopt a supplementary method of administering it when prolonged abstinence from oral feeding is indicated. An ounce or two of sterile olive oil may be injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the groin every second day. No untoward effects follow this procedure, whilst the fat thus introduced is slowly utilised and may materially diminish the fall in the weight of the patient. Witte's peptone.