TUMOURS 25 for the first twelve hours and then left freely open. In no case is it necessary to excise a portion of the jaw, but any expanded portion should be shaved down with a gouge or chisel to avoid deformity. An antiseptic mouth-wash of sanitas or boro-glyceride should be used frequently. DENTAL CYSTS. Simple cysts not containing a tooth also occur in the jaws and probably develop in connection with the root rather than with the crown of the tooth, as is the case with the dentigerous cysts. They nearly always occur in connection with a carious tooth, often with a fang that has been left behind after the rest of the tooth has been extracted. They are said to be due to the irritation of some foetal remains of the dental organ, which gives rise to the formation of a cyst. They are more frequent in the upper jaw than in the lower, and are connected with the incisors or canines more often than with the molars. They may occur not only in young adults, but also at a later period of life. The further history of the cyst is the same as that of a dentigerous cyst. TREATMENT.—This is very similar to that of a dentigerous cyst. The tooth in connection with the cyst—or the broken fang if there is one —must be extracted, and the lining membrane of the cyst must be thoroughly removed. Tlie wall of the latter should then be cut away so that the mucous membrane can fall on to the opposite wall. MULTILOCULAR CYSTS. These cysts are also known as Epithelial odontomes and Fibro-cystic disease of the jaw ; they are most commonly found in the lower jaw. They may involve the greater part of the ramus and lead to the formation of irregular nodular tumours which sometimes fluctuate in parts. On section there are numerous cysts of varying size which communicate with one another and which, in all probability, are developed from the remains of the dental organ. These multilocular cystic tumours may occur at any age. Their growth is very slow, but may become more rapid from the development of endothehoma or epithelioma in the walls of the cavities. A considerable number of the so-caUed multilocular cystic tumours of the lower jaw are in reahty cysts developed in tumours, especiahy myeloid sarcomata. TREATMENT.—The complete removal of the mass is very essential and, in a good many cases, this can only be done by excising the portion of the jaw involved. The methods for partial excision of the lower jaw will be found on p. 48. Great care must be taken to make sure that the excision goes wide of the disease. Recurrence is not infrequent after operations for this