EPITHELIOMA 79 Patients who are very feeble and much run down by the disease, or semi-starved, will not stand an extensive operation, such as removal of a growth from the base of the tongue or excision of the entire organ, at all well; they are extremely liable to succumb, especially to septic or hypostatic pneumonia. In these individuals, therefore, the disease should be left alone, unless it is small, favourably situated, and entails only a comparatively slight operation. On the other hand, in the case of strong, robust men, it is often well to give them the chance, even when the disease is extensive. These patients generally stand the shock of the operation perfectly well, and the result depends chiefly upon the question of sepsis. As our experience has increased, we have found that these risks may be diminished in various ways. Dangers of the operation and the best means of avoiding' them.—These dangers may be immediate or remote, the former being shock, haemorrhage, and asphyxia from blood passing into the air- passages, whilst the latter are largely due to sepsis, such as septic pneumonia, acute septicaemia, suppuration among the planes of cellular tissue in the neck, and secondary haemorrhage. Immediate Aangevs.—Shock has to be guarded against on the lines indicated in Vol. I. p. 117. The occurrence of shock depends, to a great extent, on the physical condition of the patient. The method of inducing anaesthesia and the anaesthetic employed are also of importance with regard to this question. When much shock is anticipated, the intravenous method of administering anaesthetics (see p. 32) may be of advantage, as the continuous administration of saline solution intravenously during the operation is a powerful factor in reducmg shock, provided the amount introduced is moderate. The prevention of hcemoryhage during the operation will be considered in connection with the technique of the operation itself. The chief point is whether a preliminary ligature of the lingual arteries (see p. 6g) should be performed, or whether the vessels should be caught and tied in the mouth during the removal of the tongue. The answer depends cliiefly on whether the wound made for ligature of the artery will communicate with the mouth or not ; if it does, the wound becomes septic and secondary haemorrhage is very apt to occur. When the neck has to be opened up for the removal of enlarged glands, which should be done, if possible, before the disease in the mouth is attacked, the lingual artery can be readily tied at the same time and this shortens the subsequent operation on the tongue and diminishes the bleeding into the mouth, and thus in both ways reduces the shock of the operation. Hence, when the removal of the disease from the tongue and the glands is carried out in two stages—the removal of the glands preceding the operation upon the tongue by some days—the lingual artery should be tied at the first operation. On the other hand, when an extensive operation in the anterior triangle is necessary and must be done at the same time as the operation