424 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES when the situation of the appendix is defined—as indicated by matting of the parts—the muscles should be divided upwards or downwards sufifi- ciently to give a complete view of the parts beneath. In these cases the surgeon should never work in the dark, but should always have complete access to. and be able to see, the part with which he is dealing, otherwise he may infect the general peritoneum badly, or tear the appendix, the bowel, or the mesentery. When a distinct lump is felt, the incision is made over it, or rather to its outer side. If it is in the iliac fossa the incision may be oblique, but the muscles should not be split, but divided to the same length as the incision in the skin. The presence of a mass miplies a serious state of matters: certainly a local peritonitic infection and probably more or less pus. The possibility of a hernia afterwards becomes a secondary consideration under these circumstances compared with the necessity of saving the patient's life. If the mass lies towards the pelvis or if one has been felt in the pelvis through the rectum, a vertical incision through the lower and outer part of the rectus must be employed. If it is above the crest of the ilium, the in- cision should be made some- what obliquely in the loin, its lower end reaching down in front of and a little below the anterior superior spine of the ilium. When a satisfactory opening into the peritoneal cavity has been made, a general idea of the conditions present may be obtained by passing the finger into the abdomen with great gentleness so as not to rupture any collection of pus which may be present. The next step is to pack away the intestines and omentum which lie over and around the swelling so as to get a clear view and also to prevent them from being soiled during the subsequent manipulations ; care must be taken to pack downwards towards the pelvis and upwards towards the loin, as pus is put to run in these directions. This packing may be done with a roll of plain sterilised gauze or with large abdominal pads. We prefer the former, because, being in one piece, the gauze is not liable to be over- FiG. 149.—Self-retaining Abdominal Retractor for Appendix Operations. By means of this instrument a wide variation in the size of the opening may be obtained. It is very useful when the surgeon is short-handed or the abdominal muscles are rigid.