EPITHELIOMA 95 free exposure of the disease. Hesitation to adopt any means to this end on account of deformity which would ensue is unjustifiable. It is not a question of merely removing the visible cancer from the mouth. It is important to get well beyond it, so as to avoid the chance of local recurrence, and this can only be done by obtaining a thorough exposure of the parts to be operated upon. Splitting the cheek (see p. 89) will often enable good exposure to be obtained, but for proper access when the surrounding structures are infiltrated it is almost always necessary to divide the jaw. Division of the jaio.—When the base of the tongue is widely infiltrated, and particularly when the floor of the mouth and the tonsillar region are encroached upon, assistance may be obtained by dividing the jaw and splitting the cheek, as recommended by Langenbeck (see Fig. 33). In Langenbeck's operation the whole thickness of the cheek is divided hori- zontally backwards, and when the anterior margin of the masseter is reached, the incision is curved down- wards across the jaw into the neck and then turns forwards over the hyoid bone, and finally upwards towards the symphysis ; in this way a flap is raised and any glands in the sub- maxillary region may be dissected out. The jaw is divided opposite the last molar tooth, and the posterior portion is pulled firmly outwards, whilst the anterior part is pulled forwards ; this facihtates access to the floor of the mouth and base of the tongue (see Fig. 34), and the entire tongue can be removed right back to the base if necessary. In any case the hyo- glossus muscles should be divided at their attachment to the hyoid bone and removed entirely. The jaw may be brought together after- wards by silver wires of medium thickness. The holes for the wires should be drilled before the bone is divided if the growth does not affect the jaw, but when there is any doubt about that, it is well not to do this, as the drill-holes may become infected with cancer cells, Fig. 33.—Langenbeck's Division of the Jaw. The thick line, AB, represents the splitting of the cheek ; the curved one, BCD, the flap from the face and chin • while the dotted one, F.Fj shows the line of division of the lavv.