149 MALIGNANT TUMOURS unnoticed and does not therefore call for any treatment. When, however, it assumes a peduncvilated form, attention is drawn to it, and sooner or later it will be necessary to remove it. Of sessile iiimows.—When the tumour is not markedly pedunculated it may be possible to incise its capsule and shell out the growth. This may be done from the mouth when the tumour is high up and can be seen properly. When situated lower down an cesophagoscope will be required ; failing that, it may be necessary to perform pharyngotomy (see p. 125) in order to obtain a good view of the tumour. When operating upon a tumour of this kind, whether from the inside or the outside, it is necessary to carry the incision through the capsirle down to its lowest point so as to ensure good drainage, otherwise septic discharges will accumulate at the bottom of the capsule and decompose, just as occurs when a retro- pharyngeal abscess is insufficiently opened from the mouth. Of pedunculated growths.—When the growth is pedunculated it may be removed by passing a ligature around its base and snipping off the tumour. This may be done either through the mouth or after pharyngo- tomy (see p. 125), according to the situation of the tumour and the length of the pedicle. If the tumour is situated high up and can be seen easily from the mouth, the patient is placed under a general anaesthetic, the mouth opened with a gag, the tongue firmly depressed, and the pedicle of the tumour exposed. A stout silk ligature threaded through the eye of a probe which is bent to a suitable curve is then passed around the base of the growth, the ligature tightened, the polypus seized with a pair of volsella forceps to prevent it slipping down the throat, and the pedicle cut through. Should the pedicle be thick, it may be necessary to transfix it with an aneurysm or hernia needle and ligature it in two parts. As a rule any of these growths can be dealt with from above, an cesophagoscope being used when they are low down : pharyngotomy is seldom reqirired. After-treatment.—For the first week or ten days gargles of sanitas or Condy's fluid should be employed and the patient should be restricted to semi-solid food. The ligature usually separates within the first week and there is no risk of secondary h;emorrhage. MALIGNANT TUMOURS. These may be either sarcomatous or epitheliomatous. SARCOMATA.—These growths usuallyoccur as lympho-sarcomata of the tonsil. They are much rarer than epitheliomata, but their prognosis is bad ; like the carcinomata they lead to enlargement of the glands in the neck. At first they remain limited to the tonsil and give rise to no definite symptoms; they may even attain a large size before being noticed. Later on, they cause difficulty in deglutition and are often deeply ulcerated ; free hfemorrhage of a most alarming character may occixr