6oo AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS of the sphincter has been retained it is of course important to do this. If, however, the sphincter has been entirely removed—as will practically always be the case in the operations for cancer at the lower part of the . rectum—there is no necessity for making the opening so far forward, and, as a matter of fact, the patient will be able to keep himself cleaner and manage himself better if the opening is somewhat farther back. When the opening is in the normal position, the buttocks prevent the application of any apparatus—or, indeed, of efficient pads—and, in the female especially, the parts are always soiled with faeces. If, however, the opening is made in the coccygeal region it is more accessible, and pads can be efficiently employed and the perineum kept clean. In this operation the opening is not so far back as in Kraske's operation and the patient can generally manage it himself. The opening in this region has the additional advantage that more of the bowel can be removed—a point of great importance in all operations for malignant disease. When the new anal opening is to be at the posterior part of the wound the anterior part of the latter is closed with silkworm-gut sutures. When there has been no soiling of the wound, drainage is unnecessary, and it is a great advantage if it can be avoided, as any opening left may allow entrance of faeces when the bowel begins to act, and this may give rise to suppuration in the deeper parts of the wound. If, however, there is reason to suspect that the wound has become soiled—e.g. from accidental puncture or tearing of the bowel—a drainage tube must be inserted and brought out as far as possible from the new anal opening. If no sign of sepsis appears, this tube may be left out after three days and the opening closed by a stitch inserted at the time of the operation. The final stage of the operation is the formation of the new anal opening. Before inserting any stitches it is weU to give the bowel a half or three-quarter twist around its own long axis, as recommended by Gersuny ; this renders the escape of the faeces somewhat more difficult and thus helps to prevent constant discharge from the anal opening. The wall of the bowel is now attached to the margin of the opening in the skin by silkworm-gut sutures which pick up the serous (if present) and muscular coats of the bowel, but do not perforate the mucous membrane. This procedure leaves a large portion of the rectum (including the diseased tissues) hanging out of the closed wound; so far, there has been no escape of the intestinal contents and no soiling of the wound. The problem remaining is to remove the diseased portion and at the same time to prevent soiling of the wound with faeces for as long a period as possible. This may be done in two ways. In one a silk ligature is applied around the bowel about an inch below the attachment to the skin and drawn tightly so as to constrict the bowel completel}'. The wound is now protected with gauze and the bowel cut across about half .an inch below the ligature. The exposed mucous membrane is rubbed