257 GASTRIC ULCER 6. To relieve various indefinite symptoms, not necessarily due to the existence of the ulcer, but following the healing of one. These symptoms are generally due to adhesions which either alter the direction of the pylorus, constrict the stomach, or tether down the organ to adjacent structures. TREATMENT OF CASES ACCOMPANIED BY PROFOUND AND "INCREASING ANEMIA. MEDICAL TREATMENT.—The medical treatment has two primary objects—namely, to give physiological rest to the stomach, and to administer remedies calculated to promote healing of the ulcer. In the acute stage the patient should be strictly confined to bed and all nourish- ment should be given per rectum in the form of nutrient enemata ; in addition, a large injection of normal saline solution should be given once or twice daily. If the latter does not check the thirst, the patient may be allowed to suck a little ice. As the symptoms improve, a milk diet may be cautiously given. Confinement to bed should be insisted on for six weeks. The pain is best relieved by large hot fomentations over the epigastrium and left side of the abdomen, but it may be so severe that hypodermic injections of morphine luay be necessary ; this drug is also sometimes useful in checking the vomiting. Various sedative drugs may be administered by the mouth, of which bismuth, hydrocyanic acid, and morphine are the best. The following prescriptions may be used with advantage :— E Liq. morph. hydrochlor. H^x. R Bismuth, carb. . gr. xv. Bismuth, carb. . . gr. xv. Sodii bicarb. . gr. xx. Sodii bicarb. . ) Acid, hydrocyanic, dil. n\iij. Pulv. tragacanth co. ) a f, . x. Mther. chlor. . Tll^xv. Spirit, chlorof. . . Il\x. Aquam . . adgj. Aq. menth. pip. ad jj. Quartis horis. T. d. s. It is advisable also to administer a saline aperient, such as Carlsbad or other waters, occasionally. Normal horse serum given by the mouth is strongly advocated by some, both in ulcer of the stomach and of the duodenum, and it seems to be especially of value when haemorrhage is present. It should be given in doses of 10 to 20 c.c. twice a day until the haemorrhage has stopped, and then once a day for a week. Dr. Otto Griinbaum, Assistant Physician to the London Hospital, has been kind enough to furnish us with the following points relative to this important question of rectal feeding :— Since the rectal injections often replace not only the solid but also the liquid part of the diet, they should consist of water, proteids, carbohydrates, and fats. If sufficient water cannot be absorbed by the large intestine and none may be given by the mouth, subcutaneous injections of sterile normal salt solution must be resorted to. IV. S