AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 556 fistula slit up ; each of the remaining branches should then be laid open from the original track to the skin opening. This procedure gives rise to the minimum amount of interference with the sphincters, and there is little risk of injuring nerves or other important structures. After the track has been slit up it should be scraped and plugged as recommended above. The above methods are applicable to the great majority of fistulae met with in practice; but there are some more difficult cases—such as those in which the track, instead of turning up around the inferior margin of the sphincter, either penetrates it or enters the bowel above it, and this is particularly likely to be the case when the fistula runs from the skin of the buttock through an opening in the levator ani into the rectum a Fig. i86.—Diagram to Illustrate the Method of Suturing after Excision OF A Fistula in Ano. In A the fistulous track has been laid open into the bowel and entirely excised. The rectal mucous membrane is united by one series of sutures, a ; the deep surfaces of the wound by a set of buried stitches, 6 ; while the rest of the wound is brought together by deep silkworm-gut sutures, c. In B the wound has been closed. The sutures arc the same as in A, except that an additional set, is shown, approximating the skin edges. higher up. In these cases division of the fistula as above described would involve division of both sphincters. This means an extensive operation with much bleeding and a long recovery under treatment by packing. In all probability also it will involve incompetence of the sphincters and incontinence of faeces afterwards—a very distressing condition which must be avoided if possible. Nevertheless, the fistula will not heal without complete division, and, therefore, an extensive operation is essential for a radical cure. When the patient is able and willing to undergo the operation, excision of the fistulous track is probably the best procedure. This is done as follows : The patient is placed in the lithotomy position and the sphincters are fully dilated (see p. 573). A probe is passed along the fistula into the rectum and the tissues are slit up upon it in the ordinary way (see p. 554), leaving a large gap into the bowel. Diverticula from the main track are looked for and slit up until the entire fistulous area is laid open. The