498 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES the femoral canal. It may be strengthened by a few silk stitches between Poupart's ligament and the periosteum. STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. The operation for strangulated femoral hernia is essentially the same as for the inguinal form (see p. 472); but here it is seldom possible to reduce the bowel without partially dividing Gimbernat's ligament, and this should be done in the inward and upward direction. When the bowel is gangrenous and requires excision, this is better done from a fresh abdominal incision than from the wound in the thigh. It is very difficult to bring down enough of the gut through the crural canal to allow proper manipulations to be carried out. The original skin incision should be prolonged upwards, the rectus muscle pulled inwards, a vertical incision made behind it, and the intestine exposed as it enters the crural canal. The strangulated loop can then be drawn out of the abdomen through this opening, but care must be taken to cover the surface of the wound with gauze pads so as not to soil the wound in drawing the hernia out. It is usually easier to pull the hernia out from above than to push it back from below. Femoral hernia rapidly becomes gangrenous when strangulated, and in some cases, when the patient is very ill and the gangrene complete, it may be best merely to open the bowel and form an artificial anus, which is closed afterwards (see"p. 507) ; but if the patient's condition is good, an attempt should be made to restore the continuity of the intestine at once. UMBILICAL HERNIA. Umbilical hernia is a protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through the umbilicus or through an opening in its immediate vicinity. In infants the protrusion is directly through the umbilicus. In adults the hernia is generally supposed to pass out through the space through which the umbilical vein originally passed ; some surgeons, however, hold that the opening is really in the abdominal wall above the exit of the cord. The coverings of an umbilical hernia are sub-peritoneal fat, fascia, and skin. The sac always contains omentum, usually with a portion of the colon and sometimes also with small intestine. In the herniae of adults there are almost invariably adhesions between the contents and the sac, the omentum especially being often very adherent. Intestine may also be adherent to the sac wall or to the omentum, and the separation of the various constituents of an irreducible umbilical hernia is often a matter of extreme difficulty. These herniae are very liable to become the seat of obstruction or strangulation ; the strangulation occurs either at the point of exit through the abdominal .wall or beneath bands or through holes in the omentum. The latter