AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 328 may have to be carried out deep down in the abdominal cavity, and it may be difficult to draw up the intestine from the flanks so as to enable its posterior aspect to be got at satisfactorily. In these cases it is best to close both ends of the bowel and make a lateral anastomosis between the nearest suitable parts of the large intestine or between the ileum and the sigmoid flexure. In the latter case it is well to divide the ileum and sew up both ends and then make a lateral anastomosis between the proximal end and the sigmoid. If the patient's condition is very bad, this operation may be too protracted to be safe, and it is then wiser to divide the bowel across, invaginate the lower end with a purse-string suture, and put a Paul's tube (see p. 343) into the upper end. The continuity of the bowel may be restored at a later date. After-treatment.—After the clamps have been removed, the area of operation cleaned up, and the united loop of intestine dropped back into the abdomen, the latter is flushed out once more with hot saline solution, and the abdominal incision sutured. The question of drainage in these cases is precisely similar to that in rupture of the stomach (see p. 247). Should there be any reason to doubt the vitality of the line of union, a small drain may be introduced down to the portion of intestine operated upon, so that should the anastomosis give way, a faecal fistula will result instead of extravasation into the abdominal cavity. This is really the only circumstance under which drainage should be employed, as any attempt to drain the whole abdominal cavity when irrigation has not sufficed to cleanse it is futile. If drainage is employed, the peritoneum should be sewn up closely around the drain, otherwise vomiting after the operation may drive a coil of the small intestine through the opening into the layers of the abdominal wall, where it may become strangulated ; this accident has happened more than once. The treatment immediately after the operation should be mainly directed against shock, and will be similar to that described for cases of perforating wounds of the stomach (see p. 248). The after-treatment will also be largely on similar lines. When the small intestine has been united at or below its middle, there is no objection to administering food by the mouth, provided that it is easily digestible. The main point is to avoid undue movement of the intestines and particularly distension, which would endanger union by causing the stitches to cut through. Saline infusions, administered either continuously per rectum (about one pint per hour until four or five pints have been given, when they should be intermitted for three or four hours), or subcutaneously into the loose cellular tissue of the axilla and beneath the breasts, are most valuable for the hrst twenty-four or forty-eight hours. The union of the intestinal wall will generally be complete in from five days to a week ; should perforation occur, it usually takes place about the fourth day, and it is generally quite safe to attempt to administer