GASTRIC ULCER 265 with the duodenum. The upper part of the jejunum may be attached to the meso-colon by adhesions; if these are present they should be detached and the jejunum freed up to its origin. If tlie jejunum is not obvious at once, the liand is passed along the under surface of the transverse meso-colon to the left side of the spinal column. The portion of small intestine found in this situation is seized and pulled up. If it is the jejunum—as will probably be the case—it is fixed to the side of the spine, and is thus easily identified. The further steps will depend upon whether the anterior or the posterior variety of the operation is to be performed. Posterior gastro-jejunostomy.—After the jejunum has been identi- fied, the stomach, with the great omentum and the transverse colon, are pulled as far out of the abdomen as they will come and turned up upon the costal margin and covered with abdominal cloths. This exposes the transverse meso-colon covering the posterior wall of the stomach. An opening at least three inches long is made in the former structure over the spot at which it is proposed to make the anastomosis {i.e. close to the greater curvature and rather towards the cardiac end) by tearing it parallel to the direction of the vessels and pulling the edges of the rent asunder so as to expose the stomach freely ; this should be done through an avascular area if possible, but any vessel in the way must be di\'ided between clamps and ligatured. It is not, however, permissible to ligature any of the main colic vessels. In order to prevent the edges of the opening in the meso-colon from coming together again, they are attached by a few catgut stitches to the posterior wall of the stomach, thus exposing the whole area of the latter that is required for the anastomosis (see Fig. 94). If this precaution is neglected, the opening in the meso-colon may constrict the intestine, and, moreover, the patient may subsequently become the subject of a retro-colic hernia. This union of the meso-colon may be done when the anastomosis has been completed, if preferred. The jejunum, which has been given to an assistant to hold, is now taken, and the site for anastomosis selected. At one time great stress was laid on applying the jejunum to the stomach in such a way that the peristaltic wave should follow the same direction in both. This was done by turning round the coil of the jejunum and applying it to the stomach in a direction from left to right. In these cases a loop was formed and one of the conditions for the development of the ' vicious circle ' was provided. Of late years this plan has been given up in favour of the ' nodoop ' method in which the jejunum, as close to its commencement as possible, is applied directly to the stomach without regard to the peristaltic wave. The line of union in the stomach when completed runs either more or less directly downwards from nearly the middle of its posterior surface towards the lower border or with a slight obliquity to the left. The opening in the stomach should be rather nearer the cardiac than the pyloric end of the great curvature ;