361 CHAPTER XXIV. CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Chronic intestinal obstruction differs from the acute form both in its pathology and its symptoms. This is not merely due to the fact that the obstruction in the one case comes on rapidly, while in the other it occurs slowly ; it is because the pathological conditions are different. We may group the cases of chronic intestinal obstruction as follows :—- 1. Incomplete obstruction. In these cases there is a gradual narrow- ing of the lumen of the bowel, but not yet complete closure. 2. Complete obstruction, due to complete closure of the canal and consequent arrest of the passage of the intestinal contents. The narrowing of the lumen of the bowel which leads to chronic intestinal obstruction may arise from the following conditions : causes outside the gut, such as the pressure of tumours or constriction by adhesions between adjacent portions of the bowel; various forms of stricture resulting from ulceration of the mucous membrane or from the growth of tumours in the intestinal wall; obstruction by something in the interior of the bowel filling up its lumen more or less completely—for example, a polypoid growth, an accumulation of faeces, or a foreign body. These conditions may give rise to either of the forms of obstruction mentioned above—namely, the essentially chronic form due to the narrowing of the bowel and difficulty in the passage of the contents, and the more acute phase when the blockage is complete ; even in the latter condition, however, both the symptoms and the pathology differ widely from those met with in acute intestinal obstruction. 3. This typical chronic intestinal obstruction may be complicated by the occurrence of the true acute form. In cancer of the sigmoid flexure, for example, the weight of the tumour and the accumulated faecal material above may give rise to a volvulus of the sigmoid, so that a true acute obstruction supervenes. Again, it is not uncommon for an intussusception to occur in connection with a tumour of the bowel, which is impeding the passage of the intestinal contents, and in that case the