491 INGUINAL HERNIA apiece of jaconet with a liole in it for the penis, and fasten it over the lower edge of the dressing so that any urine is caught by it ; this need only be apphed while the patient micturates. In many cases it suffices to fix on a small dressing with collodion, but it is well also to put on a spica bandage so as to support the parts should the patient be sick, or cough, or strain. A saline purge is given at the end of the second day. We usually keep our patients in bed for three weeks after the operation, and for the first few days after they are up they feel more comfortable if they have the support of a firm calico or elastic bandage over a pad of wool, but this should be given up in a week or two. No truss or support of any kind should be worn after the operation ; we consider this an important point. Support is unnecessary, unless the patient has a bad cough, when an elastic spica is preferable to a truss—the pressure of a truss, however light, leads to softening and thinning of the cicatricial tissue and so to failure of the operation. When, however, the operation has been done simply to effect the reduction of the hernia with the view of enabling the patient to wear a truss the case is different. In infants and children so young that they do not have perfect control over the excreta, we adopt the plan advocated by Mr. H. J. Stiles (see Byitish Medical Journal, 1904, vol. ii. p. 812), which answers admirably. No dressing is used ; if there is any oozing, the wound is dusted over with powdered boric acid. The child is kept lying on his back in the cot, and is fastened down by a yoke around the thorax and a bandage running from eacli ankle to the foot of the cot ; the latter is sufficiently loose to allow the legs a little play. A large low cradle is put over the child, and a towel is hung across the cradle (see Fig. 167) ; when the child passes water, the urine is projected forward clear of the wound and is received upon the towel, which is changed as often as may be necessary. There is no risk of soiling the wound as there would be were the usual dressings employed. The child wears no night clothes—or at most a short vest —and there is no blanket over the body beneath the cradle. Inter- ference with the wound by means of the child's hands is prevented either by fastening the blanket over the cradle to the undersheet and the use of the restraining yoke, or by tying the hands. We have used this plan in many cases with invariable success, and we are confident that it is superior to that in which dressings are employed. Complications.—The most important complication is suppuration, which is generally attributed to faulty disinfection of the deep stitches. Tiiis nray be so, but in our opinion it is more often due to incomplete disinfection of the skin or to faulty manipulation on the part of the surgeon or his assistants. However that may be, suppuration after an operation for radical cure interferes very seriously with the result of the operation. Separation of the stitches takes place in practically all cases in which suppuration occurs, and the "wound does not heal until this has happened ; as this may take a long time, the inguinal canal becomes