AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 28 MYELOID SARCOMA. The general characters and appropriate treatment of this form of growth have been dealt with in connection both with tumours in general (see Vol. I.) and with neoplasms of bone (see Vol. II.). As, however, it affects the jaws fairly frequently, and as its treatment there presents some special features of importance, it requires further consideration here. The growth is more common in the mandible than in the maxilla. It may occur as a small nodular outgrowth from the margin of the gum —a variety of the so-called ' epulis '—or it may be a typical endosteal tumour, expanding the bone and giving rise to the characteristic ' egg- shell crackling.' Its malignancy varies, but the majority of cases are of the semi-benign type usually associated with the name ' myeloma.' TEBATMBlSrT.—When the tumour assumes the form of an epulis, its treatment will follow the lines appropriate for the treatment of that affec- tion, but the operation must be radical. Tne tooth nearest the tumour on each side should first be extracted, and vertical incisions must be made through the muco-periosteum of the gum, well wide of the tumour on each side ; these are joined by a horizontal cut at some distance below the growth, and the portion of the jaw thus marked out is removed in the manner described on p. 27. The portion of bone taken away should include the whole depth of the tooth socket at least. When the tumour is endosteal, it will suffice, in the first instance at any rate, to scrape the tumour out of the bone with a sharp spoon and a gouge, and then apply undiluted carbolic acid freely to the waU of the cavity. The question then arises as to the best way of dealing with the expanded shell of bone. This varies somewhat, according as the growth is in the mandible or in the maxilla. In the mandible aU the expanded shell of bone should be cut away with a chisel after reflecting and preserv- ing the muco-periosteum on both sides. The inferior margin of the bone should be preserved in every case if possible, so as to avoid deformity. The reflected periosteum is then brought over the cut surface of the bone by catgut stitches. In the maxilla, it is not always necessary to remove the expanded bone as recommended above. Deformity can be avoided by pressing back the thin shell of bone after the tumour has been shelled out until it is flush with the normal level of the bone. This will probably cause partial fracture, but that is of little consequence as the drainage is free. No dressing is required. Frequent syringing with hydrogen peroxide (10 vols.), sanitas or Condy's fluid, should be employed, and care taken to see that food does not lodge in any cavity left. Should it do so, it must be dislodged by a jet of water. When a myeloma has recurred after removal, it must be looked upon as a malignant growth of the jaw, and appropriate treatment adopted [vide infra).