AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 82 these wounds m the mouth can be closed they heal rapidly, and therefore we always attempt to arrange the incisions so that part of the wound, at any rate, can be stitched up. When only half the tongue is removed this is done by dividing the tissues somewhat obliquely, so as to leave small flaps of mucous membrane above and below, which can afterwards be approximated by catgut stitches. A considerable amount of mucous membrane can often be saved in this way, and we regard it as a point of special importance in cases in which the wound is near the root of the tongue and the tonsillar region, and in which accumulation of putre- fying discharges is extremely likely to give rise to septic cellulitis and pneumonia. In the majority of cases it is impossible to stitch up the wound completely, but even partial closure (especially when it can be done towards the back of the throat) not only diminishes the risks of sepsis, but also enables the patient to swallow and to move the tongue much better than he otherwise could. Moreover, if the tip of the tongue can be stitched over, it does not become bound to the floor of the mouth in the same way that it does when a large raw surface is left, nor will there be so much interference with speaking and swallowing. A useful precaution against sepsis is to swab out the wound and all its recesses with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to the oz.) at the end of the operation. This closes the routes of absorption to a considerable extent and thus delays the onset and spread of sepsis. The septic troubles are chiefly cellulitis, acute septicaemia, and septic pneumonia. Acute septicaemia is the most common, and this is the reason why we lay so much stress upon the importance of local pre- cautions. Once septic pneumonia is established there is practically no hope for the patient. The treatment of the glandular area.—In operations for cancer of the breast it is the accepted practice that the entire glandular area in the axilla, and also the lymphatic tracts between the tumour and the glands, must be cleared away. The question arises whether this should be done in cancer of the tongue. In cancer of the breast there are almost invariably plugs of cancerous cells in the lymphatic vessels running from the breast to the infected glands ; were the latter alone removed, the disease would be very apt to recur in the lymphatic vessels, especially over the pectoral fascia. This infection of the lymphatics apparently does not occur to the same extent in cancer of the tongue, and it is usually only in advanced cases that there is an infection of the tissues between the tongue and the glands, and then it probably arises from direct extension. Hence it is not always necessary -to remove the tissues between these two structures, in other words to cause the wound in the mouth to communicate with the triangles of the neck. Another question of importance is whether the fat and glands should be removed from the anterior triangle, as is done in the axilla, when no glandular enlargement can be felt at the time of the operation on the