493 INGUINAL HERNIA incision over Poupart's ligament, so as to expose the lower end of the deep stitches, which are then removed ; in this way much time is saved. It sometimes happens that a small vesicle forms in the scar long after the wound has healed and the patient has been about, and leaves a sinus leading down to a stitch ; this has happened even many months after the operation, and the sinus will not heal until the stitch concerned has escaped or has been removed. The cause of this is not quite clear. Fortunately—in our experience, at any rate—this is an excessively rare occurrence and need not be taken into consideration. CONGENITAL REDUCIBLE INGUINAL HERNIA. Two conditions may be met with : in one the testicle is in its normal position and there is a patent canal from the abdomen to the bottom of the tunica vaginalis, and in the other the testicle is only partially descended. The so-called ' infantile hernia ' does not complicate the operation for radical cure ; it simply means that the surgeon has to perform an operation lor liydrocele as well as for hernia. Treatment when the testicle is in the scrotum.—We have already referred to the use of trusses for these cases (see p. 481). The early steps of the radical cure are similar to those for ordinary oblique inguinal hernia (see p. 489) up to the division of the external spermatic fascia. The funicular process, which appears as a white band lying among the structures of the cord, should be defined and divested of the surrounding fascia. In order to make sure of its nature a small incision should be made into it, and its interior explored by a probe or with the finger for a communication with the abdomen. In these cases the vas is much more intimately connected with the wall of the sac and is more difficult to separate than in the ordinary form of inguinal hernia, and care must be taken not to injure it as it is very fragile in children. The best plan is to strip the structures off the sac with a fine dissector until the latter can be pushed between the vas and the wall of the sac ; then it is easy to strip the sac off. The funicular process should be cleared and divided just above the testicle, which is readily pulled up out of the scrotum during the manipu- lations, so that there is no necessit}' for extending the incision downwards. We always leave the lower end of the process open. The rest of the operation is similar to that already described for an ordinary radical cure (see p. 489). Treatment when there is imperfect descent of the testicle.—Here the operation is more difficult, as, in addition to the radical cureof the hernia, the testicle must be brought into its natural position in the scrotum. When this is foimd impossible, the operation is much simplified by castration ; but the testicle may be brought into the scrotum in many cases (see Vol. V.). The radical cure of the hernia is in all essentials