198 AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL however, if the abdomen is distended ; on the other hand its absence does not exclude rupture of the stomach or intestines. Symptoms of peritonitis soon set in and the condition of the patient becomes rapidly very grave ; the dyspnoea becomes intense, there is marked distension of the abdomen, the patient presents the typical abdominal aspect, and death occurs very rapidly. When the bowel has been injured but no extravasation of its contents has taken place, a localised peritonitis may occur and prevent infection of the general peritoneal cavity should perforation occur at a later date ; the resvilt may then be the development of a limited abscess in the peritoneal cavity and the subsequent formation of a faecal fistula. TREATMENT.—When the immediate symptoms are not urgent, and the diagnosis of an internal injurj^ is not clear, it may be justifi- able to wait for a time and to employ remedies for the shock (see Vol. I. p. 117) until the patient recovers slightl^^ If however the surgeon is in doubt as to the presence of internal injury, he had better make his preparations for operation at once ; and if by the time he is ready—which will probably be in about an hour—the condition of the patient has not improved, he had better proceed with the operation. If no injury is found, the patient will be little the worse, while if injury is present, delay may prove fatal. If the surgeon decides to wait, the question whether morphine should be given to relieve the pain and shock is a somewhat difficult one, because, though morphine tends to mask the symptoms, it is beneficial in immobilising the intestines, and thus diminishing intra- peritoneal extravasation should rupture liave taken place. Unless^ however, the pain is ver}^ severe, it is well to avoid its use ; but when pain is excessive, a small dose (gr. -|) may be given hypodermicall}^ The patient should be kept lying on his back, with the knees flexed and tied together over a piUow, and nothing should be given by the mouth. If the phenomena of shock disappear in a few hours and no peritoneal or other symptoms arise, it may be presumed that no serious internal injury has occurred. On the other hand, if the severe collapse, the small rapid pulse, and the subnormal temperature continue, if persistent vomiting sets in, or if there is increase of the pain and commencing distension, it is well to open the abdomen without delay. Should haematemesis, obliteration of the liver dullness or tympanites be present, operation is imperative. The abdomen should be opened by an incision close to the middle line unless the history or the symptoms make it almost certain that the injury is to one side. If, for instance, there has been a severe blow over the liver, the gall-bladder, or the spleen, rupture of one of these structures may be suspected, and it is then better to make the incision over the seat of injury. Exploratory laparotomy for abdominal contusions.—In all these opera- tions special attention must be paid to the diminution of shock. This