AFFFXTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 338 p. 117 and in connection with rupture of tlie intestines (see p. 199) should be rigorously carried out. The operation should be performed quickly, and everything possible—shaving, purification, and the thread- ing of needles for intestinal suturing—should be done before the admini- stration of the anaesthetic is begun. A most important point, which should never be omitted in any case of acute intestinal obstruction, is to wash out the stomach (see p. 236) before the anjesthetic is begun. In these cases the stomach contains a quantity of most offensive and putrid material, and vomiting is apt to be profuse under the anaesthetic ; the material vomited not infrequently passes into the air-passages in considerable quantity causing asphyxia or, more frequently, septic pneumonia. The room and table should be warm, and as the coils of intestine are likely to escape from the abdomen as soon as it is opened, plenty of hot abdominal cloths must be at hand to wrap them in. The question of the anaesthetic is important. Spinal anaesthesia (see Vol. I. p. 486) is valuable in these cases, as the muscular relaxation is very perfect. Intra- venous ether anaesthesia (see p. 32) is possibly an advantage as it gives good muscular relaxation, but great care must be taken not to give too much saline solution as, owing to the weakened state of the circulation and the heart, a widespread oedema of the lungs may be produced, which may cause a fatal result. We are convinced that it is bad practice to introduce more than 2 or 2| pints of saline into the patient by this means, even if the operation is prolonged. Once this amount has been administered, the open ether method should be substituted if the operation has not been completed. If the anaesthetic is administered by inhalation throughout or if spinal anaesthesia is employed, continued infusion of saline solution into the subcutaneous tissue of the axillae, beneath the breasts, or into the rectum should be given. There are three chief points to be considered in carrying out the operation—namely : the finding of the obstruction ; its relief; and the treatment of the strangulated intestine. THE FINDING OF THE OBSTRUCTION.—In practically all cases the abdominal incision should be made slightly to one side of the middle line as already described (see p. 215). It is never safe to trust to local symptoms, such as pain or swelling, as an indication of the posi- tion of the obstruction, unless possibly in the case of an intussusception in which a distinct lump can be felt. The incision through the abdominal wall should be free, and the greater part of it should lie below the umbilicus, but in all probability it will be necessary to extend it above it. The seat of obstruction seldom appears immediately beneath the opening ; the bowel usually found there is a dilated coil, and, as handling the intestines in these cases gives rise to considerable shock, a small incision is practically useless, and the opening should be large enough to admit the hand freely before the search for the obstruction is undertaken.