156 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS with it. The subsequent proceedings will vary with the situation of the growth. When it is on the lateral waU of the pharynx it will be immediately beneath the finger just below the digastric muscle, and all that is necessary is to retract the vessels and expose the pharyngeal wall, taking care to avoid injuring the superior laryngeal nerve. An incision is then made into the wall of the pharnyx to one side well away from the growth, and the disease cut away with curved scissors, the wound in the pharynx being afterwards sutured as described on p. 153. When the disease is situated higher up, especially when it is in the tonsillar region, freer access is necessary. When the lower portion of the tonsillar area is affected, the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles should be divided, taking care to leave the hypoglossal nerve intact, and the jaw is pushed well forwards so as to expose the tonsillar region. The pharynx is then incised behind the growth and well free of it at a point best ascer- tained by introducing the finger into the mouth. The disease in the pharynx is thus exposed and can be removed. When the disease runs fairly high up it may suffice to split the cheek as far out as the masseter in addition to the procedure just described, so as to detach the upper part of the disease satisfactorily from above. When, however, the disease extends high up and affects the whole of the tonsillar region, it is better to divide the lower jaw. Curiously enough the mortality in the cases in which the lower jaw has been divided is considerably less than those in which it was not done. The reason seems to be that secondary haemorrhage was more frequent in the latter cases, probably from imperfect ligature of vessels at the operation owing to the less perfect exposure of the wound. The jaw may be divided in front of the masseter or above the angle. When the jaw is divided in front of the masseter the whole tonsillar area and side of the pharynx are exposed to view after the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscles have been cut across, and the disease can be removed as easily as if it were upon the surface. In this operation the soft parts are dissected well up before the jaw is sawn through. When the disease is situated farther back, the jaw may be divided above the angle, leaving the attachment of the masseter below, and it is a good thing to remove the ascending ramus of the jaw (see Fig. 54). If the angle and the ascending ramus are removed, the functional result is bad, as the jaw is pulled to that side ; but if the division is made above the angle, the ascending ramus may be removed without causing much disability and an excellent" view of the operation area is obtained when the jaw is puUed well forwards. In some rare cases Langenbeck's division of the jaw (see p. 95), already referred to in speaking of cancer of the tongue, may be of value ; usually, however, it is not necessary to have such an extensive incision. When the tumour is situated about the base of the tongue, the disease may be readily got at from outside by removing the great cornu of the