21 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS less closed, at first from spasm and subsequently from inflammatory infiltration of the muscles, so that it is extremely difficult or even im- possible to open the jaws widely enough to extract an impacted wisdom tooth. Its removal, however, is absolutely essential, and if the mouth cannot be opened widely enough, the mucous membrane over the posterior part of the jaw must be incised, the bone over the tooth cut through with a chisel, and the fang turned out of its bed. These cases present many difficulties in treatment. The pus is always deep-seated and may give rise to severe constitutional symptoms and much distress in mastication ; pytemia or septic pneumonia is not an infrequent complication. It is imjDOssible to relieve the tension satis- factorily in the early stages by the very free incisions usually employed in cases of acute osteitis elsewhere owing to the danger of wounding the facial vessels and nerve which lie directly over the affected area, and it is often necessary to wait until there is some indication as to where th.e pus is going to point. It is essential to obtain free drainage of the pus surrounding the necrosed bone ; as long as it does not escape properly the necrosis extends and the patient is hable to general septic infection. In the great majority of cases in which the disease occurs about the angle of the jaw, it is necessary to make an external opening at the most dependent spot. Opening the abscess from the mouth is not enough; the escape of pus is defective, saliva flows into the cavity, decomposition is excessive and the skin is sure to give way over it. It is much better, therefore, to make a suitable external opening. The mucous membrane over the abscess is incised from the mouth, a pair of sinus forceps passed down the outer surface of the bone to the lowest point of the cavity and a suitable incision made through the skin, taking care to avoid branches of the facial nerve ; a drainage tube is then pulled into the cavit}^ The skin incision for this pixrpose should always be parallel to the lower border of the jaw in the case of the mandible, or in the lines of the natural folds of the cheek in the case of the maxilla. This reduces scarring to a minimum. The cavity must be washed out frequently until the dead bone is loose ; this will usually be the case in six or eight weeks, according to the situa- tion and extent of the necrosis. Here, as elsewhere, the sequestrum gradually becomes enclosed in a bony sheath, so that the bone may be more or less reproduced by the periosteal new growth, even when the greater part of the jaw has become necrosed. It is advisable not to be in a hurry to remove the necrosed bone, provided that the patient keeps well, because it preserves the shape of the jaw and so allows proper reproduction of the bone ; if it were removed before sufficient periosteal new formation had occurred, the new jaw would be misshapen. Removal of the necrosed fragment is usually a comparatively simple operation, and can generally be carried out from the mouth by enlarging the opening in the mucous membrane leading down to the sequestrum and