METHODS OF EXAMINATION 22g INFLATION OF THE STOMACH. This method of diagnosis must be used with great care. It should never be employed when there has been recent bleeding from the stomach and only with the greatest caution when there is the least suspicion of a gastric ulcer, for bleeding or even perforation may occur if the stomach be over-distended. The inflation should be stopped at once should pain result. There are two ways in which the stomach may be inflated ; the simplest is by the admimsiratioii of e ffervescent solutions. A dose of tartaric acid (gr. x-xx) is swallowed, and this is followed immediately by a similar amount of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in water. This plan has the disadvantage that the distension is not sufficiently imder the surgeon's control and might be used in a stomach that will not bear dilatation and cause great distress or even possibly actual rupture. A much better plan is to inflate the stomach through an cesophageal tube. A soft rubber tube, similar to that employed for washing out the stomach, is passed into the stomach (see p. 236), and a Higginson's syringe or a bicycle pump is attached to its upper end ; by means of this the stomach may be inflated to any desired extent, while at the same time the degree of inflation is under control and can be stopped or diminished at will. The value of inflation of the stomach is that it enables the surgeon to distend the organ until its outline can be easily appreciated ; in the case of an hour-glass contraction, for instance, the result maybe very striking. Inflation also enables the stomach to be percussed with accuracy, and often brings a previously unnoticeable tumour of the stomach wall well up to the surface. It is however quite a secondary method of examination and is seldom employed at the present time. PALPATION. A number of useful data may often be ascertained by palpation. In order to get the best results, the patient should lie upon the back on a hard couch, with the legs drawn up and the head and shoulders raised on a pillow. This relaxes the abdominal muscles and allows the hand to be pushed well into the epigastrium, while the stomach gravitates down- wards unless it is fixed. It is well to have the patient almost in a sitting position before finishing the examination, as this allows the stomach to fall away from beneath the ribs. While the palpation is being carried out the patient is instructed to relax the muscles, to keep the mouth wide open, and to breathe deeply and regularly ; if the hand be kept steadily pressed upon the abdominal wall in the hypogastric region, it will be found that it will pass a little deeper on each deep expiration, until ultimately the posterior wall of the abdomen can be felt. The hand should be laid flat on the surface of the abdominal wall, and violent or irregular pressure—such as that made by digging the tips of the fingers into the