33 TUMOURS about three-quarters of an hour beforehand, of an hypodermic injection of scopolamine, gr. ; atropine, g^"- '> morphine, jr gr. ; and main- tains that if this be done, but httle more than i to ij pints of the solution per hour is required. If the preliminary injection be not given, nearly double the quantity of the saline will be necessary. ' Hedonal has more recently been employed as a substitute for ether in this method of administration, and with it the total quantity of fluid introduced into the circulation may be reduced by quite one-half. It is also claimed that the anaesthesia is more quickly induced and that there is less tendency to excessive formation of mucus in the air passages ; on the other hand the depression is greater, and there is rather more danger of over-dose. Sixty-five grains of hedonal are dissolved in each pint of saline solution. ' After the intravenous administration of ether or hedonal, and more perhaps after the latter, there is a tendency to haemoglobinuria and allied conditions, and it is doubtful therefore whether these methods ought to be employed in cases of kidney disease or high arterial tension. ' Intratracheal Insufflation.—This plan has recently been intro- duced by Metzler, of the Rockefeller Institution, and is being taken up by several American surgeons (see Journal of the American Medical Association, August 12, igii ; and Annals of Surgery, February 1911). The patient being first aucesthetised by the ordinary method, a soft catheter (22 or 24 French) is introduced through the mouth and glottis into the trachea, down which it is passed to within 5 cm. of the bifurcation ; through this tube a stream of warm air mixed with varying proportions of ether vapour is forced by means of a bellows (see Fig. 10). The return current of air passing through the glottis (which must not be entirely filled up by the catheter) carries with it the blood and mucus, thus obviating the necessity for laryngotomy or plugging the pharynx. The plan is very well spoken of in America. ' In mouth operations it is one particular advantage of both these methods that the anaesthetist is removed from the field of operation entirely, while, as far as the intravenous method is concerned, it has the additional advantage of diminishing the shock and compensating for the loss of blood.' In performing a preliminary larvn.gotomy, the patient should be in the horizontal position, with the head fully extended, and an incision half an inch long—which may be transverse or vertical—is made directly over the central point of the crico-thyroid space, which should be carefully defined by the left thumb and index finger. The incision goes right down to the membrane, which is then perforated by the knife, with the blade held transversely. This opens the larynx, and along the blade of the knife as it is withdrawn, Butlin's laryngotomj^ tube and introducer are slipped IV. D