CHRONIC TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 451 Surgical intervention may also be called for when there is intestinal obstruction, or a collection of purulent fluid, or with the object of extirpating a localised tuberculosis ; in these last cases, however, the diagnosis is comparatively rarely made sufficiently early. Lastly, surgical intervention may be required for the cure of a faecal Irstula. Simple laparotomy.—The results of a simple laparotomy for tuber- culous peritonitis vary considerably according to the type of disease present, but all types may improve after it. The greatest improvement is obtained when there is free fluid in the abdominal cavity, but it may also occur in cases in which little or no fluid is present ; even in the bad caseating cases a few, though by no means the majority, may improve. The laparotomy simply aims at opening the abdomen, and if any fluid is present it is allowed to run out. The cases most suited for operation are those belonging to the flrst group, especially if the pathological changes are localised, and the next most favourable are those in which the fluid is diffused over the abdomen. In the third group the successes are few and the operation is difiicult ; indeed, a faecal fistula may result even without apparent injury to the intestine. It is also not uncommon in these bad cases for the scar to become infected with tubercle ; but, even in spite of this, benefit may ultimately occur, while practically all the patients in this stage die if left alone. Hence none of the classes can be quite excluded from operation, but the frequency with which operation will be resorted to differs in different cases; in those with eftusion it will be often had recourse to, in others less often, and in the caseating form only as a last resort and usually on account of the presence of complications. The operation, when not accompanied by excision of portions of the abdominal contents, is not followed by shock, and the presence of phthisis does not seem to be a bar to it ; indeed, the condition of the lungs has often been found to improve pari passu with the local condition in cases that have benefited by operation. Mosi suitable iime for operation. — LInless improvement follows medicinal treatment within six weeks in acute cases or six months in chronic ones, the abdomen should be opened whether fluid is present or not. The operation may do good when it is least expected to do so, and in any case the patient should not be allowed to go downhill too far before it is carried out; on the other hand, it apparently does not do to operate too soon, operation in quite the early stage often being without any effect. If the patient is suffering from incomplete obstruction, the abdomen should be opened early with the view of performing a short-circuit operation, or even, if possible, of removing the affected portion of the intestine or the primary seat of the disease. Operation.—-An opening is made in the middle line of the abdomen below the umbilicus, any fluid that is present is allowed to run out, its escape being aided by turning the patient on the side, and then the wound is stitclied up again. Formerly the abdomen was washed out