CANCER 589 the ligature slipping, especially when the polypus is large, as that would result in severe hfemorrhage high up in the bowel which could only be reached with difficulty. The pedicle must, therefore, be transfixed with stout catgut and tied in two halves. Transfixion is open to the objection that septic material may become absorbed from the ligature as it traverses the soft parts, and, therefore, we apply a second ligature around the entire pedicle on the proximal side of the first and so prevent any absorption. All traction upon the pedicle must be relaxed during the tightening of these ligatures so as to ensure complete strangulation. When the polypus is situated still higher up it will be necessary to use a suitable snare in order to pass the ligature around the pedicle. After the ligature has been applied the polypus is snipped off, the ends of the ligature cut short, and the patient kept in bed or on a couch for a few days, the bowels being kept confined for two days. After the first action of the bowels the patient may be allowed to get up, and a laxative should be administered every other day. CANCER. Cancer of the rectum occurs more often in men than in women ; it usually commences after middle life, but may be met with at an early age, in which case the growth is extremely malignant. The typical growth is an adeno-carcinoma, but a squamous carcinoma may spread upwards from the anus into the bowel. Sarcoma is extremely rare. Cancer of the rectum begins in the mucous membrane—usually on the posterior aspect of the lower end of the bowel—and may form a dense slow-growing ulcerated mass gradually encircling the bowel and leading to marked constriction, or a more rapidly progressing warty tumour undergoing ulceration, and involving a considerable area of the mucous membrane. A long time may elapse before the bowel is com- pletely encircled by the latter form, but obstructive symptoms may occur quite early, and are then due to the large mass filling up the lumen of the bowel rather than to narrowing of its calibre. The disease infiltrates the muscular coat as it spreads, and ultimately reaches the peri-rectal tissues. Should it involve the peritoneum, it may cause a cancerous peritonitis, or it may spread to other organs such as the ovary, bladder, or other parts of the intestine. When it spreads into the peri-rectal cellular tissue, the intestine becomes fixed in the hollow of the sacrum, and the nerves in the neighbourhood may become involved and severe pain may be set up. Sampson Handley has shown [Lancet, 1911) that carcinomatous disease may be found in the wall of the bowel as far away as six inches above the visible limit of the primary growth. The glands which lie in the fat outside the rectal wall become affected comparatively early, and the infection spreads to the lumbar glands ;