90 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE which may persist for some time. There is, however, very little arterial bleeding, and practically all fear of haemorrhage is over as soon as the lingual artery has been controlled. It is well, therefore, to proceed rapidly with the operation, trusting to the fact that the bleeding will cease when the lingual is secured and the organ removed. It is the assistant's duty to see that no danger arises from the presence of blood in the mouth. After the portion of the tongue has been removed and the bleeding arrested, the wound is swabbed with chloride of zinc solution (gr. 40 to the oz.), taking care to see that the patient does not swallow any of it ; no other application to the raw surface is necessary. Any flaps of mucous membrane that have been saved are brought together by catgut stitches. It is especially important, if possible, to suture the mucous membrane on the dorsum to that on the under-surface of the tip of the tongue, so that the latter remains free and is not bound down in the floor of the mouth. It does not matter much if there is considerable tension on the edges of the flaps of mucous membrane which are brought together in order to diminish the raw surface in the mouth. Adhesions will form even if the stitches cut their way through, and some diminution at any rate will take place in the size of the wound during the early stages of repair, when the risk of sepsis is greatest. Of course, the stitching of the wound in the mouth must be done judiciously. It is possible, for instance, to make the tongue unduly long by suturing the mucous membrane over the raw surface too far back ; while, on the other hand, if no suturing is practised, the raw surface beneath the tip and that on the floor of the mouth will adhere, so that the organ is tightly bound down and articulation is much interfered with. The suture is removed from the sound half of the tongue, and the patient is put back to bed, with the head turned well over to the affected side and the mouth somewhat dependent, so that any blood may escape. As soon as the patient has recovered from the anaesthetic he should be propped up in the sitting position, and is generally able to get out of bed in three or four days. The details of the after-treatment are described on p. 99. [d) When the disease extends beyond the middle line, but is limited to the tongue, the entire organ wiU require removal. This may be done by Whitehead's operation, though we prefer Syme's or Kocher's in these cases. Whitehead's operation is described by him as follows {British Medical Journal, 1891, vol. i. p. 962) :— A preliminary laryngotomy will obviate all risk of asphyxia, and will be a source of satisfaction to the surgeon, although, as a perusal of the subjoined account will show, it is not essential, especially in the hands of an experienced operator. If this is not done, the administration of the anaesthetic by the intra-tracheal method (see p. 33) is useful. ' The ligature passed through the anterior portion of the tongue is a