STRICTURE 179 may be administered, while occasionally the Weir-Mitchell treatment (see Vol. III. p. 138) is of value. The passage of a full-sized bougie once a week or once a fortnight is often distinctly beneficial. BENIGN GROWTHS. Tumours in connection with the oesophageal wall are a very important cause of dysphagia ; they may be either simple or malignant, more frequently the latter. The simple tumours may be myomata, adenomata, lipomata, or cysts. They are all comparatively rare, and when they attain any considerable size are frequently pedunculated, with a long and narrow pedicle, whilst the tumour itself is flattened—the so-called ' oesophageal polypus.' Many of these are really pharyngeal in origin, but sometimes they originate in the oesophagus. The tumour may cause difficulty in swallowing, or, on the other hand, it may be small and only be discovered post mortem. When the pedicle of the polypus is long, the tumour may be projected up into the pharynx during vomiting, and may then be visible. TREATMENT.—If a polypus of the oesophagus causes symptoms it must be removed, and the method by which this is done will vary according to its situation. When it is a pharyngeal polypus which is hanging down into the oesophagus, it may be possible to insinuate the loop of a snare around the pedicle and so to remove it. The loop may be passed round the pedicle in various ways and the use of the oesophagoscope will greatly facilitate this. If the attempt to snare the pedicle fails, it will be necessary to perform oesophagotomy (see p. 168), expose the pedicle, transfix and ligature it, and cut the tumour away. MALIGNANT GROWTHS. Carcinoma of the oesophagus is by far the commonest cause of stricture, and when difficulty in swallowing occurs in people who have attained middle age and in whom there is no history of having swallowed a caustic and no sign of external pressure, the diagnosis is almost certainly that of a cancerous stricture ; the chief alternative is syphilitic disease, which is extremely uncommon in the oesophagus. The growth is practically always a squamous epithelioma, and the tumour usually occurs at the narrowest parts of the gullet—namely, at its commencement, its cardiac end, or opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. The most common seat is probably the fitrst of these. The growth commences in the oesophageal mucous membrane, giving rise to a tumour at one side of the gullet which may attain a consider- able size before the entire circumference of the mucous membrane is affected. Ulceration occurs early and haemorrhage is not uncommon. N 2