CHAPTER XL. 564 HAEMORRHOIDS. HiEMORRHOiDS, Or piles, are varicose enlargements of the terminal branches of the hcemorrhoidal plexus, and form compressible swellings beneath the mucous membrane of the lower end of the rectum or of the skin around the anal margin. The varicosity generally begins at the junction of the superior with the middle haemorrhoidal veins, but the external piles are caused by dilatation of the inferior haemorrhoidal branches. Haemorrhoids are divided into external or internal, according to their position relative to the external sphincter, internal piles being situated above, and external piles below it. Frequently, however, the two varieties merge into one another, and hence a third form—the intero- external variety—is often described. Another important classification is into symptomatic and idiopathic piles, the former being secondary to some other affection, which must be relieved before the haemorrhoidal swellings will disappear. Any interference with the portal circulation, such as occurs in cirrhosis or malignant disease of the liver, may cause distension of these veins and lead to the production of piles. Similarly, cancer of the rectum, stricture of the rectum or urethra, enlarged prostate, various uterine disorders, and certain forms of heart disease may all produce haemorrhoids, which, although they cause the patient much discomfort, are not of primary importance and cannot be remedied unless the original cause can be removed. Idiopathic piles are those most frequently met with ; they are common in middle life, but rare under twenty years of age, and generally commence about the age of twenty-five when an active athletic life is exchanged for a sedentary one. The affection is as common in men as in women ; in the latter, pregnancy is a strong predisposing cause. Heredity, race, and climate apparently influence the production of piles ; Oriental races and dwellers in hot climates, for instance, are said to be more frequently affected than those living in more temperate