302 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH then that of cancer of the pyloric end ; and finally that of cancer at the cardiac end. I. Of non-obstructive cancer of the stomach.—Here the growth is usually situated on the anterior surface or on the lesser curvature, and when it is small and unaccompanied by glandular enlargement or adhesion to surrounding structures it may be possible to extirpate it with a fair prospect of cure. It must, however, be admitted that the number of cases that come under observation in which this is feasible is very small, because when the growth is small enough to be easily removed, it commonly happens that no tumour can be felt from the outside and the diagnosis is not made. Gastrectomy.—Extirpation of portions of the stomach for cancer— partial gastrectomy—is not a hopeful procedure. This depends not so much upon the fact that the operation in itself is severe, because the most extensive operations, even those involving a resection of the entire stomach, have been performed without the patient succumbing, but on the fact that the growth spreads rapidly through the stomach wall, and recurrence after these partial operations is almost invariable. If radical measures are to be undertaken in these cases with any hope of avoiding recurrence, they should take the form of excision of the whole or the larger portion of the stomach—complete gastrectomy. Although the entire stomach has been removed for cancer with temporary success, the number of cases in which this can be done is not large, and we do not look upon the operation as at all a favourable one. The chief objections are that when cancer involves a large part of the stomach the disease is very likely to be extensively diffused both through the neighbouring glands and through structures that have become adhei'ent to the stomach. When glands are found to be extensively affected, extirpation of the primary growth should not be attempted. In connection with enlarged glands it is important to remember that they may be met with not only in cancer, but also in simple ulcer of the stomach, and they may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis. The question may be settled by dissecting out one of the glands and making a rapid microscopical section. Even to the naked eye the typical hard whitish cancerous gland differs markedly from the soft swollen juicy glands associated with inflammation. In the rare cases in which the operation may be done, the stomach is divided at the cardiac and pjdoric ends and the viscus is removed entire, the duodenum being subsequently sutured to the cardiac end of the oesophagus. Should it be found on performing an exploratory laparotomy that the growth is so large and so extensively diffused over the surface of the stomach as to negative a radical operation, the best plan is to close the abdomen without doing anything further. It has been suggested that when the disease in the stomach is so extensive as to prevent the patient taking food, the operation of duodenostomy, or preferably jejunostomy,