165 FOREIGN BODIES the cricoid, will suffice for a short examination ; for a longer examination a general anaesthetic is required. Chloroform is preferable to ether, as it causes less secretion of mucus. During the whole examination, a careful watch should be kept on the general condition of the patient; stimulants, oxygen, and tracheotomy instruments should be at hand in case they are required. Position of tJie patient.—For short examinations, the patient may be seated if local anaesthesia is being employed ; under other conditions the recumbent position is essential, the head being turned to the right and extended, or supported in the extended position beyond the end of the table. The former position of the head is preferable, as the mucus and saliva then escape more easily from the angle of the mouth and the introduction of the instrument is more readily accomplished. The head must not be over-extended, for this makes the passage of the instrument much more difficult. Method of iiityodnction.—The instrument is sterilised, warmed, and lubricated with liquid paraffin or glycerine. The mouth is opened as widely as possible and the instrument passed from one side, usually the right, to the base of the tongue, which is pressed forward partly by the instrument and partly by the left forefinger. The tube is passed over the epiglottis into the upper end of the oesophagus by keeping it in contact with the wall of the pharynx. As it enters the oesophagus the end of the instrument is depressed, and at this stage it may be necessary to rotate it. The inner extension tube is then placed in position and pushed on as far as is necessary. Before inserting the extension tube, the Briining's lamp should be attached to the handle and an examination made so that any stricture or foreign body may be seen, and the extension tube is then passed with the aid of direct vision. Force must never be employed and it must be remembered that in diseased conditions and in inflammatory aftections following the long-continued presence of a foreign body, the oesophageal walls may be thinned, and perforation by the instrument may occur unless it is very carefully manipulated. Indeed, several fatalities have been recorded from these causes, and special care should be taken to exclude the presence of a thoracic aneurysm. Indications for use.—The oesophagoscope may be employed to localise and remove foreign bodies, to determine the presence and nature of a stricture, and to facilitate the introduction of bougies or cesophageal tubes or radium into a stricture. When search is being made for a foreign body, the instrument may pass it unless visual inspection is made both during the introduction and the withdrawal of the tube ; the foreign body may sometimes be hidden by the swollen mucous membrane or buried in thick mucus. Different kinds of forceps should be at hand as well as hooks and probes of various sizes. The body may be too large to extract through the tube after it has been seized by the forceps, and in that case the tube- forceps, and foreign body may be withdrawn together after the latter has