47 TUMOURS divided high up and removed with the latter. The dissection on the inner side should be carried up to the mucous membrane, but not through it, and up to this point there will be no trouble from blood running into the pharynx ; all the vessels bleed externally and can be clamped. The lateral incisor tooth on the affected side is now extracted, the mucous membrane punctured on both aspects of the jaw, and the bone divided with a fine saw, a little to one side of the middle line, so as to leave the attachment of the tongue muscles. A less tedious way than using an ordinary saw is to pass Gigli's wire-saw round the bone by means of an introducer (see Vol. IIL p. 33) and divide the bone with it. When the bone has been cut across, the flap is held up and the mucous membrane is divided all along the outer side of the jaw, after which, the divided half of the jaw is pulled outwards and the mucous membrane on the inner side also divided, where it is reflected from the floor of the mouth. The divided half of the jaw is now forcibly depressed, while the flap is hooked up ; this brings the coronoid process into view, and, by cutting on it, the tendon of the temporal muscle is gradually divided ; the jaw can then be depressed much more freely. In some cases, either because the size of the tumour prevents proper depression of the jaw, or because of the extra length of the coronoid process, it is difficult to divide the muscle satisfactorily, and, under such circumstances, it is best to cut across the coronoid process with bone pliers and dissect it out after the jaw has been removed. Finally, the jaw is still further depressed and pulled outwards while the ligaments around the articulation are divided. In some cases, the jaw can be pulled out forcibly, but it is generally well to divide the external ligaments at any rate. Care must be taken to cut close to the bone and, in turning the jaw outwards, special care must be taken not to twist the soft parts out with it, otherwise the internal maxillary artery may be torn. When the ligaments on the outer side are divided, the jaw generally comes away quite readily. After the jaw has been removed, the soft parts must be carefully examined to see that no growth is left behind ; the submaxillary triangle should also be investigated to make sure that there is no glandular disease. The bleeding is arrested, the raw surface sponged over with chloride of zinc solution (gr. 40 to the oz.), and the incision sutured with silkworm- gut or horse-hair. If possible, the mucous surfaces should be brought together with catgut stitches. It is well to introduce a ch'ainage tube opposite the angle of the jaw ; cyanide gauze dressings are applied. The patient is put back to bed, propped up with pillows and the head turned towards the side operated on, so that the discharge may escape freely. After-treaUneni.—To check the capillary bleeding, the patient may suck small pieces of ice wrapped in muslin, or he may use an adrenalin mouth-wash. The dressing will require changing several times a day