62 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE latter condition must receive the treatment appropriate to the par- ticular form present. The most useful drugs are bismuth, bicarbonate of soda, rhubarb, and gentian ; but of course these must be varied according to the essential nature of the disease, and the diet must be regulated accordingly : the food should be soft and non-irritating. It is well to clear out the bowels in the first instance and to see that they are moved daily. In the local treatment frequent cleansing of the mouth with gargles of sanitas, chlorate of potash, or boro-glyceride wiU be necessary. If the ulcers are painful, touching them occasionally with 2 per cent, solution of chromic acid, or with nitrate of silver fused on the point of a probe, will often give relief. If healing is slow, astringent lotions such as weak solutions of alum (gr. ij-v to the oz.) may be employed, and iron should be administered internally in the form of pil. ferri (gi-. v-xv t.d.s.) or syrup of the iodide of iron (3ss-3j)- The teeth should be attended to, and if there is any pyorrhoea present it must be treated. THE LEUCOPLAKIAL ULCER. It is not uncommon for ulceration to occur about the centre of leucoplakial patches in cases of chronic superficial glossitis. The ulcers are usually very sensitive and difficult to get rid of. They generally take the form of fissures of varying depth, in which epithelioma is prone to develop. These ulcers are difficult to treat, and often remain unhealed for a long time ; owing to the thickness of the tissues around, they may present all the appearances of a callous ulcer. TREATMEISTT.—AH causes of irritation must be removed, and antiseptic and astringent mouth-washes, such as alum or tannin (gr. ij-v to the oz.), should be employed. In patients under middle age, a solution of chromic acid (commencing with 2 per cent, and increasing up to 10 per cent.) may be painted on the ulcer once daily. In chronic cases it is best to excise the ulcer as soon as it is found that it will not heal under careful treatment. When the sore is the centre of a limited patch of leucoma, excision of the entire patch along with the ulcer is advisable, and should be done in the manner described for leucoplakia (see p. 59). THE MERCURIAL ULCER. This is merely an exaggerated stage of mercurial stomatitis, and is rarely seen nowadays ; it was fairly common formerly and resulted from an unduly free use of mercury. TREATMENT.—The immediate disuse of the drug is obviously called for, whether it has been given internally for syphilis or whether the affection occurs in a patient working with mercury. A course of saline