AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 288 TREATMENT OF CONTRACTIONS AND ADHESIONS OCCUR- RING IN CONNECTION WITH A GASTRIC ULCER. Here the surgeon has to treat not the ulcer itself, but its sequelae, for the ulcer may have healed and the patient's symptoms be caused entirely by the cicatricial contraction consequent upon this. Various conditions may require remedy ; stenosis of the pylorus may occur, or there may be constriction of the stomach itself, which usually takes the form known as ' hour-glass contraction.' Besides this there may have been extensive perigastritis leading to adhesions between the stomach and one or more of the adjacent viscera. It will be best to describe the treatment of each of these conditions separately although more than one of them may be met with at the same time. TREATMENT OF STENOSIS OF THE PYLORUS. A method of treatment which was formerly much practised and is still employed under certain circumstances is that introduced by Loreta; he forcibly dUated the pyloric orifice with instruments or with the finger passed through it from an opening in the stomach until the lumen had been dilated as much as possible without splitting the peritoneal coat. Loreta's operation has not fulfilled the hopes entertained of it ; experi- ence shows that contraction is apt to recur, and in a short time the patient's condition is as bad as ever, .\ccidents have also happened, such as splitting of the cicatricial tissue and perforation into the peritoneal cavity, and the operation has now been abandoned in cases of cicatricial stenosis. At the present time the surgeon makes his choice between the operations of pyloroplasty and short-circuiting; gastro-duodenostomy may be done in some cases, but gastro-jejunostomy is the usual form of short-circuit operation. Pylorectomy has also been performed for this condition, but it is a much more severe operation than any of the others, and in these particular cases it is especially difficult and dangerous, because of the adhesions in the neighbourhood of the pyloric orifice. We do not therefore advise the operation for a simple stricture of the pylorus. Pyloroplasty.—Pyloroplasty is certainly suited for some cases of narrow annular stricture, but as a rule subsequent contraction takes place which may lead to recurrence of the symptoms. We should limit this operation to cases of dilatation of the stomach due to narrowing of the pylorus where there are no adhesions, no marked thickening of its walls, and no atony of the stomach. The principle of the operation is to make a free longitudinal incision from the stomach to the duodenum, dividing the pylorus along its long axis, and then to approxi- mate the two ends of this incision so as to convert it into a transverse