INJURIES 317 serious internal haemorrhage, and whether the latter proceeds from one of the large viscera, such as the liver or spleen, or whether it is superficial or deep to the omentum. When the bleeding comes from an injury to the omentum, that structure should be laid out upon a hot abdominal cloth and inspected. The omentum may be torn either vertically or transversely ; in the latter case the haemorrhage is much more severe than in the former. Some- times the blood, instead of escaping into the peritoneal cavity, infiltrates the substance of the omentum and gives rise to a large localised haematoma. When the omentum is wounded near the stomach or transverse colon, the abdominal incision should be extended upwards so that the entire structure can be examined without having to employ any traction ; it is an extremely delicate membrane, and traction may increase the rent, or rupture some large vessel and thus add seriously to the bleeding. When time is of great importance, the incision may be extended upwards by slitting up the whole thickness of the abdominal wall with strong scissors or a probe-pointed bistoury, clamping any bleeding points afterwards. In dealing with this injury, two objects must be aimed at—namely, to arrest the haemorrhage, and to avoid leaving either a hole in the omentum through which bowel might pass and become strangulated, or a loose strand which might subsequently form a band and so lead to intestinal obstruction in the future. A simple vertical rent in the o)ncntum should be sewn up accurately with a curved needle and fine catgut after any bleeding vessels have been tied. It requires some care in doing this to avoid puncturing other vessels which might give rise to troublesome bleeding and cause much loss of time. Should this accident take place, it is best to underrun the wounded vessel with catgut. When there is a transverse rent of the omentum, the procedure will depend upon its extent. Small rents can be stitched up after the vessels have been tied ; in the case of more extensive tears it will be best to remove a triangular portion of the omentum (see Fig. 114) and then to stitch the sides of the opening together. WJioi there is a large hcBJuaioma in the omeiituni, it is often very difficult to find the bleeding point, and as the large mass will ultimately lead to adhesions, it is better to remove the part of the omentum involved or the whole of it if necessary. This is done by inserting a series of interlocking ligatures around the haematoma (see Fig. 115); the piece of the omentum thus isolated is then excised and the cut surfaces stitched together with fine catgut. When the bleeding comes from an injury to the mesentery or the meso- colon.—Should it be found on opening the abdomen that the omentum is uninjured, but that there is free haemorrhage coming from beneath it, the omentum and transverse colon should be turned out on to