27 TUMOURS some cases these tumours are of inflammatory origin, in others they are new growths, sucli as fibromata, sarcomata (mj^eloid, round- or spincUe- cehed) or, more rarely, angiomata. The inflammatory varieties probably arise in connection witli the peri-odontal membrane, usually as a result of dental caries. They spring from the gum at the side of a tooth, and grow either outwards or inwards between the teeth ; as they increase, they may cause deviation of the teeth by their pressure. If they reach any considerable size they may ulcerate and bleed freely. TREATMENT.—The tooth in connection with which the growth arises must always be removed ; in addition, the growth and the adjacent muco-periosteum must be taken away. When the swelling is not due to a tumour, recurrence seldom takes place if this has been done efficiently. If the growth is evidently a new growth, a considerable portion of the bone must also be removed ; the amount depends on the extent and nature of the tumour. In a small myeloid growth the ex- traction of a tooth on each side, and the division of the muco-periosteum over the alveolus by a V-shaped cut with its apex well below the tumour, allows a wedge of bone to be removed along with the tumour growing from it, and will generall}/ fig. 8.—removal of an epulis of the lower jaw. (,,.-CCp„ The incision in tlie bone corresponds to that shown on SUinCC. thf, mucous membrine. When recurrence takes place, or when the tumour is malignant, a quadrilateral portion of the jaw at the least must be taken away after removing the necessary teeth. To do this, a vertical saw-cut is made through the bone on each side of the growth, and these are connected transversely by Gigli's wire saw (see Fig. 8) so as to remove the bone involved and leave the lower part of the jaw intact. The haemorrhage is usually easily stopped by pressure ; if it is severe, the bleeding point may be touched with the actual cautery or the canal in the bone may be plugged with Horsley's wax (see Vol. III. p. 376). In recurrent cases of myeloid epulis and in all cases of round- or spindle-ceUed sarcomata, it is wiser to remove the affected portion of the jaw completely and well beyond the growth. In every case in which an operation is performed upon the jaw, the most scrupulous attention must be paid beforehand to the hygiene of the mouth (see p. 31). Neglect of this precaution may have very serious results.