252 CHAPTER XVII. GASTRIC ULCER. Simple ulcer of the stomach occurs much more frequently in women than in men. The usual age of those suffering from it is between twenty and forty in women, while in men the average is ten years later; it may, however, occur up to an advanced period of life. The ulcer is most common upon the posterior wall and lesser curvature of the stomach near the pyloric end. It is said that in not more than 5 per cent, of all the cases is the ulcer situated upon the anterior wall, but on the other hand, something like 80 per cent, of all the fatal perforations following ulcer occur in that situation. As a rule the ulcer is single ; it is rare for more than two to coexist, and sometimes an ulcer occurs in the duodenum as well as in the stomach. The ulcer itself is usually round or oval, but it may be irregular in outline, either from extension of the original ulcer or from the confluence of isolated ones. The edges are quite clean-cut, and the ulceration may only involve the superficial portion of the mucous mem- brane, or the submucous and muscular coats may be entirely destroyed. There is no constant relation between the depth of the ulcer and its size ; a small ulcer may penetrate deeply, and vice versa. When the ulcer is of recent development, the stomach walls in its immediate vicinity are not much altered ; when, however, it has lasted for a long time, there may be extensive induration, giving rise to characters often mistaken for malignant growth—the so-called ' leather-bottle stomach ' (see p. 253). The rest of the stomach is usually normal except that the pylorus is unduly contracted. We may also refer to those cases in which haematemesis occurs, but in which the mucous membrane when examined during life, shows no definite ulcer ; in these the blood appears to ooze continuously and in large quantities from minute erosions or abraded surfaces scattered over the mucous membrane of the stomach or gathered together into groups. In other cases very minute, almost pin-point ulcers are present extending deeply, and exposing the small submucous arteries ; these two causes