431 APPENDICITIS of the bowel and this gives rise to a good deal of discomfort, but as a rule it passes off in the course of from two to four days. In some cases, however, it persists, and the abdomen becomes enormously blown up. There may be a good deal of pain, and the patient's general condition may become critical ; vomiting may set in, and there may be almost complete obstruction. It is not always easy to diagnose this condition from general septic peritonitis on the one hand and from a kink on the other. In distin- guishing it from peritonitis the surgeon must be guided to a considerable extent by what took place at the operation. If the operation went smoothly and the appendix was removed without extensive soiling of the intestine and if a large opening was left with thorough drainage, general peritonitis can usually be excluded. If, however, a large quantity of the intestines protruded into the wound and became soiled with pus, or if no packing was introduced afterwards, general peritonitis may have occurred; in that case, however, the peritonitis sets in at once, while paralytic distension does not usually arise until the third or fourth day. The presence of a kink is more difficult to diagnose, but when it occurs there is more pain, and vomiting sets in earlier than in the paralytic condition ; the obstruction is generally complete from the first. It is very important to diagnose these conditions because peritonitis and a kink both require early operation, while operation should be delayed in cases of paralytic distension because manipulation of the bowels usually makes matters worse and may prevent the recovery of the patient. Treatment.—An attempt should be made to relieve the distension by copious turpentine or other antispasmodic enemata (see p. 211), repeated at intervals of'four to six hours, and to stimulate the peristalsis of the bowel by injections of pituitary extract or of eserin (gr. combined with gr. -^-^ of strychnine every four hours). The general collapse may be combated by the free administration of stimulants and by the subcutaneous or continuous rectal infusion of saline solution. Unless the patient is going to die, no operation should be performed, but if the abdomen has been opened either on account of the state of the patient or under the diagnosis of mechanical obstruction, the distended bowel should be opened and evacuated as completely as possible in the manner described on p. 342, the parts chosen for the incision, being either the caecum (if possible) or some coO low down in the small intestine. If the patient's condition is very bad, it ma.y be well to tie in a tube and make a ffecal fistula for a few days ; if this is not necessary, one to two ounces of a strong solution of magnesium sulphate (i in 4) may be introduced into the bowel and the opening closed at once. Acute intestinal obstruction.—As the acute inflammation becomes localised, the coils of small intestine must of necessity become adherent. These adhesions usually cause no trouble, but occasionally they produce an acute kink of the bowel and consequent obstruction. In some cases