593 CANCER must be relieved before extirpation is undertaken ; when the patient has recovered, the radical operation may be performed. The same remark applies to cases in which the obstruction is only partial and the bowel above the stricture is much distended. The treatment of this complication involves a preliminary colostomy. A point requiring consideration is the general condiiion of the patient. Many sufferers from cancer of the rectum are in a state of semi-starva- tion. They fear to take food because it aggravates the symptoms of obstruction, and they are wasting from the dyspepsia associated with the disease. Many of them, therefore, are unfitted for a radical operation, although the local conditions are favourable ; this applies especially to old subjects whose recuperative power is slight and who may therefore die after the operation from mere weakness. If, however, a colostomy is performed on these patients their condition may improve so much that it may be possible to perform a radical operation at a later period. A consideration of the foregoing remarks will lead to the conclusion that, in the majority of cases, the best -method of treatment cannot be determined unless, and until, the abdomen has been opened. The ex- ceptions are cases of localised growth, situated in the anal canal or quite low down in the rectum. An abdominal incision has the further advantage that it can be utilised for a colostomy should a radical operation be impossible or should it be desirable to postpone it to a later date when the patient is in a better general condition. A very important point that the surgeon has to keep before him in all cases is that the severity of an excision of the rectum makes it necessary to see that the patient has a good chance of freedom from recurrence before the operation can be justifiably urged upon him. If an operation is rashly undertaken and it is found impossible to get satisfactorily wide of the growth, the patient at the end of a long convalescence is faced with a recurrence which will entail much greater misery than that which follows a palliative colostomy. Cases suitable for colostomy.—Should the surgeon decide against the desirability of excision, the next question is whether colostomy should be done forthwith. There should be no question of colostomy versus excision when the latter is feasible. Some surgeons urge that directly an inoperable cancer of the rectum is diagnosed colostomy should be performed. The chief arguments in favour of this view are that colostomy relieves the patient of much discomfort and thus renders life more bearable ; it is further held that after colostomy the cancerous tumour grows more slowly and may even dwindle in size. The question as to the relief of discomfort is open to discussion. When patients suffer from constant deep-seated pain in the pelvic region this is probably due to involvement of the peri-rectal tissues and the nerves in the hollow of the sacrum, and colostomy will in no way relieve it. On the other hand, when the chief troubles are pain on defjEcation, with marked IV. Q Q