567 HEMORRHOIDS cascara,! to be followed by a dose of one of the aperient mineral waters in the morning, and the bowels should be encouraged to act at the same time every day. The patient should err rather in taking laxatives for too long than for too short a time. It is important to avoid straining at stool as it causes congestion of the parts. Should the patient find that the bowels are not going to act easily, the attempt should be given up for the time and a larger dose of the aperient taken. A sedentary life must also be corrected as far as possible, and suitable exercise should be pre- scribed for each individual case. A patient who sits for a considerable time during the day should be instructed to use a chair with a hard seat rather than a well-padded one. Great care must be taken to insure proper cleanliness of the parts and also to avoid accidental injury ; the congestion so frequently present renders the latter very liable to occur. When there is marked swelling, the best treatment is sponging with warm water, and the patient should be instructed to encourage the act of defsecation just before taking a warm bath in the morning ; this is not only valuable for ablutionary purposes, but diminishes the swelling and irritation ; any protruded piles can be returned more easily while the patient lies in the bath. After defaecation, paper should not be employed ; the parts should be cleansed with a soft sponge and warm water followed by a douche of cold water ; and dried with a soft bath towel. After this, glycerine of tannic acid or lead and opium lotion, or the following lotion should be applied : EL—Liq. feiTi, i part; glycerine, 2 parts ; water, 3 parts. For the treatment of the bleeding see p. 577. Radical treatment.—This will vary according as the patient suffers from internal or external piles alone, or the two forms combined, and also according as the condition is complicated or not by the presence of inflammation. (a) Of external piles alone.—It not infrequently happens that the pro- trusions around the anus are a considerable annoyance to the patient, preventing him from taking horse or bicycle exercise and interfering with proper cleanliness. Moreover, cracks and fissures are apt to develop and to prove very troublesome. Under these circumstances, it is well to remove the piles, seizing each one with a pair of forceps and snipping them off with a pair of scissors curved on the flat. A general anaesthetic should be administered and the patient placed in the lithotomy position, and cai-e should be taken to make the long axis of each incision radiate from the anus, so as to avoid the occurrence of stricture subsequently. Each wound may be sutured with catgut ; any bleeding that occurs is easily arrested either by the sutures or by a pad of boric lint kept in position by a T-bandage. ' A useful formula is: R—Ext. nucis vomicae, gr, J; ext. cascarae sagradEe, gr. j ; ext. gent., gr. iij ; or, R—Ferr. sulph. exsicc, gr. j ; ext. nuc. vom., gr. i; ext. belladonnae, gr. ext. gent., gr. ij.