357 CHRONIC INTUSSUSCEPTION The object of increasing the intussusception and apptying tlie continuous catgut suture is to avoid perforation at the neck of the intussusceptum when separation takes place ; it brings about union between more healthy- portions of bowel. CHRONIC INTUSSUSCEPTION. Occasionally an intussusception occurs comparatively slowly, and for various reasons—e.g., excessive length of the mesentery or large size of the lumen of the bowel—the constriction of the intussuscepted portion is not as great as usual. These cases belong to the intermediate group between the acute and chronic forms of intestinal obstruction. The initial onset is acute, then the symptoms subside for a time, and, as more of the bowel is invaginated, the acute symptoms recur ; the history of the illness may thus extend over many days. Such cases usually occur in older children or in adults. In the latter, perhaps the commonest exciting cause is the presence of either a benign villous tumour or a cylindrical epithelioma in the sigmoid flexure or at the ileo-caecal valve. The weight of the tumour causes a downward protrusion of the mucous membrane into the lumen of the bowel, and thus the growth becomes, so to speak, a foreign body which the bowel tries to expel, and it forms the apex of the intussusceptum. Owing partly to the wide lumen of the large bowel, partly to the absence of a complete peritoneal investment and possibly partly to thickening of the bowel wall above the original tumour, there is a remarkable absence of bad symptoms. The vascular circulation is not hampered to any serious extent, the passage of the intestinal contents being alone interfered with, but the obstruction may not be complete. As in all other cases of chronic intestinal obstruction, however, the symptoms may become acute at any time, and complete obstruction may supervene The diagnosis is extremely diflicult, and in many instances the con- dition is not made out until the abdomen has been opened. Sometimes the symptoms are acute at first and then become chronic, but in the majority of cases they come on quite slowly, and the surgeon has little to guide him beyond the ordinary sjmiptoms of incomplete obstruction. Should the trouble have been acute at the onset, the symptoms of acute intus- susception may have subsided and left signs of chronic obstruc- tion ; here there may be a doubt as to whether the sjmiptoms are due to a continuance of the intussusception or to adhesions left by it. The presence of a trmaour can be made out in a considerable proportion of the cases, but this may be difficult to distinguish from other abdominal swellings, particularly those found in tuberculous peritonitis. As a rule there is no continued bleeding from the intussusceptum such as gives rise to the characteristic stools in the acute form. Occasionally the diagnosis is made by feeling the apex of the intussusceptum in