ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 341 and also upon that of the intestine above the constriction. The following conditions may be considered :— 1. When the constriction is slight.—In many cases the constriction has not been tight—indeed, it may become released during the manipu- lations—the bowel has not been materially damaged, and on the relief of the constriction, the contents pass on freely from the intestine above. Here no further treatment is required and the abdomen may be closed in the usual manner. 2. When the strangulation is severe but the bowel may recover.—In these cases the bowel above the constriction may remain distended in spite of the relief of the strangulation, the contents may not pass on properly, and the patient may be poisoned by them. This difficulty is due partly to the over-distended state of the bowel above and the con- sequent absence of proper peristaltic action, and partly to the fact that, as a result of over-distension, kinks have occurred in the bowel at and above the obstruction, which still remain after the constriction has been relieved. Under these circumstances it is absolutely essential to evacuate the bowel above the seat of obstruction before the abdomen is closed i unless this be done, the obstructive symptoms continue and the patient dies partly from them and partly from stercoral poisoning. Evacuation of the bowel above the strangulation.—The coils of intestine, with the exception of that immediately above the seat of obstruction, are returned into the abdomen, and the wound is protected by hot sterilised towels which retain the coils in the abdominal cavity. The coil which has been kept out is packed round with warm abdominal cloths so as to prevent soiling of the peritoneal cavity. A long piece of india-rubber drainage tube (No. 24) is taken and an opening, just large enough to allow the insertion of the tube and nothing more, is made in the convex border of the loop, the bowel being compressed above and below while the opening is being made, and the end of the drainage tube inserted into it. The other end of the tube is placed in a suitable receptacle and then the compression is relaxed and the contents of the bowel are allowed to flow away. Instead of the india-rubber drainage tube, a glass tube, six to eight inches long, cut obliquely at one end and provided with a flange at the other end, may be used. -To the flanged end, a length of thin rubber tubing is attached, and serves to carry away the contents to a suitable receptacle (see Fig. 125). As a rule, only a small quantity escapes —that is to say, only the amount in the loop punctured and up to the kink above. When the flow ceases, the drainage tube should be gradually pushed upwards along the bowel so as to pass into the next coil above, and this is continued until satisfactory evacuation of the intestine above has been obtained. If a glass tube is used, the contents of the coil may be gently ' milked ' downwards, and as one portion is emptied, the coil itself may be threaded over the surface of the tube, and in this way several feet of intestine may be evacuated through one incision. During this period the