463 HERNIA : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS returned, presumably as the result of sloughing of the mucous membrane and subsequent cicatrisation of the ulcer. The mesenteric vessels are involved, and extensive thrombosis of the veins may occur. This is a point of the greatest importance, because gan- grene will certainly take place if the thrombosis is extensive, even though the bowel be not gangrenous at the time of the operation ; moreover, the process is apt to extend and arrest the circulation in the neighbourhood. If a loop is returned with its mesenteric veins thrombosed it will become gangrenous later on in spite of the relief of the strangulation ; more- over, unless the whole of the thrombosed area is removed at the original operation, the thrombosis may spread to neighbouring veins, and gangrene may still occur in the bowel beyond the seat of resection. The changes in the omentum are similar to, but not as marked as, those in the bowel, and the omentum does not so commonly become gangrenous ; it is usually matted together, tough, and oedematous. The presence of omentum in the sac along with intestine is a favourable condition, as it minimises the chances of gangrene of the bowel itself, because the constriction of the latter is rarely so tight as when it alone occupies the sac. When the omentum alone is strangulated the symptoms are not so severe as when bowel is present in the sac, and they may even subside spontaneously. There is always some fluid in the hernial sac, and in a strangulated hernia it is abundant, being serous in the early stages, but later becoming blood-stained and finally foetid, when gangrene sets in. Before this stage is reached the fluid usually contains organisms : at first the Bacillus coli communis is present, but when gangrene is impending, streptococci and other pyogenic organisms appear. This is an important reason in favour of operation in preference to taxis ; it is not well to return fluid containing bacteria into the abdomen, although possibly in the early stages a few colon bacilli are of comparatively little consequence. The symptoms of strangulated hernia are very characteristic, especially when the hernia contains bowel. The tumour is irreducible, becomes considerably larger than it was before, loses its impulse on cough- ing, is dull on percussion, tense, and tender to the touch. The general symptoms are identical with those of internal strangulation (see p. 330). When the hernia contains only omentum, the symptoms are not so marked, and the case may be mistaken for an inflamed rather than a strangulated hernia. The loss of the impulse on coughing in strangulation, however, is an important point; while in inflamed cases vomiting, though often present, is seldom ftecal, and constipation is not necessarily absolute although the bowels are usually sluggish. Richter's and Littre's hernia..—A comparatively rare form of strangu- lated hernia is that known as Richter's hernia, in which only a portion of the circumference of the bowel is nipped instead of a complete loop. This probably occurs more often in femoral than in inguinal hernia, and is not