AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 562 TRBATMBISTT.—This should be both constitutional and local. Any constitutional disease—such as gout or diabetes—must receive appro- priate treatment. The amount of nitrogenous food should be reduced, and all highly spiced dishes interdicted. Heavy wines should be given up. The parts should be kept clean in the same way as in eczema of the anus {vide supra) and suitable saline laxatives should be administered. Local causes—such as thread-worms, leucorrhoea, or piles—should be got rid of ; and various ointments—particulaidy 5 per cent, oleate of mercury, or an ointment containing 12 per cent, of chloroform—may be employed. Other useful applications are unguentum plumbi sub-acetatis (to which is added ten to fifteen grains of cocaine to the ounce), lead lotion, or a strong solution of nitrate of silver (a drachm to a drachm and a half to the ounce) painted over the surface every second or third day. Opium should never be given to control the pain as it causes constipation and increases the irritation. If there is much restlessness, chloral, bromide of ammonium or potassium, sul- phonal or trional, may be em- ployed. When the skin is hypertrophied, the area may be pencilled with equal parts of carbolic acid and tincture of iodine every other day. If the parts are much fissured as well as hypertrophied, the actual cautery may be lightly applied ; this destroys the terminations of the nerves. In severe cases more radical operative measures are necessary. If the pruritic area is small and localised to one or more spots, it may suffice to enclose them in elliptical incisions and dissect off the skin. The edges of the small wounds thus made are then undercut for some little distance and brought together with silkworm-gut sutures. When the area is extensive, however, the operation introduced by Sir Charles Ball often gives good results. In this operation (see Fig. 188) two semi-elliptical incisions are made, one on each side of the anus and about two inches from its margin. The incisions do not quite meet in the middle line, either in front or behind, and only go through the skin. The crescentic areas of skin between the incisions and the anal margin are then carefully dissected up off the external sphincter until the muco-cutaneous Fig. 188.—Ball's Operation for Pruritus Ani. The incisions are sliown, and on the left-hand side the flap is partially dissected up. The skin in the middle line in front and behind the anus is undercut with a tenotome.