592 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS this statement is that possibly the peritoneal surface may be involved while the growth is still freely movable. In most cases, however, if the bowel is mobile we may fairly assume that removal is possible so far as the primary growth is concerned. On the other hand, if the bowel is immobile, or even slightly tethered to surrounding parts, it implies that the growth has passed beyond the bowel wall and is infiltrating surrounding structures, and that the chances of freedom from local recurrence after excision are small. If it is adherent to the hollow of the sacrum, and particularly if symptoms are present which indicate involvement of the sacral nerves, the chances of obtaining a radical cure are very remote. When the growth has only passed beyond the limits of the rectum in front and has begun to involve the prostate, it is no doubt possible to remove it along with a portion of that organ, but it must be admitted that the chances of a radical cure are very slight, and under these circumstances an attempt at a radical operation is only justifiable in a vigorous patient who urgently dt sires a chance of life and declines palliative treatment. Involvement of the glands is not necessarily a bar to successful removal of the disease. By using the combined abdominal and perineal or sacral methods an exact operation can be performed, and the glandular area that drains the affected part of the bowel may be taken away. The glands are rarely so extensively involved as to constitute a contra-indication to a radical operation if it is otherwise desirable. Involvement of the peritoneal coat, though a very serious condition, does not necessarily bar operation if it is slight in extent and if there is no evidence of infection of the adjacent parts. If, however, there is any tendency to dissemination, radical operation is out of the question. Symptoms pointing to the involvement of other organs, more particularly the liver, are also against radical operation. This is, however, not the universal opinion, as some surgeons prefer excision to colostomy— even when the liver is known to be affected—on the ground that the secondary lesions grow more slowly than those in the rectum, and that therefore the patient may have his life considerably prolonged if the local spread of the disease is cut short by excision. There is no doubt that a growing cancer in the pelvis is a source of increasing trouble to the patient and may cause a vast deal of misery before secondary deposits in the liver or elsewhere lead to death, and therefore there is some justification for the foregoing view. In our opinion, however, it is well to regard secondary deposits in the liver or elsewhere as a strong contra-indication to radical operation, except under very exceptional circumstances ; radical operation should never be done in young subjects under these circumstances. The presence or absence of obstriiciive symptoms has also to be taken into consideration. A patient suffering from intestinal obstruction is clearly not in a suitable condition for a radical operation, although the local conditions may be otherwise quite favourable. The obstruction