AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 242 the epigastrium ; the first part of the duodenum, the pancreas, the liver, the gall-bladder, or the spleen, may suffer, and the surgeon's attention should not be directed solely to the condition of the stomach. 2. Of rupture of the stomach without perforation of the abdominal wall.—An exploratory laparotomy should be done im- mediately in all cases of contusion of the abdomen in which the symptoms appear to point to rupture of the stomach, and after a few hours in cases in which a contusion of the abdominal wall is accom- panied by doubtful symptoms of stomach injury which steadily increase in severity. If the coUapse in the latter cases shows no signs of improve- ment under treatment in the course of two or three hours, while the abdominal rigidity increases—and in any case in which there are signs of gas free in the abdomen—no further delay is permissible and the abdomen should be opened in the middle line ; even if no injury is found, the patient will be little the worse for the exploration, while it may be the means of saving life if the stomach has been ruptured. Fig. 88.—Method of applying an Ice-bag. A large flat ice-bag is slung from a cradle and rests upon a double fold of lint placed next the skin. Should no perforation of the stomach be found and should there be no intraperitoneal haemorrhage or rupture of the liver or spleen, the duodenum should be examined before the abdominal wound is closed. The condition of the posterior wall of the stomach should always be ascertained as well as that of the anterior, as injuries may occur in this situation from severe blows on the epigastrium without any wound of the anterior wall. Operation.—The most energetic measures must be taken against shock, and rapidity of operation and a warm room are especially important. The incision should be a vertical one, about an inch to the left of the middle line, reaching from the xiphoid cartilage to the umbilicus. As a rule, blood and gas will be apparent immediately the peritoneum is opened if the stomach has been ruptured. If a rupture is found, the treatment has two main objects—the first, to prevent further extravasation and to repair the rent in the wall of the stomach, and the second, to remove the extravasated contents from the abdominal cavity. As a rule it is best to begin with the repair of the wound in the stomach wall.