195 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS muscles into action may last for some time. When only a few fibres are affected, the pain may be very persistent, and is probably due to adhesion of the torn fibres of the muscle to one another or to other muscles. Ventral hernia may follow at a later period. When rupture occurs in those convalescing from typhoid fever or some other debilitating disease, repair is slow and sometimes complicated with suppuration. Spontaneous rupture of a muscle not uncommonly follows sudden movement in a patient who is the subject of a debilitating disease and in whom the muscles have undergone a certain amount of degeneration. This is perhaps most common in typhoid fever, and patients convalescing from this affection may rupture the recti when attempting to sit up, or during vomiting or coughing. Rupture of healthy abdominal muscles may also occur during gymnastic exercises or playing tennis or similar games, or as a result of sudden twists of the trunk ; the rupture usually only involves a few fibres of the muscle, but it may give rise to considerable and persistent pain. The symptoms of spontaneous rupture are similar to those of rupture due to injury. There is great pain at the time of the accident, inability to perform certain movements, vomiting, constipation, and sometimes serious collapse which may lead to suspicion of a strangulated internal hernia or commencing peritonitis. Ecchymosis follows the rupture, and pain may persist for some time. TREATMENT.—When the rupture only involves a few fibres the best treatment is to place the patient at rest for a few days with the shoulders raised so as to relax tlie abdominal muscles. An ice-bag may be apphed for the first twenty-four hours ; after that, gentle rubbing should be employed to promote the absorption of the effusion. If the pain con- tinues, massage should be employed so as to free any adhesions between the muscular planes. Vibratory massage by means of an electrically driven vibrator is a most efficient means of getting rid of painful areas and muscular disabihties after these injuries. Rest should not be con- tinued for more than a week from the commencement of treatment, otherwise pain and stiffness are likely to persist. When a muscle has been extensively ruptured as the result of an accident, the torn ends must be brought as close together as possible and immobilised in that position ; for example, when the rectus is affected, the shoulders and the pelvis should be raised. If this position suffices to secure approximation of the ends, it should be maintained for two or three weeks, and then extension may be gradually effected ; spontaneous movements of the muscle may be allowed after six weeks. When, how- ever, there is wide separation of the ruptured ends and when it is impossible to bring them together satisfactorily, a better result will be obtained by exposing the torn ends, turning out blood-clot and suturing the ruptured ends of the muscle ; this procedure also enables precautions to be taken against the possible occunence of a ventral hernia. A o 2