202 AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL time has elapsed before the surgeon is caUed in ; in the latter case, the protruded portion may have undergone profound alterations and contracted adhesions. [a] Treatment of recent prolapse.—When the case is seen immediately after the occurrence of the injury, two problems present themselves. In the first place it is necessary to cleanse the protruded mass, which may be soiled either from contact with the ground or with the clothes, and if returned in that state would give rise to peritonitis. In the second place, when the protruded mass contains intestine it is necessary to ascertain whether the bowel has been injured ; as a rule the injured portion will be found in the protruding coils. The first step is to disinfect the protruded mass and the surface of the abdomen and also the wound through which the prolapse has occurred. A certain routine should be followed in all these cases. After aseptic cloths have been spread over the abdomen the whole area is irrigated with a stream of hot normal saline solution (105° F.) flushed upon the protruded mass with some force so as to carry away all coarse particles. The protrusion is then gone over carefully with a sponge, and all recesses exposed so as to make sure that every portion has been cleansed. The omentum should be spread out upon a sterUe towel and should be ligatured and removed if it is much soiled. The relation that the protruded part bears to the remainder of the omentum must be ascertained before this is done, as, if the central part only is protruded and is cut away, the lower end wUl be deprived of its blood-supply. The omentum should therefore be pulled weU out of the wound and the protruded portion removed right down to its free edge. The next step is to disinfect the abdominal wall around the wound, and, while this is being done, the protruded mass (which has already been cleansed) is covered with an abdominal cloth. The skin wound is then enlarged and, if necessary, that in the peritoneum also, so as to allow the prolapsed mass to be returned. The finger is slipped down beside the protruded mass and the opening is enlarged either with blunt-pointed scissors or a probe-pointed bistoury. The peritoneum is now closed with a continuous suture, and after that the muscles and skin are united by through-and-thi^ough stitches. A drainage tube should be employed for a short time. If the prolapse has been grossly soiled and there is any doubt about the thorough cleansing of the protruded mass, it is as well to insert a drain into the abdomen in the immediate neighbourhood of the protrusion. A temporary stitch is passed through the abdominal wall at this point and is tied when the drain is removed. The after-treatment is the same as for exploratory laparotomy (see p. 209). (b) Treatment of long-standing prolapse.—When the protrusion has lasted some time before the surgeon sees it, sepsis will certainly have occurred, there wUl be adhesions between the extruded structures and the wound,