178 AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS question of how to treat the wound in the stomach after a bougie has been successfully passed through the stricture is a matter of import- ance. Perhaps, on the whole, it is best to conclude by performing a gastrostomy such as Witzel's or Kader's (see p. 184), which will close spontaneously if the treatment of the stricture is successful, but which can be used permanently should it fail. Gastrostomy.—When a patient suffering from extensive and impassable stricture is unable to take sufficient food to support life and is brought almost to the verge of starvation, gastrostomy is called for to avert impending death. Not only does this operation enable the patient to obtain nourishment, but also it is often found that the rest given to the oesophagus by the artificial opening into the stomach is followed by considerable improvement in the stricture, and not infrequently improvement in swallowing occurs in a few days. This is probably due to diminution of congestion and spasm result- ing from the rest. While gastrostomy is absolutely necessary to save the patient's hfe and to keep up his strength, it should only be looked upon as a temporary measure, and fresh attempts should be made after a week or two to dilate the stricture from the mouth (see p. 173). When once the stricture has been dilated, the gastrostomy opening may be allowed to close, or, if necessary, an operation may be performed for its closure. The operations of gastrostomy are described on p. 184; for the cases under consideration we recommend Witzel's or Kader's, which are not only efficient, but have the advantage that the fistula produced, is always ready to close when the tube is left out, so that, when sufficient dilatation of the stricture has been obtained, it is only necessary to discontinue passing the tube through the gastric fistula. SPASMODIC STRICTURE. Spasm of the oesophagus is an affection chiefly met with in women between the ages of twenty and thirty. It may occasionally occur in older subjects about the menopause. As a rule the trouble is neurotic and only part of the general condition. The diagnosis is of the greatest importance, as the surgeon must be very careful that no organic lesion is present. The age of the patient, her neurotic temperament, the absence of heemorrhage or signs of ulceration, the varying tightness of the stricture under different conditions, and the fact that, at any rate under an anaesthetic, a full-sized bougie can be passed into the stomach without encountering any obstruction, and that solids are often swaUowed more easily than fluids, are the principal points in the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—^This consists essentially in the employment of medical, hygienic, and dietetic measures suitable for neurotic subjects. Antispasmodic drugs like atropine, bromide of potassium, or valerian