AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 172 The most common cause is the ulceration due to swallowing a caustic fluid, and the ulceration occurs irregularly over the mucous membrane, is most marked at the upper and lower ends of the oesophagus, and varies considerably in depth and extent. This leaves an irregular fibrous stricture, in which considerable tracts of healthy mucous membrane are divided from one another by cicatricial bands. The obstruction to the passage of food commences early, is very marked, and increases rapidly. The irregularity in the distribution of the cicatricial tissue also tends to make the treatment of the affection by the passage of bougies a matter of extreme difficulty. Diagnosis and localisation of the stricture.—Before commencing treat- ment, an exact diagnosis should be made and the precise limits of the ob- struction should be ascertained. After the presence of an aneurysm has been excluded, the oesophagus is explored with an olive-headed bougie (see Fig- 55). which consists of a metal bulb attached to a flexible whalebone shaft. The metal bulbs are of different sizes and are made to screw on and off. A full-sized bulb (No. 24) should be used in order to detect whether there is a stricture or not, and also the exact distance of its upper end from the teeth. This is important, because a small instrument may pass through a comparatively insignificant stricture and may not be arrested until it reaches one of smaller calibre lower down. When the first sound is arrested, the measurement to the upper incisor teeth is taken and a smaller bulb substituted. Should this fail to pass the obstruction, a smaller size still is employed, until one is found that passes through the stricture into the stomach. When this has happened, the sound is slowly and cautiously withdrawn, until the upper edge of the metal bulb catches against the lower edge of the stricture, and then the distance of this point from the upper incisor teeth can be ascertained. By these means the situation of both the upper and lower extremities of the stricture and the length of the obstruction can be determined. It is usual to have the shaft of the bougie graduated so as to get an exact measurement. Valuable information as to the position, length, and calibre of the stricture may also be obtained by means of the X-ray fluorescent screen. The patient stands with the screen in front of his thorax. A cachet of bismuth is given, and its passage down the oesophagus is observed on the screen. When it reaches the upper limit of the stricture, the cachet will be arrested. Another method is to cause the patient to swallow a thick emulsion of bismuth oxychloride. As the emulsion passes down, it adheres to the oesophageal walls, and wiU show on the screen and in a radiogram a broad or narrow streak, according to the size of the. lumen of the oesophagus. The situation and character of the upper end of the stricture can also be well demonstrated by means of the oesophagoscope, and the presence of ulceration, or malignant disease can be ascertained in this way.