248 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH to those applying to the cases unaccompanied by a wound of the abdominal wall, and if it is considered to be necessary it should be effected in a similar manner {vide supra). In the case of gunshot injuries of the abdomen in military practice it luay be well to avoid operation in many cases on account of the difficulties of carrying out asepsis, but in civil practice we do not think that the old rule demanding immediate operation for all cases of suspected injury to the viscus should be departed from ; the patient can be attended to at once, and everything that is needful will be at hand. After-treatment.—An enema containing hot coffee (2 ozs.), brandy (i oz.), beef-tea (i oz.), and liquor strychninae {n\x), and an injection of morphine (gr. ^) may be given as soon as the patient is put back to bed if the shock is severe. Subcutaneous saline infusions will be required under similar circumstances, or continuous rectal proctoclysis in the less severe cases (see Vol. I. p. 115). This helps to alleviate the intense thirst from which these patients often suffer. There is no reason to abstain from feeding the patient by the mouth as soon as the anaesthetic vomiting has ceased. The food must be fluid at first, but in a very short time semi-solids may be given, and the patient may be allowed solid food in about a week. These patients should always be placed in the ' Fowler position ' after the operation—that is to say, they should be propped almost bolt upright in bed so that all fluids may gravitate downwards to the pelvis, and the diaphragm may not be hampered. Fig. 91 shows how this position can be efficiently maintained without fatigue to the patient. In most cases they can be placed in this position at once, but if the shock is severe, the recumbent position may be necessary for some hours. Morphine may be required for pain or restlessness during the first few days, but it should not be employed unless it is distinctly indicated, as it disorders the digestion and may cause much trouble with the bowels. For mere restlessness, as apart from pain, such drugs as aspirin (gr. x), the bromides of ammonium and potassium, and chloral hydrate are more suitable. The regulation of the bowels must be carefully attended to. It is of the first importance that flatulent distension should be avoided. After the first twenty-four hours calomel, in doses of one-quarter grain, may be administered every hour until an action has resulted or five grains have been taken. In other cases a dram of phosphate of soda every three hours acts better. The subsequent regular evacuation may be ensured by doses of cascara evacuant, infusion of senna-pods, or other mild aperients ; later, liquid paraffin (§ss.) may be given night and morning. When the abdominal wound has been closed without drainage, no belt is required, and the patient may be allowed to get up at the end of about three weeks wearing a firm abdominal bandage, which should be