INTESTINAL SUTURE 223 use interrupted mattress sutures in place of the continuous suture—at any rate, another inner Hue of stitches. This is especially the case in operations performed with the view of enlarging the lumen of the cavity— for example, in the operation of pyloroplasty. Here a longitudinal incision is made into the lumen of the bowel, dividing the narrowed portion, and in order to enlarge the lumen, the incision is subsequently stitched trans- versely. Naturally, there is very considerable tension on the stitches which are applied between the two ends of the longitudinal incision, and in these cases it is well to employ a series of through-and-through mattress sutures with a layer of Lembert's sutures outside (see Fig. 87). When the sutures are applied with the view of closing perforations, such as occur in connection with an ulcer, and are therefore associated with thickening and rigidity of the wall of the intestine and the tissues in the vicinity, it is seldom possible to approximate the actual edges of the opening, and therefore it must be closed by one, or preferably two, rows of Lembert's sutures, the deeper row being applied in the mattress form. The greatest amount of work, however, has been done with regard to the union of the ends of divided bowel, especially end-to-end union. The ends may be united directly by a double row of sutures, the deeper row penetrating the coats and the superficial being in the form of Lembert's sutures. The chief difliculty in these cases, is in connection with the union of the mesenteric attachment of the intestine, where it is not easy to get a satisfactory surface for union without stripping off the mesentery to too great an extent, and therefore leakage is apt to occur at this point of the junction. Another objection to the direct circular suture is that the lumen of the bowel is apt to be constricted at the line of union. Various plans have been introduced with the view Fig. 86.—Continuous Lembert Suture. The suture is shown burying a row of con- tinuous ' tlirough-and-through' sutures. Fig. 87.—Intestinal Mattress Sutures. These are used to bring the edges together where there is much tension, and are sero- muscular only.