AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 578 It is most important to take adequate measures against constipation, which is a proHfic cause of bleeding. Haemorrhage during an operation for piles rarely causes trouble, provided that the surgeon has fully dilated the sphincter. The area from which the bleeding comes is then always under inspection, as the whole pile-bearing area can be protruded through the anus, and the bleeding point can either be picked up with forceps and tied or be touched with a pointed cautery ; more rarely, it may be necessary to underrun the bleeding point. If a cautery is employed, it will be necessary to protect the rest of the circumference of the bowel by means of a large bivalve speculum. Haemorrhage immediately after an operation, when the patient has been put back to bed, may prove very serious unless it is recognised early, for very free bleeding may take place into the bowel without any external sign, and the rectum may be enormously distended with clot without the escape of any blood externally. Indeed, the first symptom may be that the patient faints and shows all the signs of severe haemorrhage (see Vol. I. p. 112). One advantage of leaving a tube in the rectum after the operation is that blood flows out and haemorrhage is recognised early. It is of cardinal importance to see that all bleeding has ceased before the patient is sent back to bed. When bleeding occurs shortly after the operation, the treatment must be prompt. The patient should be anaesthetised, the sphincters dilated, and all clots turned out of the rectum. In most cases the bleeding can be arrested without much disturbance of the parts by introducing a speculum into the rectum and packing gauze outside it so as to compress the bleeding point. For this purpose the ordinary tiihe en chemise for plugging lithotomy wounds (see Fig. 195) may be employed. This is passed well up through the anus, and gauze is thrust up in the interval between the tube and its surrounding petticoat so as to stretch the sphincter and exert firm pressure against the bleeding spot. The tube is kept in by an ordinary T-bandage, and, after the bleeding has stopped, it is withdrawn by gradually removing the packing-—^generally at the end of twenty-four hours. If the patient has lost much blood, continuous subcutaneous saline infusion (see Vol. I. p. 112) or an intravenous infusion of the same solution may be necessary. Some surgeons prefer to identify and secure the bleeding point. As little inflammatory swelling will have taken place, the parts may be Fig. 195.—^TuBE en Chemise. The gauze for exerting pressure is packed tightly in between the tube and its petticoat.