AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL some clue as to the site of the rupture may be obtained by examina- tion of the extravasated material ; thus a sour-smelling fluid containing undigested food without any faecal odour suggests a rupture of the stomach ; if the food is partially digested but devoid of intestinal odour, it is suggestive of injury to the duodenum ; if the material is distinctly fscal, the small intestine or the large must be examined first according to the characteristics of the material present ; the contents of the small intestine will be liquid and yellowish in colour, whilst those of the large bowel are semi-solid or contain hard masses and are dark brown or black. These points should be noted before the viscera are disturbed. The surgeon is often saved a tedious search, and the prospects of the patient are pro- portionately improved by the fact that in many cases the seat of injury lies immediately beneath the abdominal incision when this is made over the seat of the blow. Any injury severe enough to damage the intestine generally arrests the peristaltic action at once, so that the injured bowel lies in the position that it occupied at the time of the injury. A wound of the stomach or intestine must be repaired in the appro- priate manner. Sometimes the intestine is not only ruptured but is also so severely bruised as to render its recovery impossible, and it will then be necessary to excise the injured portion ; the technique of these various operations is described in connection with wounds of the stomach and intestines respectively. When neither blood nor intestinal contents are seen on opening the abdomen, it is well to investigate the condition of the intestines before closing the wound, because the damaged portion may possibly have become displaced and covered in by healthy coils. The search must be made methodically and in the following manner. The first step is to raise the omentum so as to expose the intestines, for the omentum may prevent faecal material or hcemorrhage from the mesentery coming into view at once ; the intestines should next be gently pressed back from the abdo- minal wall, so as to allow the escape of any extravasated material from either side. If neither blood, intestinal contents, nor gas be thus found, the probabilities of a severe intestinal lesion are much diminished ; at the same time it is not advisable to close the abdomen without further inspection, because, on the one hand, a rupture of the intestine may be so small that the orifice is temporarily plugged by prolapsed mucous membrane, but will nevertheless lead to infection of the peritoneum if left untreated, or on the other, the mesentery may be so bruised and its vessels so injured that subsequent gangrene of the bowel will occur. Hence it is well to inspect the coils of the intestine methodically, but without allowing them to escape from the abdomen. First of all the surgeon slips his hand in towards the caecum, and, grasping the extreme lower end of the ileum at that spot, he passes the entire small intestine through his fingers, coil by coil, packing each loop away towards the right side of the abdominal cavity as it is examined ; any injury to the intestine