225 INTESTINAL SUTURE the stomach ; when pylorectomy has been performed, the divided end of the stomach is very much larger than that of the duodenum. A similar condition occurs when the end of the small intestine has to be united to the large intestine, and again when, for some reason or other (for example, the existence of a cancerous growth), the intestine above the obstruction has become much distended and its circumference is much larger than that of the intestine below the growth. The difficulty of uniting these tubes of dissimilar calibre has led to the introduction of two other methods of restoring the continuity of the canal —namely, lateral implantation and lateral anastomosis. In the case of lateral implantation the end of the larger tube is completely sewn up and a fresh opening is made in its wall some distance above, to which the open divided end of the smaller portion of intestine is attached. With the view of greater security, this open end is usually inserted into the larger portion and then a double row of Lembert's sutures are applied through the serous and muscular coats. This method is practically only applicable in cases in which the larger portion of the canal is below the smaller—for example, in excision of the caecum and implantation of the ileum into the asceiiding colon. Here, however, there is the same diffi- culty as regards the union of the mesenteric border which has already been referred to, and this operation of lateral implantation is now very seldom employed. By far the safest method of uniting two tubes of dissimilar calibre is lateral anastomosis; and in the case of the intestine, the anastomosis is made between the convex surfaces at the point most distant from the mesenteric border. When a portion of the intestine has been removed, —for example, in excision of a cancerous mass—both ends are completely sewn up, the deeper stitches being through-and-through, and the super- ficial being continuous Lembert's sutures, and then the two portions of intestine are brought together side by side and the union of the convex borders is effected at a sufficient distance from their ends. On account of the difficulty of getting at the deeper part of the union, it is best to begin by applying a layer of Lembert's sutures at that j^art. The intestine, should be previously clamped—preferably, by some form of clamp (see Fig. 95) which maintains the relative position of the two portions throughout the operation. The anastomotic opening is now made and its edges are united by a series of through-and-through sutures. The Lembert's suture is then continued around the anterior part of the junction. In performing any form of lateral anastomosis, it is well to make the opening fairly close to the closed end of the intestine, so that no large bag is left in which intestinal contents may accunuilate. Lateral anastomosis may also be employed without division of the intestine, two portions of the bowel being applied side by side and united as above without division of the ends. If that is done, care must be taken IV. Q