428 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES bowels to act. The sleeplessness is often most distressing and persists for several days in spite of all sorts of narcotics. At first nothing should be given by the mouth, except sips of hot water, and in any case it is better not to force nutriment for at least twenty- four hours. After that he may have beef tea, chicken broth, milk, and barley water, albumen water, raw-meat juice, tea with biscuits or toast. As soon as the bowels have acted, he can have semi-solid food, and may have ordinary diet in a week or ten days. Local treatment.—The outer dressing should be changed daily or oftener if it becomes very foul, as is not uncommonly the case, but there should be no meddling with the packing or the tubes and no syringing at first. On the second day, very gentle traction may be made to see if any of the packing will come away, but no serious attempt should be made to remove it till the third day ; even then, only a small portion of it will be got away, as a rule. In adults the gauze can generally be re- moved without an anaesthetic, but in children it is advisable to administer one. The removal must be done with gentleness and patience, so as not to damage the adhesions, and will sometimes take an hour or more. If the gauze is pulled out quickly and forcibly, the adhesions may be broken down and the whole aim of the packing undone ; indeed, it has happened under such circumstances that bowel has come out of the wound and has of course become soiled. The removal of the gauze is much aided by injecting peroxide of hj'drogen (lo vols.) into the tube and on the gauze ; it bubbles very much and loosens the gauze. In the first place only the interior gauze should be dealt with by pulling on a small piece at a time, then taking a fresh piece and irrigating freely with the peroxide of hydrogen, this portion will come away fairly easily, leaving the tube and the gauze envelope still to be removed. It takes some time to remove the interior mass of gauze, and if it is still firmly adherent it is well to leave the final removal until next day ; if not it may be removed at once. In any case the next thing to do is to take out the drainage tube, which comes out quite easily, and then the removal of the remainder of the gauze is proceeded with. A fresh drainage tube should be ready for insertion at once, otherwise the sides of the canal may fall together and it may be difficult to get the tube down to the bottom of the wound. Some gauze should be lightly packed into the upper part of the wound for some days, so as to prevent the intestines bulging out between the edges and interfering with their proper closure. Subsequently the wound is syringed out with peroxide of hydrogen every day until it becomes odourless, when it is best to leave off syringing altogether. The drainage tube should only be shortened as it is pushed out, and the cavity is thus made to heal from the bottom. If it is left out too soon, accumulation of pus takes place and the wound has to be re-opened, and thus its ultimate closure is delayed. An average time for the healing of these cases is about five