SIMPLE ULCERS 6i SIMPLE ULCERS. Ulcers frequently occur on the tongue, of which the most common are simple, tuberculous, sypliilitic, and cancerous ulcers. Among the rarer forms may be mentioned those that occur in connection with leprosy or actinomycosis. THE TRAUMATIC ULCER. A common form of simple ulcer is that due to an injury such as the irritation of rough teeth. It occurs especially about the tip or borders of the tongue, and the surface of the sore is generally irregular and sharply cut, with considerable redness of the tissues around ; the ulcer is often associated with dyspepsia. TREATMENT.—The first thing is to ascertain the cause and remove it. Any carious teeth should be filed and stopped, or removed. In elderly subjects they should be extracted at once, if there is any reason to doubt that milder measures will be successful. The mouth must be cleansed, the remaining teeth scaled and cleaned, and a mouth-wash of sanitas or weak glycerine and borax employed at frequent intervals. If the ulcer does not heal at once, it may be painted once or twice daily with a 2 per cent, solution of chromic acid. At the same time attention must be paid to the state of the bowels, and any dyspepsia treated. The exquisite pain met with in these cases may prevent the patient from eating ; the application of a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine to the surface of the sore immediately before a meal will enable food to be masticated in comfort ; orthoform dusted over the surface a short time previously secures a more prolonged relief from the pain and is not poisonous. If the ulcer refuses to heal in spite of treatment, it is well to examine a portion microscopically, or, if it is small, to excise it completely in order to make sure that the case is not one of commencing epithelioma. Care must be taken that the section goes beyond the edge and the base of the ulcer. THE DYSPEPTIC ULCER. Ulcers occurring in connection with dyspepsia are often spoken of as ' dyspeptic ulcers,' although their exact relation to the stomachic condition is not clear. These ulcers are generally situated about the tip of the tongue or on the dorsum near the tip, but they may appear on the inner surface of the cheek, and they are usually exquisitely tender. In addition to the ulcer there is often an irritable condition of the tongue in the neighbourhood, and the organ is generally thickly furred. In some dyspeptics there may be a superficial glossitis, without actual ulceration, which causes much discomfort, smarting and burning. TREATMENT.^When the ulcer is due solely to dyspepsia, the