2o6 AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL abdomen. At the same time it is often impossible to be sure until an incision has been made. The treatment is the same as for similar tumours elsewhere. SUB-PERITONEAL FATTY HERNIA. Small fatty tumours which are formed by protrusion of the sub- peritoneal fat through openings in the abdominal fascia, are not un- common about the linea alba above the umbUicus. These form small rounded, subcutaneous tumours, which are often intensely painful and require removal. They are sometimes really herniae of the omentum or of an appendix epiploica and then cause severe dyspeptic symptoms which distinguish them from the true fatty tumours of which we are speaking. TUBATMENT.—The protruding fat should be removed and the hole in the fascia sewn up transversely. It is weU to enlarge the hole and to free the fat for some distance around it, as it is not so much the protruded portion that causes the pain as the adhesion of the sub-peritoneal fat and possibly the peritoneum to the sides of the slit. The condition will be permanently cured if the slit is closed, and this is also a safeguard against a subsequent ventral hernia. Among other tumours of the abdominal wall may be mentioned those which occur at the umbilicus in infants. Here a simple tumour of an adenomatous character belonging to the class of teratomata may arise about the time of the separation of the cord. Myxomata may also be met with in that situation, while, later on in life, epitheliomata are not uncommon. They should be removed when possible. RETROPERITONEAL TUMOURS. Retroperitoneal tumours may be divided into two great groups— namely, those lying behind the peritoneal cavity and those occurring in the mesentery. The latter are discussed in connection with the mesentery (see Chap. XXI.) ; but we may here refer briefly to the first form. These chiefly occur in the lumbar region and usually originate in the peri-renal fat. The majority are simple tumours belonging to the classes of lipomata, fibro-lipomata and fibromata. Sarcomata also occur in this region. The tumours may attain a very large size and extend from the diaphragm into the fliac fossa and across the middle line in front of the great vessels. Only the simple tumours are really amenable to surgical interference, but, as they are encapsuled, they may often be shelled out even when they are very large. The diagnosis is by no means easy. The tumours are often mistaken for growths of the spleen, the kidney, or suprarenal capsule, or ovarian cysts. The important point is that the intestines (and especially the descending