362 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES tumour forms the apex of the intussusception. Chronic obstruction may also be complicated by the independent occurrence of true acute obstruction—for example, when the chronic condition is due to adhesions compressing or kinking the bowel and an acute internal strangulation takes place beneath some of these adhesions. These cases do not require further consideration here ; when they occur they add immensely to the diagnostic difficulties, but their treatment is essentially that of acute intestinal obstruction accompanied if possible, either at the same time or later, by that suitable for the cause of the chronic obstruction. Symptoms.—The various conditions enumerated above have this feature in common, that they interfere to a greater or less degree with the passage of the intestinal contents ; the lumen of the bowel becomes steadily narrower and the contents pass on with increasing difficulty. The chief troubles of which the patient complains in this stage of incom- plete obstruction are constipation, colicky pains which are increased after food, and general loss of appetite ; in fact, he frequently diagnoses his own condition as one of chronic indigestion. The constipation frequently alternates with diarrhoea, the material passed being foul and containing mucus. The explanation of the latter point is that enteritis is set up as the result of the accumulation of faeces above the stricture, and when the block is removed, diarrhoea sets in. There may also be tenderness over the seat of the obstruction. The abdomen is generally moderately distended, and peristaltic waves may be seen through the abdominal wall if the patient is spare. The intensity of these early symptoms varies greatly; the patient may suffer so severely that he seeks advice com- paratively early, or the symptoms may attract little attention, and advice is only sought when the obstruction reaches an advanced stage, and even then it is often difficult to get a history pointing to a previous incomplete obstruction. If asked, the patient frequently states that he was in his usual health, or that he had perhaps been a little more troubled with indigestion than usual, but otherwise the difficulty with the bowels has occurred quite acutely. A close inquiry into what is meant by indigestion, however, generally elicits the symptoms of interference with the passage of the intestinal contents. If the condition remains unrelieved, attacks which at first resemble the onset of complete obstruction may occur. The pain increases in severity, the constipation becomes almost absolute, and there may be vomiting. As the result of enemata or the administration of cathartics these symptoms may pass away, only to recur after a longer or shorter interval. After a period, varying greatly in different cases and with different causes of obstruction, complete occlusion occurs; this generally arises from some mechanical cause, such as plugging of the narrow orifice by scybala or by a foreign body, or inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intestine above the stricture, leading to complete closure of the lumen. The symptoms formerly complained of increase in severity.