APPENDICITIS 425 looked. When, however, the mtestines are much distended, large abdominal pads will keep them out of the way better. Fig. 149 shows a good form of self-retaining retractor for use in these cases. The swelling is now examined ; if omentum is adherent to it, this must be gently detached, careful watch being kept lest in doing so pus should ooze out. The anterior band of the caecum is then looked for, and the ileum and ileo-caecal valve are identified and guide the surgeon to the appendix. After re-arranging the packing so as to expose the appendix and at the same time to catch anything which may run down to the more dependent parts, the mass is opened up. If the root of the appendix can be seen, it is easy to foUow it down and separate it by the finger and a blunt dissector from the parts to which it is adherent. Special care must be taken in detaching the tip as it is often the most diseased part and may rupture or even tear off, in which case it will be very difficult to find it ; this is more especially the case if it is adherent to the rectum. While the surgeon is separating the appendix the assistant must be ready with sponges to mop up any pus which may appear, and if an abscess of any size is found the opening must be enlarged and all the pus mopped out before the further separation of the appendix is proceeded with. Not only must care be taken not to rupture the appendix during its removal, but also not to injure any structure—e.g. intestine to which it may be adherent—because that also is generally softened by the inflammation. If the adhesion to intestine is firm, it is often best to strip off the peritoneal coat of the appendix at the point of adhesion and leave it behind if it is detachable ; this avoids injury to the wall of the intestine and is often the only safe way of dealing with adhesion of the tip of the appendix to the rectum. After the appendix has been freed, the meso-appendix is clamped and divided (see p. 417) and the appendix is wrapped in a sterilised gauze swab so as to prevent further soiling of the wound. In some cases the root of the appendix is fairly healthy and a peritoneal flap can be peeled up and the appendix removed in the manner described on p. 417 ; but in most cases this is not possible, and then the appendix should be clamped high up, its root tied with catgut, and cut away between the forceps and the ligature. The stump should be scraped out and touched with undiluted carbolic acid in tlie usual manner and an attempt made to bury it. This is a most important thing to do with the view of avoiding a faecal fistula, but it is sometimes very difficult because the wall of the caecum is often swollen and indurated, and the stitches simply cut through. A purse-string suture, applied some distance away from the stump, the needle taking up the whole thickness of the muscular coat, is more likely to succeed than any other plan. If the stump cannot be covered in this way it may be possible to fix a piece of peritoneum or omentum over it. Preparations are now made to drain the wound and promote rapid