TUMOURS 29 MALIGNANT GROWTHS. The true malignant tumours of the jaws require different treatment, according as they occur in the maxilla or in the mandible. MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. These are usually either carcinomata or sarcomata, but endotheliomata are also met with. The tumoiu's may occur in a varietj^ of situations and give rise to very different appearances. They may grow from the perios- teum in front; they may arise in the antrum, in the periosteum or the struc- tures behind the jaw, or they may begin in the nose and the ethmoidal cells, and spread to the jaw secondarily. As a consequence, the sjmiptoms and appearances differ widely in individual cases, as do also the treatment and the extent of the operation. SYMPTOMS.—When ike tumour is on the anterior surface of the jaw —in which case it usually begins near the malar process or is a primary affection of the malar bone extending on to the jaw—the main feature is swelling in the cheek with speedy involvement of the skin, but without blocking of the nose, affection of the hard palate, or elevation of the eyeball. The absence of these last cliaracters distinguishes it from a tumour that has commenced in the antrum and burst through the anterior wall. When the tumour commences in the interior of the antrum, it gradually fills that cavity and distends its walls. After a time it bulges inwards, leads to blocking of tlie nostril on the affected side, and often to epiphora from pressure on the nasal duct. It presses up the orbital plate of the maxilla and leads to elevation of the eyeball ; it affects the hard palate, causing a swelling in the roof of the mouth, and it also bulges into the cheek. When the tumour commences in the wall of the antrum, it may remain limited to one part of the cavity in the early stages. Thus it may chiefly affect the floor and destroy the hard palate, while the orbital plate is unaffected. In other cases it may arise in connection with the roof ; the eyeball will then be displaced, and the disease will extend to the ethmoidal cells, while the palate remains intact. When the disease has spread to the ethmoidal cells, the eyeball is pushed outwards in addition to being elevated. When the tumour commences at the back of the jaw or in the spheno- or pterygo-maxillary fossa, and only affects the jaw secondarily, the nostril may remain patent, there will be no epiphora and no bulging downwards of the palate, and the swelling in the cheek is not usually particularly marked. Among the early symptoms in these cases is protrusion of the eyeball from the extension of the growth into the orbit ; before long a swelling forms in the temporal fossa. When the tumour commences in the ethmoidal cells, one of the earliest