EPITHELIOMA 83 mouth. Experience in cases of cancer of the tongue has been much the same as tliat in cancer of the breast. Recurrence in the glands of the neck occurs almost uniformly when the mass in the tongue has been removed, and the glands left untouched because they were not noticeably infected. On the other hand, the results of those who, like the late Sir Henry Butlin, have made a practice of systematically clearing out the entire glandular area on one or both sides of the neck at, or soon after, the time of the operation upon the tongue, show such an improvement upon the ordinary results, that there can be little doubt that the rule of clearing away the glandular area should hold as strictly in the case of the tongue as it does in that of the breast. When the disease is limited to one side of the tongue, removal of the glands may be restricted to the same side of the neck in the first instance, and a similar operation upon the other side need only be undertaken if enlargement of the glands is noticed there. When, however, the growth obviously encroaches upon the middle line or indeed is suspiciously near it, both sides of the neck should be cleared out without waiting for enlargement of the glands to declare itself. Should the glands be dealt with at the same time that the disease in the tongue is removed ? It is obviously better for the patient's comfort and peace of mind to complete the whole operation at one sitting, and, as a rule, this can be done when the operation upon the tongue is neither a severe one nor likely to cause a wound commmiicating with that made in the neck for the purpose of removing the glands. The necessity for a second severe operation a few days after the first is very discouraging to the sufferer and may have a bad effect on his nervous system. On the other hand, in many cases it is best for the patient to perform the two operations at different times. When both operations are to be performed at the same time, the surgeon should begin by removing the glands in the neck : this is an aseptic operation and, when completed, the wound is stitched up and covered with dressing before the disease in the mouth is attacked. When removal of the disease in the tongue does not involve a communication with the dissection in the neck, it is well to tie the lingual artery while the glands are being removed, as the vessel is fully exposed during that operation and the procedure does not demand any extra time, and indeed shortens the operation in the mouth considerably by diminishing bleeding. The cases in which this question assumes its greatest importance are those of advanced disease, either in the neck or in the tongue. Removal of the glands in bad cases such as would formerly have been deemed inoperable (where the jugular vein is involved and the disease extends up into the parotid region and beneath the sterno-mastoid) is a prolonged operation, and patients with disease so advanced as that are generally weakly and liable to shock. Moreover, should the disease in the mouth be extensive, its proper removal will necessitate a communication between the floor of the mouth and the dissection in the neck, and acute sepsis in