APPENDICITIS 411 diarrhoea produced by a pneumococcic enteritis, and the physical signs are not locahsed in the cliaracteristic way in the right iliac fossa. Occasionally there has been some difficulty in distinguishing between typhoid fever and appendicitis, but careful examination of the abdomen and the condition of the abdominal wall and of the bowels will usually prevent such a mistake ; Widal's reaction will help to elucidate the question. The above list is by no means exhaustive, and it is only by a careful' consideration of all the symptoms and physical signs that an accurate diagnosis can be arrived at. (b) Of chronic appendicitis.—In the case of chronic appendicitis, in which all that the surgeon has to go on is an imperfect history of previous attacks, or in which the symptoms are very indefinite, there may be considerable difficulty in making the diagnosis. For example, it is not always easy to diagnose between appejidicitis and mucous colitis. The two conditions are not infrequently associated; but when, in addition to signs of mucous colitis, there are attacks of pain and tenderness in the appendix region, it is generally well to remove that structure. Another common difficulty is when the patient has a movable kidney; and in some cases it is not always easy to say how much of the trouble is due to one and how much to the other. The same difficulty may arise in cases of general enteroptosis. There a chronic appendicitis may be present, but the removal of the appendix does not necessarily cure the patient's troubles. When the symptoms are chiefly dyspeptic or merely indicate some indefinite abdominal trouble, the appendix mav not be suspected until a definite attack of appendicitis has occurred. Tubercukms peritonitis (see p. 449) is another condition which may be found when a chronic appendicitis has been diagnosed. It is only when this is in the early stage and commences in or in the neighbour- hood of the appendix (sometimes primarily in the appendix itself) that difficulty will arise ; and the removal of a tuberculous appendix or early laparotomy in tuberculous peritonitis is quite a proper procedure. Apart from tuberculous peritonitis, tuberculous glands in the neighbour- hood of the caecum may be mistaken for a mass around the appendix. A calculus impacted in the ureter will also often give rise to pain and tenderness in the right iliac fossa, and it may be impossible to distinguish these symptoms from those of chronic appendicitis without the aid of a radiogram supplemented if need be by the passage of a ureteral bougie. When the symptoms are not clear, the possibility that they are due to gall-stones, to disease of the ovary, Fallopian tubes, and other causes, must be borne in mind in deciding on operation. Nature of the changes in the appendix.—It is by no means easy during an acute attack to come to a definite conclusion as to the form of appendicitis whicli is present. Two very important points are the