547 TUBERCULOSIS combined with the local use of calomel and starch powder [vide supra), or white precipitate ointment. When ulceration occurs inside the bowel, general anti-syphilitic treatment must also be carried out, but, owing to the constant irritation by the fa;ces, to the spasm of the sphincter retaining the contents of the rectum in contact with the ulcerated surface, and to the tendency to stricture, the condition will seldom heal without local treatment of an energetic nature. In quite early cases, when there is no marked contraction, the anus may be dilated and salvarsan administered (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.), the motions kept soft by laxatives, the ulcers kept clean, and the rectum emptied by frequent enemata, whilst mercurial ointments are applied to the ulcers. The ointment is conveniently applied by means of grooved bougies, such as Caspar's. The grooves are tilled with mercurial ointment, and the bougies are passed up gently and left in situ for five or ten minutes so as to keep the ointment well in contact with the ulcerated surface. If preferred, the ointment may be introduced through a tube provided with lateral apertures, which is screwed on to a collapsible metal tube containing the ointment. The ointments most used for this purpose are those of white precipitate, dilute nitrate of mercury, or red oxide of mercury. In addition, it is well to administer some intestinal antiseptic, such as salol (ten grains t.d.s.), and the patient should be confined to a couch for a time. This treatment, however, can only be expected to yield a perfect result when the patient is seen quite early. When contraction is occurring, the treatment is difficult on account of the combination of ulceration and stricture, and, although an attempt may be made to overcome the contraction by dilatation, it will generally be found in advanced cases that this does harm instead of good, and that it is necessary to perform a temporary colostomy. When this has been done, healing of the ulcers can usually be obtained ; the stricture may then be dilated and the colostomy wound closed. Excision of the affected portion of the rectum is not advisable in these cases. In hereditary syphilis affections of the anus are very common. They generally take the form of sypliilides and mucous patches leading to excoriations and fissures about the anus. If left untreated, these little cracks or fissures may develop into deep ulcers and give rise to considerable trouble. Condylomata are also met with in the same situation. Treatment.—This is practically the same as for hereditary syphilis in general (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.) combined with the local application of equal parts of calomel and starch. TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculous disease is not uncommon in the ano-rectal region, and it may commence either externally at the anal margin or internally in the mucous membrane or submucous tissues. Primary tuberculosis of the N N 2