540 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS STENOSING PROCTITIS. This form is usually due to syphilis, but it may occur in connection with other types of inflammation about the rectum. It is characterised by inflammation of the sub-mucous tissue in addition to the ulceration of the mucous surface, and results in atrophy of the mucous membrane, with gradually increasing rigidity of the walls of the rectum and progressive and irregular stenosis, so that the lower end of the bowel becomes converted into a narrow tortuous canal. The condition is usually confined to the lower end of the rectum, but in bad syphilitic cases may reach up beyond the pelvic colon. The bowel above the stricture is dilated and hyper- trophied, the amount of dilatation being proportionate to the degree of constriction present. The first symptoms are those of simple proctitis (see p. 537). Later on there is much pain due to ulceration, and symptoms of stenosis appear. The patient suffers from alternate attacks of constipation and diarrhoea, the motions are flattened or like pipe-stems, and there is increasing difficulty in passing them. There is frequent tenesmus, with griping pain in the colon, and the amount evacuated is usually scanty and consists chiefly of muco-pus. In advanced cases there is often some abdominal dis- tension, and, when the terminal portion of the rectum is affected, there may be incontinence of faeces. These cases may persist for many years. When the condition has lasted for some time, the general health suffers from the faecal absorption, and the patient becomes sallow, dull, and apathetic, has a bad appetite, and exhales a characteristic offensive odour. As the stricture increases in tightness various complications may bring about death ; the chief of these, such as ulceration and abscesses, are due to sepsis. Obstruction may also occur, but the patient may die from exhaustion before this takes place. The chief difficulty is to distinguish between a simple stricture and a malignant one, especially that form in which there is an annular con- striction without much outgrowth into the rectum. The non-malignant stricture is usually fibrous and elastic to the feel, is very irregular, and may be extensive, while there is not that definite induration characteristic of rectal carcinoma. If the tube of a small sigmoidoscope can be in- sinuated through the stricture, tracts of normal mucous membrane are seen between the ulcerated areas—a very characteristic condition in simple stricture. The length of time that the affection has lasted is also of importance, the progress being slow in the simple form and a history of some previous inflammatory mischief being usually obtained ; obstruction occurs much sooner in malignant stricture. TREATMENT.—The treatment is very difficult, but the condition inevitably gets worse if left alone, and therefore something must be done. If the blood gives a positive Wassermann reaction, salvarsan should