HEMORRHOIDS 569 Excision of the pile-bearing area {Whitehead).—^From the theoretical point of view this is the ideal method, as the pile-area is completely removed and primary union should result. The difficulties he partly in the anatomical conditions and partly in the fact that septic infection cannot always be prevented and may interfere with union. In the method of excision introduced by Mr. Whitehead, the lower inch or more of the mucous membrane is removed, together with the termina- tions of the haemorrhoidal plexus, this being fohowed by suture of the cut edges of the mucous membrane to the skin. The operation is com- paratively easy, and is generally followed by primary union without pain or inflammation. On the other hand, the disadvantages are undeniable, although doubtless these diminish as the operator becomes more experi- enced. Thus considerably more blood is lost in this operation than in the other methods, and therefore the procedure may be serious to those who are profoundly anaemic. Again, stricture around the anal orifice may occur, either as a result of the sutures giving way, as may occur when too much mucous membrane has been excised, and when therefore there is tension on the stitches, or from imperfect suturing at the time of operation. The area immediately around the anal orifice may also become quite insensitive, and very annoying incontinence of flatus and even of ffeces may result. Fatal pyaemia has followed the operation, and pulmonary embolism has also occurred. The operation is best suited for vigorous adults in whom the piles are large and numerous. It is unnecessary when only two or three large internal haemorrhoids are present, or when the chief trouble is external piles. Mr. Whitehead describes his operation as follows [Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 6, 1887) :— ' I. The patient, previously prepared for the operation, and under complete influence of an antesthetic, is placed on a high narrow table in the lithotomy position, and maintained in this position either by a couple of assistants or by a Clover's crutch. ' 2. The sphincters are thorouglily paralysed by digital stretching, and permit the haemorrhoids and any prolapse there may be to descend without the slightest impediment. ' 3. By the use of scissors and dissecting forceps the mucous membrane is divided at its junction with the skin around the entire circumference of the bowel, every irregularity of the skin being carefuUy followed. ' 4. The external and the commencement of the internal sphincter are then exposed by a rapid dissection, and the mucous membrane and the attached hcemorrhoids, thus separated from the submucous bed on which they rest, are pulled bodily down, any decided points of resistance being snipped across, and the haemorrhoids brought below the margin of the skin. ' 5. The mucous membrane above the haemorrhoids is now divided transversely in successive stages, and the free margin of the severed