59^ CANCER confounded with malignant masses protruding from the anus. It is not uncommon for an ischio-rectal abscess to form and give rise to frstulae communicating with the bowel at the upper limit of the growth. In examining the rectum, various points must be investigated, which are of importance as regards treatment. In the first place, the position of the disease has to be ascertained ; this may be done hy means of the finger or the sigmoidoscope. In the second, the length of the stricture and its calibre should be estimated, and this may be done in the same way. In the third place, the mobility of the parts, as indicating limitation of the growth to the rectal wall or extension through it and involvement of neighbouring structures, must be noted. This can only be ascertained by the finger when the growth is low down; if it is situated high up the sigmoidoscope may indicate it, but in most cases the condition is not certain until a laparotomy has been performed. Growths situated low down soon become adherent to the base of the bladder, the prostate, or the vesiculae seminales in the male, while in the female, adhesion to the posterior wall of the vagina may occur quite early. Undue frequency of micturition or pronounced perineal pain are symptoms of unfavourable import as indicating adhesion Another important point is the relation of the growth to the anal margin ; cancer in this situation usuahy recurs much more rapidly than when it is situated entirely within the rectum. TREATMENT.—There are three courses open to the surgeon. In the first place the disease may be left alone because the patient declines operation or because the surgeon thinks that operative interference is out of the question altogether, or that the time for it has not yet arrived. In the second place, a true radical operation—namely, excision of the affected portion of the bowel—may be feasible. In the third place radical treatment may be out of the question, and the surgeon may perform colostomy with the view of preventing impending obstruction or of over- coming obstruction already existing. The first and most urgent point to which the surgeon must direct his attention is whether a radical operation is possible or not, and also whether it is advisable as well as possible. Cases suited for excision.—The important points in deciding upon the feasibility of a radical operation are the mobility of the growth and its extent. The situation of the growth is chiefly important in so far as it may influence the question of the route which should be employed for excision. The mere position of the growth is not now looked on as a very important point as regards a radical operation. A growth situated any- where in the rectiim may be excised readfly enough through a laparotomy, sacral, or perineal wound, according to its situation, provided that there are no other contra-indications to its removal. The relation of the growth to the neighbouring parts and its consequent mobility are most important. As long as the portion of bowel involved is freely movable, it implies that the disease is confined to the rectal wall and has not infiltrated the surrounding tissues. The only exception to