527 IMPERFORATE ANUS AND RECTUM in the male, or the vagina in the female. In addition to the true imperforate cases there may be atresia or a mere pinhole anus. Hence, we have to consider the following groups: Complete absence of the rectum, or a considerable portion of it; a septum or a fibrous cord between the anus and the rectum ; the existence of a rectum with or without an anus ; and fistulous communications between the rectum and other parts. When either the anus or the rectum is imperforate there is com- plete obstruction, and the patient must die unless speedy relief is afforded. When, however, there is a mere pinhole opening or a fistulous communication exists between the rectum and the skin, the bladder, the urethra, or the vagina, a certain amount of meconium can escape. The communication, however, is usually narrow and may be tortuous, and the relief is incomplete, so that death will usually occur even- tually, unless surgical measures are carried out. TREATMENT.—This is difa- cult, because the child is only a few hours old and cannot stand a pro- longed or extensive operation, the parts are so small that anything like efficient manipulation is difficult, while obstruction is always present. When there is a septum between the rectum and anus. —These are the simplest cases to treat, as the rectum and anus are well developed, but they are not nearly so common as is supposed [vide infra). When there is merely a diaphragm between the two, the linger, passed into the anal dimple, will feel the bulging of the lower end of the rectum when the child cries or when pressure is made upon the abdomen, and it is easy to make the two communicate by pushing a tenotome or small bistoury through the septum and dilating the puncture with sinus forceps. An opening just large enough to allow the escape of the meconium should be made at first, and it is well to tie in a rubber drainage tube. This opening may be enlarged two or three days later by making a cross-cut through the septum and stretching it fully, and should be kept dilated by a well-oiled finger passing gently through it two or three times daily, this dilatation being kept up for at least twelve months. The surgeon must, however, be certain that there is only a thin Fig. lyg.—Position or the Child in the Opera- tion FOR Imperforate Anus. The incision is shown ; a nasal speculum is used to open up the anal dimple.