6io AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS part of the rectum are removed as described in connection with the perineal operation (seep. 600). This perineal incision is then sutured, a drainage tube being inserted at its posterior end, and the patient is replaced in the Trendelenburg position. The surgeon changes his gloves and sews up the peritoneum in the pelvis, and either closes the wound in the abdominal wall completely, forming the artificial anus laterally (see p. 379), or closes the wound partially, and forms the colostomy opening at its upper end. In a few cases, in which the disease is situated fairly low down, it may be possible to leave the anal canal and bring the upper part of the pelvic colon down through it (see p. 604), and thus avoid a colostomy. To allow of this it may be necessary to divide the inferior mesenteric artery below the origin of the colic branch so as to free the iliac colon. (2) When tlte patient is very feeble, it may be deemed advisable to divide the operation into two stages. After the bowel has been separated from above and pushed down into the pelvis, it is covered with a thin sheet of sterilised india-rubber and the peritoneum closed over it, the abdominal incision stitched up, and a colostomy opening made as above described. Three or four days later, the rectum is dissected out from below. The objection to this procedure is that it seriously interferes with the circulation in the upj)er part of the rectum, and fatal gangrene or perforation ma}^ occur in the interval between the two stages. (3) When there are obstructive symptoms, or for other reasons already mentioned (see p. 594), a preliminary colostomy may be advisable some days before the radical operation is performed. In that case an incision is made through the rectus as already described, and the local condition examined in order to determine whether a radical operation is advisable or not. If it is, a lateral colostomy is performed (see p. 379) and the first incision closed. The reason for making the colostomy opening laterally is because the anterior incision must be opened for the sub- sequent radical operation, and the colostomy opening must be some distance away from it. When the time comes for the radical operation, the colostomy opening is plugged with gauze and the skin brought over the plug with two or three stitches, and thoroughly cleansed and disinfected. The median incision is opened up, the bowel clamped and divided near the seat of the colostomy, both openings closed in the usual manner, and the operation proceeded with as described on p. 608.