271 GASTRIC ULCER before it is completely closed ; if necessary, subcutaneous infusion of saline solution may also be resorted to. Anterior gastro-jejunostomy.—For reasons already given (see p. 260) we shall only describe the pre-colic form of this operation. After the jejunum has been identified and its direction made out (see p. 264), the stomach with the transverse colon and the omentum are replaced in position in the abdomen and a portion of the jejunum is selected that will easily rest on the anterior surface of the stomach without any tension and without constricting the transverse colon, across which it must of course pass. It is essential for the success of the operation that the intestine should not cramp the movements of the transverse colon or vice versa. The anastomosis is usually satisfactory if a point about twelve to eighteen inches from the commencement of the jejunum is selected. If the distance be much greater than this, a heavy intestinal loop will be formed between the duodenum and the anastomotic opening and this, when filled with bile and pancreatic secretion, might pull unduly and cause a ' vicious circle.' When choosing the loop, care must also be taken to see that the peristaltic current is in the proper direction—namely, from left to right. One limb of the clamp is then applied obliquely across the stomach from above downwards and to the right, and the portion taken up in it should be close to the greater curvature, and nearer the pyloric than the cardiac end (unless the operation follows excision of an ulcer, when the anastomosis will be made at that spot). The jejunal loop is then fixed in the other limb of the clamp and the subsequent steps are identical with those of the posterior operation. At the conclusion of the suturing it is a good plan to insert two or three sero-muscular sutures on each side, so as to prolong the outer sero-muscular suture along the upper limit of the anastomosis (see Fig. 100) and thus ensure that neither the afferent nor the efferent loop can become kinked at the anastomotic opening. This is a point of the very highest practical importance. Should the surgeon find that kinking does occur and that it is impossible to rectify it by suturing in this manner, he must either divide the small intestine on the proximal side of the anastomosis, invaginate and close the end next the opening in the stomach, and implant the other end laterally into the intestine below the anastomosis—i.e. the Y-niethod of gastro-jejunostomy (vide infra)—or he must make a lateral anastomosis between the afferent and the efferent loops of the jejunum well below the opening into the stomach (see Fig. loi). The latter can be done very quickly, and absolutely prevents the development of a 'vicious circle.' The Y-operation.—This method is especially applicable when it is impossible to fix the intestine to the stomach without kinking—as may be the case when only a small portion of healthy stomach waU is available for anastomosis. In it the jejunum is divided about ten inches from its junction with the duodenum, and the distal end is implanted into the stomach, -while the proximal end is implanted into the jejunum below the