EPITHELIOMA 75 spreads from the submaxillary glands to those in the anterior triangle, especially in the neighbourhood of the bifurcation of the carotid artery ; sometimes it may skip the submaxillary region altogether and appear first in the anterior triangle. Here it spreads rapidly from gland to gland, upwards along the carotid sheath as high as the parotid region, downwards towards the root of the neck and backwards in the glands under the upper half of the sterno-mastoid muscle into the posterior triangle. In cancey of the back of the tongue and the tonsillar region, the disease first affects the deep glands in the neighbourhood of the digastric muscle and thence spreads upwards to the glands in the parotid region, downwards to those along the sheath of the vessels and backwards to those beneath the sterno-mastoid. The rapid distribution of the disease over the whole of these lymphatic areas is an extremely important point to bear in mind in treatment, because mere excision of the enlarged lymphatic mass will almost invariably be followed by recurrence, and in most operations it is not sufiicient to remove the chain of glands lying along the carotid ; those under the sterno-mastoid must always be removed, especially the group beneath the upper end extending as far up as the mastoid process and as far back as the posterior triangle. Another most important point in the operative treatment is that the affected glands are soft and very easily torn, and, until they are examined microscopically, the epithelio- matous disease in them may not be recognisable. If they are roughly handled, they readily tear across, and if this occurs during removal there may be an infection of the surface of the wound, leading to a rapid diffuse epitheliomatous infiltration of the whole area of the operation. The glands become hard as they enlarge, but when they have attained a large size they tend to soften and break down in the centre, so that fluctuation may be obtained. Mistakes have been sometimes made for this reason, and the glands have been opened under the impression that they were suppurating, with the result that an epitheliomatous ulceration of the skin has followed. Cystic degeneration of epitheliomatous glands is common, and must be borne in mind during operation, for if such a gland be torn or punctured and the fluid contents escape into the wound, a diffuse epitheliomatous infiltration may follow, for which further operation is impossible. SYMPTOMS.—Apart from its well-known local characters the growth soon gives rise to difficulty in articulation and mastication, dysphagia and excessive salivation, and the discharge in the mouth is very foul. The pain is usually intense towards the later stages ; it is generally referred to the ear, but any of the branches of the third division of the fifth nerve may be affected and it is not only present on eating and speaking, but also when the tongue is at rest. The disease in the glands usually progresses rapidly, and, if the patient lives long enough, they may fungate through the skin, which then becomes