AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 494 similar to that just described, but extra care must be taken not to injure the vas, which will be found on the outer wall of the sac ; it is very tortuous towards the lower end, and is very apt to be divided in cutting off the sac close to the testicle unless great care is taken to trace it to its origin. DIRECT REDUCIBLE INGUINAL HERNIA. The operation for radical cure is more difficult and the results less satisfactory in this form of hernia than in the oblique one. The sac comes down interna] to the deep epigastric artery, either pushing the conjoined tendon before it or passing through an opening in it. These cases usually occur in oldish people, and the neck of the sac is so broad that it cannot be closed by twisting or ligature. It should be carefully cleared and inspected to see that it is not adherent to the bladder. The sac is then opened, its contents returned, the sac cut away, and the peritoneal cavity closed by a continuous catgut suture. It is necessary to close the inguinal canal in these cases, and possibly this is best done by Halsted's method of bringing the cord direct through the abdominal wall; this enables the posterior wall of the canal and the external oblique to be brought together over the whole region (see p. 487). In a good many cases the scar bulges subsequently and the patient may have to wear a truss, but this should not be commenced until bulging has actually taken place ; we have had a number of cases in which no truss has been necessary. INTERSTITIAL HERNIA. Here the sac passes upwards behind or between the abdominal muscles. In some cases the sac turns up at the internal ring, and lies entirely in the substance of or behind the abdominal wall; in others it has two projections, one extending downwards along the canal and forming a bubonocele, while the other runs up in front of the peritoneum as a diverticulum from the neck. Radical cure is urgently called for in these cases, because the neck of the sac is bent and strangulation is very apt to occur. A truss is inadvis- able because it is not easy to be sure that all the contents have been returned into the abdomen before it is applied. The operation is practically identical with that described on p. 489. When there is no bulging in the inguinal canal the sac will be found pro- jecting upwards behind the abdominal wall, and must be pulled down and treated in the usual manner (see p. 484). When part of the sac is in the inguinal canal, the operation is easier, because the diverticulum behind the muscles becomes exposed as the main sac is cleared.