THE ' ACUTE ABDOMEN ' AND ITS TREATMENT 441 it soon subsides, and the pain and tenderness become located in the appendix region. Continuance or subsidence of llie voiiiiting are also of importance. Persistence of the vomiting usually indicates intestinal obstruction, and the materials vomited eventually become fjeculent. On the other hand, while vomiting is one of the earliest symptoms in perforation of the appendix, and may continue for a few hours, it ceases after a time. Should it recur, it generally indicates a grave septic condition, as in later stages of acute peritonitis. Persistence or deepening of the colt apse indicates an extremely grave perforation or some htemorrhagic condition, such as ruptured tubal fcetation or hsemorrliagic pancreatitis. In other cases, as a rule, the initial collapse is followed by marked reaction. Information may be obtained from the continuance or location of abdominal rigidity. Continuance or increase of general rigidity implies a diffuse process—usually general peritonitis—while relaxation of the contraction over the greater part of the abdomen, and rigidity only in one area, indicates a more or less local lesion—generally some inflammatory condition. Elevation of temperature, whether from the first or coming on within the first few hours after the seizure, is strongly indicative of an inflam- matory condition—such as appendicitis or cholecystitis ; while continuance of a normal temperature points more to some mechanical condition. In some cases of appendicitis, however, no marked rise in temperature may occur for some time. Fall of temperature after previous elevation is usually a bad sign if the other s3'mptoms continiie, and indicates profound toxaemia. Increasing rapidity and weakness of the pulse and a tendency for it to 'run,' are sj'mptoms of gravity, and, occurring during the first day, generally indicate some grave septic lesion—such as perforative or gangrenous processes. Distension of the abdomen.—In most of the serious abdominal cases the abdomen becomes distended. Early distension usually indicates either a general peritonitis and paralytic distension of the bowel or else intestinal obstruction. According as we gatlier from the other signs that we have to do \n\\\ an inflammatory or a mechanical process, this is a sign of greater or less gravity. In obstruction, the greater distension of one part of the abdomen and the consequent dift'erences in the abdominal contour may be of considerable value as indicating the site of the obstruction. The state of the boivels is not of much help in the diagnosis. In mechanical obstruction there is complete cessation of the passage of faeces and gas ; but if the bowel below the obstruction is loaded at the time of onset of the mischief there may be one or two actions in the early stage, either alone or after enemata, and this may cause