FEMORAL HERNIA 497 In order to deal with the canal, various methods have been introduced, which may be grouped into three classes according to their guiding principle. In the first, the lower end of the canal is closed by occluding the saphenous opening; in the second, the canal is mechanically plugged, for example, by a flap of pectineus muscle and fascia ; and in the third, the canal is occluded at its upper end—i.e. on its intra-abdominal aspect. An attempt should be made to close the canal as a whole and this may be carried out either by Roux's original method or by some modification of it In Roux's method, small steel staples are used to fix Poupart's ligament down to the ilio-pectineal line. After the sac has been ligatured and stitched up to the abdominal wall, a finger is introduced into the crural canal and a staple is thrust through Poupart's ligament, and, guided by the finger in the canal, is fixed against the ilio-pectineal line. The staple is then driven firmly home by means of a staple-punch and a hammer, and Poupart's ligament is thus firmly attached to the front aspect of the bone and the canal thereby closed. Good results have been obtained by this method, but occasionally the staples have become loose and have had to be removed. They should be driven firmly home and should not be too large. Roux's principle may be carried out more safely without the use of staples, by suturing Poupart's ligament to the back of the horizontal ramus of the pubes. This is done as follows. After the sac has been dealt with, the fat and fascia are pushed inwards and downwards from the surface of the pectineus muscle and the fibres of this muscle are detached from the middle third of their attachment to the pubes. The bone thus exposed is now drilled in two places, upwards and backwards, about three-quarters of an inch apart, the point of the drill being inserted about half an inch below the upper margin of the bone. The tissues on the deep surface are protected by the finger—which can feel the drill before it actually emerges from the bone—or by a copper spatula inserted through the enlarged femoral canal. A piece of fine silver wire about eighteen inches long is now folded in half so as to make a loop, which is pushed through the drill-hole and the loop hooked up through the femoral ring into the wound. A stout silk suture threaded on a fully curved needle is passed through the front of Poupart's ligament about half an inch above the upper boundary of the crural canal. The end of this thread is then passed through the loop in the silver wire and drawn through the bone from within outwards. A similar loop of silver wire is next passed through the second hole in the bone, and the other end of the silk suture is then passed through Poupart's ligament, about three-quarters of an inch farther out, and drawn through the bone in a similar manner. This makes a stout mattress suture, which when tightened, draws Poupart's ligament down to the back of the horizontal ramus of the pubes and satisfactorily obliterates IV. K K