101 EPITHELIOMA very effectual method of removing recurrence in the superficial parts, partly because it diminishes the bleeding, whereas the cicatricial tissue, which is extremely vascular in the early stages, oozes freely when removed with the knife or scissors, and partly because, as the cautery burns its way through the diseased area, the tissues around are charred, so that much more is destroyed than would be removed by the knife ; moreover the seared surface does not become the seat of septic infection as rapidly as a raw one would. THE OPERATIONS UPON THE GLANDS. Glands enlarged secondarily to cancer of the tongue occur early and in various situations, according to the seat of the primary lesion ; the chief situations are the submental and the submaxillary regions, the anterior triangle, or above the digastric muscle. Wherever they may appear first, they soon spread along the carotid sheath and extend backwards under the sterno-mastoid muscle, particularly in the neighbourhood of the mastoid process. We have already pointed out (see p. 75) that it is necessary not only to remove the glands actually enlarged, but also to take away all the glands in and beyond the infected area. Apart from the removal of cancer of the tongue and mouth, it is now the general practice to operate for the removal of all the fat and glands from the areas which will probably become infected, even though no enlarged glands are actually present ; this is usually done about a fortnight after the operation on the tongue. The areas to be dealt with are the^ same in both cases, and the description of the operations given below, though referring especially to cases in which glandular infection is already manifest, is equally applicable to cases in which there is no enlargement of the glands. Even greater care must be taken in clearing out these regions thoroughly than when the glands are enlarged, because the loose fat and glands are not so coherent, and small lobules of what is apparently only fat may readily be detached and left behind and may nevertheless contain infected lymphatic tissue. When no enlarged glands are present the operation need not be so extensive as that described below ; for example, it will not be necessary to continue the dissection of the anterior triangle down to the sterno-clavicular joint, nor to remove the internal jugular vem ; but on the other hand the greatest care must be taken to clear the upper part of the triangle, the region of the digastric muscle, the parotid gland, and the tissue above and behind the spinal accessory nerve, and also the submaxillary triangle. It must be borne in mind that if infected material is left behind, a subsequent operation is very difficult and unsatisfactory, on account of the cicatricial tissue resulting from the first. Clearance of the submaxillary region and the anterior triangle.—In the great majority of cases both the submaxillary