THE ' ACUTE ABDOMEN ' AND ITS TREATMENT 443 An initial rigor, rising temperature, marked tenderness—especially on percussion—and the other cardinal symptoms of inflammation will often be sufficiently distinctive ; and then, in addition, the disappearance of the initial colicky pains and the occiuTence of a steady pain in one part, increased on movement or taking a deep breath, and tlie subsidence of the vomiting, contrast markedly with the condition in intestinal obstruc- tion. If pyrexia or other signs of inflammation do not develop, attention must be directed to any possible cause of obstruction, especially if vomiting persists or if se\'ere colicky pains continue. If, however, the patient, although presenting no signs of inflammation in the earliest stages, develops these later on, it arouses a suspicion that there is some perforation of the alimentary tract—for example, of the appendix. Perforations of the stomach or duodenum may be indicated by the suddenness and intensity of the pain, which is fixed and steady rather than colicky (although the latter may also occur), of a burning character, and tends to spread over the abdomen, and by the severit}^ of the collapse, distension of the abdomen, elevation of temperature, and signs of peritonitis. Obliteration of the liver dullness with retraction of the abdomen, due to the presence of free gas in the peritoneal cavity, is also a very important sign. Treatment.—The next question that arises is : Is the case one re- quiring immediate surgical treatment or not ? It may not be possible to answer this c^uestion definitely at the first visit, but if it is not, frequent visits should be made until a definite decision has been arrived at. All perforations of the alimentary canal, strangulations, internal hernise, gangrenous processes and hsemorrhages should be operated on without delay. The chief difficulty as to immediate operation is in connection with the various inflammatory conditions of which appen- dicitis is a type ; this subject is dealt with in Chap. XXVI.