253 GASTRIC ULCER of acute gastric hccmorrhage have been named by Dieulafoy ' simple erosions ' and ' exulceratio simplex ' respectively, and their treatment is sometimes a source of embarrassment to the surgeon. RESULTS.—An ulcer which has existed for some time usually gives rise to various important sequelfe, and it is chiefly in connection with these that the surgeon is called in. The following are the principal complications :— 1. Haemorrhage.—As the ulceration deepens, haemorrhage—which may be capillary, venous, or arterial in nature — may result. As a rule haemorrhage from a large artery is rare, but sometimes one may be opened into, especially in ulcers situated near the lesser curvature of the stomach or in the neighbourhood of the pancreas ; if this happens the bleeding may be so severe as to jeopardise the patient's life in a very short time. In the more frequent forms of haemorrhage the bleeding is not so severe and generally ceases spontaneously after a time ; the risk under these circumstances is the production of profound auccmia as the result of the repeated bleedings. The blood so poured out may be vomited or may pass into the bowel; if the latter is the case, it generally is an indication that the bleeding is severe, as in slight cases the blood becomes digested and can only be detected in the faeces as so-called ' occult blood ' (see p. 235). As a rule the severe haemorrhage that threatens life by its mere volume is associated with an acute gastric ulcer ; in the typical chronic ulcer the bleeding is less abundant, although it recurs frequently. 2. Interference with the gastric functions by the contrac- tion accompanying heaHng.—When a gastric ulcer heals, or attempts to heal, the tissues around become indurated, as in ulcers elsewhere, and the scar contracts. The wall of the stomach consequently becomes thickened, and its cavity may be severely distorted by the subsequent contraction. This thickening—which passes off to some extent when the ulcer has actually healed, but which is very marked while the ulcer exists and has lasted for a long time—may be so great as to give rise to the suspicion of a tumour, and not uncommonly, even after the stomach has been exposed, it is difficult to decide whether the thickening is due to a simple ulcer or to a malignant tumour. In some cases the induration is diffused over nearly the whole of the stomach wall, so that when it is cut into, the viscus has rigid walls and does not collapse. This condition has been described as a clinical entity under the term ' fibromatosis of the stomach ' or the ' leather-bottle stomach.' It is, as a rule, quite easy to trace the individual coats of the stomach throughout the affected area on section, and this distinguishes it at once from the in- filtration of a carcinoma. The absence of hard enlarged glands is also against the diagnosis of carcinoma. Apart from thickening of the stomach walls—which is by no means of constant occurrence—contraction always follows healing of the ulcer, and it depends upon the position and extent of the latter whether the functions