GASTRIC ULCER 287 If the perforation is on the posterior surface of the stomach, it should be either sewn up or excised. Excision, however, can only rarely be carried out owing to the connections of the ulcer, and closing the opening from the outside may also be very difficult ; indeed, in some cases the best plan will be to open the stomach in front and bring together the sides of the ulcer in the manner referred to in speaking of the treatment of hjemor- rhage in this situation (see p. 283). If this is done, drainage tubes must be inserted down to the situation of the ulcer in case union does not take place. Cleansuig the abdominal cavity.—This must be done systematically, and the steps of the procedure are exactly similar to those for rupture of the stomach (see p. 243). It is of the highest importance that this stage of the operation should be carried out with the greatest thoroughness. Drainage—In closing the abdomen the question of drainage will arise, and here the remarks made in reference to rupture of the stomach (see p. 247) are also applicable. It is always advisable to insert a drainage tube down to the immediate vicinity of the ulcer in these cases, as it is possible that the line of union may give way and further extravasation may take place. The best plan is to employ a drainage tube packed round with gauze. The latter need only be left in for three days, as adhesions form rapidly and shut off the region that is to be drained from the rest of the peritoneal cavity. The gauze may be removed by satu- rating it with a solution of penjxide of hydrogen (10 vols.) which loosens it from the surrounding jieritoneum. It must be removed gradually and by gentle traction. A fter-treatment.—This will be identical with that for rupture of the stomach (see p. 248). The drainage tube is withdrawn at the end of three or four days if no unfavourable symptoms arise, and if the wound is aseptic, the opening in the abdominal wall through which it has passed may be closed by tying the loose stitch which was inserted but not tied at the time of the operation (see p. 249). The question of gasiro-jejiinostomy.—Much discussion has taken place as to whether a gastro-jejunostomy should be performed at the same time as the perforation is closed, and very diverse opinions are held on this subject. In favour of this operation, it is said that it relieves the tension on the stitches which close the perforation, diminishes the risk of subse- quent perforation and htemorrhage, and helps the healing. Against it may be urged that it prolongs the operation, ^and that it can be done if necessary at a later period. Experience seems to show that perforations heal up quite well if they are closed with stitches without gastro-jeju- nostomy, and that except in cases where the removal of the ulcer or closure of the perforation narrows the pyloric part of the stomach markedly, there is no advantage in performing the operation at this stage ; indeed, it might just turn the scale against recovery. In most cases the operation can be deferred until a later period.