ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 331 and feces, and that if only they could pass he would be relieved. There is no tenesmus. The temperature is subnormal and usually remains so throughout, although it may rise if the patient lives long enough for peritonitis to set in. Thirst is often very marked. The abdomen in tlie first instance is flaccid, and there is usually no tenderness on pressure in the early stages. As the case progresses, the vomiting continues, but the nature of the vomited matter changes, be- coming foul and fjEcalin odour and consisting of the decomposed contents of the intestine above the obstruction. The putrid character of the vomit becomes more marked and it is then termed stercoraceous. Very distressing hiccough sets in and the abdomen becomes distended, some- times so greatly as to interfere with respiration and embarrass the heart. The patient may recover somewhat from the initial collapse, but gradually passes into an exhausted condition, the pain and other symptoms continue, and he usually dies within a period varying according to the cause of the symptoms from a few hours to a week. These symptoms indicate an obstruction to the passage of tlie contents of the intestine, accompanied by some lesion of the bowel wall. Diagnosis.—Perhaps the condition most commonly mistaken for acute intestinal obstruction is the onset of aciilc peri/oniiis, such as follows perforation of the appendix, or even sudden acute appendicitis without perforation, but the symptoms will be found to differ widely when critically examined. In peritonitis, the initial collapse is usually not so severe, although it may be well marked after a perforation of the appendix or of the stomach. The abdomen becomes distended much sooner than in acute intestinal obstruction, and there is great tenderness which at first is often localised to the site of the initial lesion, but soon becomes diffused over the abdomen. The temperature may rise almost from the first. The vomiting is not such a distressing feature, and usually passes off and does not return for some time, while obstructive symptoms are not prominent at first, the patient being often able to pass flatus. Other possible conditions which may have to be considered on first seeing a case of this kind are the passage of a gall-stone or a renal calculus. Here the symptoms are very acute, but there is not the same collapse, while the character of the pain is different, being more severe and of a distinctly colicky type from the first, and located in some special region ; other special symptoms are also present and the pain in these cases is not referred to the umbilicus. Among other conditions which may give rise to some- what similar symptoms are thrombosis of the mesenteric vessels and acute pancreatitis. Further, the possibility that the symptoms are due to lead colic or to the crises of tabes dorsalis sliould be borne in mind, and the patient should be examined for other evidences of these affections. Various pathological conditions may lead to this train of symptoms, and it is often impossible to say exactly what is the state of matters inside the abdomen. The most common conditions are strangulation of a piece