ENTEROPTOSIS 5" suspend their garments from the shoulders. Corsets undoubtedly aggra- vate the condition of enteroptosis if they are put on in the wrong position. They are usually put on while the patient is in the erect posture, and they are apt to be drawn too tight at the upper part. If a patient suffers from hernia the rule is that he shall lie down and replace the hernia in the first place before applying the truss, and put on the truss while in the recumbent position, and the same rule should hold good in regard to corsets in the case of those who have a tendency to enteroptosis. If the corsets are put on and tightened up in these cases while the patient is in the erect posture the abdominal organs which are already hanging too low are held in that position, and when the additional weight of the petticoats is added they are still more pulled down and the condition is consequently aggravated. Dr. A. Keith, in his excellent lectures on enteroptosis [Lancet, March 7 and 14, 1903), states that the condition is due to the upsetting of the balance between the inspiratory and expiratory muscles. He looks on active contraction of the crura of the diaphragm as the most important factor. According to him there are two causes of displacement of the liver and stomach—namely, relaxation or paresis of the abdominal muscles which maintain the shelf on which these organs are supported, and con- striction of the abdominal cavity by clothing or contortion by disease preventing the forward rotation of these organs during respiration. Corsets, by pushing in the ribs, make the action of the costal fibres of the diaphragm more vertical, and thus more active in pushing down the viscera. TREATMEISTT.—The treatment of enteroptosis is both local and general, the former aiming at giving support to the abdominal contents, and the latter at improving the general health and the neurasthenic condition. General.—In bad cases it is advisable to begin with an ordinary rest-cure in bed, lasting six or eight weeks, gradually increasing the amount of food and the massage. In applying massage special attention should be paid to the abdomen with the view of strengthening the abdominal muscles ; none of the actions must cause any downward pull on the abdominal contents. The ordinary indiscriminate kneading of the abdomen may do more harm than good. Local.—This is directed to supporting the abdominal contents and thus removing the drag of the stomach and intestines, and may be non- operative or operative. The non-operaiive treatment consists in the use of various means to hold up the lower part of the abdomen and push up the abdominal contents ; this may be done by strapping, belts, corsets, or a combination of these. Strapping has been a good deal used, but it is very inconvenient, and can only be a temporary expedient ; it is best to use either a corset or a belt, or a combination of both. The first essential is not to apply the support until the prolapsed organs