ii6 AFFECTIONS OF THE FLOOR OF THE MOUTH tonsillar region through which the organisms gain entrance. It is most common in adults, but may also occur in young children, and is a particularly grave and fatal disease. In a few hours after the commencement of the disease the floor of the mouth becomes hard and brawny, so that the tongue is raised and thrust upwards against the roof of the mouth, whilst the skin in the submental or submaxillary regions becomes indurated and dusky red in colour ; the swelling soon spreads to the side of the neck and may extend down to the clavicle. Articulation and mastication are both interfered with, and there may be considerable dyspnoea, partly owing to the swelling of the tissues in the neck, but mainly to the spread of the inflammation backwards giving rise to oedema of the glottis. The temperature is often high at first, but falls later on, and the patient shows symptoms of profound septic poisoning. In the majority of cases a fatal result occurs, often in about three days from the commencement of the inflammation. TREATMENT.—The only chance in this disease is to adopt early and energetic treatment. In the earliest stages, before the disease is fully established in the cellular tissues of the neck, antiseptic mouth-washes, such as sanitas or i in 4000 corrosive sublimate, may be of service, and should be employed as frequently and as hot as possible. Large boric fomentations (see Vol. I. p. 51) should be applied to the submental and submaxillary regions, and it is well to commence at once by injecting a large dose of anti-streptococcus serum. Thirty c.c. of the polyvalent serum should be injected as soon as possible, followed by 10 to 15 c.c. two or three times a day. The mistake generally made is to inject too small rather than too large a quantity. Vaccines do not seem to be of much value. These cases are always due to streptococcal infection and are typical in their symptoms, so that there is no need to wait while a bacterial cultivation is made. Directly brawniness in the neck is evident, free incisions should be made everywhere through the affected part, so as to facilitate the escape of sloughs and pus. Nothing but the freest possible opening up of the affected area is of any use. The incisions should go through the deep fascia in several places and the tissues should be widely opened by the finger and forceps so as to allow of the best possible drainage. The incisions should be planned so as to avoid the important structures in the neck, and where the deeper structures are opened up, Hilton's method (see Vol. I. p. 28) should be used. The wound should be freely sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid, powdered with iodoform and packed with strips of iodoformed gauze. Some advantage seems to be gained by the free administration of citric acid or citrate of potash, the view being that it increases the exudation of serum containing anti-bodies from the wound. When the disease commences far back in the mouth, it is generally unilateral. It often spreads from one side to the other, however, and