INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 393 purpose a colostomy of the ascending colon must be done and a spur should be formed by freeing the bowel, bringing it up to the wound, and keeping the posterior wall forward as in an inguinal colostomy. The chief trouble in connection with this operation is the closure of the opening later on ; apart from the difficulty of the operation in this particular situation, the bowel below is apt to become very small if it has been open for a long time. In aaiie dysentery which is progressing in spite of treatment, we have had success by performing colostomy of the ascending colon followed by lavage of the bowel. In chronic dysenteric ulceration an appendi- costomy or valvular csecostomy will suffice. Tuberculous ulceration of the intestine is mentioned under obstruction (see p. 369) and again in connection with tuberculous peritonitis (see Chap. XXVIII.). The surgical treatment is an anastomosis of the bowel above and below the affected area. Even when no marked constriction Fig. 142.—The Methods of ensuring the patency of the Appendlx in Appendicostomv. In the one case the appendix is split vertically on each side and the two flaps sutured to the skin, and in the other a cuff of mucous membrane is turned back over the cut end of the appendix and sutured in position. is present, this is a most valuable procedure and may enable the ulcer to heal. Syphilitic ulceration is usually limited to the rectum and is discussed in connection with diseases of the rectum (see Chap. XXXVII.). It very rarely occurs higher up. PERFOR.-^TKD TYPHOID ULCER. Perforation is not uncommon in typhoid fever, and in a certain number of cases the patient's life has been saved by operation. There is often some difficulty in diagnosing the perforation, however, and it is possible that when the faecal extravasation is very slight, the condition passes unrecognised and recovery may take place. In typical cases the symptoms are similar to those of perforation due to other causes, and chiefly consist in sudden shock with rapid fall of temperature, intense pain, and violent vomiting.