46o AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES the contents only are returned into the abdomen, leaving the sac lying in the canal. The coverings of the sac consist of the structures superficial to the aperture through which the hernia passes, and are fully described in anatomical text-books. In practice it is often difficult or impossible to distinguish the various coverings, especially in old-standing hernise which have become strangulated. The sac is recognised, after all the super- ficial structures have been peeled off, by its thin transparent appearance ; it possesses no large vessels, and if these are present after the sac has presumably been cleared it is certain that all the coverings have not been removed. Most of the abdominal viscera have been found in hernial sacs ; the most common are portions of the omentum or the small intestine, or both together. The large intestine is not uncommonly present—especially in hernias on the left side—and the caecum, with or without a sac, the appendix, or the ovary may also be met with. Various important changes take place in the contents, which will be considered in connection with irreducible hernia. The causation of hernia is a much debated subject. According to Hamilton Russell practically all herniae are congenital in the sense that the sac is present at birth ; but a variety of predisposing causes may be mentioned, of which the chief are heredity, occupations entailing constant exertion in positions that leave the weaker portions of the abdomen unprotected, feeble abdominal muscles from faulty nutrition or debilitating illnesses, imperfect development of the abdominal wall, the distension of pregnancy, constant cough, marked straining—as in stricture of the bowel or urethra, phimosis, or enlarged prostate—various inflammatory affec- tions of or operations upon the abdominal wall, and abnormal length of the mesentery. The chief exciting causes are sudden strains while the body is in a position in which the abdominal orifices are not protected ; hence hernia is more frequent in men than in women. The symptoms of hernia are too well known to need description. Hernia may be classified in various ways. The cases may be divided into two great groups according as they form in connection with parts in which there is naturally a weakness of the abdominal wall—e.g. inguinal, femoral, or obturator hernia—or according as they protrude at parts where the walls have been weakened as the result of injury or disease. Again, they may be classed as complete or incomplete hernia ; a complete hernia is one which has passed through all the muscular coats of the abdomen, and an incomplete one is one still covered by one or more of the muscles, the typical examples being complete inguinal hernia, which has come out through the external abdominal ring, and incomplete inguinal hernia or bubonocele, in which the hernia is still in the inguinal canal. A third division is into reducible and irreducible hernia, according as the contents