i8o AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS The tumour infiltrates the muscular walls and affects the surrounding structures or the glands in the lower part of the neck or mediastinum comparatively early. When situated high up, it may ulcerate into the trachea and give rise to a fistulous communication between the oesophagus and the air-passages. Lower down it may attack the wall of the aorta and lead to fatal haemorrhage. In other cases again it may spread by direct extension to the lungs, or communicate with the mediastinum and lead to septic mediastinitis. Various pressure S5anptoms mav occur from implication of nerves in the neighbourhood. After symptoms of stricture have become manifest, the life of the patient is comparatively short ; death usually occurs in three or four months unless means are taken to feed the patient artificial!}^ ; even after gastrostomy, the patient usually dies within a year from the commence- ment of the s)TTiptoms and generally earlier. The fatal result may be due to marasmus or to complications such as septic broncho-pneumonia from ulceration into the trachea, haemorrhage, mediastinal suppuration, or tuberculosis ; the latter disease seems to be common in cases of stricture of the oesophagus, whether simple or malignant. The chief symptom is dysphagia accompanied by loss of strength often out of all proportion to the inability to take food ; it is quite common to find a patient able to take a large quantity of liquid nourishment and, in spite of this, emaciating to a very marked degree. Pain is frequently absent, but coughing and the expectoration of mucus may be troublesome symptoms; there are the usual signs of stricture of the oesophagus, frequentl}^ combined with those of ulceration, and there is an absence of any history of injury. The onset is usually gradual, but may be very rapid. When the growth is situated near the commencement of the oesophagus, the air-passages may become implicated, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve is not uncommonly paralysed on one or both sides. The diagnosis is made by the use of bougies, by means of the oesophagoscope, and by the X-ray screen and radiograms. TREATMENT.—^The treatment of cancer of the oesophagus is at the present time almost entirely palliative. Excision has been practised for growths occupying the upper end of the tube, and in a few cases the patients have recovered from the operation, but recurrence has ensued, In the most of the cases that have been operated on, the trachea has also been involved, so that the operation has been practically an excision of the oesophagus and the larynx combined. Accidents have happened after operation from food passing into the trachea, and in all the cases death has occurred in a few months. Considering the fatality of the disease, the formidable character of the operation, the great mutilation and the short relief afforded to the patient, these operations do not seem advisable. The treatment must therefore be directed to maintaining the patency of the oesophagus as long as possible and relieving the various sj'mptoms