595 CANCER Quite recently radium has been used in these inoperable cases with the view of destroying enough of the growth to restore the lumen of the bowel to some extent and thus obviate obstruction. For this purpose the radium is enclosed in a suitable capsule and is introduced well into the centre of the growth by means of a proctoscope or sigmoido- scope ; a tube containing loo milligrammes is generally used. It is then packed in place by swabs and left in situ for twenty-four hours. Radium does not cure cancer of the bowel, but it certainly does some- times destroy enough to restore the lumen for a time. It is, however, very uncertain in its action, and fatal perforation of the bowel may occur. An active patient treated in this way will be much happier than if colostomy were performed at a comparatively early stage of the disease, and will be much more ready to submit to the operation when its performance is essential. The average duration of life after colostomy, performed fairly early in the disease, is from a year to eighteen months; but occasionally cases occur in which several years elapse before death takes place. We have had cases living as long as six or seven years after the operation, but the latter part of these patients' lives is often very distressing as they become bedridden and suffer much from involvement of other organs, especially the bladder. Operative treatment.—Excision.—Excision of che rectum may be performed in any of the following ways: (i) by the perineal route ; (2) by the sacral route ; (3) by the vaginal route ; (4) by the abdominal route, or by the combined abdominal and perineal or sacral routes. Preliminary measures.—Certain preliminary measures must be taken in order to minimise the risks of the operation, particularly that of septic infection of the pelvic ceUular tissue. Most surgeons think that this danger is best avoided by performing a preliminary colostomy some days before the radical operation is undertaken ; it has the additional advantage that it allows the state of the growth to be made out accurately from above. Its influence in producing asepsis of the excision wound is, however, only partial as, although fjecal matter does not pass over it, mucus and intestinal discharges containing plenty of organisms certainly do. It has, nevertheless, a distinct advantage in the operation by the sacral route in that it prevents gross fouling, while in the combined methods it is essential, as the whole lower part of the rectum is removed. The only cases in which it is not necessary are those suitable for perineal excision, in which the growth is situated so low down that, after the excision, it is possible to stitch the cut end of the bowel to the margin of the anus, and those suitable for operation by the sacral route in which an anus is made in the sacral region. Even in these cases, however, a temporary colostomy may be done with advantage, but the opening must be made as high up in the sigmoid as possible, otherwise the shortening of the rectum may interfere with the lo\\er end being puUed down by tethering the bowel at the colostomy opening. In these cases the Q Q 2