INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS is very ill and in the ulcerative form extensive ulceration may occur covered with a grey or yellowish false membrane, and in the diphtheroid form this membrane is more consistent and may attain a considerable size. The breath is foetid, there is dysphagia and some fever, and the submaxillary glands enlarge. The illness lasts from four to eight days. As distinguished from diphtheria, the onset is more sudden, the tempera- ture higher, there is rarely albuminuria, there are no late paralytic sequela;, and the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus is not present. TREATMENT.—The treatment is much the same as that for ulcerative tonsiUitis. The patient should be isolated from other children as the disease seems to be infective. Aconite is recommended, purges, aspirine, liquor ferri perchloridi (lo to 20 minim doses), rest in bed and nutritious diet. The throat may be painted with carbolic acid in glycerine, with alkaline solutions, with 4 per cent, protargol, Listerine, or iron and glycerine, and hot fomentations should be applied to the neck. CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. This is a common affection and the enlargement may (iccur witlKJut any previous acute inflammation ; it may follow one of the exanthemata and may remain after an attack of acute tonsillitis. It is fre- quently associated with the presence of adenoid vegetations in the naso-pharynx and many of the symptoms attributed to the tonsillar affection are really due to the presence of adenoids. The affection is one of great importance, because the enlarged foUicles of the tonsil harbour all kinds of organisms, and hence the patient is constantly liable to acute attacks of follicular tonsillitis and also to tuberculous glands in the neck. Moreover the affection may hinder proper respiration and sf) interfere with nutrition in general. TREATMENT.—(rt) Palliative.—When the enlargement of the tonsils is not very marked and the patient is strongly disinclined to have them removed, palliative measures may be employed, such as painting the tonsils with equal parts of glycerine and hquor ferri perchloridi, with glycerinum iodi, or with glycerinum acidi tannici, together with the administration of cod-liver oil and iron. Good hygienic conditions and good food are essential. The enlargement seldom subsides under palliative treatment, however, imtil the natural atrophy which occurs at puberty sets in. (b) Operative.—When the enlargement is marked, and especially when symptoms of imperfect respiration, such as thick speech, nasal voice or snoring at night, are associated with it, or when the patient is subject to repeated attacks of ' sore throat,' removal, not only of the tonsils but of the adenoids, should be strongly advised. Removal of the tonsils is carried out at the present time either by means of the guillotine or by complete enucleation. When the guillotine