609 CANCER the rectum from below. The details of the operation vary according to circumstances, and three methods may be described : (i) When the whole operation is completed at one sitting. (2) When it is done in two stages. (3) When a preliminary colostomy is necessary in the first instance and the radical operation is performed at a later period. In all cases the first stage of the operation is to open the abdomen. The patient is placed in the extreme Trendelenburg position and the abdomen is opened by a vertical incision through the left rectus from the pubis to the umbilicus. The condition of the rectum and the liver is now examined, and the possibility of a successful removal of the growth is estimated, while at the same time the extent of the glandular infection is noted. If now a colostomy is necessary it is performed. Should there be no possibility of a radical operation, either now or in the future, the colostomy opening is made through the laparotomy incision if possible ; if the meso-sigmoid is too short to permit of this, a second incision is made laterally (see p. 379) and the sigmoid colon brought out through this in the usual manner. Should a radical operation be con- templated at a later date the colostomy opening should also be placed laterally so as to keep it as far away as possible from the anterior incision, which will have to be reopened at the second operation. (i) When the whole operation is completed at one sitting.—The small intestines are packed out of the way, the upper part of the pelvic colon is pulled forwards—the meso-colon being divided, if necessary, in order to allow this to be done. The pelvic colon is clamped in two places at least six inches above the tumour and divided between the clamps. Each cut end is invaginated and closed by a purse-string suture, the lower end being wrapped in gauze and left in situ, and the upper brought out at the upper end of the wound or through a separate incision in tlie left iliac fossa, according to the proposed seat of the permanent colostomy opening. The removal of the rectum and the tumour is now proceeded with. The fat and glands are separated downwards, and the superior ha;mor- rhoidal vessels are identified by putting the upper end of the rectum on the stretch, and are clamped, divided, and tied. The peritoneum is now divided on each side about half an inch from the bowel down to the reflection of the peritoneum on to the bladder ; at that point the incisions are carried round to the front of the bowel. The peritoneum is separated on each side, and the ureters are stripped up along with it ; the left ureter is the one most liable to injury. All the soft tissues are removed from the hollow of the sacrum, and the separation is carried as low down as possible—sometimes to the levatores ani—blood-vessels being tied as they are divided ; the vessels will be the middle hjemorrhoidals, the middle sacral, and some branches of the lateral sacrals. A sterilised cloth is now thrown over the abdominal incision, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the anal canal and lower IV. R R