INJURIES 315 When the injury to the intestine is limited, it is most frequently met with on the convex surface ; in bad contusions the bowel may be torn asunder, usually a movable from a more fixed portion, such as the jejunum from the duodenum or the ileum from the cjecum. The transverse colon is the part of the large intestine most frequently injured ; after that, the Ccccum and then the descending colon. After rupture of any part of the small intestine except the duo- denum, the contents of the bowel pass directly into the general peri- toneal cavity. The second and third parts of the duodenum, however, are not entirely surrounded by peritoneum, and if the rupture occurs on the posterior surface, extravasation of the contents will take place into the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue ; this leads to the formation of an abscess which points in the lumbar, iliac, or sub-diaphragmatic region. These wounds of the duodenum with infection of the cellular tissue behind it are very fatal ; as a rule the patient dies of septic poisoning and, unless the nature of the injury is recognised and dealt with at once, it is rarely possible to do anything effectual in the way of treatment. The same is true of wounds affecting the posterior surface of the ascending or descending colon. THE DIAGNOSIS BETWEEN HEMORRHAGE AND RUPTURE OF THE BOWEL. // tlic case is one of hcemorvhagc, there will be the general symptoms of shock—such as collapse, pallor, feeble and quick pulse, and sighing respiration—while at the same time there may be localised areas of dullness in the abdomen. The flanks should be carefully percussed, and examina- tion per rectum and per vaginam should always be made ; the presence of a fullness in the pelvis, due to blood accumulating there, may be detected. Nevertheless, there may be a large amount of blood in the peritoneal cavity without any dullness being elicited on percussion, and in the pelvis without any fullness being detected. After a time, when the blood has clotted, a boggy feeling may be found on vaginal or rectal examination, or a distinct bulging of the rectal wall or pushing down of Douglas's pouch. Continued marked collapse, with extreme pallor and the general signs of haemorrhage—especially arising pulse-rate—indicate haemorrhage, and these symptoms call for immediate operation. In riiplure of the intestines, the initial shock is not always great and may pass off comparatively quickly ; in fact, it is not unknown for a patient to continue at work for some time after the bowel has been ruptured. There is usually severe localised pain and rigidity at the site of the injury. Vomiting is often present and persistent, and it may increase in frequency and violence, but blood is not present in the vomit, nor are the stools black. The pulse at first may be normal, but it steadily increases in rapidity and diminishes in volume. When the