246 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH carried away. The chief of these recesses are the space between the stomach and the hver, the flank on either side, and Douglas's pouch, as in these directions the more solid particles will gravitate and lodge. The irrigation should be continued until the fluid runs out clear. The assistant then lets go the edges of the incision and the bulk of the fluid escapes from the abdomen. (3) Should there he very extensive rupture of the stomach so thai the whole of the peritoneal cavity is soiled, and should the extravasated material contain coarse particles of food which are widely distributed over the peritoneal cavity, it will be necessary to carry out the cleansing of the abdomen more thoroughly. For this purpose the abdominal incision must be enlarged, so that it reaches almost from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, and the intestines must be turned out of the abdominal cavity on to hot cloths spread on the abdomen to receive them. This empties the abdominal cavity, which can then be mopped up and flushed out extremely rapidly, Douglas's pouch and the lumbar region being thus rendered perfectly accessible. The coils of intestine should then be spread out upon the cloths on the front of the abdomen and examined coil by coil as quickly as possible, being flushed with hot normal saline solution {105° F.) under fair pressure from the nozzle of an irrigator as this is done. All foreign material is thus removed and solid particles are caught upon the abdominal cloths as they are washed off the intestines and are thus not likely to infect other portions of the peritoneum. The whole operation of evisceration must be done rapidly, and it is well at the same time to inject saline solution into each axilla unless the intravenous method of inducing anaesthesia (see p. 32) is being used. If the surgeon is alarmed at the severity of the collapse previous to the operation and hurries unduly over the cleansing of the abdomen or performs it in a perfunctory manner, he will lose patients who might otherwise be saved by a more thorough and deliberate procedure. There can be no doubt that this method of evisceration adds to the shock ; but against this must be placed the facts that these patients are otherwise certain to die of peritonitis in a day or two and that this method offers them practically the only chance. We do not wish to imply that evisceration should be practised in all cases of widespread infection of the general peritoneal cavity. When the material in the peritoneal cavity is fluid and does not contain large solid lumps and masses, the procedures already detailed {vide supra) will probably do all that is required and certainly with less shock. When, however, solid masses of potato, meat, or other material, are widely distributed over the abdomen and are not likely to escape with the fluid employed for flushing, the more thorough method of cleansing by evisceration must be employed. Closure of the abdominal wound.—The abdomen is closed in the usual way, through-and-through stitches and not buried ones being employed (see p. 219) ; but before doing this, the question will arise as to whether