GASTRIC ULCER 255 constriction situated exactly in the centre of the stomach ; but it is more convenient from the point of view of treatment to enlarge the term so as to embrace all contractions of the stomach which produce a circular narrowing of the cavity and divide it into two sacs, even though these be of very unequal size. 3. Perforation.—This is not an uncommon complication of gastric ulcer and may give rise to various results. When the ulcer perforates the stomach wall and there are no adhesions, the gastric contents are extravasated freely into the general peritoneal cavity and a general septic peritonitis is set up. When on the other hand, perforation occurs in a situation in which adhesions have occurred, the extravasation may not take place into the general peritoneal cavity, and localised suppurative peritonitis followed by abscess may occur. Occasionally, when the peri- gastritis has produced firm adhesions between the stomach wall and the neighbouring tissues, the entire thickness of the stomach wall may be destroyed by the ulcer without the occurrence of either peritonitis or suppuration. This is most common in the neighbourhood of the pancreas. It happens occasionally that the orifice through which the extravasation takes place is so minute that only a very small quantity can escape at a time. As a result, intense local irritation is set up and the area of perforation is soon shut off from the general peritoneal cavity. These perforations are sometimes termed subacute perforations or ' leaking ulcers.' The pathology of gastric ulcer is by no means clear. It is probable that the ulceration is preceded by thrombosis of the smaller vessels and that the ulcer is a necrotic process following the action of the gastric juice upon this area. It is very common in antemic girls and it is probable that the anaemia may have something to do with the production of the ulcer. Hyperacidity of the gastric contents has also been assigned as a cause, but this explanation is not satisfactory, as hyperacidity is frequently met with unaccompanied by ulcer, and, conversely, hyper- acidity is not invariably present in all cases of gastric ulcer. SYMPTOMS.—The subjects of gastric ulcer are usually anaemic, thin, have a poor appetite, and complain of three principal symptoms : namely—pain, vomiting, and haematemesis. Pain in well-marked cases is constant and of varying intensity. The exact period at which it supervenes after a meal varies to some extent with the position of the ulcer ; when this is situated near the cardiac end of the stomach, pain usually occurs immediately after taking food ; when at or near the pylorus, it may not come on for as long as an hour or two after a meal. An important diagnostic point is that the pain is increased by pressure. It is not uncommon for very neurotic subjects who are not suffering from ulcer to complain of pain after food, but this pain is usually relieved by pressure. The pain due to gastric ulcer is generally relieved by lying down, and some slight help in diagnosing the situation