150 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS from them. The tumour usually grows extremely rapidly, and fills up the entire pharynx. The interference with breathing and swallowing is increased by the constant collection of tenacious mucus at the back of the throat. Treatment.—This consists of early removal both of the growth and the enlarged glands. The methods of operating and the after- treatment are similar to that for carcinoma {vide infra). BPITHELIOMATA are met with in any part of this region. They frequently spread from the back of the tongue to the anterior pillar of the fauces and the tonsil ; in other cases they spread in the reverse direction, commencing in the tonsil and subsequently infiltrating the tongue. They may also spread from the tonsil to the soft palate. WTien they commence at the lower part of the tonsil, or when they spread from the tongue to that situation, they rapidly extend downwards and involve the aryteno-epiglottidean folds and side wall of the pharynx. Sometimes the tumour is entirely pharyngeal, and in that case it usually commences fairly low down just behind the tonsil. Lastly, the anterior pharyngeal wall may sometimes be affected, the growth occurring behind the cricoid cartilage either as a primary mass or as a secondary extension from the larynx. As in the sarcomata, the symptoms may be very slight, even though the tumour has attained a considerable size. In some cases, the first thing to attract the patient's attention is the presence of an enlarged gland in the neck, and there may be a large mass of hard fixed glands secondary to a small growth, which is situated in some remote and almost invisible portion of the pharynx. The glands involved are those situated in the upper part of the anterior triangle of the neck, and those deep to the sterno-mastoid muscle. Treatment.—In connection with the treatment of both sarcomata and epitheliomata various points arise.^ In the first place the advisability of performing an operation at all must be considered and after that the method hy which it should be done. The advisability oi operating at all must be decided partly by the extent of the disease and partly by its situation. The more extensive the growth, the less favourable is the result of operation, especially when the disease is in the pharynx. Extensive enlargement of the glands in the neck is not however a serious bar to operation, as we have already pointed out in connection with cancer of the tongue (see p. 77), because the glands may be successfully removed, even if large and adherent to the carotid sheath. The extent of the disease in the throat, however, is a very different matter. If the patient survives an extensive operation a large wound is left which secretes pus for a long time, and distortion of the ' The question of operation in malignant disease of the pharynx and its results will he found fully discussed in the Lettsomian Lectures for 1896 by W. Watson Cheyne.