104 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE disease in the mouth, the surgeon may ligature the lingual artery in its continuity if he chooses, as it can easily be exposed in the dissection. If there is any reason to suppose that the glands in the submental region are also infected the incision may be prolonged forwards and this area cleared out also (see below). The anterior triangle is the situation in which the enlarged glands are chiefly found, and the one in which the greatest thoroughness is essential, for it must always be remembered that, if the glands are imperfectly removed and recurrence takes place, it is practically impossible to perform a second operation satisfactorily. The first operation therefore cannot be too thorough. The glands in the anterior triangle are in intimate relation with the sheath of the jugular vein, and from quite an early period it is difficult to separate the two structures without running the risk of puncturing or tearing the glands. At a later period the vein is usually so mixed up with the mass of glands that it is excessively difficult to remove the latter without injuring the vein. The main enlargement occurs near the bifurcation of the carotid artery, but the glands run upwards to the parotid gland, and when the disease is situated at the back of the tongue special care is necessary to remove the glands and lymphatic vessels which cross in front of, and behind, the digastric muscle. In this region also the glands extend outwards under the sterno-mastoid, and are usually divided into two main groups by the spinal accessory nerve. The upper and posterior mass bulges beneath the muscle and is intimately connected with the deep fascia over the deeper muscles in the neck where it extends on to the atlas, and this fascia must be divided above in order to allow of thorough removal. We have already laid considerable stress (see p. 75) upon the great importance of taking care laot to rupture the glands in removing them, lest epitheliomatous infiltration of the wound should occur, and therefore all incisions should be very free, and the entire glandular area should be thoroughly exposed before the removal of the glands is proceeded with. There should be no attempt to pull enlarged glands out of deep recesses when an increase in the length of the incision or a further dissection will enable them to be removed without risk, and no attempt should be made to shell out each individual gland ; the whole of the tissues in which the glands are lyiiag must be removed en masse. Attempts to shell out soft glands will generally lead to their rupture ; should such an accident happen, the best procedure is probably to wash out the wound with a I in 2000 sublimate solution and then to open up the whole surface and rub it over with undiluted carbolic acid. We have had accidents of this kind, and in one or two cases no infection followed after using this method ; but in others it has failed us, probably because the carbolic acid did not reach some portion of the raw surface. Certain guides are necessary to perform the operation systematically.