AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH duodenum and cut down upon this as a guide ; if preferred, a pair of probe-pointed scissors may be used to slit up the pylorus. A mattress suture (see Fig. 87) is inserted at each end of this incision, and when this is tied, what were formerly the ends of the incision become the central points and the line of incision is converted from a horizontal into a vertical one (see Fig. 106). This suture should be of silk, and should be reinforced by two others on each side, so that the edges of the incision are brought together throughout ; the operation is completed by burying these sutures with a continuous sero-muscular suture of fine catgut. The area of operation is then cleansed, the abdominal clotbs are removed, and the abdomen closed in the usual manner (see p. 215). Gastro-jejunostomy is called for when there is much cicatricial tissue which would necessitate a long incision, thus rendering the approximation of the edges of the wound by pyloroplasty difficult. The Fig. 107.—Lane's Intestinal Clamps. A very useful type of clamp when the bowel has not a long mesentery, as it is easy to push the metal stem behind the bowel in any position. The rubber is stretched across the front of the bowel and effectually but lightly compressed. The sketch is full size. posterior operation (see p. 265) should be chosen, and if the opening is made sufficiently large, the result is satisfactory. In some cases, how- ever, the stomach is so bound down that an anterior gastro-jejunostomy is preferable. Gastro-duodenostomy or the anastomosis of the duodenum with the stomach, is suitable for cases in which the adhesions are not too extensive to prevent the descending portion of the duodenum being freed and brought over to the anterior surface of the stomach (see p. 278). TREATMENT OF ' HOUR-GLASS CONTRACTION.' For the treatment of this condition the surgeon has at his disposal the operations of gastroplasty, gastro-gastrostomy, or gastro-jejunostomy. Gastroplasty.—This operation can only be done when the con- striction between the two portions of the stomach is the chief mischief