325 INJURIES clamps (see Fig. 116) placed one on each side of the portion to be removed, and at a convenient distance from the proposed point of section ; in order to get sufficient room, this should be at least four inches. The bowel is also clamped at a similar distance beyond the proposed point of section and is then cut across with a large pair of scissors and the damaged portion removed by cutting along its mesenteric attach- ment. The line of section of the intestine may be transverse or oblique ; the latter is only necessary if it is proposed to make an end-to-end union, this obliquity increasing the lumen of the bowel when the cut margins are stitched together. It is not necessary to remove a V-shaped portion of the mesentery, as there is no thrombosis of its vessels as occurs in gangrene of tlie bowel, and by simply detaching the mesentery from the bowel there is no risk of injuring the blood-supply of the remaining intestine. Fig. 119 shows how the redundant mesentery should be treated ; when only a small loop of intestine is removed, there is no Fig. 116.—Lane's Intestinal Clamp arranged for Intestinal Anastomosis. This is the clamp shown in Fig. 95, but now arranged so that the divided ends of the bowel when grasped by them shall be side by side, as would be necessary for the performance of end-to-end anastomosis. thick redundant piece of mesentery to stitch together afterwards. Tlie individual vessels are picked up and tied as the bowel is detached. End-to-end union.—For the purpose of uniting the divided ends the two ends of the bowel are brought together so that their open ends look forwards and, beginning at the mesenteric border, a line of Lembert's sutures is inserted about a quarter of an inch away from the cut edge. After about one-half of the bowel has been united in this way the stitch is tied and laid aside. The cut edges are now united by a continuous suture of catgut taking up all the coats of the intestine, but before this last suture is inserted the greatest care must be taken to see that the two segments of the intestine are in proper relative position. In order to make sure of this it is well to insert two temporary loops of silk through all the coats of the intestine, one at the convex border of the bowel and the other at the mesenteric attachment; these are given to an assistant to hold and they insure accurate coaptation of the two portions of the intestine and can be removed when the suturing is complete (see Fig. 117). The suture