AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 482 In adults.—The remarks already made upon the question of a radical cure versus a truss (see p. 465) apply in their entirety to inguinal hernia. Trusses.—Should it be decided that the patient is to wear a truss—and even if operation is decided on, a truss should be worn until it is performed —the following points must be attended to in ordering the truss. The circumference of the pelvis is measured from the centre of the external ring to a point midway between the top of the great trochanter and the crest of the ilium, and then horizontally around the pelvis on this level back to the centre of the ring. The sex, occupation, and social habits of the patient should be notified, together with some idea of the size of the ring and the amount of pressure required to keep up the hernia. It is also well to state whether the patient is stout or not, and whether a perineal band will be required ; this, as a rule, is only essential when the abdomen is very flat, as in the opposite condition there is no great tendency for the truss to slip up. The pad should be as flat as possible, and just large enough to overlap the ring in all directions and to press on the lower end of the inguinal canal. It must be so arranged that the vas deferens is not pressed upon, and if the ring is large and considerable pressure is required, it is well to employ the horseshoe pad designed by the late Professor Wood, which avoids pressure on the cord (see Fig. 154). Wood's horseshoe truss is also useful in direct herniae, because in these cases the ordinary truss is apt to press upon the cord ; it is also suitable for those who are very susceptible to pressure and who rapidly develop varicosity of the veins of the cord as a result. The ordinary spring truss takes its purchase behind over the sacrum, and should pass round the body midway between the iliac crest and the top of the great trochanter. It should lie flat against the skin everywhere, except near the junction of the spring with the pad. Special trusses are used for cases of retained testicle complicating a hernia, for scrotal hernia (see Fig. 161), and for irreducible hernia (see Fig. 155); but in our opinion these are very rarely called for. In all these cases a radical cure should be performed, unless there is some very serious contra-indication. When the muscles are very lax, the subjects very fat, and the hernige very large, the radical cure may not be permanent ; but even then it is of great value, as it allows the patient to wear an ordinary truss. When a radical cure is not performed for a reducible scrotal hernia, a form of truss is often used which has a strong spring and a triangular- shaped pad—the so-called ' rat-tailed truss ' (see Fig. 161). A strap passes from the lower angle of the pad, under the perineum, and is fastened to the spring on the same side of the body as the hernia. The perineal band in this truss is meant to exert direct pressure upon the canal, while that in the ordinary form merely prevents the pad from slipping up. This truss must never be used unless the hernia is completely reducible.