INJURIES 247 drainage should be employed. Experience has shown that many cases do extremely well without any drainage whatever, and if the surgeon is fairly sure of having removed all the infective material, especially if the area of extravasation has been small, the abdominal cavity may be safely closed without drainage. On the other hand, when there is any doubt, it is well to introduce drainage tubes down to the neighbourhood of the so-called ' gravitation areas '—namely, the two flanks and the true pelvis. For this purpose small' stab wounds ' may be made just below the twelfth rib on each side by thrusting a long pair of forceps through the soft tissues just external to the kidney from the inside and making their points pro- ject beneath the skin, where they are cut down upon. The blades are pushed through the opening and separated so as to dilate the track ; a medium-sized drainage tube is then seized by the forceps and pulled into position as they are withdrawn. A similar incision is made through the anterior abdominal wall just above the pubes, and a large-sized rubber tube is inserted down to the bottom of Douglas's pouch. The tubes are cut off flush with the skin and sutured in position. Their function is to drain off any fluid which has escaped removal and which gravitates into the dependent pockets in which they lie. As they very soon become shut off from the general peritoneal cavity, their action is only local after a few hours. The after-treatment of these cases is given below. 3. Of perforating wounds of the stomach accompanied by a perforating wound of the abdominal wall.—In civil practice, where the patient is under suitable conditions, it may be laid down as a general rule that wounds of the abdominal wall over the region of the stomach, whether inflicted by knives or similar instruments or the result of a bullet wound, should always be explored at once and the condition of the stomach and intestines ascertained. An anaesthetic should be given, the abdominal wall disinfected, the wound cleansed and if necessary enlarged, and care must be taken not to allow the antiseptic to run into the interior of the abdominal cavity. When the direction of the wound renders it probable that it has reached the stomach, the question will arise whether it is better to enlarge the existing opening in order to examine that organ, or to make a fresh vertical incision in the usual situation. If the abdominal wound is over the stomach, it should be enlarged, but if it lies much to one side it is more convenient on the whole to make a fresh incision in front. The treatment of the injury to the stomach will be similar to that for the cases already described {vide sitpya), and if the wound has been inflicted with a sharp cutting instrument, the edges should be inverted and sutured. If, however, the edges of the wound and the stomach are contused they may be pared so as to leave clean-cut surfaces. In gunshot wounds it is always advisable to excise the track of the bullet, because it is apt to become gangrenous. The question of drainage will be determined by considerations similar