88 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE sandbag and the head turned fully over to the sound side. The mouth is widely opened with a self-retaining gag such as Lane's (see Fig. 27, B), which does not slip, takes up very little room and is applied far back on the sound side so as to keep the angle of the mouth wide open and thus allow the blood to collect in the hollow of the cheek, and subsequently run out of the mouth. A large retractor at the opposite angle of the mouth pulls the cheek well back so as to expose the buccal cavity thoroughly. A good light is essential and the patient should either face a window or artificial illumination should be used. A preliminary laryngotomy is advisable in the more advanced cases, and then the pharynx should be packed with sponges. The aucesthetic should be chloroform. A silk ligature is passed through the base of the tongue on the sound side in the manner described on p. 85, and the tip of the half that is to be removed is pulled out with tongue-forceps (see Fig. 30), the tip on the other side being seized with catch-forceps. The surgeon takes charge of the tongue-forceps, while the ligature and the catch-forceps are entrusted to an assistant, whose duty it is to pull the tongue well forward and to keep the mouth sponged well out ; he should be provided with plenty of sponges on holders or for- ceps. The tongue can be pulled out still farther by dividing the frenum and the anterior pillars of the fauces on each side. This is done by clip- ping each with scissors and enlarging the gap by the fingers. The steps of the operation vary somewhat, according to whether the disease encroaches upon the floor of the mouth or not. When the disease does not encroach upon the floor of the mouth, the simplest plan is to begin by splitting the tongue along the raphe right back to the base. The mucous membrane should be divided either with a knife or by running one blade of a parr of sharp-pointed scissors beneath the mucous membrane in the middle line along the dorsum towards the base, and dividing the mucous membrane as it goes ; a similar procedure is carried out in the middle line of the under-surface of the tip. The tongue can now be split by seizing one half in each hand and separating the muscular fibres by means of the finger ; this method saves considerable bleeding. The surgeon then divides the mucous membrane and the muscles in the floor of the mouth on the affected side by a series of short Fig. 30.—Removal of one half of the Tongue by the Intra-Buccal Method. A suture is inserted through the tip of the half to be removed, and another through the base of the opposite half. The tongue is split in the middle line, and the dotted line indicates the transverse incision well behind the growth. A retractor should be used to pull back the angle of the mouth on the right side.