CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 369 CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION FROM CHANGES IN THE BOWEL WALL. The most ccjmmon forms of chronic obstruction come under this heading and the stenosis may be congenital, or due to stricture following ulceration of the mucous membrane, or to malignant disease. Stenosis of malignant origin is usually due to a primary growth occurring in the mucous and sub-mucous tissue and subsequently infiltrating the rest of the wall and leading to ulceration. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION FROM SIMPLE STRICTURE. Congenital sti'icttires and malformations of the bowel maey occur in different parts of the intestinal tract, but are most frequent in the rectum (see Chap. XXXIV.). The degree of stenosis met with elsewhere may vary from a complete solution of continuitj' between two segments of the bowel to an incomplete diaphragmatic septum. Congenital strictures may occur in the duodenum, and are generally situated just above the entrance of the common bile-duct. Another situation of congenital stricture of the intestinal canal is the ileum, usually in association with Meckel's diverticulum. Congenital strictures of the colon are very rare. These congenital conditions very seldom come under surgical treat- ment, for the reason that when they are serious the symptoms become manifest immediately after birth and at a time when no effectual operati^'e procedure can be borne by the infant. Should they be partial and become evident later on, the condition will only be very slight and the treatment will be analogous to that of stricture originating after birth. x\mong the congenital malformations of the bowel which come under notice are fcecal fistiilcE, occurring usually in connection with the omphalo-mesenteric duct ; here there is practically no possibility of remedying matters because the intestine below is so very narrow and badly developed that it would not carry on its functions even if resection and end-to-end union were done. Strictures due to non-malignant ulceration may originate in various ways ; they occur most commonly in connection with tuberculous disease of the intestine. Tuberculous ulceration of the intestine in connection with tuberculous peritonitis is dealt with in Chap. XXVIII., but we may make a few remarks about it here. Tuberculous ulcers are most frequentlj^ met with in the lower part of the ileum, and the ulcers may be either single or multiple ; the multiplicity' of tuberculous ulcers should be borne in mind when operation for this form of stricture is called for, because the relief of one stricture may not cure the sj'mptoms. The ulcer is often extensive and elongated, with IV. B B