EPITHELIOMA 93 what downwards, and is turned towards the side upon which the disease is least extensive. The incision (see Fig. 32) commences at the symphysis, and sweeps downwards and somewhat backwards to the hyoid bone. It is carried along parallel to the latter structure, and backwards nearly to the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then sweeps upwards and backwards over the anterior border of this muscle towards the lobe of the ear. In Kocher's operation, as usually described and figured, this incision is angular, but it is best to make the large curve here described. The flap of skin and superficial fascia thus marked out is turned up over the jaw, the deep fascia over the anterior triangle and the submaxillary region divided and the glands removed, the submaxillary triangle being entirely cleared out. Should it be decided to clear out the glandular area from the anterior triangle at this operation, it will be necessary to continue the incision along the border of the sterno-mastoid well down below the level of the cricoid cartilage. The mylo-hyoid muscle is now divided, leaving nothing between the wound in the neck and the mouth but the mucous membrane. The latter structure is next divided from before backwards on the side of the operator and the anterior pillar of the fauces is clipped across ; to do this it is necessary to open the mouth with a gag. The tongue can then be drawn out through the wound in the neck. The later steps of the operation depend upon whether the whole or only one half of the organ is to be removed ; in the latter case it is well to split the tongue in the middle line along the raphe from inside the mouth (see p. 88). When the entire organ is to be removed, the mucous membrane and the anterior pillar of the fauces on the other side should be divided from inside the mouth, the mouth shut and the lower jaw forcibly puhed up with a stout retractor, whilst the tongue is pulled out through the wound in the neck. This exposes the whole lateral area and base of