568 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS This operation may also be done under cocaine antestliesia, but it is far better to give the patient a general anaesthetic, as the opportunity should be taken to dilate the sphincter and examine for internal piles, which, if present, may be removed at the same time {vide infra). If the external file is inflamed and thrombosed, very acute pain may be caused, especially when it is large, as the parts are so tender that the patient cannot sit, stand, or walk in comfort. The indication is to remove the clot and thus relieve the tension at once, and this may be done by injecting a few minims of a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine into the base of the pile, and then transfixing it with a sharp curved bistoury in a line radiating from the anus, laying it freely open and turning out the clot. The congestion is at once relieved and the pain disappears in a very short time, while there is no bleeding, as the vein is thrombosed. A still better plan is to put the patient under a general anaesthetic and remove the whole pile and clot in the manner recommended above, bringing the edges of the wound together with a suture. There is no objection to doing this, even when there is considerable inflammation about the part. This method has the advantage over mere incision, that it gets rid of the skin-tags that must otherwise occur, and which, in the case of a large external pile, may enclose a fairly large suppurating cavity, which takes some time to heal. The after-treatment is very simple. A pad of boric lint is applied, and is removed in twenty-four hours, when the parts are washed with boric lotion, after which dry sterilised gauze is applied two or three times a day. (b) 01 internal piles and of the mixed form.—In ordinary uncomplicated cases it is advisable to employ operative treatment when the palliative measures mentioned above do not relieve the symptoms. In favour of operation it may be urged that the length of time that the patient is laid up is trivial compared with the time lost by the acute attacks to which these patients are subject, and which necessitate con- siderable periods of rest for their treatment. Again, haemorrhoids produce a peculiar mental effect upon the patient and may give rise to much irritability of temper and nervous depression, which disappear entirely after operation, so that the mental relief alone is remarkable. Finally, operation is practically safe and almost painless, and patients are thereby relieved from the attacks of inflammation and strangulation—accidents which are not only painful, but dangerous. We therefore advise that operation should be performed in all cases of iodiopathic piles when the patient is suffering much discomfort, and we consider that operation is imperative when he is losing much blood, when the piles come down as he walks about, and when complications—especially strangulation—are present. Opinions differ as to the best method of operation. The three chief plans are : complete excision of the pile-bearing area, removal of the piles by the clamp and cautery, and ligature.