AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 590 the inguinal chain is only affected in cancer involving the anus. Secondary deposits eventually occur in the liver, and this is a common cause of the death of the patient. Secondary growths usually increase more slowly than the primary one, especially when the latter is of the fungating variety. The symptoms depend greatly on the nature and progress of the disease. In the constricting form the earliest symptoms may be those of obstruction, but the fungating form will usually be diagnosed long before any symptoms of obstruction arise. In the latter cases the earliest symptom is a feeling of discomfort about the rectum, accompanied by a desire to go to the closet—especially in the morning, but when the patient goes to stool, only a little mucus mixed with blood and debris is passed, and he experiences the sensation that the bowels have been insufficiently relieved and feels that a second attempt is necessary. The trouble is, however, often so slight that the patient takes little notice of it, thinking that he is merely suffering from some chronic diarrhoea or mucous colitis. In other cases there is alternate diarrhoea and con- stipation, and generally there are dyspeptic symptoms. One of the earliest characteristic symptoms is that the patient, although quite com- fortable in bed, finds a mucous or foul discharge escaping from the anus directly he gets up in the morning. After emptying the rectum he remains fairly comfortable for a considerable time, but often has to seek relief more than once during the day on account of this spurious diarrhoea. When the growth is situated low down, the sphincters become relaxed, and there may be absence of complete control over the motions, accompanied by a continuous mucous discharge from the anus, which is sometimes acrid and may lead to excoriation of the skin ; this discharge is often blood-stained, but profuse bleeding is rare. Severe pain is usually a late symptom, but when the disease extends beyond the wall of the bowel, the nerves in the hoUow of the sacrum may become involved, and the patient then suffers from constant dull aching in the buttocks and thighs, which becomes excruciating as the nerves become more severely compressed. Digital examination of the rectum may reveal nothing unless the growth is within reach ; when it is, the surgeon feels either a fungating mass confined to one segment of the bowel with healthy mucous membrane elsewhere, or an annular narrowing of the gut, presenting a more or less central ragged opening closely resembling a split cervix uteri. The edges are indurated, and the opening itself is firm, and in many cases the finger cannot be passed through it. When the stricture is high up, the condition known as ' ballooning ' of the rectum may be present, accom- panied by a patulous condition of the anus. It is in these cases that an examination with the sigmoidoscope is most valuable ; this should never be omitted in any case of suspected colitis that does not improve rapidly under treatment. True piles may also occur, and should not be