277 GASTRIC ULCER lost. It is possible that it might be advisable to open up the wound in very bad cases, but usually it is too late to do so. Of the ' vicious circle.'—This most important complication calls for immediate and efficient treatment if the patient's life is to be saved. The onset of the mischief is usually marked by persistent vomiting wliich comes on a short time after the anesthetic vomiting is recovered from, and is unaccompanied by symptoms of peritonitis. In the earliest stages of the affection the symptoms may sul^side after simple washing out of the stomach two or three times a day. This acts by removing the gastric contents, checking the peristalsis and allowing the stomach and the afferent loop time to contract. Should the lavage fail, it should not be persisted in for more than a week, otherwise the persistent vomiting will so weaken the patient as to make the chances of a successful result exceedingly remote; early operative interference must be under- taken if the patient is to be saved. The operative procedure depends on the condition present. If it is due to a spur and if the bowel above the anastomotic opening is distended, an anastomosis should be made between the intestine above and below. In the anterior operation there is no difficulty in doing this, nor was there much difficulty in the case of the posterior operation as originally performed, because a loop of jejunmu intervened between the duodenum and the opening in the stomach. Should this accident occur with the ' no-loop ' method, however, the matter is quite different, and it may be impossible to connect the bowel above and below. If it can be done it is the proper procedure; but if not, there seems to be no alternative but to detach the bowel from the stomach, sew up both openings, and make a fresh posterior junction if the patient is well enough to stand the operation, or else to perform an anterior gastro- jejunostomy or the Y-operation. Fortunately, the ' vicious circle ' very seldom occurs after the ' no-loop' operation, but if it does, it is a very formidable complication and will tax the surgeon's ingenuity and skill to the utmost. When the complication occurs from kinks or twists beyond the anastomotic opening, they must be dealt with according to the conditions found, by undoing the kinks, or by jejuno-jejunostomy. Of contraction of the opening.—This is a later difficulty due to gradual contraction of the anastomotic opening. It is not uncommon when that opening has been made by artificial aids, such as bobbins or buttons, or when the opening after simple suture has been too small, or when the stomach has been much dilated before the operation or when the pylorus is patent. These conditions have been already referred to on p. 263. When stenosis occurs with recurrence of symptoms, there is nothing for it but to perform a laparotomy, and either to make a fresh anastomosis or enlarge the existing one. Should the original operation have been a posterior gastro-jejunostomy, it is, of course, easy to perform an anterior one at the second sitting. Should the original one have been the anterior operation, however, the surgeon is often faced with a considerable