154 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS exposed to sepsis, and the risk of secondary haemorrhage is consequently extremely great. Indeed, the collected cases of various surgeons show that the majority of those in which the external carotid has been tied under these circumstances have died from secondary hemorrhage. Experience shows that the bleeding during the operation is not so severe as to necessitate this procedure and, with a preliminary tracheotomy and the use of Hahn's tube, it need not give rise to any anxiety. The opera- tion should be so planned that the access to the tumour from the outside is good and that the surgeon is enabled to see and seize the bleeding points as they are divided. It is seldom necessary to employ temporary com- pression of either the common or external carotid. The methods of gaining: access to the primary disease.— No definite incisions or precise methods can be laid down for these operations, as the surgeon must plan out the operation for each individual case. We shall, however, endeavour to indicate some of the chief points in connection with them. Removal from within the mouth—The disease can very rarely be removed without an external incision, or at any rate without making the incision in the throat communicate with that for the removal of glands in the neck ; if this can be done, however, the operation is a much safer one. As an example we may quote a small epithehoma at the junction of the soft palate and the upper part of the tonsil which does not infiltrate the tissues deeply, or an epithelioma on the anterior pillar of the fauces or towards the front of the tonsil, or some cases of smaU epitheliomata occurring at the edge of the tongue with a tendency to extension on to the anterior pillar of the fauces. We have removed growths in all these situations from the mouth without opening the neck. Splitting the cheek.—Access to the disease in this situation is greatly facilitated by splitting the cheek. No doubt removal can sometimes be effected without doing this, but we should not advise that pro- cedure. To split the cheek from the angle of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter does not add to the gi'avity of the operation, nor does it cause much subsequent deformity, especially in the male, while it renders the disease about the anterior pillar of the fauces or the velum palati much more accessible. Removal by the thermo-cautery.—^We have come to the conclusion that the thermo-cautery is the best method of removing the growth in the cases above referred to. Not only is there little bleeding, but the heat of the cautery destroys any cancerous epithelial cells which may be spreading superficially, and thus adds an additional safeguard against recurrence. At the same time the operation leaves an eschar from which there is little exudation, so that there is not nearly the same amount of discharge at first as there would be from a clean-cut wound. The disadvantage is that the edges of the wound cannot be stitched together ; but, as we only recommend the cautery for small growths,