576 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS After all the internal piles have been removed, attention is turned to the external ones, which are best treated by picking them up with forceps and snipping them off with a pair of scissors curved upon the fiat. The scissors should be applied in a line radiating from the anus, and care must be taken to remove not only the skin, but also the projecting venous mass beneath it. Any bleeding from this source readily stops on pressure, and it is well to unite the edges of each incision with catgut sutures. It is not necessary to remove all the external piles, as they usually shrink up after the operation upon the internal ones ; only prominent ones need be taken away. After the operation is finished the part is carefully inspected to see that there is no bleeding, and a suppository of half a grain of mor- phine with adrenalin is inserted into the rectum, and a stout india- rubber tube may be inserted for a couple of days so as to allow flatus to escape. A pad of steri- lised gauze and wool is then fastened between the buttocks with a T-bandage. After-treatment.—^The patient is put back to bed and lies on his side with the pelvis raised on a pillow; the bowels are confined for three or four days—opium being administered for this pur- pose if necessary. During this time the diet should be fluid. On the fourth day a dose of castor oil Fig. 194.—The Clamp and Cautery Operation , , . , . , FOR Piles. The eschar left when the clamp is should be glVen early m the morning, and just before the action of the bowels occurs, an enema of warm olive oil (3 or 4 ounces) should be administered. The first action of the bowels is often painful, but the oil enema diminishes the pain very much. Should the patient feel faint, brandy or sal volatile may be administered. From this time onward the patient may have an ordinary light diet, wlxile a laxative—such as confection of senna or liquorice powder—should be given every day ; immediately prior to each action an ounce of olive oil should be injected into the rectum. As a rule the disturbance following this operation is very slight. In some cases—especially in men—there is retention of urine, but this is usually transient and causes no trouble ; patients may be allowed to stand up for the purpose of passing water if necessary. If there is any pain or spasm of the sphincter, the application of a large sponge wrung