364 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES been stirred, and then taking X-ray photographs of the abdomen at intervals of a few hours, until the bismuth has reached the rectum. If there is a stricture or kink, the bismuth accumulates above it and the degree of contraction may be indicated by the length of time it takes for the material to pass through. Similar investigations should also be made by injecting a bismuth emulsion up the rectum, and then examining the abdomen by the screen or taking a radiogram; this will show whether the bismuth has passed freely upwards or has been arrested at any point. As a rule it is easy to force the bismuth up as high as the middle of the transverse colon when there is no stricture. Lastly an exploratory operation may be performed before complete obstruction has set in so as to determine the existence and the situation of the obstruction and to deal with it at an early stage while the condition may still be remediable. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION FROM CAUSES OUTSIDE THE BOWEL. Assuming that these various investigations have been made, we shall proceed to consider the treatment of the different conditions which may be present according as the obstruction is incomplete or complete. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION CAUSED BY TUMOURS. It is not uncommon for the intestine to be compressed by a tumour external to it—for example, the sigmoid flexure or rectum may be pressed upon by uterine or ovarian tumours to such an extent that intestinal obstruction results. TREATMEISTT.—^The obvious treatment is to remove the obstruct- ing cause, but this is not always possible, either because the tumour is too firmly fixed or because the patient's condition wiU not allow of it. If the tumour is a simple ovarian or uterine growth, its removal may present no difficulties; if it is malignant, it may not merely press upon the intestine, but ma.y involve its wall, and be irremovable. When the tumour is inoperable, or the patient is so ill from obstruction that removal is out of the question, it is best to establish an artificial anus, and then, if removal of the tumour is possible, to proceed to excise it, and close the artificial anus when the patient has recovered from the effects of the obstruction. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION CAUSED BY ADHESIONS. The other extrinsic cause of chronic intestinal obstruction is adhesions following peritonitis—usually tuberculous. The intestinal coils become matted together in this affection, or the omentum becomes thickened and