30 AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS symptoms is displacement of the eye outwards, soon followed by a swelling at the root of the nose and the inner side of the orbit. The disease spreads on to the maxilla and into the upper part of the antrum. The origin, situation, and extent of the growth are of great importance in determining the operations that may be required, and still more in connection with the question of the advisability of operating at all. When the tumour is growing rapidly and the eyeball is displaced outwards, it is evident that the ethmoidal cells, and probably also the base of the skull, are involved in the disease, and all hope of extirpating it is, as a rule, out of the question. When, on the other hand, the tumour is of slow growth, the fact that the eyeball is thus displaced does not render the case inoperable, because the tumour may fill up the ethmoidal cells without involving the bones, and when the mucous membrane is peeled out the growth comes away with it. When the eyeball is pushed forwards or inwards, or both, the chances of success are extremely slight, and, as a rule, it is not advisable to interfere ; the tumour is evidently growing in the spheno-maxillary fossa and probably affects the sphenoidal sinus and the periosteum of the base of the skull. The cases suitable for operation are those in which the tumour is limited to the antrum or to one of the surfaces of the maxilla, and has not yet extended up into the cells at the base of the skull. Mere eleva- tion of the eyeball is no contra-indication to operation, and when the tumour starts in the malar bone or in front of the jaw, operation is justifiable, even when the growth is extensive. TREATMBJSTT.—If the general principles governing the removal of malignant growths were applied to the upper jaw, it would mean that the entire maxilla would be removed in all cases of malignant disease. Complete excision of the upper jaw has, however, two great disadvantages. In the first place, the result of removal of the orbital plate of the maxilla is that the eyeball loses its support and drops, so that the eye may look downwards; the resulting diplopia is permanent and a source of great discomfort. In the second place, the removal of the hard palate and the consequent establishment of a free communication between the mouth and the cavity previously occupied by the maxilla is a con- siderable inconvenience to the patient. Of these troubles, the most inconvenient is the dropping of the eyeball, and in cases in which the entire floor of the orbit has to be removed, we believe that it is better to enucleate the eye at once. From the point of view of treatment, the cases may be divided into four groups :— 1. Those in which there is an extensive growth filling the antrum and involving practically the whole of its lining membrane. 2. Those in which the disease is either primary in the nose and only makes its way into the antrum secondarily, or is localised to the nasal region of the latter cavity and does not affect the other walls.