446 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES Even when they are not treated promptly, the patients may live for several weeks, which is quite a different course from that of acute septic peritonitis. The prognosis in these cases is correspondingly more favourable. TREATMEISTT.—This should be on the lines suggested for general peritonitis or for a localised abscess. The peritoneum should be opened through the rectus, and the fluid and flakes allowed to flow out. The peritoneal cavity may then be gently irrigated and the loose flakes evacuated, and drainage tubes may be placed in the flanks and down into the pelvis. Vaccine therapy may also be employed, but must be used with great care, because cases have occurred which were going on well after operation, and in which, after a dose of vaccine (possibly too large) the course has changed for the worse and death has occurred. GONOCOCCAL PERITONITIS. This is most frequent in females in whom the infection occurs through the Fallopian tubes ; it usually remains limited to the pelvis, but may become generalised. While pus is often present in the tubes, suppuration may not occur in the peritoneal cavity, and in some cases the condition may subside without leaving many adhesions. It often begins very acutely, but in a day or two may become subacute or chronic, exacerbations taking place from time to time or complete recovery occurring. The questions of recovery and of the necessity for operation depend mainly on whether pus is present in the Fallopian tubes or not. This is indicated by feeling a swollen or painful tube or tubes per vaginam and by the presence of a purulent vaginal discharge, especially if it contains gonococci. When these conditions are present the abdomen should be opened, the Fallopian tube or tubes removed, and, if necessary, drainage of the pelvis provided by perforating the roof of the vagina in the middle line behind the uterus and passing a drainage tube into the vagina ; the anterior wound can then be closed. CHRONIC TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. Tuberculosis is the most common cause of chronic peritonitis. It is usually secondary to tuberculous ulceration of the intestine or tuber- culous mesenteric glands. It may also follow tuberculous disease of the female genital organs (especially the Fallopian tubes) and sometimes, though much more rarely, of the vesiculae seminales in the male. It may occur in connection with a tubercirlous pleurisy. Primary tuberculosis of the peritoneum is comparatively rare. Tuberculous disease of the intestine is said to occur most commonly in the lower part of the ileum, but it is also frequent in the caecum ; in some cases it may commence in the vermiform appendix.