100 x\FFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE recourse to in addition to the use of rectal alimentation, or a tube may be passed into the stomach and left there. Mouth-feeding may be had recourse to from the first in those cases in which the wound in the mouth is small, or the patient is unable or unwilling to be fed per rectum, and in these cases it should be done by means of a long soft rubber catheter—No. 14 to 16—attached to a feeder and slipped down the sound side of the pharynx into the oesophagus ; the fluid is poured slowly along it, so as to allow the patient time to swallow. After the food has been administered in this way, the meal may be finished by pouring half an ounce of water down the tube, so as to clear out the last few drops of food, and thus avoid fouling the wound as the tube is withdrawn. The mouth should be thoroughly rinsed out or sprayed with an antiseptic solution immediately after the meal. The patient may be allowed a little ice to suck if he complains of thirst or the mouth feels dry. At the end of the first twenty-four hours a saline purge should be administered through the tube. All these patients swallow a certain amount of blood either at the time of the operation or afterwards, and this is apt to disorder the digestion ; a purge gets rid of it and the patient is made comfortable. Salol in lo-grain doses three times a day for the first three or four days is also of use. As soon as the patient recovers from the effect of the anaesthetic he should be propped up in the sitting position, with the head bent well forwards in order to facilitate the escape of discharges from the mouth. It will generally be found that by the second day the patient is able to sit up, and unless the operation has been very extensive, he can usually get up on the fourth or fifth day, and.should always be encouraged to do so as soon as he feels inclined. Recovery is usually very rapid when no unfavourable complication arises, so that by the end of a fortnight or three weeks the patient is practically well. He should, however, be kept under close observation for three weeks from the time of the operation, because secondary haemorrhage may occur at any time up to then ; it is most common from the tenth to the sixteenth day after the operation, and occurs especially when the lingual trunk has been tied in a wound communicating with the mouth. The question of recurrence.—Should recurrence take place in the mouth, the question of the feasibility of further operation will depend upon where it is situated and on its extent. Frequently it is only a small mass at one end of the cicatrix and is then best removed by simply cutting out the affected area with the thermo-cautery. On the other hand, it may occur in the depth of the wound amongst the remains of the muscles of the tongue and may be inoperable. No special rules can be laid down, but the case must be carefully watched, the patient being seen every three or four weeks for several months, so as to detect a recurrence at the earliest possible period. The thermo-cautery is a