510 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES naked abdomen in these cases which show that, while in the healthy abdomen in the erect posture the point of maximum protrusion is above the umbilicus, in Glenard's disease this point is well below the umbilicus and there is a hollow above (see Fig. 171). In examining the abdomen in these cases he first measures the waist with the corsets and clothing on, and then, having removed them, applies a band around the waist in the same position as the narrowest part of the corsets, and tightens it up until the measurement is the same as before undressing. This shows the exact change in shape produced by the clothing ; and he finds a remarkable increase in the protrusion of the lower part of the abdomen in these cases when the clothing has been put on. In the recumbent position the point of greatest prominence in enteroptosis is above the umbilicus, while normally it is below. Beyond the general pendulous condition of the abdomen and its shape, and the presence of dilatation of the stomach there is nothing much to be made out on examination unless the liver, kidneys, or spleen are also movable. It is uncertain how far this condition is con- genital and due to such conditions as abnormal length of the mesentery or imperfect fixation of the hepatic and splenic flexures of the colon. The two most important exciting causes are dis- tension of the abdomen, with consequent flaccidity of the walls, as after repeated pregnancies, and the management of the feminine clothing, especially the erroneous use of corsets. Hence this condition is comparatively rare in men as compared with women. A pendulous state of the abdomen and separation of the recti are very important factors; under these circumstances the intestines lose their natural support. This will also tell on the liver and kidneys, and thus a general descent of the abdominal organs may result. As regards the management of the clothes, the chief factor is the weight of the clothing which is hung around the waist. The use of corsets is often blamed as the essential cause, but while tight lacing is no doubt a frequent source of trouble and may lead to flattening out of the right lobe of the liver, and may push down the abdominal organs, corsets when properly used are not without value. The great advantage of corsets is that they help to protect the abdomen from constriction by the tapes and bands used in suspending the nether garments. When no corsets are worn, these bands and tapes are a fruitful source of trouble, and probably do as much harm as tight corsets. Ladies who do not use corsets should therefore Fig. 171.—Enteroptosis. The continuous line shows the normal outline, the dotted one that of a patient with enteroptosis.