69 N^VUS stitches the surface may be sponged with adrenahn chloride (i in 1000). Should it be impossible to control the bleeding in this way, the raw surface may be seared with the actual cautery, but if possible this should be avoided because it interferes with rapid healing. If the incision is carried wide of the nsevoid tissue, however, the bleeding is generally trifling. The serious cases are the extensive venous ncFvi which lead to steady increase in the size of the tongue ; in them treatment is necessary on account of the liability of the organ to injury. Here the only satisfactory method is excision ; other methods, such as electrolysis, are inadmissible because of the great danger of septic thrombosis and pysmia resulting from sepsis spreading along the needle-tracks ; electrolysis is also a tedious and uncertain method. A considerable portion of the tongue may have to be removed, and it is well to perform a preliminary ligature of one or both of the lingual arteries according to the size of the tumour. This is done as follows :— Ligature of the lingual artery.—The spot chosen for tying the vessel in continuity is just after it passes beneath the hyoglossus muscle. The head is extended upon a sand-bag and turned to the opposite side, with the chin pointing upwards. A curved incision is carried from just below and outside the symphysis downwards to the body of the hyoid bone, and then upwards again nearly to the level of, but a little behind, the angle of the jaw. The lower part of the incision is deepened until the fascia covering the submaxillary salivary gland is reached, and this fascia is incised along the lower edge of the gland and the latter raised out of its bed along with the skin-flap and pulled well up on to the cheek, where it may be secured by a stitch. When the flap has been raised, the posterior edge of the mylohyoid muscle is seen in front and the posterior belly of the digastric behind. The anterior belly of the latter muscle with the intervening tendon is also seen, and should be pulled firmly downwards ; this will show the fibres of the hyoglossus muscle deep in the wound. The hypoglossal nerve is seen crossing the hyoglossus horizontally and parallel to, but a little above, the hyoid bone. The lingual artery lies beneath the fibres of the muscle between the nerve and the bone. Slightly below the nerve and superficial to the hyoglossus is the lingual vein. Vein and nerve are now puUed upwards, and a transverse incision about half an inch in length is made paraUel to the hyoid bone and just above it, and the artery thus exposed. This incision must be made with care, otherwise the pharynx may be opened. The artery is isolated, and an aneurysm needle passed around it from above downwards. Care must be taken to define and raise the submaxillary gland efficiently but without injuring it, otherwise a salivary fistula may result. The chief difficulty of the operation hes in finding the vessel beneath the hyoglossus. If the operator fails to find it tliere, he may trace the