365 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION adherent to them and the inflammatory material contracts as the disease passes off and may constrict tlie bowel and give rise to an incomplete obstruction. In addition, there is often great shrinking of the mesentery leading to kinking of the intestine, or there may be adhesion of the bowel to its own mesentery, the gut being, as it were, rolled up in it, so that the anti-mesenteric border is the nearest point to the root of the mesentery (see Fig. 124) ; or the greater part, or the whole of the small intestines may become matted together, and a serious obstacle to the onward passage of the intestinal contents produced. Another not uncommon cause of these peritonitic adhesions is ap- pendicitis. Not only are coils of intestine frequently matted together, but the lower end of the ileum, or more rarely the ascending or even the pelvic colon, may be compressed by adhesions to such an extent as to diminish the calibre of the bowel very seriously ; in other cases the transverse colon becomes adherent to the ascending colon forming an acute kink at the hepatic flexure. Similar adhesions also occur in connection with other forms of local peritonitis, such as salpingitis or perimetritis. Another very frequent seat of peritonitic adhesions is in the neighbourhood of the liver as the result of gall-stones and cholecystitis, or of the stomach as the result of gastric ulcer (see p. 293) ; in tliese cases the large intestine and the stomach are chiefly affected. Sometimes these adhesions follow injuries ; in these cases htemorrhage has probably occurred and the organising blood-clot gives rise to the adhesions. Another example of obstruction from adhesions may be met with after the relief oi a strangulated hernia, in which the lymph thrown out at the line of strangulation may organise into a permanent constriction ; it is, however, more probable that this constriction is due in most instances to ulceration of the mucous membrane and contraction of the granulation tissue, and not merely to external adhesions. Lastly, adhesions of this nature may form after abdominal operations. In these cases there may be actual constriction of the bowel by the adhesions, or merely kinking of the gut by the pull of the contracting inflammatory tissue ; most usually constriction and kinking are combined. The result is a long period of incomplete obstruction with attacks of more complete obstruction usually after eating indigestible materials. The patient often sufters much colicky pain, the abdomen becomes distended and the hypertrophied coils of intestine may be seen moving beneath the alxlominal wall, while the patient emaciates, often to an extreme degree when the small intestine is aft'ected. TREATMENT.—The treatment is often very unsatisfactory, al- tliougli liriUiant results may be obtained when the adhesions are limited. In a good many instances the diagnosis is comparatively easy, the previous history of the case, the age of the patient, and other symptoms, pointing pretty clearly to the nature of the trouble. Operative treatment is not very satisfactory, and a thorough trial should be given to other methods