419 APPENDICITIS Instead of dealing with the stump of the appendix in this manner, some surgeons, after making a circular incision through the serous coat, prefer to crush the remaining portion of the appendix wall with a pair of pressure forceps, and then cut off the appendix beyond these with a knife or a pair of scissors ; no ligature is applied. A continuous suture is inserted in the caecal wall around the appendix about a quarter of an inch from its root; when this is tightened it acts as a purse-string (see Fig. 148). A probe is then placed upon the apex of the stump, which is gently pressed into the caecum and buried by tightening the purse-string suture. It is well to bury the dimple thus produced in the ca;cum by continuous Lembert suture. This 'purse-string ' suture is especially useful when the caecum cannot be brought well out of the wound. The vertical operation.—In this case a vertical incision about three inches long is made over the rectus muscle with its centre opposite the umbilicus. It runs about half an inch internal to the right semilunar line, and is carried through the anterior sheath of the rectus until the muscle is reached. The fibres of the muscle are then separated or its outer edge exposed after peeling the anterior layer of the sheath outwards, and the muscle drawn towards the middle line. The pos- terior sheath is thus exposed and is divided in the same position as the anterior (it will be deficient at the lower part). The deep epigastric vessels are seen on the under surface of the rectus, and should they bleed they must be tied. The transversalis fascia and the peritoneum are then divided. The condition of the appendix and caecum is now ascer- tained, and then the hand is introduced into the abdomen and the pelvic organs, the gall-bladder, the stomach, and the duodenum are examined in that order The kidney and ureter should also be palpated. If neces- sary the wound can be extended upwards and downwards to enable the surgeon to deal with any lesions which may be found—such as fibroid tumours of the uterus, gall-stones, or ulcer of the stomach or duodenum. The appendix is then removed and the wound is stitched up in layers. After-treatment.—This is described on p. 427. If the operation has been a long one, a pint of normal saline solution should be run into the rectum as soon as the patient is put back to bed, or in more severe cases continuous saline proctoclysis may be employed. If there is much pain one-sixth of a grain of heroin may be injected subcutaneously ; but if a further sedative is necessary, fifteen-grain doses of aspirin may be used. Morphine or heroin tend to produce paresis of the intestines and increase the flatulence. Fig. 148.—The Purse- string SUTURE FOR BURYING THE Appendix Stuhp. The purse-string suture does not run right round the base of the appendix. After being carried along one side it is inserted near its original starting-point and carried round the opposite side. When the two ends arc tightened it gives an ad- mirable pucker, and the stump invaginatcs very easily.