EPITHELIOMA 77 case is undoubtedly better left alone. We would say that when the growth is situated in the base of the tongue, it should be regarded as inoperable, unless it is limited to one side, and is situated well towards the edge. Removal of the entire tongue is a very serious operation and is very liable to be followed by fatal septic complications. In feeble patients, indeed, death may occur from shock at the time of the operation. When the disease involves the orifice of the larynx, particularly the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, operation is contra-indicated. On the other hand, limited epithelioma on the back of the tongue involving the upper surface of the epiglottis may be removed. When the growth on the tongue is so extensive as to necessitate removal of a portion of the aryleno- epiglottidean fold, the disease will have spread, to some extent at any rate, into the tonsillar region and the pharynx, and removal would leave a large raw surface, the discharges from which will find their way directly into the larynx, so that death from septic pneumonia or acute septicaemia will almost certainly occur. The only logical operative possibility here would be to remove both the tongue and the larynx, which is a very severe mutilation and one to which few patients would submit. Extension to the jaw, particularly in the region of the angle, also renders the case inoperable in most instances. If the disease is in the anterior portion of the tongue, extension to the jaw is not, however, necessarily a contra- indication, provided that the involvement is only hmited. When the glands in the neck become involved, the disease in them is much more extensive than in the tongue, and it is not at all uncommon to find cases regarded as inoperable on account of the glandular infection, although the disease in the tongue could be easily removed. Until recently, surgeons have not been nearly bold enough in the removal of epitheliomatous glands from the neck. It has been customary to teach that glands should not be removed unless they are small and freely movable, and that fixation is a contra-indication to removal. Experience has convinced us, however, that this is too sweeping a statement. Fixation of the glands in the early stage simply means that they are adherent to the carotid sheath, and the limitation of movement is only in the vertical direction. Numerous operations, both on tuberculous and malignant glands, have shown us that this adhesion to the carotid sheath does not materially complicate the operation for removal of the glands. If the internal jugular vein, or sometimes merely the overlying portion of its sheath, be removed systematically in all these cases, the glands can be taken away completely. Excision of the vein does not apparently affect the comfort or safety of the patient in any way. The serious difficulty arises when the glands involve the carotid artery, the vagus nerve, or both, and under these circumstances the condition may well be looked upon as inoperable. But however fixed the glands appear to be when examined through the skin, it will be found that as long as there is lateral mobility, removal of the jugular vein almost always suffices to