157 MALIGNANT TUMOURS hyoid bone and opening the pharynx in that situation, taking care to avoid the superior laryngeal nerve. This exposes the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, and the latter and a wedge-shaped portion of the tongue may be removed, while at the same time the glands in the anterior triangle of the neck are dissected out. Sitb-hyoid pharyngotomy.—Another method of gaining access to the upper part of the pharynx is by making a transverse incision through the thyro-hyoid membrane close to the hyoid bone. The latter structure is then pulled up, the thyroid cartilage pulled down, the epiglottis divided and the pharynx opened. Care must be taken not to injure the superior laryngeal nerve by prolonging the incision too far backwards ; the nerve may be avoided by keeping close to the cornu of the hyoid bone, but it runs considerable risk. This operation only gives good access to disease about the epiglottis or the aryteno-epiglottidean folds ; in disease of the tonsil and the lateral wall of the pharynx the parts are exposed more thoroughly by one of the methods already described. A fter-treatment.—If a preliminary tracheotomy has been performed and a Hahn's tube employed, a clean one should be substituted imme- diately after the operation. This is changed after twelve hoin"s, and while this is being done, the head is kept hanging down in order to prevent septic material running down the trachea. After thirty-six hours an ordinary tracheotomy tube is substituted for the Hahn's cannula and kept in for two or three days. For the first three days it is well to feed the patient by the rectum (see p. 257), but after that food is given by the mouth, the head being kept hanging over the bed and turned well towards the sound side, whilst the food is taken in small sips and very slowly ; if taken in this way it runs down the sound side of the throat without interfering with the wound, but if it is not satisfactory an oesophageal tube should be used as recommended in tongue cases (see p. 100). Should a sinus in the neck persist, the finger may be placed over it when the patient swallows. When the epiglottis and base of the tongue are removed, it may be some days before the patient can swallow at all, and three or four weeks before deglutition can be comfortably performed. In some epiglottic operations, the rapidity with which the power of swallowing is regained may be expedited by stitching back the tongue to the mucous membrane over the lower part of the epiglottis. Palliative treatment.—If an operation is not possible or is not performed for some other reason, there is very little to be done for these patients. Both X-rays and radium have been shown to be valueless ; indeed with radium the growth is apt to spread more rapidly. Thyroid extract is equally inefficacious.