6o4 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS The rectum is now cleared up to the reflection of the peritoneum, along with all the fat and glands in the hoUow of the sacrum, the peritoneal cavity is opened and the pelvic colon exposed. This is pulled down, the peritoneum being divided on each side as far as may be necessary, and the fat and tissues in the hollow of the sacrum brought down with it. The lateral vessels are clamped and tied as they are met with until the rectum has been cleared for a sufficient distance above the disease. The entile rectum with the tumour is now loose, except at the anus which has been left intact up to this point. If there is not sufficient length of bowel above the proposed point of division to reach to the anus without tension, the lower end of the bowel is dissected out in the manner described on p. 597, and thus the whole of the rectum', with the tumour and glands, hangs out of the posterior part of the wound. The anus is made just below the lower part of the sacram in the manner described in connection with the perineal operation (see p. 600). Occasionally it will be possible to leave the sphincter ani intact and make the anus in the normal position; but when the disease is high up it will be impossible to do this without dividing the bowel too near the growth; the same remarks apply to removal of the growth and end- to-end union of the divided ends of the bowel. In some cases, however, it may be possible to bring the bowel above the point of division down to the anal opening, and then the following procedure may be adopted. The sutures closing the anus are removed, and an incision is carried through the muco-cutaneous margin, as in Whitehead's operation (see p. 569), and the mucous membrane and submucous tissues are dissected up as far as the upper limit of the internal sphincter, where the wall of the rectum is tied with a silk ligature and cut across below it, and the mucous membrane, which has been dissected up, is removed. The rectum is now pulled down until the proposed line of section above the growth is just below the level of the anus. The portion of the bowel containing the growth is then cut away and the divided edge of the upper end is sutured to the anal margin. An excellent plan for pulling down the bowel is practised by W. J. Mayo {Annals of Surgery, Aug. 1912), who ties a tube into the divided upper end of the bowel, passes this through the anus (previously denuded of mucous membrane), and is thus enabled to pull down the upper end of the bowel to the anus, where it is stitched in place. The rest of the wound is stitched up, a drainage tube being inserted at the posterior end, and the further treatment is similar to that for the perineal operation. In this method the lower end of the rectum is not only joined to the skin in the normal situation of the anus, but its end is embraced by the internal sphincter, so that some recovery of control may be looked for in suitable cases. The recovery of control is hardly complete, of course, because the nerve-supply of the sphincter—especially on the left side—is apt to be interfered with during the operation, but if a half twist is given