5o8 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES is done in colostomy, in which one of the main points is the formation of an efficient spur. It may also occur in strangulated hernia in which the affected loop has sloughed and a spur has formed preventing the onward passage of the contents. Apart from cases of colostomy for malignant disease of the large bowel in which the opening is meant to be permanent, cases occur in which the opening is only temporary and may be closed subsequently. For example, an artificial anus may be established for intestinal obstruction, and when this condition has been relieved the abdomen may be opened again and the tumour causing the obstruction removed. Again after resection of gangrenous intestine, when an anastomosis has not been made at the time, subsequent closure of the orifice becomes important. Or again when colostomy has been done for ulcerative colitis or some other inflammatory condition, the opening may be closed when the disease has passed off. TREATMENT.—In all these cases the essential point is to get rid of the spur, and various methods have been employed for the purpose. In most cases the proper procedure is to open the abdomen, excise several inches of the bowel including the artificial anus, and then to unite the remaining portions. Special care is necessary to avoid introducing septic material into the abdomen. The disinfection of the skin, which is impregnated with faecal material, should be begun and frequently repeated for at least a couple of days before the operation. At the commencement of the operation the artificial anus should be encircled by an elliptical incision and the skin dissected up around the opening, and stitched closely together so as to prevent the escape of the intestinal contents during the operation. An incision is now carried through the abdominal wall on both sides of the attachment of the bowel, and the peritoneum is opened at a spot where the latter is not adherent to the bowel beneath. The finger introduced into the peritoneal cavity will define the line of adhesion of the peritoneum to the bowel, and the part of the abdominal wall in which the opening is situated should be divided all round with blunt- pointed scissors just outside the seat of the adhesions. The bowel is thus freed from the abdominal wall and has the skin around the artificial anus still adherent to it and stitched over the orifice. The loop is drawn as far as possible out of the wound, the general peritoneal cavity is shut off by packing and a resection is performed in the usual manner. There are other methods of getting rid of the spur, of which we may mention the use of Dupuytren's clamp, one blade of which is introduced into each portion of the intestine and then the two are gradually approxi- mated. This sets up peritonitis between the adjacent limbs of the bowel and the part included in the clamp sloughs, and a free lateral opening is thus established between the two limbs of the bowel. The forceps shown in Fig. 157 may be used for this purpose. When the communication has been fully established, a plastic operation will usually close the external opening.