AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 422 be given, and only if it is absolutely necessary and after a surgeon has seen the case and decided as to the question of operation. Among the local applications, cold is the best in the early stage if the patient can put up with it ; an icebag or Leiter's tubes with water running through them at a temperature of 50° to 60° F. are very useful. In the later stages, however, the patient generally derives more comfort from hot fomentations. Blisters or counter-irritants should not be employed, as it may be necessary to operate at any time, and the skin must therefore be kept in as healthy a condition as possible. Leeches are sometimes employed, but they are not likely to arrest a suppurative appendicitis, and they damage the skin and interfere with the subsequent operation, should one become necessary. When the temperature has fallen, and the abdomen is becoming less tender, enemata and saline aperients may be given so as to clear out the bowels. The simplest plan is to commence with dram doses of sulphate of soda every four hours until the bowels act ; when there has been constipation for four or five days it will often be two days before the bowels act under this treatment. Enemata may be employed coincidently but neither the surgeon nor the patient need be in a hurry to obtain a complete action of the bowels ; the constipation will pass off with the cessation of the inflammation. Violent attempts to open the bowels only aggravate the inflammation ; indeed, recurrence of the disease ending in suppuration may follow the administration of strong purgatives when the primary attack has apparently subsided. The patient should be kept in bed for several days after the temperature has fallen to normal and until any thickening present has disappeared. Operation.—Perhaps the best way of making the operative treatment of the acute stage clear is to divide the cases into three groups, according to the time which has elapsed since the commencement of the symptoms —namely, during the first twelve to twenty-four hours ; after that period up to the end of the fifth or sixth day ; and at a later period when a circumscribed acute abscess has formed. This is only an arbitrary division, but it corresponds to a certain extent with the pathological conditions present, although they vary much in rapidity and character. For example, during the first twelve hours, it is rare—except in the case of immediate perforation—for the infection to have spread to the peritoneal cavity and set up a general peritonitis. From that time onwards, if the disease goes on, the appendix may have perforated, or gangrene may have occurred and spread through all the coats, the peritoneal cavity is becoming infected either generally or locally, and pus is beginning to form. Again, if the patient survives for five or six days the abscess is circumscribed and continues to enlarge, and may become adherent to the abdominal wall. The last two periods, however, merge into one another very much ; in children, for example, there is often a considerable abscess before the fifth or sixth day, but even then it will