INGUINAL HERNIA 487 hernia is often due to the existence of an unoWiterated portion of the tunica vaginaHs and not to muscular insufficiency, and the large majority are cured by simple obliteration of the sac without suture of the inguinal canal ; indeed, the arrangement of the muscles is such that they close the inguinal canal when they contract, and the insertion of stitches might interfere with their proper action. In tlie hernic'e of adults, however, and especially when the hernia is large, when the muscles are thinned and spread out over the sac, and in old or fat people, it is advisable to bring the sides of the canal together by stitches in addition to obliterating the sac, and this can be done in various ways. In Maceis)en's original method the conjoined tendon is brought down to Poupart's ligament behind the cord with stout mattress sutures. A suture is passed through Poupart's ligament by means of a suitable needle, carried across the inguinal canal behind the cord, and made to per- forate the conjoined tendon ; the end of the stitch is then seized and the needle withdrawn. The upper end of the stitch is again threaded on the needle, which is now inserted through the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles, carried back again across the canal and brought out through Poupart's ligament about an inch farther out than the point at which it entered (see Fig. 164). The ends are pulled tight and tied, and thus the floor of the inguinal canal is repaired. When the muscular wall is feeble Bassini's method effects more complete closure of the canal. The external oblique tendon is slit up so as to expose the whole canal, the cord is hooked down out of the way, the lower edge of the internal oblique, the transversalis, and the conjoined tendon are defined and separated from the peritoneum by the finger, and sutures are inserted so as to bring this edge into apposition with Poupart's ligament throughout, except at the outer end where just enough room is left for the cord to emerge. This may be done by a continuous suture, but we prefer to employ two or three mattress sutures similar to those recommended by Macewen. The first stitch is inserted as near the internal ring as possible, just allowing room for the cord to emerge ; if the veins are large some of them may be excised ; the lowest suture is in the conjoined tendon. The cord is then laid down in place, and the divided edges of the external oblique and the pillars of the external ring are carefully sutured over it, leaving the external ring just large enough for the passage of the cord (see Fig. 165). This is a more effectual operation than Macewen's for all cases in which the canal has to be diminished in size. In Halsied's method the inguinal canal is closed completely and the cord is brought out through the tendon of the external oblique and lies beneath the skin and subcutaneous tissues. This method is rarely employed. The foregoing are the chief methods of dealing with the inguinal canal, and we make use of them, or modifications of them, according to circum- stances. In young children with strong abdominal walls we do not