TREATMENT OF REDUCIBLE HERNIA 465 supposed, and that though the hernia may not show for some time after the truss has been left off, it is apt to reappear under any severe strain. It is also found that infants stand operations very well, and that if they are nursed carefully on the lines laid down on p. 4qi the operation can be conducted safely and with great advantage at a very early age. We therefore now perform the radical operation quite early in most cases of inguinal hernia in children. The details of the operations are given in connection with the various forms of hernia. Palliative treatment.—If it is decided not to perform a radical operation, proper support must be afforded by suitable apparatus, and special care must be taken never to allow the hernia to descend into the sac. The actual management of hernias in different situations is described separ- ately. The truss must not irritate the peculiarly sensitive skin of the infant, it must be so designed as to press the sides of the opening together, it must be worn day and night, and in changing it the nurse must make efficient pressure over the opening and prevent the descent of the hernia while a fresh truss is being applied ; the child should have a number of trusses, so that a clean one is always at hand, and a special india-rubber truss must be employed when bathing the child. Unless these precau- tions be taken, the hernia will often descend while the truss is being changed, and the chances of cure by this form of treatment will be extremely slight. The truss should be worn for several years. Radical ctire.—^The best practice is to perform the operation during infancy ; but if for any reason this course is not adopted it should not be delayed beyond the second or third year of life if the hernia still comes down when the truss is left off. From the point of view of permanent cure, there is no question that the earlier the operation is done the better ; the longer the hernia lasts, the greater is the dilatation of the abdominal opening. Moreover, the continued pressure of a truss probably interferes with the proper development of that part of the abdominal wall. A radical cure done in infancy is usually very satisfactory ; the abdominal walls develop as if no hernia had ever existed. In any case the radical cure should be clone before the child is sent to school, for, if he has to wear a truss, he is likely to be at a great disadvantage ; he cannot join in athletic sports, and he is constantly exposed to the ridicule of his schoolfellows, while he is not of an age to manage the truss himself, and the hernia is likely to come down beneath it and thus expose him to serious danger. In adults.—Here the main question is whether radical cure should be performed, or whether the patient should wear a truss. The question of ' radical cure ' versus truss treatment.—^The chances of curing a hernia by truss treatment in a young adult are slight, while the radical cure—of inguinal hernia, at any rate—is extremely successful. Numerous drawbacks affect a young adult with hernia ; he is debarred from the jniblic services, he is under many disadvantages in going abroad, IV. H H