8o AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE on the tongue, and when consequently this wound communicates freely with the mouth, we prefer to ligature the lingual artery as it is divided in the tongue, because the whole wound in the neck must necessarily become septic, and the ligature on the lingual trunk near its origin from the carotid is certain to separate, and its separation is likely to be followed by secondary haemorrhage. This occurs usually about the tenth day, when the patient is otherwise fairly well and is probably not under careful supervision, and he may die before assistance can reach him, death ensuing either from loss of blood or from the blood finding its way into the trachea. In order to stop the haemorrhage it will be necessary to tie the externa] or the common carotid arteries, either of which operations may be followed by disastrous results—the ligature of the external carotid probably by secondary hemorrhage, as it will be tied in a septic wound, and ligature of the common trunk by fatal cerebral symptoms. Under these circumstances, therefore, we prefer to tie the terminal branches of the vessel rather than to ligature it in continuity at its origin. Asphyxia from the passage of blood into the trachea is usually comparatively easily avoided. The patient should lie with the face turned a little towards the sound side, the lower angle of the mouth being firmly pressed down by an assistant's fingers so that the blood runs first into the hollow of the cheek and then out of the mouth. Some surgeons, however, raise the head and shoulders of the patient, and throw the head forwards, so that the blood shall run directly out of the mouth. This risk may be altogether avoided by performing a preliminary laryn- gotomy (see p. 33) and plugging the pharynx firmly with a large sponge attached to a long tape, the end of which hangs out of the mouth and is secured by forceps. This operation does not materially increase the risks, and has the great advantage of enabling the surgeon to disregard the oozing and to concentrate his attention entirely on the removal of the disease—a point of the highest importance when it is situated far back. The constant sponging necessary to prevent blood running into the larynx is calculated to flurry the surgeon, and the result is that he does not cut sufficiently wide of the disease, and the whole object of the operation is defeated. Hence, except when the disease is limited to the tip of the tongue, it is advisable to perform a preliminary laryngotomy. The intratracheal method of administration of anaesthetics described on p. 33 also prevents the entrance of blood into the air-passages. Remote dangers.—These are mainly septic risks, and it is of the highest importance to adopt measures to minimise them. The most serious risk of sepsis occurs in operations about the base of the tongue, and in the cases in which it is deemed advisable to practise an extensive removal of the cervical glands at the same operation as that in which the disease in the tongue is removed ; the latter necessarily opens up the cellular planes and establishes a direct communication with the buccal cavity. In spite of the fact that the operation is done in a septic cavity, it is