METHODS OF EXAMINATION 235 yellow colour. Other substances may decolorise the solution or give a dirty yellowish-brown colour. If the test has to be applied to vomit or other complex mixtures.it is necessary to shake out the lactic acid with ether, evaporate to dryness, and redissolve the residue in water, but this is hardly necessary after a simple test-meal. Admixture with bile, which is alkaline, will render any examination of the test-meal for acids quite untrustworthy. It may occur if the retching occasioned by the introduction of the tube has been severe. In health the amount of active hydrochloric acid in the stomach con- tents is usually 0'2 per cent, or more. In most cases of gastric carcinoma the amount is usually greatly reduced, and in many it is absent altogether. Occasionally, but rarely, the amount may be normal or even slightly increased, but in general terms the presence of o'l percent, may be taken as good evidence against malignant disease. It is also reduced in chronic gastritis and in ' functional ' achlorhydria. The amount is usually increased in cases of gastric ulcer and in ' functional ' hyperchlor- hydria. In these functional conditions the actual change is probably in the amount of gastric juice secreted rather than in the percentage of acid it contains ; undiluted gastric juice contains some o'4 per cent, of free acid. The presence of blood is of some importance. It cannot usually be recognised microscopically, being altered by the free acid present. Place some of the sediment on a slide, add a drop of glacial acetic acid and a minute crystal of salt, apply a cover-glass, and warm until bubbles commence to form ; on cooling, search the specimen for the characteristic crystals of ha;min. Or apply the benzidine test for occult blood thus : Boil some of the sediment in a little water, cool, and filter. Prepare a saturated solution of benzidine in glacial acetic acid by shaking about half a teaspoonful of the crystals with an inch or two of the acid in a test- tube. Add some of the clear solution to the filtrate (approximately equal parts), and to the mixture add peroxide of hydrogen, a drop at a time ; a fine blue or bluish-green colour will indicate the presence of blood. It is advisable to try a blank test without the addition of filtrate in order to be sure of the purity of the reagents, and to use new test-tubes, as the reaction is extremely delicate. The same test may be used for occult blood in the faeces (which is often present in carcinoma of the stomach, as well, of course, as in ulcer), but here it is necessary that the patient should not have eaten red meat, etc., for a few days previously, or the amount of heemoglobin thus ingested may be sufficient to give the reaction. GASTRIC LAVAGE. This may be employed for the removal of the contents of the stomach for examination and analysis. The lavage should always be done by syphoning off the contents and never by withdrawing them by means of