APPENDICITIS 435 sputum often contains Bacillus colt. Vaccines of the organism and the general treatment of pneumonia should be employed. Ordinary pneu- monia not due to septic emboli is also not very uncommon and nmst be treated on tlie usual lines. Faecal fistula.—This is not uncommon after bad cases, especially of gangrenous appendicitis, and generally occurs in the ca;cum about the root of the appendix. It appears usually about the fifth or sixth day after the operation. It is generally due to sloughing taking place about the attachment of the appendix, and there is usually quite a small hole. With the view of avoiding this complication no pains should be spared in trying to bury the stump ; but in gangrenous appendicitis, there is often a good deal of sloughing about the wound and the sutures employed to bury the stump may cut out. Treatment.—The occurrence of a fistula naturally delays healing considerably, but as a rule the fistula closes completely as the wound contracts. All that is necessary in most cases is to keep the wound clean, to see that the drainage is good, and that the cavity closes from the bottom. As the granulations contract, the sinus gradually closes and stops the communication with the bowel. In some cases, indeed, the closure occurs more rapidly owing to other structures (bowel or omentum) falling over the orifice and becoming adherent. With the view of favouring this the tube should be shortened somewhat so that the end does not prevent this from occurring. The patient need not necessarily be confined to bed on account of the fistula ; indeed, healing sometimes occurs more rapidly after he is allowed to get about. Some- times the wound breaks down after healing, and the fistula is re-established. This means that a cavity had been left in the neighbourhood of the open- ing, but the insertion of a fresh drainage tube will usually lead to healing. If, however, the opening is large, it may not heal and then ultimately operation will be necessary. As a rule plastic operations fail, and it is best to make a fresh incision nearer the middle line after taking precautions to prevent soiling (see p. 424), isolate the bowel and either sew up the opening by a double layer of sutures or else excise the portion of gut and unite the ends by lateral anastomosis. Persistent sinus.—A sinus sometimes remains for a very long time and may be due to various causes. It is specially likely to occur when the septic cavity has been drained without removal of the appendix, but when the appendix has been taken away the presence of a concretion, a portion of gangrenous appendix, or a septic ligature may keep it open. Another cause is a communication with the bowel [vide supra). Treatment.—The first essential is to make certain that the drainage is efficient and that no foreign body is present. From time to time it will be necessary to dilate the external opening because it is very apt to close too soon. On no account must plugs of gauze be stuffed into the sinus—they only prevent healing ; the drainage must be by a tube. If