212 GENERAL REMARKS ON LAPAROTOMY a gangrenous gall-bladder and a gangrenous appendLx ; between various acute pelvic conditions, and so on ; all that can be done is to arrive at some approximate idea from the symptoms, as to the nature and seat of the trouble, so as to determine the sort of condition that has to be dealt with, and the most suitable place for the incision. This is discussed in connection with acute abdominal troubles ; here we shall only con- sider the chronic conditions for which an abdominal exploration may be advisable. In chronic abdominal conditions, exploratory laparotomy is only one of various methods of diagnosis, and should only be undertaken after careful consideration. It should not be looked on as a trivial operation to be undertaken lightly and to replace other diagnostic methods ; on the other hand too much time must not be devoted to the latter methods, otherwise conditions, such as malignant disease, which might have been remedied had surgical intervention taken place at an early stage, may become inoperable owing to the unnecessary amount of time spent in medical investigation and treatment. Exploratory laparotomy is not altogether a trivial operation, although no immediately serious result ought to follow the operation ; there are, nevertheless, some disadvantages associated with it. The occurrence of sepsis is one. Suppurative peritonitis should not of course occur, but milder forms of sepsis leading to adhesions is very common. The occurrence of adhesions is in most cases due to bacterial infection, which may be introduced by the hands or instruments or from the skin of the patient; the infection is however mild, either because the bacteria introduced are but slightly virulent or because they are present in too small numbers. The bacteria may also come from the ait"; in the case of a prolonged in- vestigation, for example, dust must fall into the wound in varying amount, and although it does not usually contain pyogenic organisms—at any rate in sufficiently large numbers to cause suppuration—a certain amount of bacterial growth may occur, sufficient to cause the formation of peritoneal adhesions which may be a source of trouble to the patients afterwards. Extensive peritoneal adhesions are practically always the result of mUd sepsis, but slight adhesions of the omentum to the line of incision may occur from portions of the omentum being caught between the peritoneal edges during the closure of the wound. Besides the occurrence of adhesions, it is remarkable how much a simple laparotomy may upset a patient, and how long it may be before he regains his normal condition ; this is especially the case when he is below par. Laparotomy in malignant disease, when no remedial measure is found to be possible, has in many cases a distinctly deleterious effect and may hasten the end. The practical conclusion is that in the first place obscure abdomiaal diseases should be recognised as being on the border-line of surgery and medicine, and that the best results will be obtained by the joint association