i6o AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS as possible ; then, rapid healing of the ulceration of the oesophagus must be favoured ; finally, the constriction which is certain to occur subsequently must be prevented or diminished. Neutralisation of the caustic.—If a mineral acid has been swallowed, powdered chalk or a solution of bicarbonate of soda should be adminis- tered, while vinegar and water should be freely given in the case of a caustic alkali. In carbolic acid poisoning, olive oil in large quantities is the best remedy. Trmtment of the subsequent ulceration.—^The first essential is to insure rest to the oesophagus—partly to prevent the inflammation spreading through the oesophageal wall, and partly to promote cicatrisation. Hence rectal feeding (see p. 257) should be employed for as long as possible. The time will, of course, come when the patient must be fed by the mouth, but as long as his strength is fairly well maintained, this should be delayed : water may, however, be permitted in small quantities at a time. When the time comes for feeding by the mouth, it is well to begin with milk ; as healing progresses, swallowing becomes less painful and feeding by the mouth may be increased, solid or semi-solid materials being employed. The pain, which is always very marked on account of the constant swallowing of the saliva, is best relieved by the administration of morphine (gr. J in an ounce of glycerine and water) ; a few drops placed on the back of the tongue and allowed to trickle down the guUet has a good local effect. An emulsion containing bismuth carbonate (gr. xv) and orthoform (gr. j or ij) to the ounce is useful in alleviating the pain ; anodyne lozenges may also be sucked. Prevention of contraction.— Contraction becomes evident in about three or four weeks after the separation of the sloughs, and from this time onwards efforts must be made to prevent it by passing bougies (see p. 173). The best form of bougie for the purpose is the conical black one which easily passes along the canal, while the gradual thickening of the instrument from the point upwards distends the oesophagus very gradually. The bougie is softened before being passed by placing it in hot water and is then well lubricated with butter. When there is much spasm, the pharynx should be anfesthetised with a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine. Several bougies in series should be at hand, and a good size to begin with is No. 14 ; the dilatation should not be held to be complete until a No. 24 has been introduced, but this size may not be reached until after several sittings. An interval of a week may be allowed to elapse between each sitting unless the contraction is considerable when the bougies should be passed twice a week. As soon as the contraction becomes stationary, the interval is gradually increased, but the treat- ment must be kept up for the remainder of the patient's life, otherwise contraction will recur. The treatment of a simple stricture of the oesophagus after the ulceration has healed, is described on p. 173.