36o AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES Operative.—Should the symptoms increase in intensity or the ob- struction become absolute, the incision already made should be reopened, and the patient is placed in such a position that the intestines will fall away from the site of adhesion—e.g. in the Trendelenburg position after pelvic operations. The edges of the wound should be widely retracted, because it is most important to see exactly what one is doing, especially in order to avoid tearing the softened bowel wall while detaching it. The intestines are carefully kept out of the way with abdominal cloths which are also packed round the operation area in case the bowel waU is damaged. As a rule, separation of the adherent bowel is easily effected if the abdomen is opened within the first few days after the original operation, but it must be done carefully and methodically ; above all, the gut must not be pulled upon, for it is not only adherent but softened by the inflammatory changes, and will tear readily. The best way of effecting the separation is to press the stump to which the bowel is ad- herent away from the latter with a swab, and to insinuate the finger through the lymph gradually. It is much safer to work with the finger alone or with abdominal pads than with any form of blunt dissector or metal instrument. The bowel wall is so soft and friable that instru- ments are apt to perforate it however carefully they are handled. A perforation of this nature, moreover, is not easy to suture, owing to the softness and want of pliability of the muscular wall. When the coil has been detached, it should be inspected to see if it has been damaged and if a permanent kink has been formed. When the operation has been done quite early, this will not be the case, and the bowel can be replaced safely. When, however, a longer period has elapsed, a kink may be present, which is not rectified by detachment of the bowel, and resection of the affected part of the bowel may then be necessary ; the condition of the patient, however, may negative the performance of so severe an operation and the surgeon may have to bring the loop of intestine into the wound and insert a Paul's tube (see p. 343), leaving the repair of the enterostomy opening to a subsequent date. Before closing the abdominal wound all possible steps must be taken to avoid a recurrence of the obstruction, and this is very likely to happen if a raw surface covered with lymph is left. If possible, therefore, the peritoneum on each side of the stump should be detached and brought over the raw surface, as ought to have been done in the first instance. The areas in question may be smeared with sterilised vaseline or pure paraffin in order to promote movement of one portion upon the other. The abdomen is then closed, and the after-treatment is the same as for acute obstruction (see p. 344).