596 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS abdominal incision will be also of value by enabling the surgeon to decide whether excision is possible or not. Before proceeding to excision, the colon must be emptied as thoroughly as possible by the administration of laxatives—particularly salines, and frequent enemata. It is well to wash out the rectum twice daily with sanitas or some other non-irritating antiseptic solution for a few days before the operation, but it is a mistake to imagine that anything like true disinfection of the bowel can be obtained in this way. In all cases in which the lower end of the bowel is to be removed, the anus should be tightly closed by stout silk sutures at the beginning of the operation. Wliile shock is not a very marked feature of these operations, except in the intra-abdominal forms, it is important to employ all the ordinary safeguards against it (see Vol. I. p. ii8). The subsequent steps of the operation vary according to the route adopted. 1. Excision by the perineal route.—This was the method always employed until the introduction of Kraske's operation, but it is now seldom used, except in certain special cases, owing to the difficulty of removing the affected glands and a sufficient length of the bowel. In some cases, in which the growth is within two inches of the anus, however, the method may be employed. When the growth involves the anal margin the original method may be employed ; the parts are shaved and disinfected as thoroughly as possible, and, after the anus has been sewn up, an incision is made around it so as to enclose it in a wide ellipse. It is then cleared and removed, together with the sphincters and as much of the bowel as necessary, by deepening the incision into the ischio-rectal fossa on each side. Bleeding vessels are caught as they are divided, and, when the bowel has been dissected free of its surroundings well above the limits of the growth, it is cut across transversely and left at the bottom of the wound, which heals by granula- tion. The peritoneum is not opened. The inguinal glands on both sides should be removed, either at the same operation or at another one ten days later. The wound is lightly stuffed, and, after it has granulated well, bougies must be passed at regular intervals in order to prevent stricture. When the growth is situated inside the anal canal a more extensive operation will be necessary as the bowel must be divided several inches above the upper limits of the growth. For this purpose the following method may be employed :—■ The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, the anus closed by sutures, and a median incision made from the tip of the coccyx to the mid-point of the perineum, diverging on each side so as to enclose the anus in an elliptical incision. The incision from the anus to the coccyx should be carried deeply into the hollow of the sacrum ; a large sponge thrust into it will check hemorrhage. The limits of the rectum are now defined and the surrounding structures are separated from the gut, care