Gastric ulcer 275 This operation is absolutely preventive of the extremely grave con- dition of ' vicious circle,' but it is not applicable in all cases. We would suggest the following as the indications for its use. When there is extensive perigastritis with many adhesions and much deformity of the stomach the surgeon may be unable to apply the intestine to the posterior surface so as to be sure that subsequent kinking cannot occur; and it has even happened to us that secondary kinking has resulted in spite of the most careful suturing at the time of the operation, from the sub- sequent distortion of the small intestine by the contraction of the peri- gastric adhesions. A similar remark applies in extensive cancer of the pylorus where the anastomosis has to be made at the extreme left end of the stomach and where therefore kinking is almost certain to occur after the posterior operation. The operation may also be necessary in hour- glass contraction of the stomach where the constriction is so near the cardiac end as to leave only a small surface for anastomosis. Further, it may be necessary in cases in which an ulcer of the stomach is adherent to the pancreas and it is not possible to get at the posterior surface without risk of detaching the adhesions. Artificial aids to anastomosis.—Simple suture is undoubtedly the best way of making the junction in gastro-jejunostomy. Many ingenious artificial aids have been introduced to facilitate the anastomosis and thus to shorten the length of time taken by the operation, the types of which are Mayo Robson's bobbins and Murphy's buttons. In gastro- jejunostomy, however, these aids are not satisfactory. For end-to-end anastomosis of intestine they may be useful, and the method is described in connection with that operation (see p. 224). but the difliculty of using them for a lateral anastomosis is considerable, quite apart from the fact that they limit the size of the anastomotic opening to a very serious extent. After-treatment in gastro-jejunostomy.—If the patient is collapsed, continuous rectal infusion of hot saline solution (see Vol. I. p. 115) should be resorted to and an injection of liquor strychnina; (H^x) or of pituitary extract given hypodermically; if the collapse is very severe i| pints of sterilised normal saline solution should be run into the axillae. As soon as the patient has recovered from the anaesthetic, he should be propped up in the 'Fowler position ' (see Fig. 91) so as to facilitate the passage of the gastric contents through the artificial opening. The feeding should be conducted on precisely the same lines as after an ordinary gastrotomy (see p. 248). As soon as the anaesthetic vomiting has passed off, the patient may be fed by mouth with semi-solid food, and he may have solid food within a few days provided that it is well broken up. Morphine may be called for during the first forty-eight hours, but should be given sparingly, because it is apt to upset the digestion. Care should be taken to prevent flatulent distension, which is not only painful to the patient, but is also trying to the anastomosis and encourages nausea and vomiting. The best