AFFECTIONS OF TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR ARTICULATION 15 The neck of the condyle is then divided witli a pair of cutting pUers and the loose condyle pulled downwards and dissected out. In removing the condyle care must be taken not to damage the internal maxillary artery, but the chances of this are not so great as when the operation is performed for anchylosis of the jaw, because in the cases under consideration the condyle is carried forwards out of the way of the vessel. If any difficulty is experienced in pulling down the condyle, in order to cut through its neck, Gigli's wire saw may be passed round the neck of the bone (see Vol. III. p. 33) and the latter divided in situ. After the condyles have been removed, the jaw is forcibly depressed and pushed backwards into position ; before closing the wound, the jaw should be moved backwards and forwards and up and down so as to tear through any adhesions, and the glenoid cavity should be cleai-ed of any soft material in it. In order to guard against the possibihty of anchylosis following the operation, it is well to employ Murphy's method of arthroplasty (see Vol. III. p. 153) covering over the cut surface of the neck of the condyle, with a flap of soft tissues turned in from the masseteric region. The wound is closed with a continuous suture, and a drainage tube is not required. The jaw should be fixed with an elastic jaw bandage so arranged as to pull it backwards as well as upwards, and it is well to begin passive motion within two or three days after the operation ; in some cases an anaesthetic may be necessary at first. All the move- ments of which the jaw is capable should be carried out, at first daily and subsequently twice a day, for a very considerable time. After a few- days the jaw bandage need only be worn at night. The result is very satisfactory when both condyles have been excised ; when only one has been removed, the jaw is shorter on one side than on the other and there may be some inequality in the movement of the two sides. SUBLUXATION OF THE INTER-ARTICULAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE. This condition—which is also termed subluxation of the jaw—is not very uncommon. It is supposed to be due to abnormal mobility of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, which gets out of place when the jaw is opened widely. The result is that the jaw becomes temporarily fixed and the mouth can only be shut by an effort and with a definite clicking sound, which is sometimes accompanied by much pain. Occasionally there may be some effusion into the joint. TREATMENT.—Treatment is not likely to be of much avail imless there is definite laxity of the ligaments from previous injury or inflam- mation. In some cases improvement may follow the employment of vigorous counter-irritation applied directly over the articulation. As a rule the trouble passes away after a few weeks or months.