TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 197 described in Vol. II. p. 63. If it is necessary to employ a drain for the parts beneath the muscles, it iS best to separate the muscular fibres longitudinally at a little distance from the injury and to insert the drain between the separated fibres. The transversely divided fibres can then be united accurately, whereas if the drain were brought out between them, it would interfere with their union. In these cases a stitch should be passed through the muscle opposite the drain, but its ends should be merely knotted together so that it can be tied at the end of three days if the wound remains aseptic. ABDOMINAL CONTUSIONS ACCOMPANIED BY VISCERAL INJURIES. It is very important and at the same time very difficult to determine whether in any given case the injury is limited to the abdominal wall or whether the viscera have suffered also. This point must, however, be decided as soon as possible after the injury, for frequently the only chance of success lies in surgical interference at the earliest possible moment. The viscera usually injured are the small intestines ; the colon lies deeply in the loin, and the stomach high up under the ribs, and they usually escape damage unless they are distended. Fixed portions of the intestines are more liable to rupture than freely movable coils ; for instance, the duodenum may be ruptured by a blow over the upper part of the abdomen, while the more movable coils of the ileum escape. Similarly, inflammatory adhesions fixing the intestines to one another or to the abdominal wall, render the bowel more susceptible to damage. Apart from the intestines, the mesentery or the omentum may be damaged, and fatal haemorrhage may occur into the peritoneal cavity. The liver, the spleen, or the kidney may also be ruptured. The gravity of these injuries depends on the fact that, on the one hand, extravasation of the contents of the bowels may occur and lead to a rapidly fatal septic peritonitis or, on the other hand, there may be severe and even fatal haemorrhage. In both instances, early recognition of the nature of the case affords the only chance of recovery. It is exceedingly rare for patients to recover from severe injuries of this nature without operation. The most prominent symptoms of visceral injury are prolonged shock, intense and continued pain, and persistent vomiting. When the solid ahdoininal viscera have been injured, the chief com- plication is hfemorrhage and, in addition to this, there may be special symptoms referable to the organ involved. When the stomach' or intestines are ruptured, there is very severe pain and marked rigidity of the abdominal muscles, with retraction of the abdomen in the first instance. If along with retraction of the abdomen there is ol^literation of the liver dullness, this will suggest the presence of free gas in the abdominal cavity which must be due to rupture of the intestinal tract. This sign is of no value,