330 CHAPTER XXII. ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Obstruction to the passage of iseces and other materials along the intestine may vary in degree from a slight difficulty to complete stoppage ; in other words, the obstruction may be incomplete or complete. Two forms of intestinal obstruction are met with—namely, acute and chronic. These differ markedly not only in their symptoms, but also in their pathological conditions and must be discussed separately. In cases which belong to the group of primarily acute intestinal ob- struction, two important conditions are present : in the first place there is sudden and complete arrest of the passage of the intestinal contents, and in the second place the condition which gives rise to this arrest is one which also threatens the vitality of the portion of bowel involved. Hence the symptoms are urgent and severe and the prognosis is grave. The symptoms vary somewhat according to the cause of the ob- struction, but the following is the usual course of events : Previous to the onset of the obstruction, the patient has usually been in perfect health, and then, after some cause such as a severe strain or violent move- ment or sometimes without any apparent cause, he is suddenly seized with acute abdominal pain, usually referred first to the region of the umbilicus or the epigastrium, but soon accompanied by intermittent attacks of colic. At the onset there may be marked collapse and pallor, with a small and thready palse. Vomiting occurs early, but gives no relief and there is constant nausea and eructation. The material vomited at first consists of the contents of the stomach together with bile. There is usually complete constipation from the first, though sometimes the contents of the lower bowel may be evacuated ; neither the solid nor the gaseous contents of the intestine pass on, and one peculiarity of the constipation is that it is at once evident to the patient himself. In ordinary cases of constipation the patient only gradually becomes aware of the fact that the bowels are not acting ; but here from a very early stage he feels that there is some difficulty in the onward passage of flatus