199 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS question is dealt with in Vol. I. p. 117 ; in the cases under consideration continuous subcutaneous infusion of sterilised normal saline solution at the body temperature during the operation may be employed with advantage and this should be followed by continuous proctoclysis (see Vol. I. p. 115) aftervVards. The operation must, if possible, be per- formed in a well-heated room {yo°-y^° F.) and carried out as rapidly as possible. As the operation is accompanied by severe shock in itself, and as, in addition, the patient is profoundly collapsed before the commence- ment of the operation, it is of the highest importance to have everything ready before the anesthetic is commenced. The shaving and purification of the abdominal wall, the arrangement of towels and other preparations should be carried out before the anaesthetic is administered. The pre- liminary injection of morphine {vide supra) will greatly diminish the pain that this would otherwise cause. The anaesthetic should be a mixture of chloroform and ether, or ether alone, given by the open method. The bladder must be emptied by a catheter, and it is a good plan to give an enema containing two ounces of hot beef-tea and one ounce of brandy a few minutes before the patient is placed on the operating table. After the abdomen has been opened, the first thing is to inspect the interior by simply separating the edges of the abdominal incision without disturbing the parts. The first thing that meets the surgeon's eye on opening the peritoneum may he extravasated blood, and it is then important to investigate its source. If there has been much haemorrhage, blood will gush out as soon as the peritoneum is divided, and the amount may be so great that the surgeon may conclude that it is pouring out of some big vessel ; this may not be the case, however, as it may only be blood that has accumu- lated in the peritoneal cavity. Until this has been got rid of to some extent, it will be practically impossible to ascertain the source of the haemorrhage, and, therefore, the edges of the abdominal wound should be held wide open, and the sides of the abdomen gently pressed together so as to sc^ueeze out most of the blood as quickly as possible. The remainder may be mopped up from the surface, and then an attempt made to ascertain by sight from what direction the bleeding comes. Information may be gained by noticing its distribution, or by seeing whether it wells up from any particular region as it is sponged away. Vascular organs, such as the liver and the spleen, should be examined first unless the seat of the haemorrhage is obvious ; if wounded, they should receive appropriate treatment (see Vol. V.). Bleeding which does not come from these sources is probably from the omentum or the mesentery, and these struc- tures should then be examined methodically in this order and any bleeding points secured (see Chap. XXL). Hot abdominal cloths will be required to receive and cover the intestinal coils as they are brought out of the wound. //' the gastric or intestinal contents are free in the peritoneal cavity,