167 FOREIGN BODIES When the body is metalHc and opaque to the X-rays, it may be comparatively easy to pass forceps down the oesophagus, and, guided by the fluorescent screen, to grasp and remove it. Removal of coins.—Coins frequently lodge edgeways in the oesophagus (see Fig. 61) and can then be re- moved by the instrument known as the coin-catcher (see Fig. 56). This instrument, properly lubricated, is passed along the oesophagus until its metal end strikes the coin. The metal head of the coin-catcher is then insinuated past the coin, taking care not to dislodge the latter, and, when well below it, the instrument is drawn up ; the coin catches in the head of the instrument (see Fig. 61), and may be brought up into the mouth. There is little fear of the coin slipping out of the instrument if it is withdrawn quite slowly, as the oesophageal walls grasp it and keep it in position. Should the coin slip out of the coin-catcher at the upper part of the oesophagus and the X-ray screen be available, extraction with forceps may be attempted. Extraction through an external incision. — When a large, jagged, irregular body, such as a tooth- plate, is impacted in the oesophagus, any attempt either to push the body into the stomach or to remove it through the mouth is likely to fail because of the projections ; moreover, severe laceration of the oesophageal walls may occur during the procedure. Hence when an oesophagoscope is not at hand or when attempts at removal through it fail, the question of an external operation must be considered. There are three methods of removing the foreign body by operation. Most usually an incision is made in the neck so as to reach the upper part of the oesophagus, and the foreign body is drawn up through it. When, however, the impaction occurs low down, it may be advisable to open the stomach and try to extract the foreign body from below. In some cases it has been proposed to open the oesophagus in its course through the posterior mediastinum and extract the body by direct incision through the wall of the chest. Fig. 61.—Removal of a Coin from the OisoPHAGUS. The figure shows how the coin, lodging vertically in the oesophagus, is caught in the coin-catcher and brought up, still embraced firmly by the oesophageal walls.