566 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS Far from curing the pile, this merely produces induration in it and often renders it more prominent in the quiescent intervals, and therefore more likely to be the seat of fresh acute attacks, as it becomes chronically oedematous and thickened. A certain amount of prolapse of the rectum may accompany these acute attacks, but it disappears when the piles are removed. The piles may slough, or suppuration may occur in them—in both cases as a result of bacterial infection. It is generally held that the Bacillus coli communis is responsible for the phlebitis and thrombosis, while the pyogenic organisms give rise to suppuration and gangrene ; fistula in ano may result from this suppuration! In the case of an external pile, thrombosis practically always cures the particular pile affected. Patients who once develop well-marked piles generally remain subject to them for the rest of their lives. With proper treatment, however, piles may disappear almost entirely, but they are apt to recur with any error of diet or hygiene. As long as the affection is slight, the patient may be the subject of both internal and external piles without any marked inconvenience if he takes proper precautions ; but when they are large, they frequently protrude externally, and the patient is not only subject to repeated attacks of bleeding, but is liable to inflammation and its various sequelse. TREATMENT OF UNCOMPLICATED CASES. This may be considered under two heads—namely, palliative and radical treatment. Prophylactic and palliative treatment.—In a number of cases this is all that is required, the essential points being a proper regulation of the alimentary functions and the observance of due cleanliness. Anything that may interfere with the circulation through the haemor- rhoidal plexus should be avoided, particularly those things that cause congestion of the liver. A diet should be adopted which will neither overload the liver nor cause local irritation of the rectum. Alcohol should be taken sparingly, and highly spiced dishes and an excess of nitrogenous food should be forbidden. Constipation is probably the most potent cause of piles, and special attention must therefore be paid to the bowels. This matter is too large to deal with here, and a suitable medical text-book should be referred to ; it suffices to say that the diet should be light and should contain articles promoting peristalsis— such as ripe fruits, wholemeal bread, stewed prunes, baked apples, or figs. A laxative should be taken regularly ; the best are pure paraffin, cascara, effer'^escing sulphate of soda, or an aperient mineral water. A useful plan is to prescribe a dinner-pill containing nux vomica, belladonna, and