183 CARCINOMA larynx and causing cough, spasm, and ulceration and necrosis of the cartilages. When, on the other hand, the growth is low down, the patient is perfectly comfortable, but there is the constant liability to blocking of the tube, especially if any error of diet is committed. Coagulated milk may collect in or about the tube and effectually block it, and perhaps necessitate its removal, and it may be impossible to reintroduce it. If blockage occurs, it is well to try first what passing the whalebone guide down through the tube wiU do towards clearing it. It is comparatively easy to hit the funnel-shaped opening with the guide, and when this is done it is not difficult to pass it down the tube ; this is another reason why the tube should be fitted with a terminal opening as, if the opening be lateral, the guide does not necessarily clear it when passed down in this manner. Two accidents may occur with these tubes, neither of which are of any great practical importance, but which require mention, as they may cause uneasiness to a beginner. In the first place, the tube may slip down through the stricture and pass into the stomach. This may result either from undue laxity of the silk threads or because they have been bitten across. In this case nothing should be done beyond endeavouring to insert a tube of larger size. It is well not to attempt to get the tube out of the stomach, even though the silk threads still remain attached and can be handled from the mouth. No harm is done ; the elastic portion of the tube is digested and the rest passes on. On the other hand, the threads may get bitten through whilst the tube is in place, but even in this case no immediate steps need be taken ; as long as the tube acts it will probably remain comfortably in situ. Should it fail to act by becoming blocked it will almost invariably be vomited up sooner or later, if it cannot be cleared by passing down the whalebone guide. Radium.—During the last few years, radium has been extensively used in the treatment of these cases. It is enclosed in a suitable tube which is passed into the stricture, being most easily introduced by means of a direct-vision oesophagoscope. It is left in situ for some hours—at the most twenty-four—the application being repeated in the course of five or six weeks. Though occasional benefit has sometimes followed this treatment, as a rule no good has resulted ; indeed, the patient's trouble has been aggravated by the rapid spread of the disease or the early occurrence of mediastinal abscess following sloughing of the growth as a result of necrosis due to the radium. Gastrostomy.—-There comes a time in nearly all cases of cancer of the oesophagus when it is impossible to introduce any tube, and the patient must then starve unless means are taken to introduce food into the stomach below the stricture. For a long time there was a great prejudice against gastrostomy, and this still lingers in the minds of some. This is probably, chiefly, because the old methods were not unattended with danger and did not satisfactorily prevent the escape of the gastric