366 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES in the first instance. The reason for delaj' in operating is that it is often very difficult to separate the adhesions, and even when this has been done fresh ones almost invariably form ; while, on the other hand, it is remarkable how adhesions tend to become absorbed and disappear as time goes on. {(i) Palliative.—The non-operative treatment consists essentially in careful dieting ; the chief point is to see that the food is easily digestible and not likely to give rise to solid lumps, which might block the narrowed intestine. Meat should be either very tender or finelj" minced, and fibrous vegetables, raw salads, nuts, and suchlike indigestible food, should be strictly avoided. It is generally necessary to employ some laxative to secure a regular action of the bowels, and for this purpose one of the various mineral saline waters may be taken in the morning in small doses. Many patients prefer the vegetable cathartics, such as one of the pre- parations of senna ; freshly prepared senna-tea made by infusing six to twenty senna-pods for twenty-four hours in cold water, is a very valuable form, which can be taken for long periods without any un- pleasant consequences ; others derive great benefit from some bland lubricant, such as pure paraffin (§ss. twice or thrice daily). Massage and electricity may be applied to the abdomen with the object of moving on the contents of the intestine and gradually loosening and stretching the adhesions ; neither must be employed, however, if active peritonitis is present. (b) Operative.—When the symptoms are severe and continue in spite of treatment, laparotomj^ must be performed and the adhesions divided. The abdominal cavity is opened in the middle line unless there is a very distinct indication to the contrarj^ The position of the incision relative to the umbilicus will vary according to the indications ; if the ad- hesions are situated in the upper part of the abdomen—in connection with the gall-bladder, for example—the opening will be abo\-e the umbilicus; if the symptoms point to adhesions in Douglas's pouch it will be as low down as possible. When there is no definite indication, the opening should be below the umbilicus, but in most cases it wiU have to be ex- tended upwards. Great care must be taken in opening the abdomen, because the intestines may be adherent to the abdominal wall; before dividing the peritoneum, therefore, it is necessary to make sure of this point, and if adhesions are present, the opening in the peritoneum should be made above or below the adherent area. After the abdomen has been opened, the procedure depends essentially upon the conditions found, and as these vary enormousl3^ it is impossible to do more than indicate the chief lines of treatment. If the adhesions are few and limited to one portion of the intestine, cautious division of them will often suffice. We have seen this procedure success- ful in a good many cases : in one, where a narrow line of adhesions, the result of an old appendicitis, had constricted the lower end of the ileum.