AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 394 TREATMENT.—In some cases the patient's previous condition has been so bad and the shock is so profound that it is clearly impossible to intervene, but when the patient is seen within a few hours after the occurrence of the perforation and the general condition is fairly good, the abdomen should be opened through the right rectus, any extravasated material removed, as in rupture of the intestine (see p. 323), and the lower end of the ileum examined for a perforation. This is usually found readily, and an attempt should be made to close the opening. In some cases a few Lembert's sutures will suffice ; when the edges of the opening are extremely thin, it may be necessary to cut away the margins of the ulcer, and this should be done in such a way as to make the long axis of the incision parallel to that of the intestine. The opening is closed by a row of Lembert's sutures. The patient is alwaj^s too feeble to permit of excision of the affected portion of the intestine ; moreover the typhoid ulceration elsewhere would preclude such a procedure. The soiled area is then sponged out and a small drain inserted down to the seat of the perforation. In some cases the perforation has occurred slowly enough for the surrounding coils of bowel to adhere and isolate the infected area so that a local abscess forms ; under these circumstances the abscess should be incised and drained in the usual way. DIVERTICULITIS. This term was formerly applied to inflammation of Meckel's diverti- culum alone, but has now been extended to other diverticula of the intestine not necessarily of congenital origin. AFFECTIONS OF MECKEL'S DIVERTICULUM, Meckel's diverticulum is a very important process, for not only may it become inflamed, but it may lead to various other troubles, some of which have already been referred to. It is a persistent omphalo- mesenteric duct, and various estimates of its frequency are given ; it is apparently present in one in every 200 individuals. It is attached to the lower end of the ileum, usually from ten to thirty inches above the ileo-coecal valve ; it is generally attached to the convex border of the bowel. The omphalo-mesenteric duct may remain patent, in which case a fistula is present at the umbilicus. The distal end is, however, usually obliterated, although the tip may remain in connection with the umbili- cus either directly or by the intervention of a band representing the obliterated omphalo-mesenteric vessels. In other cases this band may be attached to the mesentery, or the tip of the process may be free ; it and the process itself are important causes of internal strangulation.