45 TUMOURS Removal of the Lymphatic Glands.—In all cases of malig- nant tumours of the upper jaw, the question of the removal of the glands will arise. There is no doubt that the entire lymphatic area in the submaxillary region and the anterior triangle on the affected side should be removed in all cases of epithelioma, but this is better done at a subsequent period—about two or three weeks after the operation on the jaw. In the case of a sarcoma, this operation is not necessary unless the glands are enlarged. The details of these operations are given in connection with cancer of the tongue. MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE LOWER JAW. In the lower jaw, as in the upper, new growths may arise subperio- steally or in the substance of the bone. Epitheliomata of the lower jaw, due to extension of the growth from the floor of the mouth or the tongue to the adjacent portions of the jaw, are quite com- mon ; primary malignant tumours of the lower jaw, either periosteal or endos- teal, are also frequently met witli. TREATMENT. In cases of epithelioma affecting the alveolus and not spreading into the Fig. 21.—partial resection of the mandible. The , , r ji 1 -2 dark line shows how a portion of the bone is removed, leaving substance of the bone, it its lower border intact. is sometimes possible to remove the affected portion without destroying the continuity of the lower jaw ; this is a point of extreme importance, because when a portion of the whole thickness of the jaw is removed, the line of the teeth is so altered that proper mastication can no longer be performed. Hence, a bridge of bone should be left below whenever it is possible. Removal of portions of the Jaw without destroying its continuity.—The mucous membrane must be divided some distance from the ulcer after the extraction of the necessary teeth, and then the included portion of bone is removed by vertical saw-cuts joined transversely at the lower part by means of Gigli's saw (see Fig. 21). The skin incision will vary according to circumstances. In most cases it is best to carry a curved incision along the lower margin of the jaw and to turn the cheek upwards ; if the tumour is extensive, it may be necessary also to divide the lower hp completely in the middle hne. Occasionally it may be more convenient both for the operation on the bone and also