130 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS For the first day or two it is well to use an antiseptic spray, of which the carbolic and iodine solution (see p. 127) is perhaps the best. As soon as the swelling has subsided a little, the patient will be able to gargle with sanitas or chlorate of potash. The same treatment with regard to the administration of tonics, food, and fresh air, is applicable to this condition as to follicular tonsillitis (see p. 128). ACUTE ULCERATIVE TONSILLITIS. This is an inflammatory con- dition of the tonsil and fauces, frequently accompanied by ulcera- tion, on the surface of which there may be a slough. It is common amongst those who work in hospitals, and in that case goes by the name of ' hospital sore throat.' A bacteriological exami- nation should always be made ; the usual organism present in these cases is a streptococcus. TREATMENT.—This should be on the lines laid down for follicular tonsillitis (see p. 126) ; special importance attaches to the application of astringents and antiseptics to the lesion in the throat. Equal parts of liquor ferri perchloridi and glycerine may be painted on three or four times a day, whilst a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. xx. to xl. to the ounce) may be brushed over the ulcer every morning with advantage. The employ- ment of a vaccine of the organism present may be of benefit. The disease is of an infective nature and may be followed by Ludwig's angina if neglected. It is of primary importance in the treatment to remove the patient from the surroundings in which he has contracted the affection, otherwise remedial measures may be used in vain. Good hygienic conditions, nourishing food and the administration of port wine, are important ; a short holiday in the country is of the greatest advantage. Fig. 43.—Diagram to illustrate the Point at WHICH to open a Peri-tonsillar Abscess. The point X is the junction of a line drawn horizontally across the base of the uvula with one prolonging up- wards the anterior pillar of the fauces^ (From Diseases of the Nose and Throat, by Sir St, Clair Thomson.) VINCENT'S ANGINA. This is the most serious form of acute tonsillitis and occurs especially in children. It is described by Vincent under two types, an ulcero- membranous and a diphtheroid variety. The organisms supposed to be the causal agents are a fusiform bacillus and a spirillum. It is the disease sometimes described as pseudo-diphtheria. In both forms the patient