322 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES cavity in these cases, so that nothing is required beyond gently mopping the bowel at the point of injury after the stitches have been put in. Penetrating wounds.—The cases accompanied by faecal extrava- sation are much more serious, and in them the only thing that gives the patient a chance is permanent closure of the wound in the intestine and thorough cleansing of the abdominal cavity. {a) In the small intestine.—The remarks made regarding injuries of the stomach (see p. 241) apply equally to injuries of the first part of the duodenum. In some cases, the presence of free intestinal contents on opening the abdomen indicates at once that there has been an injury to the small intestine, and it is well to ascertain if the extravasation is diffuse or limited. Cleansing the peritoneum.—When the injured loop is found, it is pulled out of the peritoneal cavity, packed off with hot abdominal cloths, and the injury to the bowel repaired. In cleansing the abdominal cavity in the simpler cases, it wUl suffice to mop up the extravasated intestinal contents carefully and thoroughly, and to cleanse the peritoneal cavity in the vicinity of the injury (see p. 244). If there is any doubt as to infection of the peritoneal cavity elsewhere, a long glass irrigating tube may be introduced into the abdomen in various directions so as to flush away any material that may be lodged there, but this should not be done until the area in the immediate neighbourhood of the perforation has been cleansed. The most serious cases are those in which the extravasation has soiled the peritoneal cavity extensively, and in which the injured coil of intestine does not show at once but lies deep down or has moved away from its original position, thus necessitating a prolonged search for it. Even graver still are the cases of commencing peritonitis, because the distended intestines are not easily handled, the manipulation increases the shock, and the infection has got a firm hold. In those grave cases in which there is extensive faecal extravasation, and the affected coil is not immediately evident, there is a choice between two methods of procedure : either to separate the coils gradually until the injury is found and then to wash out the fcecal matter by introducing irrigating tubes into various parts of the abdomen, or to extend the incision in the abdominal wall and to eviscerate the patient at once. In our opinion the latter method is the one that offers the patient the better chance (see also p. 246). Manipulation of the intestine through an opening in the abdominal wall, especially when the intestine is inflamed, simply means increasing the shock, prolonging the operation indefinitely, imperfectly cleansing the abdominal cavity, and increasing the extravasation from the seat of injury during the manipula- tions. The fact that there have been a few recoveries under these circumstances does not invalidate this statement. In the evisceration method, all the intestines are at once turned out of the abdominal cavity.