INJURIES 245 the abdominal cavity be irrigated, as the fluid might disseminate the extravasated material into situations from whicli it could not be easily removed. (2) When the peritoneal cavity has become extensively soiled hy the contents of the stomach and when these are fltiid, it is obviously impossible to remove the material by mopping within reasonable time or without serious mechanical injury to the peritoneum, and therefore recourse must be had to irrigation. The abdominal incision should be enlarged so as to get complete and easy access to all parts of the abdomen, and irrigation is performed with normal saline solution which should be used in large quantities at a temperature of 105° F., tested by the thermometer, and not merely by the sense of touch. It is a useful precaution also to mop out the flanks, Douglas's pouch, and the interval between the stomach and the liver before proceeding to employ irrigation ; this should be done, not as is frequently the case, by mounting the sponges upon sponge-holders and thrusting them down amongst the intestines in the desired direction, and then rotating and withdrawing them, but by separating the intestines with one hand, and mopping out the area by sponges held in the other. It is quite useless to expect satisfactory cleansing of the peritoneal cavity by simply plunging sponges in amongst the intestines. Not only do they scrape the peritoneum as they pass to their destination, but the materials taken up on the sponge become wiped off against the intestinal coils as they are withdrawn, and the whole procedure is rendered futile. The area im- mediately adjacent to the rent should first be gently and rapidly cleaned up {vide supra); the stomach, the transverse colon, and the omentum are then similarly treated, after which they are raised, the transverse meso- colon is separated from the rest of the intestines and the space beneath it cleansed. The intestines are next displaced from one flank by an assis- tant and the surgeon mops up that area carefully and systematically, after which a like procedure is carried out on the other side, andfinaUy in Douglas's pouch. Lastly, as many of the coils as may be necessary are separated from each other and held apart and the same treatment adopted here. The operation is completed by flushing out the abdomen. If an irrigating apparatus is at hand, it should be employed ; failing this, the fluid may be poured into the abdominal cavity from a jug. The assistant raises and holds apart the cut edges of the opening so as to make the abdominal cavity contain as much fluid as possible, and a stream of the saline solution is then projected into it with some force. When the abdomen is full, the hand introduced amongst the intestines separates them in various directions so as to facilitate the access of the fluid. There are certain situations to which particular attention must be directed, and while the stream of solution is directed upon them with one hand, the coils of intestines are separated with the other, so as to open up all recesses and to enable any particles to be mechanically dislodged and