INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 391 to the diet—light and easily digestible food being given. Sour milk and lactic acid bacilli were at one time much used, but it is doubtful if the organisms really reach the colon alive. Vaccines of the patient's own bacilli have also been employed with doubtful success. It is only when these methods fail that the patients come under the notice of the surgeon. The earliest surgical treatment employed was to make an opening in the cfficum or the ascending colon with the view of arresting the flow of the faeces through the colon, and of washing out the colon from above. This is, however, an unnecessarily severe procedure. Some surgeons advise the establishment of a communication between the lower end of the ileum and the upper end of the rectum. This, however, leaves the secretions in the colon, and in some cases the fteces run back into the colon and accumulate there. To avoid the latter occurrence, the entire colon has been excised as well, but this is far too severe a procedure apart from the many disadvantages caused by the operation. Experience has shown that all that is required surgically is to establish a small opening in the ctecal region through which the colon can be irrigated, and this is provided for very simply by the operations of appendicostomy and valvular caecostomy. Appendicostomy.—The usual ' gridiron' incision for removal of the appendix (see p. 414) is made on the right side and the appendix brought out of the opening and its condition ascertained ; if it is normal and patent, the operation is proceeded with, but if it is diseased it must be removed and a valvular caecostomy performed. If the appendix is normal, it is brought out of the wound until its junction with the caecum is in contact with the parietal peritoneum. To effect this, it may be necessary to divide the attachment of the meso-appendix to the tip of the appendix for about an inch, but care must be taken not to injure the artery to the appendix, otherwise sloughing may occur. The peri- toneum is then stitched to the caecum around the root of the appendi.x and the wound is closed. It is well before doing so to make little nicks in the muscles (vertically in the deeper muscles and transversely in the tendon of the external oblique), so that the lumen of the appendix shall not be constricted when the abdominal wall is sutured. A stitch is then passed through the sero-muscular coat of the appendix (taking care not to perforate its lumen) and through the skin of the abdomen so as to anchor it in position (see Fig. 141). After about three days, the projecting portion of the appendix is cut off about a quarter of an inch beyond where it protrudes through the skin, the mucous membrane being left longer than the outer coats so as to prevent closure of the orilice ; the mucous membrane is then split and turned over tlie end of the divided serous and muscular coats and fixed by catgut stitches (see Fig. 142). This small opening does not leak, and a catheter can be introduced into the colon once or twice daily, and the colon flushed out with saline solution, witli o'5 per cent, of protargol, or with astringent lotions, which