89 EPITHELIOMA snips with a pair of blunt-pointed straight scissors, beginning at the frenum and proceeding from before backwards. As the division proceeds, the half of the tongue to be removed is pulled upon, so that the growth comes more and more forward and the operation is performed practically outside the mouth. The removal of the affected portion of the organ is completed by making a transverse incision across it well behind the growth. As a rule it is easy to identify the lingual artery and secure it before it is divided, but, should it spout, it can be secured by pulling for- ward the tongue by means of the suture passed through the base on the sound side. Should there be any difficulty in seizing the bleeding vessel it is well to remember that the hemorrhage can be temporarily arrested by slipping the forefinger back to the root of the tongue, hooking it well forward and pressing firmly outwards against the angle of the jaw. After the lingual artery has been secured, all that remains to be done is to detach the half of the tongue by a few snips of the scissors. When the disease encroaches upoii the floor of the mouth the operation should be modified. The frenum is freely divided with scissors close to the jaw. The scissors are then introduced beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth and run along beneath it well wide of the disease —at least an inch if possible— until the anterior pillar of the fauces is reached. The tongue can now be drawn forward freely, so that the operation becomes almost extra-buccal and is finished as described above. In these cases it is necessary to cut deeper into the floor of the mouth, and it is always well to shell out the sublingual salivary gland. When the disease extends far back at the side of the tongue, it is necessary to get as complete access to the back part of the tongue as possible. As a rule this can be obtained by splitting the cheek from the angle of the mouth back to the masseter ; in some cases, however, it may also be necessary to divide the jaw as in Langenbeck's operation (see p. 95). The method of gaining access by splitting the cheek is especially suitable for cancer in the neighbourhood of the anterior pillar of the fauces. The assistant grasps the whole thickness of the cheek above and below the proposed line of incision and the surgeon then divides it horizontally back from the angle of the mouth to the masseter (see Fig. 33, AB). The facial vessels and any other bleeding points are picked up, and the edges of the aperture thus made are retracted, so that a good view of the base of the tongue is obtained when the organ is pulled over to the opposite side. The parts come still further into view if the mucous membrane and the pillars of the fauces have been divided. The deformity is inconspicuous, particularly in men, and union always takes place readily. The incision in the cheek is sutured accurately at the end of the operation, fine horsehair or silkworm-gut being used for the cutaneous, and catgut for the mucous surface. These operations are accompanied by a variable amount of oozing,