TUMOURS 37 any case large sponges should be packed at once into the cavity from which the jaw has been torn, so as to control the bleeding ; these sponges are then cautiously raised, all bleeding points clamped, and the condition of the surface inspected, any remains of the jaw or portions of tumour being clipped away. The bleeding chiefly comes from the pterygo- maxillary fossa, and usually stops on pressure ; if vessels of any size bleed, they can be tied. After the whole tumour has been removed and the bleeding has been arrested, the raw surface should be sponged over with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to the oz.), and if there is any oozing going on, the cavity should be packed with iodoform gauze for a few hours. The ends of the gauze should be brought out at the angle of the mouth and tied together with a piece of silk, which is fastened around the ear. The flap is carefully replaced and sutured, the best suture material being sflkworm-gut at the angles, with intermediate stitches of horse - hair. Care must be taken that the red line of the lip is accurately adjusted on the two sides ; the lip should also be everted and the mucous mem- brane united as far as the nostril. If this pre- caution is omitted, the raw surface may become adherent to the divided margin of the alveolus, and imperfect movement of the upper lip will result. The sponges are now removed from the pharynx and the laryngotomy tube may be taken out at once, or it may be left in for twelve hours, so as to guard against any risk of emphysema about the wound. If a vertical skin incision has been used for the laryngotomy, there is little risk of emphysema ; if a transverse one has been employed, there is a slight risk unless it hes exactly over the incision into the larynx. No dressing is necessary for the facial wound ; we generally lay a piece of wet gauze over that side of the face for a few hours until the oozing stops. When the patient is put back to bed, he is propped as upright as possible, both to diminisli the venous oozing and to facilitate the escape of the discharges from the mouth. Difficiiliies and dangers.—The principal danger in this operation is loss of blood, and every care must be taken to see that the haemorrhage is checked as quickly as possible ; rapidity of operation is very desirable^ Fig. 14.—Application of Lion Forceps in REMovAt of the Upper Jaw. One blade is is placed upon the orbital margin, the other upon the alveolar edge.