AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 254 of the stomach are interfered with or not. When the ulcer is situated near the pyloric orifice and is of any considerable size, the contraction during healing narrows the pylorus and interferes with the passage of food through it ; this stenosis may progress to such an extent as to obliterate the pylorus almost completely. The stomach in consequence becomes dilated, and the symptoms of a dilated stomach are present in addition to those of gastric ulcer. Dilatation of the stomach is a frequent accompaniment of gastric ulcer at some period of its course. In the slight cases this dilatation may arise from the spasm of the pylorus, which commonly accompanies a gastric ulcer. It is usually due, however, to cicatricial narrowing following upon the contraction of an ulcer in the vicinity of the pylorus, or to perigastric adhesions. The dilatation of the stomach in such circumstances is a result of obstruction to the passage of food. As the ulcer deepens, the peritoneal coat covering its base becomes inflamed, and adhesions may occur between the stomach and other parts, and interfere with the functions of the organ by their contraction. This perigastritis is frequent in ulcers that have extended deeply into the coats of the stomach, and is of great importance, partly because it interferes with the movements of the organ and partly because it may act beneficially in affording some protection against perforation. The exact effects of perigastritis will depend upon the situation of the ulcer ; thus, when the latter is situated in close proximity to some other organ adhesion will occur, whilst, if it be on the anterior surface, cicatricial bands are likely to form. Adhesions are most frequent when the ulcer is at the pylorus, which may then become attached to the under surface of the liver, the gall-bladder, or the bile duct, and may become so distorted that the passage of the gastric contents through it is greatly interfered with. Similarly, an ulcer on the posterior surface causes the stomach to become adherent to the pancreas. Adhesions may also occur with the omentum, the transverse colon, or the diaphragm ; they are not so common when the ulcer is on the anterior surface, and this explains the fact that an ulcer in that situation is the most common cause of fatal perforation. The perigastritis occurring in connection with extensive ulcers on the anterior surface of the stomach may cause much distortion as healing occurs from contraction of the inflammatory material upon the peritoneal surface. This may give rise to a constriction passing from the upper border of the stomach to the lower and producing the so-called ' hour-glass contraction ' ; the stomach is divided into two cavities with a passage of varying calibre between them. As a result, the cardiac portion of the stomach may become dilated to such an extent that the condition may not be diagnosed, the case appearing to be one ofcontractionof thepjdorus rather than an hour-glass contraction of the stomach. Some authors limit the term hour-glass contraction to its strict meaning—namely, a