367 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION the bowel resumed its natural calibre after the bands were divided, and the intestinal contents passed on at once although the patient had previously been almost moribund from what was practically acute intestinal obstruction. When the condition is due to traction on a loop of the tmivel, producing a kink, the latter may straighten out when the adhesions have been divided, and in that case the lumen of the bowel is at once restored. These are, however, exceptionally favourable cases. After a contracting band has been divided, fibrous tissue may be found along the groove of the kink producing a permanent constriction. An attempt should first be made to relieve this by carefully notching it with a tenotome ; if this is not followed by expansion of the bowel, and if the patient's condition allows, the affected part should be excised and the continuity of the bowel restored by lateral anastomosis. If, however, his condition is too critical for this, the groove may be invaginated by a row of Lenibert sutures and a lateral anastomosis performed between the portions of bowel immediately above and below the kink, as small a portion as possible being short-circuited. In cases of adhesion of the intestine to the parietal pcritoneiiin, it may be possible to detach it; but if the union is very firm at any spot, it will be best to leave the adhesion, but divide the peritoneum all around so as to free the bowel ; the adhesion is often so firm that any attempt to separate the bowel from it will lead to rupture. The parietal peritoneum may then be further separated and the raw surface on the parietes, if small, covered over by stitching together the cut edges of the peritoneum. When a large mass of the lioivel is matted together attempts may be made to separate these adhesions by notching them with a knife and separating the adherent coils gently with the finger, great care being taken not to rupture the intestine. In detaching these adhesions, the muscular coat of the bowel may be torn without injuring the mucous membrane ; such injuries should be looked out for, and if they occur should be sutured with fine catgut before proceeding farther. This separation leaves a large raw surface on the intestine, the abdominal wall, or any other structure to which adhesion has taken place, and the probability of re- currence or of the formation of fresh adhesions is very great. With the view of avoiding this, the raw surface may be rubbed over with sterilised vasehne or pure paraffin, or covered with a detached omental graft. It is well also to change the patient's position frec]uently during the after-treat- ment so as to prevent the raw surfaces from coming in contact and adhering again ; for example, after adhesion of the intestine to the gall-bladder, omentum may be brought over the raw surface and the patient kept sitting up in bed, so as to carry away the raw intestine from the denuded gall-bladder. Fresh adhesions may form elsewhere, but they may not cause any particular discomfort. When the omentum is healthy, the