304 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH while rectal feeding is of very little value under these circumstances. If, however, the stenosis is slight, it may be advantageous to devote a week or so to feeding the patient with concentrated nutritious food, such as soups, peptonised milk, and meat juice, whilst the stomach is washed out twice daily with boiled water to get rid of any fermenting contents ; at the end of each irrigation 10-15 grains of salol may be introduced and left in the stomach. The anaesthetic employed for the operation should be ether (open or intravenous), or the A.C.E. mixture. Before commencing the anasthetic the stomach should be emptied and washed out. All the precautions against severe shock, referred to in connection with severe abdominal operations on p. 199 must be adopted. The incision should be rather to the right of the middle line and extend from the xiphoid cartUage to below the umbilicus. On opening the peritoneal cavity, the condition of the pylorus should be first examined, especially its mobility, the presence or absence of adhesion to Fig. 109.—Clamp Forceps for use in Pvloro-gastrectomy. These are very useful for dividing tlie omenta. They crush firmly and have toothed ends that prevent the structures slipping out of the ends of the forceps. surrounding structures, and the presence and distribution of enlarged glands. The posterior surface of the pylorus can be explored by tearing a hole in the lesser omentum immediately above it and introducing the finger behind it. This also allows the posterior surface of the stomach and the pancreas to be examined, and the presence or absence of enlarged glands in front of the vertebra or above the pancreas can be made out. When this has been done and the operation has been decided upon, the first step is to free the pj'lorus. The edges of the abdominal wound are widely retracted, the general peritoneal cavity is carefully packed off with abdominal cloths, and the p3dorus freed by dividing the gastro-colic omentum between two pairs of long clamp-forceps (see Fig. 109). The vessels in the omentum can be tied separately or en masse, after the pylorus has been removed. The lesser omentum, as a rule, can be divided by tearing it with the finger if care be taken to keep close to the pylorus ; any bleeding vessels can be picked up as they are divided. A point of great practical importance is to detach the lesser omentum right up to the cardiac end and weU above the lesser curvature so as to ensure that the glands contained in it are removed. The pyloric and gastro-duodenal