TREATMENT OF IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA 477 abdomen, or the temporary establishment of an artificial anus which will be closed at a later period ; or (2) division of tlie constriction followed by fixation of the affected loop well down in the wound, so that adhesions may form round the abdominal opening and the perforation take place outside. This gives rise to an artificial anus, which must be subsequently closed. Immediate reseciion and anastomosis.—The plan that should always be adopted if possible is resection of the affected loop followed by im- mediate union (see p. 324). The surgeon must be guided in his decision by the patient's general condition and by the condition of the bowel above the constriction ; it is not so much the increase in the severity of the operation that makes immediate resection and anastomosis a more dangerous procedure than draining the bowel, but the fact that the contents of the intestine are not removed, and hence the patient is liable to die of toxaemia. If there is no great distension of the bowel the results of resection are good ; but when there is distension of the intestine with foul contents, the results are very unsatisfactory, unless drainage can be established in one of the ways already described (see p. 34ij. If it is found on opening the sac that the bowel has perforated, the condition is very serious. It would be most dangerous to divide the con- striction at the neck of the sac and either pull down the loop or perform an anastomosis, on account of the risk of fouling the peritoneum ; as a rule, the less done in the way of disturbing the neck of the sac the better. The best plan is to cut off the sloughing portion of the bowel, leave the wound wide open, and provide free drainage so that the separation of the sloughs can take place without risk to the adhesions which have already formed between the neck of the sac and the bowel passing through it. At the same time tubes may be introduced into the open ends of the bowel so as to assist in draining away its contents (see Fig. 157). In most cases the contents of the bowel above can readily pass the constriction. Sometimes, however, the relief is imperfect, and, if the patient's condition is fairly good, it would then be legitimate to cover up the hernial wound and to make an incision in the middle line and effect a lateral anastomosis between the afferent and efferent limbs of the loop so as to allow the proximal portion of the bowel to pass its contents freely into the distal, while at the same time the sloughing portion is cut out of the circuit and left in the wound. This procedure frees the patient from the obstruction, and in some cases the open ends of the bowel close and no further operation may be necessary ; if thev do not, the abdomen may be opened at a later period, and the affected portion of the intestine excised and a lateral anastomosis made between the upper and lower portions.