294 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH In other cases, extensive broad adhesions are met with which are much more difficult to separate, and when separated, large raw surfaces are left behind that are unfortunately only too prone to contract fresh ad- hesions. These cases are often extremely disappointing ; the immediate results may be very brilliant, but, as time goes on, the old symptoms gradually reappear as the fresh adhesions contract. At the same time the operation is always worth doing because the adhesions may not re-form in exactly the same way, and the troublesome symptoms may be relieved. It is well during healing to try, by putting the patient into suitable positions, to prevent recurrence of the same sort of adhesions as before. For example, if the stomach and colon are tucked up under the liver, the patient should be propped up in bed as soon as possible after the opera- tion, so that the stomach falls downwards, or if necessary he may actually sit up or lie upon one side. Particular care must of course be taken under such circumstances to secure thorough stitching of the abdominal wall. The actual management of these cases cannot be described in detail as everything depends upon the particular conditions met with. In all operations for adhesions special care is necessary to manipulate the abdominal cavity as little as possible and avoid giving any cause for fresh adhesions. Many surgeons now make it a practice to steep their abdominal cloths or the sterile gauze used for packing aside the intestines in some sterilised bland substance, such as vaseline or pure paraffin, in order to make sure that no mechanical irritation of the parts occurs. This precaution is a good one, as the mere contact of a cloth with the peritoneal coat of the bowel for quite a short time leads to effusion of lymph and subsequent adhesion of the two structures. Sterilised vaseline may also be smeared over the raw surfaces to prevent them sticking together immediately after the operation.