INGUINAL HERNIA 483 In cases of hernia complicating undescended testicle a cup-shaped truss is often employed to receive the testicle, whilst its rim keeps up the hernia. We consider, however, that it is always advisable to operate on these cases, partly in order to perform a radical cure of the hernia and partly to remedy the undescended testicle, and it is open to question whether a truss should be worn at all. The hernia, which is practically always present, helps the descent of the testicle, and the neck of the sac being wide, there is little risk of strangulation. When the child can be under close observation we are therefore inclined to allow some time to elapse before operating, and to prohibit the use of a truss so as to favour the descent of the testicle as much as possible. The first point in applying a truss is to reduce the hernia. The patient lies flat on a couch, and the thigh on the affected side is flexed and rotated inwards. The neck of the sac is then grasped between the thumb and Fig. i5i.—Truss i-or Scrotal Hernia. forefinger of one hand and pushed firmly downwards and inwards ; the bulk of the tumour is then grasped in the palm of the other hand and the swelling compressed and gradually squeezed up towards tlie inguinal ring Compression is first em])loyed in order to enq:)ty the contents of the bowel^ and when this has been clone the contents of the sac are returned into the abdomen by steady upward pressure. Many patients become very expert at this. After the hernia has been reduced, two fingers are placed firmly over the canal so as to prevent it coming down, the truss is slipped round the body, and the pad is placed in position. Radical cure.—Many operations have been introduced for the radical cure of inguinal hernia ; they difter a good deal in detail and applicability. We shall first discuss the essential principles of the operation of radical cure—namely, obliteration of the hernial sac and closure of the canal along which the hernia lias come—and shall then describe the operations for the acquired, the congenital, and the direct forms of hernia. The trealment of tlic hcniial sac.—It is hardly necessary to mention that, when a hernia is reduced into the abdomen, the sac remains behind. I I 2