STRICTURE 177 and suppuration in the cellular tissue outside. Internal cesophagotomy (similar to internal urethrotomy) has been employed, but is only applicable to strictures at the upper end and is accompanied by a great risk of septic cellulitis. The aim of the remaining operations is to make an opening as close to the stricture as pos- sible so as to pass a bougie through it and carry out gradual dilatation, or to divide the stricture with a tenotome ; the introduction of the oeso- phagoscope has rendered these procedures un- necessary in most cases. The opening may be made either above or below the stricture and a bougie or bougies introduced through it ; if this can be done, the upper end of the bougie is brought out through the mouth and left i)i situ and continuous dilatation (see p. 175) carried out. The opening in the oesophagus is closed im- mediately. In other cases there is a tight stricture at the lower end of the canal which cannot be reached from the neck. In these a good deal can sometimes be done by opening the stomach and attacking the stricture from below. Gasti'otomy.—The stomach is exposed in the usual manner (see p. 184) and drawn well out of the wound and packed off from the general peritoneal cavity so as to avoid infection. An opening is made on its anterior surface midway between the two curvatures as near the cardiac orifice as possible and large enough to admit two or three fingers. An attempt is then made to pass bougies upwards through the stricture. If this is successful, the stricture is dilated as far as possible, and a tube is passed through the stric- ture from the cardiac end of the stomach into the pharynx and made to emerge through the mouth and tied in. The case then becomes one of continuous dilatation ; gradual dilatation is substituted later on. Abbe carries out the im- mediate dilatation of the stricture in these cir- cumstances by attaching a thread to a bougie passed up into the mouth, and then seizing both ends of the thread and moving them backwards and forwards, and sawing through the greater part of the stricture. As a result a large bougie can be left in, and the subsequent treatment is easier. The