7 FRACTURES to apply a jaw bandage for the first week in addition to the wire splint. It is obvious that this splint cannot be used when the jaw is edentu- lous or when the teeth on one side of the fracture are too few or so loose that its application would pull them out of their sockets. For these cases the splint usually known as Gunning s is useful. It consists of two troughs of gutta-percha or some dental composition, moulded to a cast of all the teeth in both jaws ; the upper trough receives the teeth of the upper jaw, the lower those of the lower jaw. Between the upper and lower halves of the splint, small props are placed which separate the two portions, so as to leave an interval through which the tube of a feeder can be introduced. The fracture is reduced, and the splint is fitted over the alveolar margins of the upper and lower jaws and kept in position by a firmly applied jaw bandage {vide infra). Another splint which is useful, especially if some of the teeth are present, is Kingsley's (see Fig. 2) or some modification of it; this is cleaner and more comfortable than Gun- ning's, and consists of a moulded vulcanite splint which fits over the teeth of the mandible only. At the level of the angle of the mouth on each side, a bar of metal is attached to the splint and projects from each angle of the mouth. These bars are curved somewhat backwards, and are employed to carry a bandage which passes from one to the other beneath the chin so as to press up the jaw firmly into the splint (see Fig. 3). With this splint, as with Hammond's, a certain amount of movement of the jaw can be effected. When Hammond's or Kingsley's splint has been employed, semi-solid food, sucli as bread and milk, custard or rice pudding, may be adminis- tered after the first week ; when Gunning's splint has been used, liquid food must be given until the splint is removed, which will be in about three weeks. In no case should solid food be allowed until four or five weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident Hammond's splint / / Fic. 3.—Kingsley's Splint applied. The inter-dental portion seen in the preceding figure is l<ept in place by the bandages passing below the chin and around the neck.