GASTRIC ULCER 293 must not mistake a somewhat constricted pylorus for an ' hour-glass contraction ' of the stomach ; the pyloric vein is a very important mark by which to identify the pylorus. This accident has occurred in the hands of competent surgeons, and it has also happened that a pyloro- plasty instead of a gastroplasty has been performed with the result that the actual constriction has been unrelieved. TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS DUE TO GASTRIC ADHESIONS. The surgeon is not infrequently consulted when the history points to the previous existence of a gastric ulcer, but when the existing symptoms take the form of dyspepsia with much pain or distension after meals, constipation, etc. If these symptoms cannot be remedied by appropriate medical treatment, the surgeon may decide to perform an exploratory laparotomy, and will then often find that the symptoms are due to old perigastritis which has led to the formation of adhesions which either partially obstruct the stomach or attach it to the liver, the gall-bladder, or the transverse colon, or transform the greater part of the stomach into a hard, ' leather-bottle'-like organ. We have already considered the more marked and limited adhesions causing stenosis of the pylorus and ' hour-glass contraction ' of the stomach. Those to whicli we refer here are of a different character and do not produce any actual narrowing of the cavity of the stomach. Tlieir effect is to give rise to uneasy feelings and disturbances after food or on movement of the intestines, owing to the fact that they anchor the organ to adjacent parts. Quite a number of cases of apparently confirmed dyspepsia have been improved or even entirely cured by opening the abdomen and finding and dividing adhesions of this kind, or by performing gastro-jejunostomy when there is no other method of relieving the gastric stasis. The operation takes the form of an exploratory laparotom^• ; an\' adhesions present are separated, and the stomach is freed in an}' manner that may seem necessary. Sometimes the adhesions take the form of long, thin bands crossing from the stomach to the liver and preventing descent of the stomach when it is distended. Sometimes they pass between the stomach and the colon ; sometimes the stomach, liver, and colon are all united by a thick fibrous band. These bands may become stretched in time and form cords, which are a constant potential cause of intestinal obstruction. When this condition is found, the proper treatment is to remove as much of the bands as possible ; it is not advisable simply to divide the bands and. leave the ends free, as they may contract fresh adhesions and become a source of trouble a second time. They should be divided if possible at their extreme points of attachment and the whole of the intermediate portion removed. Many of the adhesions will require ligature before they are divided. In cases of long narrow bands the operation should eft'ect a complete cure.