381 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION been in the habit of using specially designed metal pegs for this purpose which pass through the skin, the abdominal wall, and the meso-colon, and are mechanically bolted into position and hold the bowel immovably. With these the entire operation from first to last is a matter of a few minutes only (see Fig. 137). It is sometimes a good plan, before pro- ceeding to the next stage of the operation to pass a loose ligature through the meso-colon, entering close to the bowel at the upper end of the loop, passing right across to the other side, and then going through the meso- colon close to the lower end of the loop in the reverse direction. This is not tied at the time, but left loose so that when the time comes for cutting off the superfluous portion of the bowel, it can be tightened and the circula- tion in the loop is controlled while the redundant tissue is cut away (see Fig. 138). A Paul's tube is then inserted in the ordinary way after any scybala have been squeezed out, or Collier's apparatus may be used. Collier's apparatm.—This consists of the following parts (see Figs. 139, 140) : A is a thin-walled india-rubber tube of the kind used with the ordinary Paul's tube, i? is a cylinder of glass provided with a flange at its upper end over which the thin-walled tube (.4) fits. To the lower end of the glass cylinder a short tube of moderately thick red rubber (C) is fitted. D is a special needle made in the form of two spirals, the upper of which is small enough to fit within the glass cylinder. There is a short connecting piece between the two spirals. The apparatus is used as follows : The point of the spiral needle is pushed through the wall of the colon and the needle passed into the bowel with a corkscrew motion until the upper spiral and the connecting piece are all that is left outside the bowel. The red-rubber tube (C) is turned back over the end of the glass cylinder to form a sort of cuff, the glass being allowed to project for a fraction of an inch. The smaller spiral is then introduced into the glass cylinder, and by pressing on the opposite side of the bowel the whole of the spiral needle is held in close apposition to the cylinder. The projecting edge of the rubber tube which has been turned up is now turned down so as to embrace the lower and larger part of the spiral needle, the bowel wall being caught between the two. The apparatus is thus firmly fastened to the colon, the lumen of the cylinder and that of the bowel being separated by the wall of the colon which forms a diaphragm between them. This diaphragm is now cut across crucially by a knife introduced through the open end of the cylinder and the thin rubber tube rapidly placed in position. In this metliod all risk of soiling the wound with faeces is avoided. The tube usually sloughs out in three or four days, but by that time the adhesion of the intestine to the sides of the wound is satisfactory if care is taken not to handle it. In about ten days the intestine should be cut off nearly flush with the skin, so as to leave two openings, one above and one below. In cutting off the projecting bowel a good deal of blood may be lost, and it is with the view of avoiding this that the loose stitch refen-ed to above