374 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES decided on. If enlarged glands run high up in the lumbar region they may be removed along with their surrounding fat, but the greatest care must be taken not to tear veins in the portion of meso-colon left be- hind, otherwise it will be necessary to take away an unduly large piece of bowel. Both the ileum and the colon are next clamped in two places above and below the stricture, the situation of the clamps being determined by the considerations already mentioned, and the bowel is then divided on each side between the clamps, the cut ends covered over with gauze pads and the tumour removed; some surgeons divide the bowel with the actual cautery in order to disinfect the cut surfaces. The open ends of both portions of bowel should be invaginated and sewn up in the ordinary manner, and then if it is possible, a lateral anasto- mosis should be performed between the ileum and the transverse colon (see Fig. 134). If the condition of the patient is very bad, it may be best to introduce a small Paul's tvrbe into the end of the ileum, and close the end of the large intestine, leaving the lateral anastomosis to a later period. This, however, should be avoided, if it is possible to complete the operation at the time. Care must be taken to see that the peristaltic wave runs in Fic. I34.-LATERAL Anastomosis APTER Excs.oN OP THE ^^^^ ^amc direction in tllC C.CCUM. The gap in the meso-caecum has been closed by ileum and the COloU. sutures. . . Many strictures 01 the in- testine—more especially the malignant ones—are so situated or are so extensive that excision is out of the question; and under these circum- stances two alternative methods remain—namely: anastomosis of the bowel above with that below the stricture, so as to enable the intestinal contents to pass without going through the strictured portion—an opera- tion spoken of as ' short-circuiting '—or the formation of an artificial anus above the stricture. Short-circuiting. — It is clear that an intestinal anastomosis is far superior to an artificial anus, and should be done whenever it is possible, The chief objection to it, and one that must be attended to in operating, is the tendency of the opening to contract, and, as in the case of gastro- jejunostomy, this is most marked when the intestine above the stricture is much dilated (see p. 263). To avoid this it is important to make what