AFFFXTIONS OF THE STOMACH 312 If the ulcer is situated on the anterior surface of the duodenum and is quite small, it may be enclosed in two horizontal semi-elliptical incisions which are afterwards stitched together vertically. Excision may also be necessary in cases of haemorrhage ; or if this is not possible, the artery from which the blood is coming must be tied. Resection of the affected portion of the duodenum with or without the pylorus has also been done, followed by end-to-end union or by side-to-side anastomosis. If gastro-jejunostomy is decided on, the ulcer should be also infolded by a double layer of sero-muscular sutures, and if necessary a similar running suture is passed around the greater part of the pylorus so as to constrict it. In most cases a posterior gastro-jejunostomy (see p. 265) is then performed, but if the duodenum is very fixed it is safer to choose the anterior operation (see p. 271), otherwise the ulcer may perforate during the manipulations. Moynihan recommends that in all these cases the appendix should be also examined, and if necessary removed, as he holds that gastric and duodenal ulcers are due to toxaemia, which frequently originates in connection with the appendix. Adhesions kinking the bowel should also be divided, and the raw surface smeared with sterilised vaseline with the view of trying to prevent their recurrence. PERFORATED DUODENAL ULCER. Perforation is not at all infrequent in duodenal ulcer, and may or may not be preceded by symptoms of previous disease. It is not uncommon to find that the patient's attention has not been directed to the abdomen beforehand, although on questioning him, he may remember transient dyspeptic troubles. The pain is usually extremely severe and sometimes there is much shock. At first rigidity may not be very marked, less so than in ruptured gastric ulcer, but it soon becomes extreme. The respiration is rapid and jerky. After a time the patient complains of pain in the right iliac fossa, and many of these cases are operated on under the impression that they are cases of acute appendicitis ; in duodenal ulcer, however, the most painful spot is in the right hypochondrium, and the jerky rapid breathing is very characteristic. If there is escape of gas when the abdomen is opened it is at once evident that the alimentary canal has been perforated. Perforation of a duodenal ulcer must be diagnosed from perforated appendix, perforation or gangrene of the gall-bladder, acute pancreatitis, and pneumonia or pleurisy. The operation is similar to that for perforated gastric ulcer, and the duodenum is reached by an incision through the upper part of the right rectus. The opening in the duodenum should be stitched up by a double layer of sutures, and then the parts should be thoroughly cleansed. An incision should be made in the right iliac region and the fluid which