533 INJURIES cellular tissue. The sigmoidoscope (see p. 522) is very useful in clearing up these points and so assists the treatment. (a) Of lacerations associated with fracture.—When the bowel is torn across as a complication of a fracture of the pelvis or sacrum the case is very serious. When the laceration extends into the peritoneal cavity the natural line of treatment is to perform a median sub-umbilical laparotomy, to find and try to repair the wound in the rectum, and to cleanse the peritoneal cavity. These cases are usually associated with extensive fracture of the pelvis, and in the majority the patient's condition is too desperate to allow this to be undertaken, and death from septic peritonitis occurs. Should there be any prospect of carrj^ing out this method of treatment successfully, it should be undertaken and it may be done under spinal anaesthesia. The details are practically the same as for a similar injury to the stomach. The abdomen should be opened in the middle line immediately above the pubes, and, after the extravasated fgecal material has been removed from the pelvic or general abdominal cavity by the methods already described in connection with injuries of the stomach (see p. 244), the patient should be put in the Trendelenburg position so that the intestines fall out of the pelvis, and the wound in the rectum should be searched for and sutured in the ordinary manner, if possible. This may be excessively difficult, especially when the rent is low down and is partly intra- and partly extra-peritoneal. A large drainage tube is inserted into Douglas's pouch down to the neighbourhood of the injury, and this should be packed round with gauze and made to emerge from the incision just above the pubes. When there is an extensive laceration of the rectum below the reflection of the peritoneum—an injury which is more commonly associated with a fracture of the sacrum than of the pelvic girdle—-the best plan is to cut down by the side of the bowel and try to reach the seat of injury from the perineum. This is done through a crescentic incision around that side of the anus on which proctoscopic examination shows the injury to be. The incision is deepened in the ischio-rectal fossa until the rent is reached, and then the tissues are thoroughly opened up, drained with tubes, and packed with iodoformed gauze so as to prevent as far as possible the septic cellulitis, which will otherwise certainly occur ; an incision of this kind gives free exit to any sloughs or discharges that may occur. The wound should be left widely open. It is well to confine the bowels for a few days afterwards, and then subsequently to keep them open by suitable laxatives. The wound should be frequently syringed out in order to get rid of all particles of faeces. Should the patient be in a condition to stand the further operation, a temporary inguinal colostomy—to be closed when the patient recovers— in addition to the perineal operation just described, will increase the chances of recovery by diverting the intestinal contents from the wound.