AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 502 all round with a fine suture, the edges of the umbihcal opening are brought together as closely as possible, and the wound is stitched up. Should the fibrous tissues be much atrophied, the plate may be laid over the anterior surface of the muscular wall, the important point being Fig. 169.—McGavin's Silver Filigrees for Hernia. These may be of any size or shape. Those shown above are best suited for large inguinal or ventral hernice ; those used for umbilical hernia are often elliptical in outline. to see that its edges are firmly fixed all round. After the operation, the patient should be kept in bed for six weeks, and should wear a firm abdominal belt without any pad unless there is a tendency to fresh protrusion. Gersuny advocates bringing the recti muscles back into their normal position in the middle line. The sheath of the rectus is opened on each side, and the recti are separated and brought inwards to the middle line and their adjacent edges are sewn together. In order to do this satis- factorily it is necessary to separate also the transverse fibrous bands in the rectus above and below the umbilicus, and therefore the incision must be free, and in bad cases may have to extend nearly from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes. This operation is often a severe one, and may be impossible in feeble and very fat persons. In comparatively spare subjects, on the other hand, it is not particularly severe, and we have done it on several occasions with satisfactory results. Treatment in old age.—-Here the hernia is practically always irreducible and usually very large, and the feeble musculature, the excess of fat, the size of the opening, and the generally weak state of the patient preclude any attempt at such a radical cure as Gersuny's. The contents are usually inextricably mixed up and must be separated, which takes a long time, and the patient is unable to undergo the further prolongation of the operation and the loss of blood which is involved in bringing the recti together. The filigree method may, however, be employed. A suitable belt must be worn after the operation ; indeed.