TUMOURS 31 3. Those in which the growth is found chiefly or entirely on the alveolar margin and only affects the antrum secondarily, if at all. These are the common cases of epithelioma of the gum and palate. 4. Those commencing on, or near the margin of the orbit. These are often sarcomatous in nature. For each of these classes a separate operation is applicable. For the first group, complete excision of the upper jaw is necessary ; for the others, the removal may be more partial, so as to obviate the serious disadvantages of the complete operation, while ensuring adequate removal. I. Of cases involving the whole Antrum.—When the disease is extensive and the whole maxilla is affected, there is no alternative but to remove the entire bone. The quickest and safest method of doing this is by means of the operation devised by Fergusson. Prior to the performance of any operation on the jaivs and ahoiil the month, great care should he taken to cleanse the mouth and especially the teeth, otherwise serious infection of the wound may occur. The teeth should be cleaned, scaled, stopped, or extracted by a dentist some days before the operation, and the gums and the tongue should be thoroughly cleansed every day with a tooth-brush and a paste or powder containing antiseptics and astringents. A mouth-wash of sanitas or Condy's fluid should be used freely for several days prior to the operation. Some surgeons recommend a preliminary course of treatment with vaccines of any organism found in the patient's mouth, to which his opsonic index is low. Apart from the question of the value of this treatment, it is never advisable to delay the operation for the purpose of carrying it out. As a matter of fact, it is very remarkable how seldom there is any serious septic trouble after this operation. In performing the operation, the first point to be borne in mind is that blood accumulates in the pharynx, and not only interferes with breathing, but also tends to run into the trachea, and may then either choke the patient, or—if it carries in septic material from the mouth— may lead to septic pneumonia and a fatal result after two or three days. It has been suggested that the an£esthetic should not be pushed deeply, and that the power of swallowing and coughing should be retained, but this is very trying and distracting to the operator, and may seriously interfere with the rapidity and accuracy of the operation. It is therefore necessary both to have the patient completely an£esthetised and to prevent blood passing into the larynx. This can be accomplished by performing a preliminary laryngotomy, and administering the anaesthetic through the tube, while the pharynx is plugged with large marine sponges (see Vol. I. p. 467), or by the intratracheal insufflation method described below. The anaesthesia may be induced by chloroform, ether, or mixture, but as soon as the laryngotomy tube is introduced, chloroform, given