DUODENAL UTXER cases it is not noticeable with the naked eye, though present on exami- nation as ' occult blood ' (see p. 235). When marked haemorrhage occurs in duodenal ulcer, it is serious, and may be fatal. On X-ray examination after a bismuth meal, it has been found that the stomach empties itself more quickly when there is no constriction than in the normal condition. Although by some the diagnosis of duodenal ulcer is considered to be quite easy, there is no doubt that the average surgeon fails to find a duodenal ulcer in many cases in which it was expected. It has happened so often in these cases that the only lesion found has been a diseased appendix, that there is now a well recognised form of appen- dicitis known under the name of ' appendix dyspepsia.' According to Moynihan this condition can be diagnosed from duodenal or gastric ulcer by the fact that in the appendix cases the pain is not acute, is generally confined to the epigastrium, and is set up by pressure in the right iliac fossa ; that vomiting is frequent, and that there are not the intervals of freedom from pain whicli occur in cases of ulcer. Duodenal ulcer may also be mistaken for gastric ulcer or gall-stones or entero-spasm, and vice versa. TREATMENT.—As a rule, medical treatment has been carried out for some time before the case is handed over to the surgeon, and consists in regulation of the diet, rest, change of scene, the administration cf normal horse-serum, olive oil, bismuth and soda, and similar drugs. The surgical treatment consists in dealing with the ulcer either by excision or infolding, or by performing gastro-jejunostomy, or by both. The incision should be a vertical one through the middle of the right rectus and sufficently long to give a good view of the parts. This incision also enables the surgeon to examine the stomach and gall-bladder and appendix. The duodenum must be examined carefully in the first instance, and if there is no evidence of ulcer on its anterior surface, the peritoneum must be divided about two fingers' breadth outside the duodenum and the latter raised so as to investigate the posterior surface. If no evidence of ulcer is found, gastro-jejunostomy should not be per- formed as it will not only do no good, but may set up troubles, especially in the way of vomiting, which did not exist before. Under such circum- stances other sources for the symptoms should be looked for. If an ulcer is found, it may be treated by excision either of the ulcer alone or of the piece of diseased duodenum, or by gastro-jejunostomy combined with infolding of the ulcer or artificial constriction of the pylorus. The latter is the method which is most generally applicable ; excision of the ulcer is very seldom possible, but infolding of it seems to have a very beneficial effect. One need not hesitate about infolding it freely if it is situated above the orifice of the bile-duct or, at any rate, if its infolding does not obstruct that orifice; and under such circumstances the pylorus may not be constricted.