EPITHELIOMA foetor of the breath, the intense pain, the frequent haemorrhages and the difficulty in swallowing and sometimes in breathing are sources of the greatest misery. With the view of avoiding these various troubles, it has been proposed that, even when widespread glandular infection in the neck renders the case inoperable, the disease should be removed from the mouth so as to relieve the patient of these troubles. If this is feasible and the patient can stand the operation, benefit will no doubt result ; it is our experience, however, that when the disease can be removed from the mouth with- out much chance of recurrence, the glands can be taken away also, and the probability, therefore, is that when the glands in the neck are inoperable the disease in the mouth is inoperable too, and thus the question would not arise. Unless the disease can be removed from the mouth with a good prospect of non-recurrence there, the operation should not be done. When there is marked dyspnoea, tracheotomy will be necessary and should be performed comparatively soon. Dysphagia is another dis- tressing condition and is due, in most cases, to intense pain on attempting to swaUow, and to the fixation of the base of the tongue ; in other cases, however, it is caused by the extension of the disease to the pharynx and blocking of the canal. The alternatives to be considered under such circumstances are feeding by tubes, oesophagostomy or gastrostomy, and rectal feeding. Feeding by a stomach tube passed through the mouth is, as a rule, impracticable, chiefly on account of the pain ; but when there is no actual disease in the pharynx, the tube may be passed through the nose and may not come in contact with the ulcerated surface. If this is possible, it is the best plan. Failing this, the patient's strength may be maintained for a time by rectal feeding (see p. 257). Qisophagostomy or gastrostomy are seldom worth while. When the disease in the tongue has reached the stage which would necessitate such operations, the patient is generally so far gone that he will not survive long enough for these procedures to be of any value. The pain may sometimes be relieved to a considerable extent by the use of orthoform. The surface of the ulcer is cleansed and dried, and the powdered drug is blown over the surface. Orthoform is not poisonous and therefore the apphcation may be repeated frequently ; it should be applied at least half an hour before taking food and its effect often lasts for a considerable time. Other drugs, such as cocaine and morphine, may be given frequently and in large doses in the later stages. The question often arises as to whether the lingual nerve should be divided in these cases in order to stop the pain. When it can be done successfully, it is of great advantage, but the extent of the disease may render the operation impossible, and even when done it does not always relieve the patient. Division of the lingual nerve.—The mouth is opened by a gag on the