EPITHELIOMA 99 way. The disease can then be removed, the sublingual gland being taken away along with the affected half of the tongue and the floor of the mouth. The wound in the mouth is sponged over with chloride of zinc solution (40 gr. to the ounce) and is lightly packed witli iodoformed gauze which emerges through an aperture left in the incision in the neck. The treatment of the defect in the jaw must follow the lines already laid down (see p. 48). After-treatment of operations upon the tongue.—There is considerable diversity of opinion as to the best method of treating the wound after the operation. Dusting the raw surface with iodoform is a dangerous procedure, because a large quantity of iodoform is required, and absorption of the drug from the mouth is free ; a number of cases of severe iodoform poisoning have undoubtedly occurred. We have tried Whitehead's varnish (see p. 92), but have not seen any particular advantage from it. Kocher packs the mouth full of gauze and allows the patient to breathe through a tracheotomy tube ; we cannot say that we have seen any real benefit from this plan. We prefer to interfere with the wound as little as possible. Antiseptic mouth- washes are used as soon as the patient can employ them, but before that time we simply allow the discharges to be expectorated or to drain from the mouth, facilitating their removal by occasional gentle spraying or syringing of the raw surface with lotions of chlorate of potash or bicarbonate of soda. The nurse is instructed to cleanse the teeth thoroughly and to swab them well with a mouth-wash of boro-glyceride, peroxide of hydrogen or sanitas. When there is a drainage tube leading from the mouth through an opening in the neck, syringing the mouth can be done freely from an early period, as the fluid finds its way out through the tube. The latter should be so arranged that its end projects into the mouth for at least three or four days ; it may then be shortened so as to allow the opening in the mouth to close. If a preliminary laryngotomy has been performed, the tube should be left in for a few hours and then removed. If it is taken out imme- diately after the operation, as is sometimes done, there is considerable risk of extensive emphysema. The feeding is of great importance. It is well to trust entirely to rectal feeding for two or three days after the more severe forms of operation, unless the patient is very debilitated. This is done not because the patient is unable to swallow, but because the food collects in the wound in spite of the greatest care, and such substances as milk and beef tea decompose rapidly. The patient will do perfectly well for three or four days with rectal enemata (see p. 257) every four hours, the bowel being washed out daily with a large warm-water enema. Should the patient's condition demand it, feeding by the mouth must be had H 2