153 MALIGNANT TUMOURS position before removing the tube, and also in some cases by packing the larynx above the tube during the operation. It is a question whether the tracheotomy should not be done a week or more before the excision, so as to allow the trachea to become accustomed to the presence of the tube. There is, certainly, some advantage in this ; but it is seldom safe to delay the removal of the malignant disease for even that period. The intratracheal method of administering anesthetics (see p. 33) may obviate the necessity for tracheotomy and keep the trachea free more efficiently. Keen, of Philadelphia, strongly advocates the employment of the Trendelenburg position both during and after the operation. We have not found any practical advantage in this, and the position is very irksome to the patient. A procedure that we consider of the greatest value in avoiding septic pneumonia is to close the opening into the pharynx after the removal of the disease if that is possible, or if not to sear the cut surfaces of the pharynx with a thermo-cautery. We always attempt to stitch up the pharynx so as to prevent the large wound in the neck adding to the amount of discharge in the throat, and also to facilitate swallowing. The pharyngeal wall is very extensile and it is sometimes possible to bring the edges together in cases suitable for operation. The stitches must be so arranged that the mucous surfaces of the pharynx do not curl outwards, otherwise union will not occur. An attempt is made to invert the mucous surface by catgut sutures and these are buried by sutures corresponding to Lembert's sutures as used in the intestine. We generally employ this double row of sutures, the outer row not penetrating the pharynx. Even if union fails, it does not matter much so long as the stitches hold for two or three days, so that the critical period for the patient, when he is unable to swallow or clear his throat properly and while the external wound has not yet granulated, is tided over. A large raw surface in the throat at a later date is not of serious importance. Besides these precautions we also adopt all the preliminary measures recommended for operations for cancer of the tongue (see p. 81). Drainage.—We always drain these wounds from outside, inserting a large drainage tube close up to the line of the incision in the pharynx and bringing it out at the most dependent spot in the wound in the neck. Should the fat and glands have been removed from beneath the sterno- mastoid, a button-hole is made through the skin in the posterior triangle and a second tube is brought through it. Before closing the wound in the neck it is well to sponge it out with a solution of chloiide of zinc (gr. xl to the ounce). Arrest of hcenwrrliage.—In our earlier operations we were accustomed to tie the external carotid artery, but experience has shown that this is not only unnecessary but is a grave source of danger. When the wound in the throat communicates with that in the neck, the seat of ligature is