85 EPITHELIOMA as Kocher's operation. The choice between these methods will be influenced largely by the extent and situation of the disease. We shall describe the various operations that are suited for removal of disease in particular situations in the tongue. [a) When the disease is superficial and is limited to the tip of the tongue.—In these cases a V-shaped excision of the tip will usually suffice. No preliminary laryngotomy will be required. y-shaped excision of the tip of the tongue.—The neck should be steadied upon a sandbag, with the head somewhat dependent over it and turned well to one side. A Mason's, Doyen's, or Lane's gag (see Fig. 27) is used, and the assistant is instructed to press down the angle of the mouth on the side towards which the head is turned in order to allow the blood to run out freely. A stout silk thread is inserted through the base of the tongue on each side by passing the linger over the dorsum into the space on either side of the median glosso-epiglottidean fold, pulling up the front part of the organ forcibly and thrusting a naevus needle armed with stout silk through the under-surface of the tongue as far back as possible, and bringing it out where the finger lies in front of the epiglottis. This suture gets a good purchase and brings the tongue as far forward as it will come, and is a much better way of doing this than by passing the thread through its tip or by pulling it forwards by forceps. The thread is entrusted to an assistant who pulls the tongue forwards and steadies it. The portion of the tongue to be removed is then seized with a pair of tenaculum forceps. In order to allow the tip of the tongue to come forwards, the frenum is divided with a pair of long-handled blunt-pointed scissors, the division stopping short of the ranine artery ; if necessary, the tongue can be brought still further out by dividing the anterior pillars of the fauces. A V-shaped incision is then made with scissors through the mucous membrane (see Fig. 28), at least an inch wide of the growth, and the central portion of the tongue is cut out with a few snips of the scissors, careful watch being kept for the ranine arteries as the incision is deepened ; they are easily seized and twisted. The portion of the tongue external