AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 582 by the fact that there is no sulcus around the protruded portion in true prolapse ; the latter starts directly from the anal orifice, whereas in an intussusception the prolapsed portion comes down through the anal ring, and a finger can be passed between the intussusception and the anal mucous membrane well up into the bowel. If the condition remain untreated it gives rise to permanent loss of control from over-stretching of the sphincters. The protrusion becomes thickened and ulcerated, and may become irreducible and even gangrenous. TREATMENT.—^The chief aims are to remove the cause, to reduce the prolapsed portion to prevent protrusion in the intervals between the actions of the bowels, to diminish straining at stool, and to improve the local muscular tone. It is only when these aims are unsuccessful that operative treatment is called for. (a) In infancy.—In the first place any condition giving rise to straining during defaecation or micturition must be remedied. Worms, polypi, haemorrhoids, or stone in the bladder should be removed ; phimosis or constipation should be treated appropriately, and the general health should be attended to. In addition, the prolapse should alwaj's be reduced immediately after defaecation, and measures must be taken to keep it up in the interval. The prolapsed portion should be reduced by gently squeezing and pressing it backwards in the bath or after the parts have been washed with warm water and a soft sponge, and lubricated with oil. Recurrence of the protrusion may often be prevented by fastening the buttocks firmly together with a broad piece of strapping passing across them from one great trochanter to the other. Children with prolapse should evacuate the bowels while lying either upon the back or upon one side, as straining is thus diminished. Every effort should be made to improve the general health ; simple tonic, hygienic and dietetic treatment in conjunction with the local treatment described will cure most cases. (b) In young adults.—^The condition is rare in young adults, and is usually the result of stricture of the urethra, piles, or polypi. When these are treated, the protrusion will usually disappear, but the cure may be facilitated by the administration of tonics and the local application of the faradaic current, one pole being placed over the lower lumbar spine, whilst the other is introduced into the anus. (c) In old age.—In elderly subjects there may be not only local causes which are difficult to treat, but also a feeble condition of the patient and a loss of tone in the muscles. In addition, there is often some recurring affection, such as chronic bronchitis, which tends to reproduce the condition. In such cases some form of operation must always be employed. The following are the methods that have given the best results in our hands :— Linear cauterisation of the prolapse.—^This method is only of use when the mucous membrane alone protrudes, and should not be