AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 192 Relative merits of the operations.—Kader's and Witzel's operations are suited for all cases in which gastrostomy can be })erformed, and provide an effectual safeguard against regurgitation of the stomach contents. Of the two methods Kader's is perhaps the easier and safer in unskilled hands, but the effectual prevention of regurgitation in Witzel's operation renders it a favourite with those who practise it. In the rare event of a temporary gastrostomy being required one of these two methods should always be used ; if closure of the gastrostomy wound is desired, it is only necessary to leave off the use of the stomach feeding tube and the opening will close in a few days. Both methods have the disadvantages that the patient must wear the tube for some considerable time after Fig. 77.—Franck's Gastrostomy. Diagram shoming the direction of the fistula. P, peritoneum; M, abdominal muscles; S, skin; D, linea alba; A, incision tlirougli wliich tlie stomach is drawn out of tlie abdomen, and which is sutured at the end of the operation ; B, incision into rectus through which the apex of the stomach cone emerges ; C, catheter passed through the fistulous opening into the stomach, St. showing its M--liaped course. (Legg, A System of Treatment.) the operation, otherwise the artificial opening tends to close. A dis- advantage of Witzel's method is that in inexperienced hands the suture may be faulty and leakage may take place between the stomach and the abdominal wall, and suppuration and possibly fatal peritonitis may occur. Franck's operation has the advantage that no tube need be worn after the fourth day ; and there is no tendency to spontaneous closure even if the patient neglects to use the feeding catheter for a long period ; a certain amount of contraction of the orifice does take place, however. It has the disadvantage that it cannot be performed when the stomach is either greatly contracted as in advanced cases of starvation from oesophageal stricture, or when it cannot be pulled out of the wound.