142 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS CALCULI OF THE TONSILS. Gollection of mucus and calcareous material may occur in the tonsillar crypts and occasionally give rise to calculi, containing chiefly phosphate and carbonate of lime. Leptothrix masses are often present, and occur in the crypts of the tonsils, especially in the supra-tonsillar fossa. They often cause very few symptoms and are recognised as whitish projections from the surface of the tonsils. They may, however, lead to attacks of inflammation or severe stabbing pain. TREATMBiN'T.—The tonsillar crypt can generally be easily cleared out with a sharp spoon of convenient size. Should there be any difficulty in doing this, should the collections be numerous, or should recurrence take place, it is best to shave off the surface of the tonsil with a tonsiUotome (see p. 132). ACUTE PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. The pharynx consists essentially of a fibrous bag or framework, to which the name of pharyngeal aponeurosis is given. Internal to this is the mucous membrane which is supplied with abundance of lymphoid tissue and numerous mucous glands. The mucous membrane is con- tinuous with that of the other cavities which open into the pharynx. The muscles of the pharynx are outside the aponeurosis, and are separated from those on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae by the strong prevertebral fascia, which stretches from one sterno-mastoid muscle to the other. Behind this fascia and resting on the prevertebral muscles are the retro-pharyngeal glands, which are well developed in children, but may be absent in later life. The only acute inflammatory affection of the pharynx which needs a separate description is suppuration following an acute pharyngitis, which generally occurs in young children. This is really an abscess in the sub-mucous or lymphoid tissue of the pharynx, and is in the wall of the pharynx. Difficulty in swallowing occurs early, and is accompanied by considerable pain ; examination of the throat shows that the dysphagia is caused not by a diffuse inflammatory condition of the mucous membrane, but by a localised swelling. The prominence usually occurs in the pharyngeal cavity, and it may be situated laterally. The condition is serious and if the abscess is of any size it interferes considerably both with deglutition and respiration. If left alone it bursts spontaneously into the throat and there is some danger that the patient may be asphyxiated if this occurs during sleep. TREATMENT.—The abscess should be evacuated as soon as possible. This is easily done from the pharynx, and the cavity heals as rapidly as does that of any other acute abscess. When asphyxia is imminent in a case of acute pharyngeal abscess, or