376 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES opening and the stricture as possible. Another reason for this is the possibility of partial or even complete internal strangulation through the loop thus formed. Further, in bringing the two portions of the intestine together there must be no stretching of the intestine and the two portions should lie easily together without kinking. In the case of a cancerous stricture, where the anastomosis must not be made too near the growth, it is best, in order to avoid a long loop, to divide the bowel above the loop, sew up both ends, and then unite the proximal portion with the distal at some distance below the growth. The actual steps of the short-circuit operation are the same as those described for gastro-jejunostomy and for lateral anastomosis of the intestine (see pp. 265, 324). Artificial anus.—An artificial anus should only be made when an intestinal anastomosis is impossible owing to the situation or extent of the disease. In the small intestine, an artificial anus must never be made except when nothing else can be done ; even at a considerable risk to the patient a short-circuit operation should be performed if it is impossible to excise the stricture. An artificial anus in the small intestine, if high up, produces profound malnutrition, and, moreover, the intestinal contents are extremely irritating and give rise to an eczematous condition of the skin of the abdomen which is most distressing to the patient. When the skin becomes much inflamed the following prescription is of value :— This is rubbed over the skin around the opening at each dressing. When the surgeon is forced to make an intestinal fistula, the disadvan- tages may be to some extent minimised by emploving the method described on p. 308. 2. When the obstruction is complete.—The foregoing remarks refer to incomplete intestinal obstruction in which the patient's con- dition is good and there is no urgency. Unfortunately, the surgeon is more frequently called to these cases when the obstruction has become complete and the patient's condition is therefore bad. Although physicians—who generally see these cases first—are becoming more alive to the advantage of early surgical treatment, many are still apt to go on treating them in the vain hope that the obstruction may be due to faecal accumulation, and the patient is often almost moribund before a surgeon is called in. In complete obstruction, the diagnosis of the seat of the obstruction, as well as of its nature, assumes the highest importance. In incomplete cases, even although the seat of obstruction may not be accurately E Bismuthi subnit. > Zinci oxidi . \ 01. eucalypt. 01. ricini aa 3SS. Misce.