AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 230 skin—should be avoided, otherwise contractions of the abdominal muscles may be set up and the object of the examination defeated. Palpation should always be undertaken without anaesthesia in the first instance in order to determine the question of pain, but when the abdominal walls are rigid or the patient is stout, or when there is much pain, it may be necessary to administer an anaesthetic before completing the examination, so as to obtain satisfactory relaxation. Before concluding the examination by palpation, the patient should be turned first upon one side and then upon the other, and, when the examination is not under anaesthesia and there is no risk in the pro- cedure, he may finally rest upon the hands and knees so as to allow the stomach to fall forward. In this way tumours may be felt in the stomach walls or about the pylorus, and their size, consistence, and mobility noted. Powerful peristaltic movements passing from left to right, such as occur when there is obstruction to the pylorus, may also be appreciated. Succussion may be elicited in cases of dilatation of the stomach, and the undue sensibility of the organ so frequently associated with gastric ulcer may be very evident. PERCUSSION AND AUSCULTATION. These methods are useful w^hen employed in addition to others, but are not to be relied upon by themselves. The note elicited by percussion of the stomach, although fairly characteristic, is not absolutely reliable. Percussion is most valuable when it is combined with inflation [vide supra). Auscultation is chiefly of value in cases of hour-glass contraction, when the characteristic rushing noise due to the passage of contents from one portion of the stomach to the other through the narrow communication may be heard. In order to make out the limits of the stomach when it is not much dilated, the patient may be made to stand up and the limits of the stomach ascertained by percussion as far as possible. If now the supposed area of the stomach be marked out on the skin with an aniline pencil, its accuracy can be more or less checked by making the patient drink a pint or more of fluid and again percussing the stomach ; this will then give a dull area corresponding to the greater curvature. The chief difficulty is the resonance of the transverse colon, the per- cussion note of which may be mistaken for that of the stomach. It has been proposed to get rid of this fallacy by means of a large water enema introduced into the rectum so as to distend the descending and transverse colon, but the method is not accurate enough to allow any reliable conclusions to be drawn from it.