395 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS A free Meckel's diverticulum may give rise to more or less complete intestinal obstruction in various other ways. It may encircle the intestine and even tie knots around it ; if full of faeces it may press on the bowel and obstruct it, or may lead to kinks or a volvulus ; and it mav cause an intussusception, which is often preceded by intussusception of the diverticulum itself. More rarely still, obliteration may occur at both ends, leaving a space in the middle which dilates and forms a cystic tumour. Inflammation.—Meckel's diverticulum may become the seat of an inflammation closely resembling appendicitis in its symptoms and treatment. It is practically impossible to distinguish between these two affections, and if the appendix is found to be healthy in an operation for supposed appendicitis the ileum should be examined to see if a Meckel's diverticulum is present. The main point of distinction is that the tenderness is not located about McBurney's point as it so often is in appendicitis. As a rule, when the diverticulum is free, the coil of intestine to which it is attached is hanging down into the pelvis, and the pain is lower and more central than it is in appendicitis. The treatment is exactly similar in all essentials to that of appendicitis (see p. 420). The onlv point in which it may differ is the treatment of the stump of the diverticulum. This is attached to the small intestine, and the ordinary methods of invaginating the stump would not only narrow the calibre of the intestine unduly, but would also leave a projection inside the bowel which might subsequently give rise to an intussusception. The diverticulum must therefore be excised at its attachment, and the resulting opening in the intestine stitched up ; if this is inadvisable on account of the inflamed condition of the intestinal wall or because it would produce undue diminution of the calibre of the bowel, the affected piece of intestine must be excised and a lateral anastomosis effected. OTHER FORMS OF 1 )IVERTICULFriS. Other congenital diverticula have been found which probably arise as a result of abnormalities occurring in the yolk sac ; these are usually in connection with the jejunum or the duodenum. A small accessory pancreas may be associated with these diverticiUa. The other important forms are those which are developed in after- life, and which chiefly occur in connection with the colon and especially the sigmoid colon ; they have attracted considerable attention in recent years and seem to be by no means uncommon. These diverticula are described as ' true ' or ' false ' according as their walls are formed of all the coats of the intestine or only of part, and they are usually looked on as acquired. It is, however, possible that they are sometimes of congenital origin. There are two ways in wliich the ' acquired ' diverticula may arise—