FISTULA IN ANO 553 round the edge of the sphincter and not when it perforates that structure; here it is worth while to wait and see whether the mucous membrane will recover after the pus has been freely evacuated by an incision external to the anus. In the deeper-seated forms, whether they find their way down from above the levator ani or not, the abscess cavity should be opened by an external J.-shaped incision, all diverticula opened up, and a large drainage tube inserted. The bowels should be cleared out before the operation and then confined for three days, after which they should be opened daily with laxatives. As soon as the act of deffecation is over, the parts Fig. 185.—Brodie's Flexible Probe-director. are irric;ated, and a fresh drainage tube is inserted, and this is repeated until the wound becomes superficial. Sterilised gauze and wool should be used as dressings, as antiseptic materials are unnecessary, and apt to set up pruritus ani. Many of these deeply seated abscesses will heal without perforating the bowel if free drainage is provided before the mucous membrane has become much thinned. Of course if the abscess is secondary to some other disease—such as necrosis of the sacrum—the sinus left will not heal until the original cause is got rid of. FISTULA IN ANO. By this term is understood a fistulous track, one end of which opens through the skin and the other through the mucous membrane of the rectum or anus. The term, qualified by the adjective ' blind ' is also used when there is only one opening, external or internal—that, is when the condition is really one of sinus and not a true fistula. Fistula in ano is always preceded by an ischio-rectal abscess, which has generally burst spontaneously. It may be simple or tuberculous in nature, and the exact local condition varies widely. The track may be single and lead direct from the internal to the external opening, or it may be tortuous or have ramifications or, again, there may be several external openings converging to a single internal one. A fistula once formed has no tendency to heal spontaneously. This is due to several causes, of which the principal are movement of the parts during defjecation and walking, the sluggish venous circulation about the haemorrhoidal region, and—more important than all—the frequent