541 CHRONIC PROCTITIS be administered at once (see Vol. I. Cliap XL). In the local treatment irrigation with warm antiseptics, zinc ionisation (see p. 539), the employment of laxatives, and the removal of any local cause of proctitis, is the proper line of treatment. When the stenosis becomes pronounced, means must be employed to overcome it. The main difficulties in the treatment of the stricture are the extreme sensitiveness of the affected part, the irregularity of the stricture, and the serious danger of sepsis following any breach of surface. The latter point is most important, because infective material may pass through the torn wall of the rectum and give rise to a peri-proctitis, which may end fatally, or may lead to the formation of abscess and fistula high up in the bowel if the patient .survives. In slight strictures following injury, extensive pile operations, or Fig. 182.—Metal Rectal Bougies. excision of portions of the mucous membrane, the treatment is com- paratively easy, because there is no deep ulceration or marked infiltration of the rectal walls ; any cicatricial bands present merely draw the mucous membrane together and often do not involve the other coats. In some of these mild cases the stricture may be overcome by dilatation with the finger, or with rectal bougies passed through the stricture every two or three days {vide infra). When constriction is slight and situated at the anal orifice—as after an operation for piles—a permanent cure may be obtained by excision of the cicatricial tissue followed by suture of the mucous membrane to the skin margins, or by dividing the stricture and suturing the wound subsequently so that the scar is at right angles to the original incision, as is done in pyloroplasty. In chronic stenosing proctitis, however, the conditions are different ; the ulceration may have healed, leaving an extensive and tortuous con- traction, or there may be active ulceration in addition to the latter. The treatment in both cases is difficult and unsatisfactory ; as a rule, it is easier when there is no ulceration, and the surgeon has only to deal with an uncomplicated stricture. In cases of uncomplicated stricture, dilatation by bougies or Hegar's dilators should be employed, a method closely analogous to the gradual