IMPERFORATE ANUS AND RECTUM 529 a drainage tube inserted into the bowel to ensure its proper evacua- tion. The subsequent patency of the anus can be maintained by the means described above; but if necessary, a plastic operation may be performed at a later date, the scar tissue being excised, the sphincter repaired, and the mucous membrane freed and brought down and sutured to the anal margin all round. All these operations are very difficult owing to the excessive smallness of the parts that have to be dealt with. By working from the hollow of the sacrum towards the distended bowel in the manner described, there is no fear of going through the peritoneal reflection when the gut is opened—a frequent cause of the fatal results that were so prevalent when it was the custom merely to thrust a knife through from the anal depression (see Fig. 178). When there is no indication as to the position of the lower end of the rectum.—Whether the anal dimple is or is not present, the first step is to make a careful search for the blind end of the gut from a median incision from the coccyx to the mid-point of the peri- neum) and this is gradually deepened until the bowel, if developed, is met with, the surgeon working from the hollow of the sacrum {vide supra) so as to avoid the peritoneal reflection. In some cases the distended end of the gut presses down the perineum and bulges forcibly beneath the skin every time the child cries, and in these the end of the bowel will almost immediately present, showing its characteristic dark bluish-black appearance. An incision is made into it, the edges of the orifice in the bowel seized with tenaculum forceps, pulled down and secm'ed by a few silkworm-gut sutures to each side of the skin incision. When there is no bulging in the perineum and there is doubt as to whether the rectum is developed at all, the treatment becomes more difficult, as there will be a considerable thickness of soft parts between the skin and the gut. The incision must be steadily deepened, and the surgeon must burrow up in the hollow of the sacrum in search of the gut. If it is found, it should be seized with catch-forceps on each side, gently separated from the surrounding structures, and brought down as far into the wound as possible before any opening is made into it. Stitches —through the muscular wall of the rectum only—are then substituted for the forceps, and their ends are passed through the skin on either side of the anal incision. The bowel is now incised and the meconium Fig. 181.—Diagrammatic Section to snow HOW THE COMMUNICATION IS MADE BETWEEN THE ReCTUM AND THE AnaL Dimple. The sketch shows how the peritoneal reflection is avoided by working in tlie liollow of the sacrum. IV. M M