HEMORRHOIDS 571 fourth day. The patient sits up on the fourth day, and is in a condition to resume work within a fortnight. ' I rarely find tlrat tlie patient suffers much pain after the operation, though this depends chiefly on the nervous susceptibihty of the individual. Some aching in the back may be complained of, as in other pelvic opera- tions, but this is generally relieved by change of posture. If the change of posture does not answer, a hot water-bag or hot salt applied to the back will generally give immediate relief.' We generally employ about twelve to sixteen sutures so as to avoid tension anywhere, and to bring the cut edge of the mucous membrane as accurately as possible in contact with the cut edge of the skin ; by doing so the development of granulation tissue in the wound is avoided and less cicatricial tissue is formed. For the sutures, we usually employ catgut, Fig. 189.—Forceps for use in Excision of Piles. and leave the ends long, so that, should any of the stitches fail to become absorbed or to cut their way out spontaneously, they may be identified and removed. All sutures of non-absorbable material—■ such as silkworm-gut or horse-hair—should also have their ends left long for subsequent identification. We prefer not to use silk, as recommended by Mr. Whitehead, as it becomes soaked with septic material. Excision and suture of isolated piles.—^When there are only scattered haemorrhoids with well marked pedicles and healthy mucous membrane between, a good result may be obtained by applying the clamp forceps, shown in Fig. 189, along their bases, cutting off the pile beyond the clamp and then suturing the wound with a running suture of stout catgut. In order to arrest the bleeding with certainty, this suture should be inserted before the clamp is removed. The first suture picks up the mucous membrane fairly deeply just beyond the points of the forceps. Then a running stitch is inserted, taking in the narrow blades of the forceps right up to the opposite end o-f the wound. When the suture is