AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 36 are grasped in forceps. The next step is to detach the periosteum from the orbital margin and push it upwards, carrying with it the orbital fat and the eye, and to keep the latter out of harm's way by means of a suitable spatula. The surgeon then divides the various connections of the upper jaw. The junction of the malar bone with the maxilla is first sawn through, keeping the saw in the hne of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and then the nasal process of the maxilla is divided after the soft parts of the nose have been detached from the bony frame- work. The cut runs obliquely upwards and backwards from the lower edge of the nasal bone to the lachrymal (see Fig. 13) ; it is com- pleted with cutting-pliers. It is well in some cases to divide the floor of the orbit a little inside the orbital margin of the maxilla, so as to leave a support for the eye. The mouth is next opened with a gag, a central incisor removed and a trans- verse incision made along the posterior edge of the hard palate, separating the soft palate from the hard, from the middle line to the hamular process. The muco-peri- osteum of the hard palate is then divided down to the bone in the middle line from behind forwards ; the mucous membrane of the floor of the nose is also divided from the edge of the hard palate to the aperture of the nostril by means of a knife passed into the inferior meatus after the ala of the nose has been detached from the bone and pushed weU over to the opposite side. The alveolus and the hard palate are next sawn across with a narrow saw introduced into the nose and kept strictly parallel to the palate, for fear of damaging the base of the skuU ; the division is often com- pleted with a pair of powerful cutting-pliers. The pliers are then used to free the upper jaw finally ; one blade is inserted into the nose and one into the orbit along the saw-cut through the nasal process, and (using the bridge of the nose as a fulcrum) the maxilla is forcibly levered out. As soon as the posterior attachments are felt to give way, the jaw is seized with a pair of lion forceps, taking hold of the alveolar and orbital margins, and rapidly twisted out (see Fig. 14). In some cases the jaw and the tumour come out intact ; when the disease is extensive, it may break and only a part comes away. In Fig. 13.—Lines of Bone Section in Fergusson's Operation.