AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 542 intermittent dilatation of a urethral stricture. The bowels should be well cleared out before the bougie is passed, and the patient should lie on a couch in the lithotomy position. The surgeon takes a well-oiled and warmed bougie of suitable size (see Fig. 182), and tries to insinuate it through the stricture ; the greatest gentleness must be observed, and it is probable that only the lowest portion can be dilated at the first sitting if the stricture is a long one. Subsequently, however, more progress can be made, until ultimately the instrument traverses the entire length of the contracted portion. The bougie should be left in situ for a few minutes, when—unless it is very tightly grasped—another, the next size larger, is gently passed after the first has been withdrawn. Dilatation should never be pushed beyond what the patient can comfortably bear, and never to such an extent as to tear the surface of the mucous membrane. At first, three days should be allowed to intervene between the sittings ; as dilatation progresses, the interval may be extended up to a week. When full dilatation has been established, the interval may be increased Fig. 183.—Rectal Dilator. The blades, which are separated by a screw-action, are parallel throughout. up to a month if it is found that no fresh contraction has taken place meanwhile. During the entire treatment the bowels should be kept well open, and at each sitting a bougie, one size smaller than the largest passed at the previous sitting, should be used to commence with. The bougies should always be passed by the surgeon himself until the stricture is fully dilated ; attempts on the part of the patient might end in serious pelvic cellulitis. When the stricture is only about half an inch or so in extent, an expanding rectal stricture dilator (see Fig. 183) may be used with advantage. The instrument is introduced through the stricture with the blades closed, and the latter are then slowly expanded. The advantage of this instru- ment is that the dilatation can be increased without having to withdraw one instrument and introduce a fresh one. It is, however, only useful for limited strictures. Rapid dilatation or forcible stretching or splitting of the stricture has been practised, but cannot be too strongly condemned because, quite apart from the shock, there is a grave risk of septic infection of a severe type. Even if the patient escapes these risks, there is the certainty of increased contraction afterwards.