420 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES TREATMENT IN THE ACUTE STAGE. The view is gaining ground that the wisest course is to remove the appendix in all cases without delay as soon as appendicitis is diagnosed, and in our opinion if this course were generally adopted many severe attacks would be avoided and the death-rate diminished. The symptoms of acute appendicitis are so deceptive that it is often impossible to say whether the attack is to be a mild or a severe one. On p. 404 we have indicated some points which may help in coming to a conclusion, and especially those which indicate a grave state of matters. In the latter set of cases there should be no hesitation in urging operation as early as possible ; but even in cases which begin mildly, although many of them recover, yet they may change their character, and complications may ensue ; and as the operation early in the attack is in the great majority of cases a clean one, operation immediately the diagnosis is made is the wisest course. When, however, the disease is established and has lasted for some days before the surgeon is called in, opinions differ as to the period at which the operation should be performed, some advising delay in the hope that the inflammation may subside, or that an abscess, if forming, may become well localised, others advising immediate operation. If the case is a mild one and the symptoms are rapidly improving, delay is permissible and appendicectomy may be deferred until the attack has passed off, but in all other cases we believe that immediate operation is the wiser course. Those who delay operation when it is fairly obvious that pus is present do so in the hope that the abscess may become adherent to the abdominal wall, and that it may be evacuated and drained without opening the general peritoneal cavity. But it must be borne in mind that the swelling in which the appendix lies and in which the pus forms, is situated towards the deeper part of the abdomen in the great majority of cases and may not—except in the cases in which the pus is behind the ascending colon— become adherent to the abdominal waU for some time, if at all, and in the meantime the patient is subject to all the risks referred to on p. 430. Further, when the abscess is large, the surgeon must in many cases be content with opening it, and it is seldom that the appendix can be removed at the same time without defeating the object of the delay—that is to say, withovrt opening the general peritoneal cavity. The removal of the appendix is, however, a very important matter in these cases. If the abscess is merely opened, it may not heal until the appendix has been taken away, and even if it does, the patient is liable to further attacks of appendicitis ; thus appendicectomy will be required in either case at a later period. For these reasons, therefore, we cannot agree with the policy of delay.