EPITHELIOMA 103 it, so as to clear out the glands which lie beneath the muscle in the region of the mastoid process and above the nerve. These incisions are carried through the skin, fat and platysma, and the various flaps are dissected up and turned aside ; the deep fascia need not be divided at this stage, except over the sterno-mastoid muscle and the lower border of the jaw. In turning aside these flaps the external jugular vein will be divided and the two ends should be tied at once ; there are superficial glands around the upper part of the vein which must be taken away. When turning up the flap over the facial vessels glands will also be met with and must be removed. The whole area thus exposed must be carefully cleared of fat and glands, leaving only muscles, nerves and blood-vessels. The fat and glands should be taken away in one mass, so as to ensure the removal not only of all the glands but also of the lymphatic vessels connecting them. It is well to begin with the submaxillary region and turn the contents backwards, leaving them, however, connected with those of the anterior triangle. In the submaxillary region the glands are in close connection with the submaxillary gland and also beneath the jaw running outwards towards the angle, and one or two may be met with in intimate connection with the facial vessels. Although the submaxillary salivary gland itself is not affected except by direct extension, it is always advisable to remove it because some lymphatic glands are very intimately adherent to its sheath, and, unless it is taken away, glands may be left behind or torn in the attempt to remove them. Another reason for removing the salivary gland is that the orifice of its duct is likely to be interfered with by the operation in the mouth, and its orifice may be much narrowed, so that a painful swelling and sometimes suppuration may occur in the gland if it is left behind. This may not only be a serious source of annoyance to the patient, but may also be mistaken for recurrence of the growth. The facial vessels are tied, the glands beside them are removed, and the deep cervical fascia passing from the salivary gland is divided just above the hyoid bone. The finger is insinuated between the lower jaw and the upper edge of the submaxillary gland, and this structure, together with the fat and glands connected with it, is pulled down, taking care not to perforate the buccal mucous membrane. Any glands running backwards from the submaxillary region to the angle of the jaw are also detached from above, and the whole mass is peeled downwards and backwards. The facial vessels are secured before they reach the salivary gland, and the anterior portion of that gland as it passes beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle is shelled out along with its duct. The latter should be ligatured before division and cut short. The whole of the glandular area is thus detached in one mass and turned backwards. Should the operation upon the glands be done as a preliminary to treatment of the