AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 250 in women also, especially in lunatics or extremely hysterical subjects, balls of hair, sometimes of enormous size, may form in the stomach as the result of the practice of constantly biting the ends of the hair. When a large body reaches the stomach, its escape may be difficult on account of its size or its shape. Bodies with sharp points which penetrate the stomach walls and may cause ulceration and perforation are particularly dangerous. The presence of a foreign body of this kind is usually easily recognised. In the first place the history of the case is often quite clear ; no mistake can well be made when the patient swallows a toothplate, or a public performer swallows a knife, while the history is also usually clear in the case of lunatics. In addition to this, there are the local symptoms, such as constant pain and tenderness on palpation, and sometimes there is a swelling to be felt in the stomach ; in a large number of cases the X-rays will determine the existence of a foreign body and its situation. TREATMENT.—(rt) Of small smooth bodies.—For small foreign bodies, such as those usually swallowed by children, all that is necessary is to facilitate their passage along the alimentary canal. For this purpose it has long been the custom to administer tenacious substances, such as porridge, thick rice-pudding, or figs, with the object of filling up any crevices in the foreign body, and so converting it into a smooth object which can pass along the alimentarj^ canal with the least possible amount of irritation. {b) Of large bodies.—When the body is too large to pass through the pylorus, it will give rise to much distress, and if it should possess sharp points or edges, there is serious risk of ulceration and perforation ; its removal is therefore urgently called for. Gastroiomy.—If performed as soon as it is evident that the foreign body will not pass safely along the alimentary canal, gastrotomy is very simple and safe, whereas the risk is considerable if it is delayed until the foreign body has set up inflammatory changes in the stomach wall. An incision should be made a little to the left of the middle line, commencing on a level with the tip of the xiphoid cartUage and running vertically downwards for about four inches. The method of opening the abdomen has already been described (see p. 215). If the stomach does not present at once on incising the peritoneum and separating the edges of the abdominal wound, it will be necessary to push down the great omentum and the transverse colon, when the stomach will come into view, and there will be no difficulty in making out the position of the foreign body ; the portion of the stomach containing it should be pulled out of the wound and packed off with abdominal cloths. The next step is to open the stomach, and the best situation for this incision is on the anterior surface about midway between and parallel to the two curvatures ; here the vessels are smallest and there is conse- quently less bleeding, whilst the incision lies on the surface of the exposed