5 FRACTURES side onlv, there is very slight displacement of the larger fragment, which however, may be drawn somewhat inwards ; the smaller fragment is also drawn a little inwards and may be tilted upwards in front. When the fracture is bilateral in the usual situation, the middle fragment is pulled downwards and backwards by the muscles passing from the lower jaw to the hyoid bone, while the posterior fragments on the two sides are displaced inwards and drawn upwards. When the fracture occurs through the angle of the jaiv, the displacement is usually only slight, the posterior fragment being drawn somewhat inwards by the action of the pterygoid muscles. The chief complications of fractru^e of the lower jaw are :— 1. Abscess, which is perhaps the commonest complication. A large number of cases are complicated with suppuration at some period, and in a few cases there may be a large abscess and even more or less extensive necrosis. Occasionally, but very rarely, septiccemia may follow. 2. Dental Neuralgia and loosening of the teeth.—In nearly all fractures of the jaw in which the fracture is situated behind the mental foramen, severe toothache is complained of at first. Sometimes this is due to partial tearing of the inferior dental nerve as it lies in its canal; more commonly, it is due to stretching of the nerve by the separation of the fragments. The neuralgia disappears, as a rule, when the fracture is reduced and the tension removed. The teeth adjacent to the fracture are generally loose, so that they could be removed with the fingers, but this should on no account be done, as they will probably become firmly fixed in their sockets in the course of a few days ; if partially displaced, they should be replaced and secured to the sound teeth by fine silver wire. 3. Cerebral Injury.—This rare complication generally results from severe jarring transmitted through the condyles to the base of the brain as the result of an upward blow causing fracture of the jaw. There may be hfemorrhage from the ear when the condyle is driven back agamst the auditory canal. 4. Ununited Fracture.—Tliis is uncommon and generally only occurs after necrosis about the seat of fracture, or as the result of a loose tooth becoming impacted between the fragments. 5. Hemorrhage.—Severe haemorrhage has been known to occur from rupture of the inferior dental vessels and has actually proved fatal. TREATMEISTT.—Of the Fracture—The treatment of fracture of the lower jaw varies according as the seat of fracture is anterior to the last molar tooth or behind it. {a) Fractures anterior to the last Molar Tooth.—In all these cases, the best apparatus, whenever it is possible to use it, is Hammond's wire splint (see Fig. i). It is comfortable to the patient, secures perfect apposi- tion of the fragments and perfect immobility during consolidation of the fracture, and it enables the jaw to be used almost from the first. The