544 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS temporary measure. The situation of the opening will depend on the extent of the proctitis. When the inflammation is limited to the rectum, the ordinary operation (see p. 379) is the proper procedure. When the induration extends to the sigmoid flexure, however, it will be necessary to open the transverse colon in order to get well above the ulcerated area. It is best to make a complete section of the bowel so as to interrupt the passage of faeces completely. After the colostomy, the rectum should be syringed out both from above and below with mild antiseptic solutions—such as boric acid, Condy's fluid, or sanitas—and after a few weeks a more methodical treat- ment may be undertaken. Any ulcerated area may be painted through a sigmoidoscope with strong solutions of nitrate of silver or touched with the solid salt melted on the end of a long probe, and gradual dilatation of the stricture must be carried out after healing has occurred. By this treatment, persevered with for several months, the lumen of the rectum may be so much restored that it may be safe to close the colostomy wound (see p. 507). It must not be expected, however, that this happy result will often occur. Generally the patient will have to go through life with a colostomy opening, but, even so, his condition is much better than before, for he is freed from the constant pain, tenesmus, and obstruction, and in many cases he has as much control over the colostomy opening as he had before over the anus. When the stricture is complicated with active ulceration the patient's distress is considerable. Diarrhoea, accompanied by the passage of blood, mucus, and pus, is constant and wears out the strength rapidly, and the passage of bougies is very painful. In strictures near the anus the screw dilator (see Fig. 183) every second or third day is more satisfactory than bougies. If the stricture can be fully dilated the ulcers may heal. In most cases, however, the pain is so severe that the surgeon has to make a choice between colostomy and external proctotomy, and as a rule the former will be indicated. In some of these cases—especially when they are due to syphilis—the surgeon may find the sigmoid flexure so bound down in the iliac fossa that left inguinal colostomy cannot be easily performed : if the sigmoid flexure cannot be detached from its adhesions and brought up to the surface sufficiently to enable the bowel to be cut across completely, the transverse colon must be opened through a fresh incision.