AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 20 leads to what is popularly known as a ' gumboil.' When the fang is long, however, and the abscess more deeply seated in the body of the ja\v, the pus generally reaches the surface of the bone lower down, and may lead to adhesion of the cheek to the jaw and to the formation of an abscess on the face—generally near the lower border of the jaw. An abscess which follows the latter course is sometimes mistaken for a suppurating gland, but when it is opened, a probe will pass upwards into the channel in the bone from which the pus is escaping. In the case of an alveolar abscess in the upper jaw, the pus may make its way into the antrum and cause suppuration there. In the milder forms of alveolar abscess there is no necrosis, but when the inflammation is severe, this may occur and may sometimes be extensive ; the severe forms are most frequently met with when the suppuration occurs in connection with an impacted wisdom tooth. TREATMENT.—Removal of the tooth is essential in most cases, and if the pus has not reached the surface of the bone, this often suffices for the cure of the disease, the pus finding its way through the tooth socket and the abscess cavity gradually closing. When the pus has made its way externally either through the gum or beneath the skin, it must be evacuated, but healing will seldom occur until the tooth is removed ; unless this is done, a sinus, leading through a channel in the bone to the root of the tooth, may persist for a long time. On the other hand, the sinus generally closes very quickly when the tooth is removed. It is very important to prevent the abscess from spreading to the cheek, and therefore, when the cheek is becoming adherent to the jaw, it is well to incise the indurated tissues freely from within the mouth by a vertical incision through the mucous membrane as it is reflected from the gum to the cheek. Pus will usually be found, and if that is the case the opening in the bone leading to the tooth can be identified and enlarged, the tooth removed, and the wound well drained ; in most cases the inflammation will subside without extending further into the cheek. ACUTE NECROSIS. The extensive and violent inflammations leading to necrosis of portions or the whole of the jaw may be due to a carious tooth, to suppuration around an impacted wisdom tooth, or to fracture of the jaw. These affections usually occur about the angle of the lower jaw ; they are not common in the upper jaw. Pus readily forms between the periosteum and the bone and the necrosis may be considerable. TREATMENT.—The treatment must be carried out on the lines already indicated for acute osteitis generally (see Vol. 11. p. 433). The first point is to remove any local cause as quickly as possible ; therefore, any carious teeth or an impacted wisdom tooth should be extracted without delay. This is often difficult as the jaws are generally more or