INGUINAL HERNIA 485 to inclusion of a portion of the bladder in the ligatures, but this is only likely to happen in a direct inguinal or a femoral hernia. Another method is torsion of the sac. The neck is cleared, the sac is opened so as to make sure that there are no adhesions either in the sac or at the neck, the latter is steadied by grasping it with the left thumb and forefinger, and the fundus is seized with forceps and twisted up tightly, the spermatic cord being held out of the way. In this way the upper end of the sac can be obliterated absolutely without any risk of Fig. i6 i.—KncHER's Method of treating the Sac in Radical Cure of Inguinal Hernia. The linger is first passed up the canal behind the external oblique, and a long pair of forceps arc thrust through the latter on to the finger and guided by it down the canal and out at the external ring, where the fundus of the sac is firmly seized, as shown in the left-hand figure. The forceps are then withdrawn carrying the sac with them, as seen in the right-hand figure. Finally the fundus of the sac is laid down on the outer surface of the external oblique, directly over the inguinal canal, and secured firmly in place by a series of sutures which first pass through the muscle, Lembert-fashion, on one side of the sac, then right tlirough the sac, then finally through the external oblique, again Lembert-fashion, on the opposite side of the sac. When these sutures are tied the sac is immovably incorporated with the abdominal wall. If preferred, the neck of the sac may be secured to the opening in the external oblique after the fundus has been cut away. injuring the bladder or other structures ; indeed, a large amount of the peritoneum can be stripj^ed off the abdominal wall. Previous to twisting the sac, the finger is introduced between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum, and a bed for the reception of the twisted sac is formed above and to the outer side of its neck. The twisting is carried on ruitil the sac gets into a knot, when the forceps are pushed up into the bed previously prepared, and the mere pressure of the abdominal wall prevents untwisting when the muscular wall is strong. Among other methods of dealing with the sac may be mentioned Macewen's, in which the sac is pursed up ; and Kocher's, in which the twisted sac is brought out through the external oblique tendon (see Fig. 163). In all cases the sac must be removed from the inguinal canal,