421 APPENDICITIS If the operation is deferred in the milder cases it should not be put off too long, and should be performed as soon as the patient has recovered and before he has passed out of the hands of his medical attendant; indeed, in most cases he should be kept in bed—or, at any rate, under close observation—until he is operated on. If there is no sign of peritonitis, as indicated more especially by obstinate constipation, or of the presence of a lump, or of a diffuse tender area, a few days will suffice ; if, on the other hand, there has been evidence of peritonitis—and especally if there has been a swelling—the surgeon may wait until these symptoms have entirely passed off and the swelling has completely subsided; while waiting, the patient should be kept in bed, active purgatives should be avoided, and the diet should be restricted. If these precautions are not followed, the inflammation may recur and an abscess may still form. Non-operative treatment.—When for some reason—such as refusal on the part of the patient to submit to early operation, the presence of other diseases, such as diabetes or heart disease, which greatly increase the gravity of operation, or the rapid subsidence of the symptoms—delay seems expedient, the treatment should be conducted on the following lines. The first essential is to put the patient to bed with the knees fle.xed over a pillow, and he must be kept perfectly quiet and not allowed to move about. While the vomiting lasts, food should not be given by the mouth, but frequent sips of hot water may be allowed. The vomiting generally passes off in a few hours and the patient may then be given liquid food, such as milk with lime-water or liq. calcis sacch., or small quantities of meat-juice or soups; but the amount should be limited, and if the patient will submit, it is best to give him nothing at all for several days except water. No solid food should be allowed until the acute symptoms have passed off. Stimulants are generally unnecessary and are better avoided. Salol in five- to ten-grain doses in cachets, or naphtlialine in three-grain pills, should be given three times a day as an intestinal antiseptic. On no account should purgatives be administered in the early stages ; a common mistake is to pay too great attention to the constipation, and violent efforts are often made to bring about an action of the bowels quite early in the disease, and this no doubt is, to a great extent, the patient's fault, because he feels that if his bowels would act he would be much relieved. The utmost that should be done—and that only with caution—is to give a soap-and-ivater enema ; in the first two or three days even this is unnecessary. The advisability of administering opiiiin has been much debated. When the patient suffers much pain there is a great temptation to give this drug, and it is held by some to be advantageous also because it diminishes peristaltic action and so gives the bowel rest. But opium masks the symptoms, and a patient under its influence may be so comfortable that it is impossible to judge properly as to the progress of the disease. If the pain is acute, the smallest dose of opium sufficient to quiet the pain should