32 AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS Fig. g.—Apparatus for THE Intravenous Adminis- tration OF Ether. A, receptacle containing the mixture of ether and saline solution. The stopper must not fit tightly ; it is best to replace it by cotton-wool. B, stop cock regulating flow from A to D. D, drop-bottle for the purpose of excluding air from the circulation. The stopper C must fit loosely or be replaced by cotton-wool. E, stop-cock regulating fiow into vein through the cannula G. F, an inspection tube in the tubing which can be immersed in hot water to keep the fluid at a proper temperature. by means of a Junker's apparatus and tube, is the most convenient, and in this way the face is left free for the operation. The objections to the use of ether in these cases have been largely overcome of late by the introduction of two methods of administration, which, though still on trial, bid fair to become of considerable service. We owe the following paragraphs to the kind- ness of our colleague. Dr. Silk. ' The administration of Ether by the Intravenous Method.—-This plan was first introduced by Burckhardt, and in this country by Rood {British Medical Jour- nal, October 21, 1911). Ether is dissolved in isotonic salt solu- tion in the proportion of one ounce of ether to each pint of fluid, and this is gradually intro- duced into a vein in the arm or leg, in precisely the same way as an ordinary saline injection, and, of course, the same care must be taken that the solution and appa- ratus are strictly aseptic. Certain special precautions are necessary. The fluid must be warm, but the temperature should not exceed 90° F., otherwise the ether will begin to boil ; to prevent the formation of thrombi, the flow must be absolutely continuous, and this can be ensured by the apparatus devised by Rood (see Fig. g). Until full anaesthesia is obtained, the flow of fluid must be free, but when once narcosis is established (in three to five minutes) the supply may be cut off to a mere dribble. The anaesthesia produced is generally very satisfactory, and capable of the most delicate regulation. Dr. Rood advocates the administration,