476 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES fix it in the wound either with strips of gauze or by stitches. The wound should be left open and covered with Lister's protective or thin sheet rubber until it is seen what is going to happen. If gangrene and perforation occur, a moist boric dressing should be applied until the sloughs have separated ; if the bowel recovers, the patient should be put under an anaesthetic, the newly formed adhesions gently separated Fig. 157.—Intestinal Anastomosis Forceps for Gangrenous Bowel. The object oi this instrument (which was introduced by Mr. Edmunds) is to provide a lateral anastomosis at some distance from the opening of the bowel, and at the same time to drain off its infective contents (see Practilioner, March, 1908). The two ends of the bowel are arranged so that their lateral or antiraesenteric borders are in apposition. One blade of the clamp is slipped down inside each piece of gut and the instrument closed. The bowel between the blades of the forceps sloughs away, leaving an opening, the edges of which are united by plastic peritonitis. The mechanism is exactly that of the Murphy's button. As soon as the forceps are in position, the modified Paul's tube is sHpped into the upper end of the bowel in such a way that the shank of the forceps occupies the groove in the side of the tube ; the forceps, the tube, and the bowel are fastened together with a stout silk ligature (C). This process is now repeated with the lower end of the bowel. In order to prevent displacement of the bowel one or two sutures may be inserted between its muscular coats and the skin. The forceps are to be left in position for a week and then with- drawn, leaving the patient with a small intestine fistula and a lateral anastomosis. with the finger, the bowel returned into the abdomen, and the wound closed. When there are only one or two suspicious spots on the bowel and it is decided to return the latter, it is well to invert the suspicious areas by Lembert's sutures so that perforation will not take place into the abdominal cavity should they become gangrenous. When there is actual gangrene oi the bowel the case may be seen before or after perforation has occurred. In the former event the surgeon has the choice of two procedures—namely: (i) excision of the affected loop followed by immediate anastomosis and return of the bowel into the AULEN S i 11 l-lANBIJKyS