128 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS After the patches of exudation separate, small ulcers are left upon the tonsil which usually heal readily. If there is any delay, they may be brushed over with a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. xx. to the ounce) every morning. After an attack of follicular tonsillitis the patient is generally considerably pulled down in health, especially if the attack has been a severe one, and hence during convalescence it wiU be necessary to order light nourishing food, and to provide if possible a change of air. As soon as he has recovered, the tonsils should be removed if still enlarged (see p. 131). SUPPURATIVE TONSILLITIS. This condition—popularly known as ' quinsy '—is an acute inflamma- tion of the tonsil with suppuration around it. The pus forms above and in front of the tonsil, and spreads towards the soft palate, though occasionally it forms behind or external to the tonsil. As a rule there is an acute tonsillitis on both sides, whilst the suppuration occurs on one side only, or, if bilateral, it appears on one side before the other. The temperature is very high, the swelling may almost block the aperture of the fauces, and the glands behind the jaw are large, painful, and may suppurate. There is considerable swelling of the neighbouring portion of the pharynx and soft palate, and generally also cedema of the glottis. The symptoms; on the whole, are very similar to those of other forms of inflammation of the tonsils, only much more severe. The pain, especially on any attempt to swallow, is very intense. TREATMENT.—Abortive treatment usually fails to prevent sup- puration, but may relieve the patient considerably. It is well to begin with a saline purge (mist. alb. §iss.). Some surgeons used to place great faith in the administration of tincture of aconite given in minim doses, repeated every hour for four or five doses until the pulse rate approached the normal. It is well to administer ten-grain doses of salicylate of soda every four hours. Large hot fomentations changed every two or three hours should be applied to the neck to relieve the pain, while steam inhalations are employed for the relief of the pain on swallowing. Gargles, as a rule, are out of the question on account of the severe pain, but a spray of a saturated solution of bicarbonate of soda in a Siegel's apparatus is valuable if there is an unduly free secretion of tenacious mucus which interferes with the patient's comfort. When this secretion is not excessive, the carbolic acid and iodine spray [vide supra) is useful, as, apart from its antiseptic action, the carbolic acid is a useful sedative. Suppuration is usually evident about the third day, and watch should be kept for its occurrence. The pus generally points in the soft palate just above the tonsil, and it may escape through the supra-tonsillar fossa. These tonsillar abscesses should always be opened. When the suppuration is situated above the tonsil, the surgeon will be guided as to the right time to open the abscess by the amount of swelling