140 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS into the post-nasal space and passed up on each side into Rosenmiiller's fossae so as to separate the growth from the lips of the Eustachian tubes and the sides of the naso-pharynx. The curette is then introduced and the growths removed as above described. Should the growths in Rosenmiiller's fossae be very tough, or difficult to get at, their removal can often be effected with a Meyer's ring-knife introduced through the mouth. This may be used as an ordinary curette ; the cutting-blade being sharp, it is a very effective instrument. In some cases small pieces of growth at the upper part or sides of the space, or partially detached pieces of growth, may be most easily seized and removed by adenoid forceps guided by the finger. After the adenoids have been removed, the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates should be examined with the finger and, if enlarged, a piece should be removed with the snare or with cutting-forceps such as Fig. 51.—Grunwald's Nasal Cutting Forceps. Griinwald's (see Fig. 51). The instrument is guided by the tip of the left index-finger. Next, the tonsils, if enlarged—as they so commonly are in association with adenoids—should be removed with the guillotine. Some surgeons prefer to remove the tonsils at the commencement of the operation, but this is not to be recommended. The removal of the adenoids is more easily accomplished during the earHer and deeper stage of the anaesthesia, and the bleeding after tonsillotomy is more sudden and profuse, and therefore it is better delayed until the patient shows signs of coming out of the anaesthetic. The haemorrhage that occurs during the operation is usually some- what free, but it soon ceases. As a rule the patient swallows the blood, but, should it accumulate in the back of the pharynx during the operation, the throat may be sponged out or, better still, the patient should be rolled over on to his side and the mouth wiped out. Should blood enter the larynx or trachea, the patient must be immediately rolled over on to his face and the head lowered ; if this be done in time, and the anaesthesia