44 AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS extending from the hamular process to a little beyond the middle line in front, and the muco-periosteum is raised with an elevator as far as the middle hne (see Fig. 20, A), as in the operation for cleft palate. It is well to divide the soft palate from the hard by a transverse cut; this can be stitched up afterwards. After the operation has been completed, the free edge of this muco-periosteal flap is stitched with catgut to the line of division of the mucous membrane on the inner side of the cheek, and the incision between it and the soft palate is similarly united (see Fig. 20) ; the nasal cavity is thus shut off from the mouth. It is best not to employ packing, except when there is free oozing and then only Fig. 20.—Preservation of the Palate in Partial Resection of the Maxilla. A shows the rauco-periosteum of the hard palate incised along the alveolar margin, divided from the soft palate and reflected from the bone as far as the middle line. B shows how it is sutured in place after removal of the bone, so as to shut off the mouth from the cavity left. for the fiist few hours ; any strips of gauze put in at the time of the operation can be pulled out through the nostril. In some cases the skin incisions must be modified so as to remove por- tions of the skin over the tumour when the latter is suspiciously near the surface. Under such circumstances, a plastic operation will be required, either at the time of the operation or at a later period, in order to cover up the defect; when possible, the plastic operation should be done at the time. Sometimes, however, the gap is so large that it is impossible to close it in this way, and then it may be best to leave it open and cover it with a flesh-coloured plate held in position bj' spectacles. This has the great advantage that the cavity can be inspected and any sign of recurrence treated at once by the application of caustics, radium, or the X-rays (see Vol. II. p. 23), if a further operation is not desirable. A B