234 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH drops are evaporated to dryness on a porcelain dish by gentle heat, a drop of the filtrate added, and the dish again warmed ; care must be taken to avoid charring. A rose-red colour is given when free inorganic acids are present. The simplest way to proceed is as follows : Take lo c.c. of the filtrate and add a couple of drops of a i per cent, alcoholic solution of phenol- phthalein. This is the indicator for the determination of the total acidity ; it is colourless in presence of acids, whether organic or mineral; pink in alkaline solutions. Add also a few drops of the solution of dimethylamidoazobenzol. If free, or physiologically free hydrochloric acid be present, the solution will turn pink. Now run in decinormal caustic soda from a burette until this pink colour is just discharged. Note the amount : it indicates the amount of standard solution necessary to neutralise the active hydrochloric acid. Continue the addition until the solution again becomes pink ; the amount of soda solution will give the total acidity. Instead of adding the dimethylamidoazobenzol to the fluid, I prefer to remove a drop of the latter after each addition of standard soda, and test it by mixing it with a drop of the indicator on a porcelain slab. When a pink colour is no longer given the active hydrochloric acid is neutralised. The calculation is simple. Each cubic centimetre of the decinormal soda solution contains 0*004 NaOH and is neutralised by 0'00365 HCl. Then if we took 10 c.c. of the filtrate and added 3 c.c. of decinormal soda before the disappearance of the pink colour with dimethylamidoazo- benzol, the percentage of active acid was 3 X 0'00365 X 10, or 0"i095 per cent. If the total amount added before the phenolphthalein turned pink was 4-5 the total acidity was 4-5 X 0-00365 x 10, or 0-16425 per cent. The difference (0-05475) indicates organic acids and acid salts ; the latter are practically constant if the same test-meal is given, and a large difference between the free and the total acidity indicates the presence of organic acids, which must now be sought for. The presence of organic acids may be demonstrated by the use of Congo red paper, which turns blackish-blue, the colour disappearing when the paper is warmed over a spirit lamp, whereas that due to hydrochloric acid remains. The only important organic acid met with after a test-meal is lactic ; when present in large amount it indicates that much fermentation is going on, and is presumptive evidence in favour of carcinoma. It is rarely if ever present in large amount, when more than a trace of free hydrochloric acid is present, and it is unnecessary to search for it in these conditions; a minute amount may be derived from the bread taken, and much larger quantities may occur if milk or butter has been ingested. The best test is Uffelmann's. To half a test-tube of i in 40 carbolic acid add one drop of liquor ferri perchloridi; to the deep violet solution thus obtained add the solution to be tested. Lactic acid gives a fine canary-