AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 554 entrance of the contents of the bowel into the tortuous and narrow track. When the fistula is tuberculous, the nature of the disease forms an additional hindrance to healing. The existence of a fistula in ano is easily demonstrated with a probe ; but, before introducing the latter into the external opening, it is important to pass the finger into the bowel and to search for the internal orifice, which can often be detected either as a small depression, or, more usually, as a slight projection from the mucous membrane. The probe can then generally be manipulated along the canal until it emerges through this opening. Unless this precaution be taken, the probe may be pushed through the mucous membrane at some other spot than the true internal opening, which may not be recognised, and thus a portion of the track may escape proper treatment: this is a point of great practical importance. TREATMENT.—Whenever it is possible—which will be in the majority of cases—^the fistulous track should be laid open from its external to its internal opening. This treatment should always be carried out in the muco-cutaneous varieties to which allusion has been made (see p. 550), and also in the ordinary form in which the fistula does not penetrate the external sphincter, but passes below its lower edge and then burrows up beneath the rectal mucous membrane. The operation is done as follows :— The rectum is emptied by a purgative administered two nights previously to the operation, and the bowels are washed out by a large warm-water enema three or four hours before it. It is best not to give the enema immediately before the operation, because the bowels may continue to act and the manipulations will be much hampered by the escape of liquid material. Even if this does not happen, a stool may occur immediately after the operation and the dressings may be much soiled. The perineum should be shaved and the patient placed in the lithotomy position with the buttocks well raised on a pillow. The first step is to dilate the sphincters (see p. 573). The mucous membrane of the lower end of the rectum is then everted and irrigated, the internal opening of the fistula is identified either by inspection or palpation, and a Brodie's flexible probe-director (see Fig. 185) is passed from the external to the internal opening. When the point emerges through the internal opening it is hooked forwards with the forefinger and pulled out through the anus, so that a bridge of soft parts lies across it; this is divided with a knife or scissors. If a Brodie's probe is not at hand, an ordinary probe may be passed through and its point hooked out through the anus in a similar manner ; the bridge of soft parts may then be divided by cutting down upon the probe until the latter is loose. After the bleeding has been stopped, the next point is to see whether the entire fistula has been laid open or whether diverticula are present.