503 VENTRAL HERNIA in some cases, it will be best to employ a truss moulded to the shape of the hernia in preference to an operation. When these hernice hecovie strangulated, the patient's condition is grave. The strangulation is difficult to relieve, and the patient is not in a state to stand a prolonged operation. Further, it is often diificult to discover the seat of the strangulation ; frequently it is due to mere kinking, as when a full loop of intestine is acutely kinked over the lower edge of the umbilical opening. The sac must be opened up freely and the structures separated until the cause of strangulation is found and relieved ; the opening is then dealt with in the manner above described. The great danger of strangulated hernise and the difficulty of keeping up the hernia in old people are strong arguments in favour of an attempt at radical cure in younger subjects, even if its result is only to enable the patient to retain the hernia by a belt. VENTRAL HERNIA. Under this heading we include herniae which pass out at other points in the anterior abdominal wall than those already enumerated. Ventral hernia may occur with or without previous injury, and one of the most common causes is a laparotomy, especially after a lateral incision—e.g. draining an appendicitic abscess. In other cases hernia may follow rupture of muscles. The shape of the neck of the sac differs ; sometimes the hernia comes through a small opening, such as that left by a drainage tube, in other cases there is a much larger weak area, as after a free abdominal incision, and there is no regular neck to the sac. Treatment.—Unless a well-fitting and comfortable abdominal l^elt keeps back the protrusion easily, an attempt should be made to repair the hernia. The hernial sac is freed, its contents returned into the abdomen, the sac excised, and the peritoneum stitched up. The cicatricial edges of the opening in the abdominal wall are then cut away, and the various muscular layers are approximated separately by silk mattress sutures ; the approximation is completed by a continuous suture between the opposed surfaces. The operation may be difficult because the viscera may adhere to the cicatrix, and it will then be best to excise the edges of the hernial opening and open the peritoneum at a little distance from the sac at a point where there are no adhesions; if there is much difficulty in separating adhesions, a good plan is to divide the peritoneum all round the adherent point and to return the intestine covered with the peritoneum into the abdomen and then to approximate the abdominal walls [vide supra). Should the hernia be large and the edges of the opening difficult to approximate, a silver filigree (see p. 501) may be required.