204 AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL to open it up, pull out fresh intestine and then to excise, re-unite, and put the bowel back would be very apt to be followed by septic peritonitis, whereas the patient usually makes a good recovery after simple removal of the strangulated bowel, and may be got into a good state for a subse- quent plastic operation. In some cases (though very rarely in civil practice) the omentum alone may have been protruded for several days before the patient comes under the surgeon's notice. Here the protruding portion will probably be granulating, and it is better to leave matters alone, merely applying antiseptic dressings. A laparotomy would be very likely to be followed by sepsis, whereas, if the omentum is left alone, it shrinks up and ulti- mately cicatrises. When this has occurred, the surgeon may excise the protruded portion and repair the defect in the abdominal wall with the object of preventing a ventral hernia. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Inflammation of the abdominal wall may be (a) superficial, [b) between the abdominal muscles, or (c) in the sub-peritoneal tissues. («) Superficial inflammations generally take the form of celluHtis and local suppurations of the abdominal wall, such as boils, which present no points of difference from superficial inflammations elsewhere. (b) Intermuscular suppuration in the abdominal wall may follow contusions, punctured wounds or debiUtating diseases such as typhoid fever, especially after spontaneous rupture of one of the muscles. These abscesses present no points of special interest. (c) Suppuration in the sub-peritoneal tissues.—The most im- portant of the inflammatory affections of the abdominal wall occurs beneath the muscles in the sub-peritoneal tissue. The most common seats of this inflammation are about the umbilicus, between the bladder and the pubes, in the epigastrium and in the lumbar region. It may occur in the course of general infective diseases, such as puerperal or typhoid fever, or it may be due to the presence of the pneumococcus. It may be connected with affections of the abdominal contents, such as injuries to the duodenum, or disease of the Ccecum or the colon, the infection spreading from the intestinal canal to the cellular tissue around. It may also occur in connection with biliary calculi, in connection with the kidney or with disease of the spine or pelvis. Lastly, it may comphcate bladder affections or be secondary to peri-uterine inflammation. The abscess tends to spread rather towards the exterior than to the peritoneal cavity and is accompanied by extensive induration, which may persist long after the abscess has been opened. The pus is frequently foetid, but this is rarely from an actual communication with the intestinal canal; it is due to the presence of the Bacillus colt communis which has found its way from the intestinal canal.