ASCITES DUE TO CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER 457 patient is mucli broken down in health, syphihtic cirrhosis, cases with marked jaundice; or due to renal or cardiac disease are not amenable to operative treatment. It is the early cases of alcoholic cirrhosis, in which the ascites is just commencing but rapidly reappears after tapping, and the general health is good, that yield the most favourable results. A number of operations have been suggested for ascites, which fall into two classes. In the first, an attempt is made to estabUsh an increased anastomosis between the portal and systemic circulations through the medium of adhesions between the omentum and the abdominal wall ; in the second, a communication is established between the peritoneal cavity and the subcutaneous tissues, by means of which the increased amount of fluid in the peritoneal cavity may find an entrance into the general lymphatic system and thus be restored to the circulation. The pathology of cirrhosis and the mechanics of ascites still present many problems, but it is fairly certain that the increased production of fluid is not due to a congestion of the portal system alone, although this is probably an important factor in many cases. It is not surprising, therefore, that the results obtained are far from uniform and that the indications for operation are not as yet definitely settled. For a recent discussion of the question, reference should be made to the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine,' vol. 5, 1912. We shall here describe a typical operation from each group. The Talma-Morison operation.—In this the great omentum is attached to the anterior abdominal wall, care being taken to obtain a wide area of attachment without damaging the main omental vessels. Morison summarises the operation as follows : 1. Open the abdomen from the ensiform cartilage to the umbilicus. 2. Introduce the hand into the abdomen and project a finger against the anterior parietes in the middle line three inches above the pubes. 3. Make a small incision on to the finger tip, and through this introduce a long, small glass drainage tube into the recto-vesical or recto-uterine pouch. 4. Dry the abdominal cavity and scrub the peritoneum with mops. 5. Suture the omentum to the anterior parietal peritoneum across the abdominal wall and close the upper abdominal wound. (In some cases a pocket is made in the sub-peritoneal tissues into which a portion of the omentum is drawn.) 6. Apply an antiseptic dressing over the wound and tube, and over the dressing and at a higher level than the tube put on a series of long strips of adhesive strapping passing round the body, with the object of keeping the parietal in contact with the visceral peritoneum. 7. Tlie tube, now exposed through the dressing, is surrounded with a sterilised sheet of dental rubber, perforated to grasp it below its collar, and the separate tube dressing is wrapped up in the india-rubber sheet. AJter-treatment.—The drainage tube is kept dry by aspiration, and