AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 76 the seat of epitheliomatous ulceration. Bleeding is common from these deep ulcers, and may be severe. In the case of patients who have not been operated upon, the disease generally causes death within a year, or at the most within eighteen months. The cause of death is usually exhaustion due to gradual emaciation, profuse discharge and haemorrhage from the ulcer, and difficulty in taking food. The final result is often brought about by a low form of pneumonia. Occasionally there are profuse haemorrhages from the ulcer in the mouth or in the neck, but as a rule the haemorrhage is not severe, and only contributes indirectly to the death of the patient. TREATMENT.—The first and most important point in the treat- ment is to decide which cases are operable and which are not. The growth in the mouth should always be removed when it is possible to do so, because even though recurrence should take place in the glands, the termination will be much more easy if the mouth remains free from disease. The choice of cases for operation. — The chief points which determine the suitability of any given case for operative treatment are the extent and situation of the growth in the mouth, the degree of implication of the glands in the neck and the general condition of the patient. We shall consider these questions in the above order. The extent of the disease in the mouth only influences the question in so far as the possibility of complete removal of the primary disease is concerned. When we consider the sufferings which a patient dying from cancer of the tongue has to undergo, sufferings which are largely attribut- able to the foul mass in the mouth, it is obviously the surgeon's duty to attempt the removal of the primary growth, even when the area of healthy tissues around the disease is comparatively slight, and when therefore there is a considerable risk of recurrence. This argument must not, however, be carried too far, for there can be no object in cutting into the mouth when the disease is so extensive that it is obviously impossible to remove it entirely. For instance, if the tongue is infiltrated with cancer which has extended so far on to the floor of the mouth as to fix the organ, no good can result from operation, seeing that only a portion of the growth can be taken away. The situation of the disease in the tongue is of importance. A com- paratively extensive growth situated on the anterior part of the organ may be removed with a fair prospect of success when a much less extensive mass in the posterior half should be left alone. Some surgeons hold that extension of the disease from the tongue to the tonsillar region contra- indicates operative interference, but, although it undoubtedly increases the gravity of the operation, we are not inclined to look upon these cases as necessarily inoperable. We have operated on cases in which the growth extended on to the soft palate and the pharynx, and have been able to remove the disease completely. If, however, the whole base of the tongue is involved and the mischief extends across the middle line, the