402 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES that the retention of feces in the appendix is a very important factor in leading to infection. Tlie presence of faecal concretions in the appendix must also play an important part in the etiology of appendicitis^ although the large size which they sometimes attain shows that they may remain there a long time without leading to acute disease. Never- theless, even mechanically, they must keep up a certain amount of irritation, and so strongly predispose the appendix to infection when the active agent comes into play. Once the wall becomes swollen, the presence of the concretion by its pressure may lead to ulceration, gangrene, and perforation at the place where it is situated, and this may explain why perforation so often occurs over a concretion. Foreign bodies, such as pins, needles, thread-worms, and so on, are also occasionally found, and may undoubtedly have caused the trouble. Most cases probably arise from the entrance of virulent bacteria, such as colon bacilli from the Ccecum, especially when the appendix is predisposed to attack by previous inflammations causing kinking and distortion and stricture of the canal. It seems probable that certain foods may take part in the development of the disease, either by carrying the infective organisms along with them, as in decaying meat, or by lying in a partially digested state in the caecum, and possibly enabling the intestinal organisms to take on more virulent action. Appendicitis may be acute or chronic, and the chronic form may become complicated by an acute attack. Acute appendicitis may vary in severity from a simple catarrh of the mucous membrane to acute gangrene of the whole or greater part of the organ. Acute appendicitis.—In the mildest form, sometimes spoken of as catarrhal appendicitis, the mucous membrane becomes somewhat swollen and inflamed, and there is increased secretion of mucus which, however, escapes readily into the caecum. The attack subsides quickly and the in- flammation does not extend to the serous or muscular coats. The appen- dix may be apparently normal after the attack, but it seems to be more predisposed to further attacks. When, however, the attack is rather more severe, destruction of the mucous membrane may follow in places, leaving more or less constriction of the canal, which may be of very serious import if a further attack occurs. In other cases, the attack is more severe either because the organisms are more virulent or for some other reason, and the inflammation extends through the walls to the serous membrane, and lymph is poured out there, which is apt to glue the appendix to various parts in the neighbourhood. In this way kinks and adhesions are formed, which, like the strictures above referred to have a serious influence on the course of further attacks, as they must interfere with the escape of the contents. Much more grave are the cases in which sup- puration occurs in the appendix, more especially if kinks or strictures are present as the result of previous attacks of inflammation. In the latter case the pus cannot escape readily into the cscum, but accumulates