3 FRACTURES the view of restoring them to position must be done through the cheek, and it will become a question whether the deformity caused by the scar will be less than that due to the displacement. If incisions are made for this purpose, they should follow the natural wrinkles of the face as accurately as possible, and all the precautions recommended for minimising the scar mentioned in Vol. I. p. 136 should be adopted. The prognosis is good when the fracture is simple ; when it is compound, suppuration occasionally occurs at the point of communica- tion with the mouth, and necrosis may take place, although this is comparatively rare. Should suppuration occvu", the area from which the pus is coming should be drained, usually by a tube introduced from the mouth ; if the antrum is involved, it should be syringed out frequently with sanitas, Condy's fluid or boric lotion, an opening being made into the inferior meatus of the nose if necessary. Any necrosed bone must be removed as soon as it is loose, which will generally be in from three to five weeks. Hcemorrhage from tJie infra-orbital artery sometimes gives rise to considerable trouble, but if the skin is unbroken, the application of an ice-bag to the cheek will generally control it. If a wound is present, the bleeding point should be sought foi" and secured if possible. If the vessel cannot be tied, the wound should be plugged firmly with strips of cyanide gauze. Sometimes the vessel retracts within the bony canal, and the latter must either be opened up or the orifice plugged with Horsley's wax (see Vol. III. p. 376) ; the objection to the latter procedure is that the wax must also exert pressure on the infra-orbital nerve. Ligature of the external carotid artery has been employed to check the haemorrhage, but this is not satisfactory, and if the bleeding is severe, it is better to open up the infra-orbital canal sufficiently to secure the vessel. FRACTURE OF THE MALAR BONE. This fracture is extremely rare and is practically always associated with fracture of other bones of the face, especially the adjacent portions of the maxilla. It usually results from severe direct violence which drives the bone downwards and backwards, and forces in the anterior wall of the antrum. Fracture of the orbital plate of the superior maxilla may be produced at the same time if the blow is applied more horizontally. TREATMENT.—An attempt should be made to remedy the dis- placement by introducing the finger into the mouth and passing it up between the cheek and the upper jaw ; if this fails, a small transverse incision may be made anterior to the masseter muscle and a raspatory introduced beneath the bone so as to lever it into position. B 2