HEMORRHOIDS 565 regions. Diet undoubtedly plays an important part ; heavy feeders not only suffer from engorgement of the portal circulation and consequent congestion of the haemorrhoidal veins, but in them there may also be direct irritation of the rectal mucous membrane by various articles of diet. Constipation is of importance ; it does not act so much by direct pressure on the veins as by leading to ineffectual straining at stool, which causes temporary pressure on the veins and congestion of the part. Prolonged straining at stool is also likely to be followed by slight damage to the anal mucous membrane, which in its turn gives rise to a certain amount of phlebitis and vaso-motor congestion of the parts, and thus brings about the formation of haemorrhoids. The symptoms may be classified according as the patient suffers from ordinary uncomplicated piles, or from an exacerbation of the ordinary symptoms, usually spoken of as an ' acute attack of piles.' In the latter case the patient may have so little trouble between the attacks that he requires no treatment, and does not even know that he suffers from haemorrhoids. In other cases—generally after two or three of these acute attacks—the piles remain permanently in evidence, and the patient therefore suffers from the symptoms due to an ordinary uncomplicated attack of piles with occasional exacerbations. In an ordinary uncomplicated case of piles, the patient is usually conscious of uneasiness, irritation, or itching about the anus, around which are soft compressible swellings which become turgid during defaecation. The pain is only slight and of a dull aching character. Should the patient suffer from internal piles alone, the pain is usually only present when the tumours are protruded through the anus, and disappears when they are returned within it. External piles are soft fleshy masses situated around the margin of the anus, within which they cannot be reduced ; bleeding is not common, but cracks and fissures often form in the mucous membrane between them. Internal hsemorrhoids on the other hand are not visible unless they are extruded by straining or unless the patient suffers from a so-called ' acute attack ' of piles. They bleed freely, often on the slightest touch, and the blood is generally arterial in character. Bleeding usually only occurs during the act of defse- cation, and the blood spirts over the pan in a characteristic manner. This blood comes from the surface of the pile in the form of a capillary oozing ; occasionally there may be a minute opening into one of the large venous spaces, and most serious and even fatal haemorrhage may occur. In these cases, and also when the piles are inflamed and protruding thi'ough the anus, bleeding may occur independently of defecation. There is always a certain amount of mucous discharge and sometimes considerable pruritus. In an acute attack of piles there is a condition of acute inflammation, practically phlebitis and peri-phlebitis. This usually affects the internal piles and may lead to complete thrombosis of the veins in the piles affected.