AFFECTIONS OF TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR ARTICULATION 17 ANCHYLOSIS. Adhesions are very prone to form after any inflammatory affection of tire temporo-mandibular joint, and these may lead to stiffness or complete anchylosis of the joint. The affection may be unilateral, but is commonly bilateral. TREATMENT.—The treatment de])ends upon the condition present. So long as the trouble is due to adhesions, the usual treatment must be employed. This consists in forcible movements under an anjesthetic, followed by passive movements and the use of a gag worn continuously. If, however, the adhesions have become firm, very little is to be hoped for from this method, and, under such circumstances, the force employed to rupture the adhesions is likely to fracture the neck of the condyle ; moreover, the torn adhesions are apt to re-form. Hence, when the adhesions are very firm, the only methods of treatment are to remove the condyle of the jaw and make a false joint, or to divide the neck of the condyle and try to get a false joint. Excision of the joint is performed through an incision an inch and a half in length along the lower border of the zygoma ; it should curve downwards immediately in front of the tragus. The steps of the operation are identical with those mentioned above for excision of the joint for unreduced dislocation, except that the neck of the bone has to be cleared and divided in siiii, and the head dissected out. Enough bone must be removed to leave a good gap between the neck of the condyle and the eminentia articularis, and Murphy's method of arthro- plasty (see Vol. III. p. 153) by turning in a flap of soft parts from the masseteric region should be employed. It is common to have slight facial paralysis after the operation, but this is usually due to stretching of the nerve and is transient. Passive movements, at first under an auEESthetic, should be commenced the day after the operation ; these movements will become less painful after a few days, and the use of a screw gag should then be commenced. When the gag is not being used, the mouth should be kept open with a dental prop. The results are best when the affection is one-sided. Even in bilateral cases, however, satisfactory results may be obtained if the treatment is persevered with for a long time, and it must be especially vigorous if there should be any tendency to re-contraction. Division of the neck of the condyle is carried out in exactly the same manner up to the stage of removing the head of the bone. Instead of doing so, as large a portion of the neck as possible is removed and soft tissues are turned in between the cut surfaces to prevent subsequent bony union. The after-treatment is movement and massage as in the previous case. IV. c