14 AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS his food. As a rule, however, his condition is so bad that an attempt must be made to improve it. TREATMENT.—Dislocation of the lower jaw has been success- fully reduced even four months after the occurrence of the injury, and, when only six or eight weeks have elapsed, an attempt should certainly be made to reduce it under an ansesthetic by the manipulations described above. Before commencing these manipulations, however, it is well to elevate and depress the jaw a number of times with increasing vigour so as to break down adhesions. If the surgeon fails to reduce the dislocation by manipulation, the best procedure will be to excise ike temporo-mandibular joints. This operation gives better results than excision of a wedge-shaped portion f IG. 5.—Excision of the Temporo-mandibular Arti- movement, especially if the to the'p'i^po^se.' dislocation has been bilateral and both condyles have been excised. The operation is performed as follows (see Fig. 5) :— A curved incision is made over the articulation with its convexity backwards and upwards, the ends of the incision curving forwards so that the base of the flap thus marked out is over the condyle. The flap is raised, care being taken to avoid division of the upper branches of the facial nerve ; if the incision is deepened from behind forwards, they can be pushed forwards along with the fascia and there is no great risk of dividing them. The temporal artery will probably be cut and should be tied at once ; the cutaneous nerves may be pulled backwards or divided if necessary. The zygoma and the upper part of the masseter are exposed and a portion of the latter muscle is detached from the zygoma from behind forwards until the displaced condyle is exposed. When the condyle has been brought into view, the jaw is depressed by an assistant so as to bring the condyle down from beneath the zygoma ; this can generally be done fairly easily if anchylosis has not taken place. of the neck of the condyle with the view of forming a fresh joint. In the latter case, the condyle is out of position and the teeth do not approximate properly, even though movement be restored, and, further, the antero-posterior motion is not regained. After removal of the condyle, however, the ramus of the jaw can be pushed back into proper posi- tion and a satisfactory result obtained by keeping up