AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 438 pylephlebitis, or peri-renal abscess, may be found to be the cause. The symptoms may, however, not be due to trouble in the abdomen, but in the thorax ; thus pneumonia or pleurisy sometimes begins with vomiting, epigastric pain and tenderness, and symptoms resembling subphrenic abscess. It may be useful if we consider the significance of the chief symptoms which arise, and the indications for immediate operation. The symptoms may differ according as they are observed at the commencement of the trouble or at a later period. Significance of the chief early symptoms. —f^m.—The character and situation of the pain are of importance. In perforations of the stomach, intestine, or gall-bladder, the pain is severe, constant, and of a burning character. At first it is limited to the seat of rupture, though it soon spreads over the abdomen. In rupture of cysts, the pain is more diffuse from the first and not so severe, but it is most marked over the seat of rupture. In perforation of the appendix the severity of the pain varies much, but it may be severe and located in the appendix region ; usually, however, the fixed pain in that region is associated with, or preceded by, colicky pains in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. In other cases appendicitis commences with colicky pains at or above the umbilicus, and pain in the appendix region develops later. In internal strangulations, and other obstructive conditions, there may be pain at the site of the lesion, but the chief complaint is severe recurring colic referred to the umbilical region. Gall-stone pain is epigastric, passing through to the back and shoulder, and very severe. Renal or ureteral pain is severe and somewhat spasmodic, and shoots downwards to the scrotum and inner side of the thigh. Tenderness is not present in all cases of abdominal pain, and may differ according as the examination is made by pressure or percussion. It is marked from the first in cases of inflammation or rupture of a viscus, and is generally greater on percussion than on pressure. In cases of obstruction, on the other hand, the pain may be relieved by pressure; this may also be the case in biliary or renal colic. In some cases the whole abdomen may be tender, but the seat of the lesion is generally indicated by an area of extra tenderness. Unless general peritonitis sets in, the tenderness diminishes as time goes on, except over the seat of the disease, where it increases. Abdominal rigidity is a very prominent symptom in many of these conditions. It is most marked over the seat of the disease and may be limited to it, but in the early stage of rupture or inflammation it is general over the abdomen. In localised inflammations it—like the tenderness— diminishes, except over the area of the disease. In bad cases of peri- tonitis gives place to distension of the abdomen ; if the abdomen remains rigid all over, it points to rupture of a viscus, or the early stage of general peritonitis or strangulation.