AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 440 due to some inflammatory condition—such as peritonitis, appendicitis, cholecystitis, or salpingitis ; if the temperature rises soon after being depressed at first, there is usually some perforation. The temperature is not elevated in internal strangulation unless gangrene or peritonitis sets in. The question of the temperature, however, is to some extent of secondary importance, and must be weighed with the other symptoms. It may be elevated in other conditions—-for example, in some cases of renal calculus—and it may also rise unduly high in patients who have had malaria. The presence olfree gas in the abdomen, as indicated by obliteration of the liver dullness while the abdomen is still retracted and rigid, or at any rate not distended, is a sign of perforation of the alimentary canal. This should also be borne in mind in operating, and if gas escapes on opening the peritoneum, attention must always be directed to the stomach or intestinal tract and the perforation searched for. The general aspect of the patient is usually a good indication of the gravity of the condition. In internal strangulation or rupture of the stomach, the patient is pale, with the typical abdominal face, and lies on his back with his knees drawn up. In appendicitis with perforation the patient does not feel very ill at first, but becomes worse later ; in gangrenous appendicitis he is ill from an early stage. In gall-stones or renal calculi, the patient is restless, doubled up, presses on his abdomen, and does not have the typical gre3ash abdominal face. Some assistance may also be obtained from the previous history. Thus, there may be a history of indigestion and epigastric pain after food, or of hsematemesis, indicating an ulcer of the stomach, or of previous attacks of appendicitis, or of renal or biliary colic. Such a history maj^ be of great assistance, but the absence of it does not preclude these affec- tions, for it may be a first attack. A history of old peritonitis may strengthen the diagnosis when the symptoms point to internal strangu- lation. The history of events preceding the attack is of importance—such as diarrhoea, constipation, violent exertion, or a large meal. Malaise, preceding the acute onset, usually indicates an inflammatory attack— such as appendicitis—rather than a sudden strangulation ; premonitory symptoms—such as dyspepsia—may also appear in gall-stone colic. Significance of symptoms arising later.—These early symptoms alter, and other symptoms appear as time goes on and may aid the diagnosis and determine the question of surgical interference. For example, the spreading of the pain and tenderness over the abdomen in- dicates a grave lesion and the development of general peritonitis, while the localisation of the pain to one spot or region indicates a shutting off of the inflammatory action and a much more favourable condition. Persistence of colicky pains is another important indication ; if they persist, the probability of strangulation is increased, whereas in appen- dicitis, for example, though colic may be very marked at the beginning