579 HEMORRHOIDS protruded through the anus and the bleeding point actually seen, when it may be suitably treated by ligature, underrunning, or the application of a cautery. This procedure, however, involves much disturbance of the parts and may tear open raw areas. True secondary haemorrhage may come on at any period from the fifth to the tenth day, when the sloughs or ligatures are separating. Here the bleeding, although as a rule not so profuse as that occurring earlier, may be so persistent as to place the patient's life in jeopardy within a short time. In severe cases an attempt may be made to secure the bleeding vessel by anaesthetising the patient, dilating the sphincter, everting the parts, and ascertaining where the bleeding comes from. Here, however, there is great difficulty on account of the infiamed conditions of the parts and the fact that the bases of the piles are covered by granulation tissue, and it may be quite impossible to pick up, tie, or underrun the bleeding spot, or even to stop the bleeding by a cautery. Under these circumstances the bleeding areas may be seized in a pair of Spencer Wells's forceps, which are left on and allowed to come away subsequently by a process of ulceration. In most cases, however, the introduction of a tube and packing, as detailed above, will suffice and should be tried in the first instance. TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED CASES. Operative.—Any complicated case may be treated by one or other of the operative methods above described. There is no reason to delay operation because a pile is thrombosed or inflamed, and in our opinion it is best to employ the clamp and cautery in all these cases in preference to either of the other methods ; the prolonged searing of the parts shuts off the vessels and there is less risk of absorption than there would be in a clean-cut wound. Palliative.—Sometimes, however, the patient refuses to be operated upon, or the presence of visceral disease, advanced pregnancy, or some other weighty reason, may contra-indicate operation ; the following palliative measures may then be employed. WJien the piles are prolapsed and irreducible, it is of the greatest importance that they should be returned within the anus, otherwise strangulation is very apt to occur. The protruding mass should be sprayed with a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine, after which the patient is placed in the genu-pectoral position, the pi'olapsed mass is gradually compressed so as to empty it as much as possible, and is then lubricated and pushed inwards with the fingers of one hand whilst the forefinger of the other is passed into the anus to guide it upwards. When the mass has been successfully returned, a pad of boric lint is pressed firmly against the anus and kept in position by a T-bandage applied as tightly as can be borne. The patient should then remain in bed for twenty-four hours at