AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 46 for that on the tongue, or whatever part the disease is spreading from, to split the cheek outwards towards the masseter. The incisions required for these cases wih be described either in connection with excision of the lower jaw [vide infra) or with cancer of the tongue and floor of the mouth (see Chap. IX.). The point which we wish to emphasise here is that a bridge of bone connecting the anterior and posterior parts of the jaw should be left intact whenever this is possible, and this can usually be done by making an incision below the jaw and turning up the soft tissues. Tumours growing elsewhere than in the alveolus usually involve the removal of the whole thickness of the affected portion of the jaw, and the following operations may be required according to the extent and seat of the tumour :— 1. Excision of one-half of the jaw. 2. Excision of the horizontal ramus or portions of it on one side of the symphysis. 3. Excision of the symphysis. 4. Excision of the entire jaw. Removal of one-half of the Lower Jaw.—The patient is propped up by pillows beneath the shoulders, and the head allowed to hang back over a sand-bag and turned to the sound side. Chloroform should be administered ; laryngotomy is un- necessary unless the growth extends beyond the limits of the jaw and involves an extensive operation, in which case it is carried out in the manner described on p. 33. The finger is thrust between the lower lip and the gum in the middle line, and made to define the reflection of the buccal mucous membrane on to the jaw. The knife is then introduced through the skin, just below this point, and carried thence vertically down to the edge of the jaw, after which it runs about an inch below the lower border of the horizontal ramus as far back as the angle, where it turns up along the posterior border of the ascending ramus to the lobule of the ear (see Fig. 22). This incision is deepened and the facial vessels are clamped and divided. The flap—which should not take up any of the muscles attached to the jaw—is then raised until the line of reflection of the mucous membrane on to the jaw is reached, but at this stage the buccal cavity should not be opened. The soft parts are next separated from the inner surface of the jaw, beginning at its lower border ; the muscles attached to the jaw are F;g. 22.—Incision for Removal of the Mandible. The incision, de, is for excision of the mandible.