CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 379 for chronic obstruction (seep. 372). If it is possible to excise the stric- ture, if an anastomosis can be made, or if a permanent left inguinal colostomy is eventually established, it is usually comparatively easy to close the opening on the right side, as the condition is really one of a ftecal fistula and not a true artificial anus. Left inguinal colostomy.—-If the surgeon comes to the conclusion that the disease is in the lower part of the sigmoid flexure, he is warranted in performing a left inguinal colostomy, even though the patient's condition be very grave. The oblique operation, a little higher up than is usual for cancer of the rectum, should be done so that the upper part of the sigmoid flexure can be reached, but the abdomen should be opened as in the ordinary operation [vide infra). If the portion of the sigmoid that presents in the wound is distended, it is certain that the bowel has been reached above the stricture, and, before proceeding farther, it is well to ascertain quickly the exact condition of the stricture, with the view to excision either immediately or at a later period. It sometimes happens that, on opening the abdomen to perform a colostomy, the tumour is found to be so movable that it can be brought out of the wound at once, and this should be done if it is possible. Sometimes it may be necessary to divide the meso-colon in order to free the tumour, but this adds little to the gravity of the operation. Under such circumstances, the question of immediate excision of the bowel, followed by an anastomosis of the two ends, will arise; but in the severe cases of which we are speaking, the patient is really not fit to stand this. The simplest plan is to bring the loop containing the tumour outside the abdomen, clamp the intestine above and below, cut the tumour away, and insert a Paul's tube (see p. 343) into each end of the bowel. The patient thus gets rid of the tumour and has an artificial anus formed, which may be closed later should he recover. In the majority of cases, however, the tumour is too fixed to allow of this, and left inguinal colostomy should be done, and should be followed immediately by the insertion of a Paul's or Collier's tube. The ordinary oblique operation is performed as follows : An oblique incision, with its centre on the line from the anterior superior spine to the umbilicus, is made about an inch and a half internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The external oblique tendon is split in the direction of the incision and it is well also to nick it slightly transversely on each side in order to avoid subsequent constriction of the bowel. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles are now separated at the upper part of the wound in the direction of their fibres, the transversalis fascia is divided, the sub-peritoneal fat torn through, and the peritoneum opened. The distended sigmoid, which generally presents, is pulled as far out of the wound as it will conveniently come, and the finger is slipped downwards along it and the tumour examined. If there are any scyba- lous masses in the bowel these should be manipulated into the loop before this is fixed to the abdominal wall. To fix the loop in position, and at the