AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 84 the planes of the neck is very likely to occur. In these cases, therefore, it is well to divide the operation into two stages, allowing a week to elapse between each, and the question then arises as to which operation should be performed first, the removal of the tongue or that of the glands. The answer will depend on the part most affected. In bad cases such as these, the process usually spreads much more rapidly in the glands than in the tongue, and it will generally be found advisable to remove the glands first, and to leave the excision of the tongue to a later period. It is only when the disease in the mouth is extensive and the glandular affection is not marked that the reverse procedure is advisable. THE OPERATIONS UPON THE TONGUE. We shall consider first the methods for the removal of the disease in the tongue and afterwards those for the extirpation of the glands from the neck. Many operations have been recommended for cancer of the tongue, and different cases require different methods, the particular one employed depending partly on the situation and partly on the extent of the disease. When the growth is limited to the anterior part or the border of the tongue, a much less severe operation will be required than when it is situated in the neighbourhood of the pillar of the fauces, and the same will be the case when there is only superficial disease and the grov^i;h has not yet penetrated into the deeper muscles of the tongue, as com- pared with marked infiltration of the latter. When the disease has not extended into the deeper muscles, it is often sufficient to take away only the affected area along with a suitable amount of healthy tissue around. In this way a great part of the organ can be preserved and its usefulness is not materially interfered with. When the disease is well to one side, the tip of the tongue may be left intact, and this is a matter of much importance for the subsequent power of articulation. On the other hand, when the disease has penetrated into the muscles, one half of the tongue at least must be removed right back to the base, because the majority of the lymphatics run parallel with the muscular fibres, and every movement of the muscle forces on the lymph ; hence a muscle infected by cancer should be looked on as diseased throughout its whole extent and should therefore be removed as freely as possible. The procedures that may be adopted for the removal of the tongue are (i) cutting out the growth along with a certain amount of the tongue from within the mouth—the intra-buccal methods ; (2) those in which this procedure is only feasible after gaining extra room, for example, by splitting the cheek ; (3) removal of the tongue after dividing the symphysis or some other portion of the lower jaw, and pulling the two halves of the bone asunder ; and (4) removal of the organ through incisions made entirely beneath the jaw—the type of which is that known