49 TUMOURS holes. The only trouble is that the holes enlarge by inflammatory action, and the pegs get loose and may even fall out in the course of time. As a rule, however, the contraction of the scar prevents them from falling out if they have been buried sufficiently deeply in the jaw. If it has been possible to obtain an impression of the mouth before operation, and if these rods have been cut to the right length, a dental splint may be made later on, which will help still further to keep the fragments apart. Removal of the Symphysis.—Excision of the central portion of the jaw alone is required when epithelioma has spread from the floor of the mouth and infiltrated the periosteum in the neighbourhood of the symphysis. The removal of this portion of the jaw involves complete detachment of the muscles which hold the tongue forward, and this is the chief trouble in the after-treatment. The removal itself is simple enough and hardly requires description. The skin must be divided along the lower margin of the jaw for the requisite distance ; the necessary teeth are extracted, the bone is sawn through on each side, and the intervening part is then removed along with the affected soft parts. Before the bone is removed, the tongue should be seized with forceps so as to prevent it falling back and choking the patient. In all cases of removal of the symphysis, it is necessary to try to prevent the two divided surfaces coming together, otherwise the lower jaw becomes hopelessly contracted and the teeth in it lie on a plane greatly posterior to those in the upper. Two nickeled steel rods, one fixed in the lower and the other in the upper border of the jaw, may be used with advantage, or the two halves may be connected by a bent Lane's plate. A stitch should be put through the muscles of the tongue and fastened over the steel pins or plate, so as to keep the tongue forward ; in the course of three or four days, when the wound is granulating and the parts are becoming consolidated, the tongue will retain its position. The best material for this stitch is silkworm-gut, which does not become septic in the same way that a silk suture does ; when the rods are not used, a pair of catch forceps may take the place of the stitch and will keep the tongue forward by their weight. When the rods or plates are employed and an impression of the bite can be taken before operation, it is very important to get a dental splint made to reinforce the rods and keep the two halves of the jaws apart ; this requires the aid of a skilled dentist. Removal of the entire Jaw.—In some cases the whole of the jaw may require removal; this is done practically in the same way as above described, each half of the jaw being removed separately. The patient's condition afterwards is, however, very lamentable. Removal of the Glands.—In all cases of epithelioma and in those of the more malignant forms of sarcoma, the lymphatic glands in the sub- maxillary and anterior triangles must be removed. This question is dealt with fully in connection with malignant disease of the tongue, of which carcinomatous disease of the jaw is often a mere extension (see Chap. IX.). IV. E