215 TREATMENT AFTER LAPAROTOMY Operations in which the muscular fibres have been separated—of which the typical example is the ' gridiron ' operation for removal of the appen- dix—leave a strong abdominal wall, with practicaUy no risk of hernia. As the muscular fibres have only been separated (though a few may have been torn across if there has been much difficulty in getting out the appendix), they fall together after the operation, and movements of the abdominal wall approximate and close the sides of the wound. Nevertheless, it is well, after the operation, to put in a few stitches to keep the separated muscles in place, and this is especially necessary as regards the tendinous portion of the external oblique, the edges of which are apt to remain somewhat apart unless they are brought together. The procedure we adopt is the following : After the operation has been completed and the abdominal contents returned, the edges of the peritoneum are seized with forceps and closed by a continuous catgut suture ; the edges of the separated and often somewhat torn fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are brought into apposition by two or three interrupted catgut sutures, and then the tendinous edges of the external oblique are also united by interrupted catgut stitches. The skin wound is then closed by a continuous suture of silk or other material according to the fancy of the o])erator. When the incision has been made vertically on the inner or outer side of the rectus, more care must be taken in closing the deep part of the wound. In these cases the best plan is to make the incision to one side of the middle line, because repair in the latter situation only occurs between fibrous structures, and some weakness through which a hernia may occur is very likely to be left. The incision therefore should be made at least an inch to one side of the middle line so that in deepening it the fibres of the rectus are separated instead of the fibrous interval between the recti being divided. The skin incision should be carried down to the deep fascia, and when the latter is I'eached it saves time to dissect up the skin and fat for an inch on each side (see Fig. 78) as this is necessary to enable the abdominal wall to be stitched satisfactorily together at the end of the operation. The anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus is now divided vertically, and the fibres of the muscle are separated with the handle of a knife sunk into them so as to leave a considerable portion of muscle on the inner side of the separation ; if one of the transverse bands of the rectus comes in the way it should be divided with the knife. In some cases it is better to separate the anterior sheath from the surface of the rectus and displace the muscle either outwards or inwards ; it falls back afterwards and covers the deeper parts of the incision. The posterior layer of the sheath is then exposed and divided vertically (see Fig. 79) ; but it should not be separated from the peritoneum, otherwise it is difficult to bring the edges of the latter together afterwards. The peritoneum is now opened by a vertical incision (see Fig. 80). In sewing up the wound afterwards, the cut edges of the peritoneum