228 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PAIN AND VOMITING. The presence of pain is of great importance, and its characters, situa- tion, and mode of onset must be considered. Pain immediately following the ingestion of food is often indicative of ulcer of the stomach, and when the pain is referred to the particular spots mentioned on p. 256, it is very characteristic of ulcer and its situation. On the other hand, a diffuse pain of a neuralgic character maj^ merety indicate some nervous affection. When the pain occurs some time after taking food, it is more suggestive of ulcer of the duodenum. When vomiting is present, regard should be paid to its frequency, the character of the vomited matters, and the quantity brought up. For example, in dilatation of the stomach, vomiting may occur at infrequent intervals—sometimes only every second or third day when the stomach is much dilated—and the quantit}- brought up is proportionatel}' large. On the other hand, in simple ulcer of the stomach vomiting often occurs soon after food, and the pain is relieved by it. Again, vomiting due to intestinal obstruction bears no distinct relation to food and is often accompanied by persistent retching. The smell of the vomited matters may be characteristic ; for instance, in dilatation of the stomach the vomit usually has a yeasty odour, whereas in cancer the material vomited is generally foul, and in intestinal obstruction it soon becomes faecal. The presence of blood in the vomit may be strongly indicative of the true nature of the case. Profuse haemorrhage generally implies a simple ulcer. The frequent and constant admixture of a little blood with the vomited matters, especially if these smell badty, usually points to cancer of the stomach ; in ulcer of the duodenum, blood in the vomited matter is less common and more usually appears in the stools as melaena ; when it occurs in the stomach contents it is often in the form of ' occult blood ' (see p. 235). Profuse hfematemesis also occurs in cirrhosis of the liver, but here the blood is usually very dark in colour, the bleeding being venous. INSPECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Mere inspection of the abdomen rarelj- gives much information as to the condition of the stomach. In thin patients, suffering from pyloric obstruction, either congenital or acquired, however, it may be possible to observe peristaltic movements of the stomach immediately after taking food. In cancer of the pylorus the tumoiu: may sometimes be large enough to be evident, or the greatly dilated stomach may be seen through the abdominal wall. When there is an ' hour-glass contraction ' of the stomach accompanied by flatulent distension, the outline of the organ may be seen through the abdominal parietes and the true nature of the condition may be suspected. In acute dilatation of the stomach the character and degree of the dilatation is often xevy characteristic.