26o AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH Advantages of the different methods.—Both the anterior and posterior operations are suitable in certain cases. The anterior operation is the easier and involves less disturbance of the parts than the posterior. It is especially suitable for cases in which the ulcer is extensive and situated on the posterior wall and the stomach is bound down to the pancreas or other surrounding structures. It may also be employed when the patient is very ill and it is of importance to disturb the parts as little as possible. Further, when an ulcer has been excised from the anterior surface of the stomach, it may be advisable in some cases to utilise the opening so formed for the purpose of a gastro-jejunostomy, and in that case the anterior operation is performed. The chief objections urged against the anterior operation are that kinking is apt to occur at the junction with the stomach, that if the colon becomes distended or if much fat is deposited in the omentum, the limbs of the small intestine may be unduly compressed or vice versa that the small intestine may com- press the colon, that hernia may occur under the loop of small intestine, and that ' peptic ulcer' of the jejunum is more apt to occur after it than after the posterior form. The first two conditions may give rise to regurgitant vomiting or the formation of the ' vicious circle ' ; and with the view of avoiding that occurrence, the general rule is not only to connect the small intestine to the stomach but also to connect the two limbs before they turn up over the colon, or else to perform Roux's Y-operation, which is described on p. 271. It was with the view of avoiding these troubles and also those incident to the posterior operation that gastro-duode- nostomy was introduced by Kocher. This operation is described on p. 278, but we may say here that it has not been taken up very much, chiefly no doubt because many ulcers are situated at or near the pjdoric orifice. In spite, however, of the objections mentioned above, the anterior operation still has its place under certain circuiustances and must not be altogether cast aside. In our opinion, however, the retro-colic variety is unreliable and not to be recommended, as strangulation of the jejunum is very apt to occur at the aperture through which the loop has to pass in order to reach the anterior surface of tlie stomach ; if this aperture be made sufficiently large to avoid all possible danger Fig. 92.—Diagram illustrating the Varioi^s Methods of performing Gastro-jejunostomy. The dotted lines indicate tlie direction in which the small intestine (I) is carried. Thus a is the posterior gastro-jejunostomy, b is the retro-colic, and c the ordinary or pre-colic form of anterior gastro-jejunos- tomy. St = stomach. D = duodenum.