STRICTURE 175 be made to pass it on into the stomach if it is grasped tightly, because it is quite possible that there may be several strictures along the course of the oesophagus, and an instrument grasped tightly by the upper one can no longer be controlled and may do serious damage if force is employed. The proper plan is to dilate the upper stricture first and then to attack those lower down. If there is difficulty in passing a bougie into the orifice of the stricture, advantage may be obtained by the use of the oesophagoscope, which enables a view of the orifice to be obtained. After an interval of three days, a further attempt should be made in a similar manner, when it will probably be found that the bougie previously employed, will pass easily through the upper stricture. As soon as the stricture is fairly easily passed, it is well to substitute the black conical bougies for the softer instruments, so that a little more force may be exerted and the stricture may be more rapidly dilated. Little harm can be done with these instruments as soon as a stricture is dilated sufficiently for their points to pass through ; the fine bulbous end acts as a guide for the rest of the dilating bougie. The number of bougies used at one sitting must vary with the progress made. It is often sufficient to pass one or two sizes and to begin the next sitting with the largest size employed on the previous occasion. It is certainly not advisable to push the dilatation of a stricture of the oesophagus as rapidly as in the case of strictures of the urethra. The passage of bougies at these frequent intervals should be maintained until the stricture is fully dilated, and not until then should a longer interval elapse between the sittings. As soon as full dilatation has been reached, an interval of a week may be allowed and, if the patency of the canal is maintained sufficiently by the passage of a bougie once a week for two or three months, the interval may be lengthened to a fortnight, and after another two or three months, if matters are satisfactory, the passage of instruments once a month will probably be sufficient to keep the stricture effectually dilated. In no case, however, must the patient go for longer than a month at a time without having an instrument passed, and, if at any time there is any sign of recurrence of the contraction, the intervals must be made shorter. If the patient complains of the trouble to which this exposes him, it should be pointed out that, while the maintenance of dilatation in a fully dilated stricture is a comparatively simple and painless process, the dilatation of a tight one is quite another matter. Continuous dilatation.—The method of intermittent dilatation suffices in the great majority of cases, but some are occasionally met with in which the contraction is so great and the scar tissue so dense that it does not yield readily to the intermittent passage of bougies—a condition similar to that which occurs in the urethra. For strictures of this kind some form of continuous dilatation, such as that employed for the