AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 5i6 reflex contraction of the muscular coat of the intestine. In Richter's hernia, too, in which only a small part of the wall of the bowel is nipped, if complete obstruction occurs it is probably brought about by entero-spasm. This is also probably the explanation of the obstructive symptoms which accompany torsion of tumours, of undescended testicles, or of the omentum, and which creates a difficulty in the diagnosis. Spasm may also be present in connection with ulcers in the stomach and bowel just as in fissure of the anus ; this is especially evident in the gastro-spasm and pyloro-spasm, which not infrequently accompany ulcer of the stomach. It may also be set up by the irritating nature of the gastric or intestinal contents. Drugs, such as lead, may set up spasm, and spasm is possibly a factor in the abdominal crises of loco- motor ataxia. Apart from the occurrence of entero-spasm as a secondary factor in various forms of obstruction, it may also be the chief agent in some cases. In some hysterical patients, symptoms of intestinal obstruction may arise, accompanied by marked dilatation of considerable portions of the intestine. When the abdomen is opened, a spasmodically contracted portion of intestine may be found below the dilated part. Apart from hysteria, however, a condition of painful spasmodic contraction of the intestine or the stomach may occur, to which the name of entero- spasm (or gastro-spasm) is applied ; abdominal angina is probably only another name for the same condition. Entero-spasm may occur anywhere in the intestinal canal ; in the upper part it may be mistaken for bihary colic, and it may lead to acute dilatation of the stomach ; in the neighbourhood of the caecum it may lead to a diagnosis of appendicitis, in the lower colon to the formation of a thickening and a diagnosis of carcinoma. The subjects of this condition are most commonly women—frequently of a distinctly neurotic type—and in some cases it may be associated with some emotional or mental disturbance. The pain is frequently severe and usually occurs at intervals with periods of complete cessation or of dull pain. It is often accompanied by violent retching and vomiting. The abdomen is not rigid, but there may be localised tenderness. There is not the complete constipation characteristic of mechanical obstruction ; indeed, in some cases the bowels act fairly easily with enemata. TREATMENT.—The really important point is the diagnosis, for, on the one hand, it is not only useless, but very inadvisable to open the abdomen for this condition ; while on the other, if the case is really one of obstruction, delay in operating is most serious. When this condition is present, the two things which are of chief value are trinitrin (gr. TT^^ to You)—injected hypodermically when a severe spasm is present and repeated every three or four hours if necessary—and atropine. Of these we prefer the former on account of its rapidity of action, but the effect of atropine is more prolonged. Valerianate of zinc