AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 10 necessary, so as to expose the seat of fracture. If the coronoid process is comminuted, or if the detached portion is small and a portion of the temporal muscle still remains attached to the jaw, the simplest plan is to remove the fragment. On the other hand, if there is a single large fragment and the wound is clean, it will be best to wire the fragment back into place. In enlarging the wound, the direction of the branches of the facial nerve should be borne in mind and also the position of Stenson's duct, which crosses the masseter parallel to and about a finger's breadth below the zygoma. The infra-orbital branch of the facial nerve lies just above and almost parallel to the duct, the temporal branch runs up almost vertically in front of the ear, while the malar branch occupies a position intermediate between the two. The incision should be transverse or slightly oblique downwards and backwards. After the operation a jaw bandage should be applied, and, when the fragment has been wired in place, the patient may move his jaw in the course of three or four days; when the fragment has been removed altogether, active and passive motion should be begun at once. Early movement of the jaw is of great importance because adhesions are very difficult to over- come if they are allowed to form, and may lead to some degree of closure of the jaws. Of Complications.—When there is an abscess in connection with the fracture, it should be opened early and drained freely ; it is essential to open the abscess from the outside, otherwise pus collects at the most dependent part of the cavity, keeps up the inflammation, and may lead to necrosis. Sepiiccemia is very rare ; its treatment is discussed in Vol. I. p. 189. Persistent dental neuralgia is of rare occurrence. It usually subsides as soon as the fracture is properly reduced, but it may recur in a very severe form as the result of pressure upon the nerve by the callus thrown out during the consolidation of the fracture. If this be the case, the nerve must either be divided at the dental foramen or an operation for removal of the callus must be undertaken ; in the latter, it is by no means easy to find and free the nerve, whereas division of the inferior dental nerve (see Vol. III. p. 478) at an early period will stop the trouble. Hcemorrhage will very rarely require special treatment. If it is profuse and persists in spite of the free use of peroxide of hydrogen (10 vols.) or adrenalin chloride (i in 1000), the surgeon will have to choose between exposing the seat of fracture and plugging the inferior dental canal, or tying the external carotid artery. Probably the latter procedure will be safer on account of the risk of sepsis after an operation upon the fracture. For non-union, the ordinary treatment of ununited fracture must be employed, the edges being refreshed and the bones fixed together (see Vol. II. p. 305). The incision should be made over the lower border of the jaw and the soft parts pulled upwards ; division of the mucous membrane should be avoided if possible. The fractured surfaces may