INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 55 BURNS AND SCALDS. These affections are not uncommon in children as the result of playing with the spout of a kettle and inhaling the steam or swallowing the boiling water. They may also result from the accidental or intentional swallowing of caustic fluids, such as a mineral acid or a caustic alkali. As a rule, the effect of the irritant upon the tongue is quite overshadowed by the symptoms produced by the burn or scald of the pharynx, which almost invariably accompanies it. The tongue swells up and becomes very painful; blisters and subsequently ulcers may form on it, and if there is much swelling about its base, respiration may be seriously interfered with. TREATMENT.—Ice may be given to suck and any blisters should be pricked at once ; should excessive swelling occur, superficial tJicisions must be made in the tongue to allow the escape of the oedematous fluid. These incisions should run parallel to the raphe, and should be made from behind forwards over the most swollen areas ; they need only go through the mucous membrane. Cocaine (lo per cent.) gives a sufficient anaes- thesia ; a general anaesthetic should be avoided on account of the danger to respiration caused by the swelling of the tongue. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Two forms of inflammation of the tongue may be met with, the parenchymatous and the superficial. ACUTE PARENCHYMATOUS GLOSSITIS. This is a comparativelv rare affection, which may foDow infectious fevers, such as erysipelas or scarlet fever ; it may also occur as a sequel to some ulcer of the tongue or floor of the mouth, or be caused by a bite or sting of a venomous insect. A less severe form may result from mercurial poisoning. Sometimes the affection implicates the whole of the tongue ; sometimes, but more rarely, only one half (hemiglossitis)— or occasionally the base—is affected. If seen early and carefully treated, the condition generally ends in resolution, but sometimes suppuration takes place and an abscess forms, —usually between the genio-hyoglossus muscles. When the inflammation is acute, and especially when it affects the base of the tongue, there may be serious embarrassment to respiration. This form of glossitis may be the starting-point of the condition known as Ludwig's angina (see Chap. X.). TREATMENT.—The first point is to prevent excessive swehing of