375 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION may appear at the time to be an unduly free communication between the two portions of the bowel ; for this reason the anastomosis is better clone by simple suture than by any form of apparatus, and this plan should always be adopted, except when the patient is so ill that the few additional minutes may unduly increase the risk of the operation. These cases are not common, however, and in experienced hands the time saved by the employment of Murphy's button or Mayo Robson's bobbins is not considerable. The openings should be made on the convex borders of the bowel, and it is important to see that the gut is so applied that the peri- staltic wave runs in the same direction in each loop. If the wave travels in one direction in the upper portion of the bowel and in the opposite in the lower, there will be difficulty in the passage of the f;eces ; from the Fig. 135.—Method of rapidly occluding the end of the Bowel in Lateral Anastomosis. A running through-and-through suture is inserted before the clamp is removed. This stitch is then pulled tight and tied and thus puckers up the end of the bowel. This suture is eventually buried by a continuous Lerabert suture. proximal loop of the gut they will be driven into the upper portion of the distal loop, and when that empties itself they are apt to be driven back again into the proximal loop. In the small intestine this is not a matter of ver}^ great importance as the contents are fluid and readily run past the opening ; but in the large intestine, where the contents are more solid, much trouble may be caused. Hence in joining large and small intestine, the small intestine should be applied alongside the large in such a way that the peristaltic wave runs the same way in both. A second point of importance in performing a short-circuit operation is not to shut too much of the bowel out of the circulation lest fseces accumulate in the loop (especially in the large intestine), become dry, and cause trouble ; they dilate the loop, cause pain by pressure on the stricture, and lead to inflammation and even ulceration of the mucous membrane. Hence it is well to leave as short a space between the