377 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION determined, the abdomen is not marlvedly distended and tlie patient's condition is pretty good and therefore it does not add materially to the risk to search carefully for the seat of the trouble. In cases of complete obstruction, on the contrary, the patient is not only unfit to stand a prolonged operation, but the abdomen is much distended and manipula- tions are correspondingly more difficult and more dangerous. The immediate problem in the latter cases is not so much to rid the patient of his disease as to save his life, and, as he is dying of obstruction, the chief problem is to relieve that condition. Cases in which the obsiruciion has lasted some time and the patient's condition is bad and will not permit of a prolonged operation.—In this condition a prolonged search among the distended coils for the seat of obstruction is out of the question, and an excision or a short-circuit operation would be dangerous in the highest degree. Practically, the only thing to be thought of is tlie formation of an artificial amis, and the only question is where such an opening should be formed. The seat of the opening must be decided by the symptoms and the history of the case, and the determination of this point is often a matter of the greatest difficulty. The sJiape of the abdomen may help the decision. Distension mainly about the umbilicus, and not in the flanks, points rather to dilatation of the small intestine, and therefore to a stricture, either in the small intestine itself, or in the commencement of the large- On the other hand, an abdomen that is much distended in the flanks, but flatter than in the former instance, points to an obstruction lower down in the large intestine. Irregularity in the distension may indicate at what portion of the large intestine the obstruction exists ; thus great distension on the right side with comparatively little on the left, implies an obstruction higher up than the sigmoid flexure, especially if the left iliac fossa is not much affected. On the other hand, the distended colon may be traced down to the left iliac fossa, in which case the stricture is probably in the sigmoid. The fact that the disease is situated some- where in the sigmoid flexure in the great majority of cases should also be borne in mind. Indications will also be given by the severity of the symptoms. The previous history of the patient, and especially the occurrence of griping pains which stop at a certain point, though not to be depended on, may also give some idea as to the seat of the obstruction when taken in conjunction with the other symptoms. If X-rays are available and time permits, some definite information may be obtained by injecting a bismuth emulsion up the rectum, and determining the point where it stops by the X-ray screen; but this is very rarely possible. The sigmoidoscope may also be of assistance. Functionally, the most suitable place to open the bowel is in the sig- moid flexure, and in certain cases, when there are indications that the stricture is situated at the upper part of the rectum, the ordinary inguinal colostomj' incision may be made ; if, howe\'er, the sigmoid flexure is found