INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 397 which there have been attacks of alternate diarrhoea and constipation for many years previously. This condition is comparatively rarely diagnosed before operation, as there are no symptoms characteristic of an intestinal diverticulum; the usual symptoms are those of peritonitis which might have had other causes. When the affection is situated low down, the condition may simulate carcinoma ; there is, however, usually less cachexia, and if the affected region is accessible to the sigmoidoscope, it might be possible to make out tliat the lumen of the bowel is less obstructed than in carcinoma and that the typical annular ulcer is absent. TREATMENT.—This will vary according to the symptoms which are produced. Perforation of the bowel, localised or general peritonitis, or abscess, should be dealt with on the lines already laid down. When a definite tumour has developed around a diverticulum, excision of the affected segment of the l:)owel is probably the best treatment. In the majority of cases this will be performed under the impression that the case is one of malignant disease. But even if the true nature of the condition is recognised, excision should still be performed, partly owing to the prob- ability of obstruction to the bowel, and the possible subsequent incidence of malignant disease, but mainly because there is no other way of getting rid of the diverticula. When the inflammatory mass is situated low down in the pelvis, and there are definite symptoms of obstraction, it may be necessary to perform a colostomy at first, followed at a later period by excision of the mass and lateral anastomosis. ACTINOMYCOSIS OF TFIE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. Something like 20 per cent, of all the cases of actinomycosis affect the abdomen. The infection of the intestinal tract seems to occur generally as the result of swallowing infected meat or grain, or the discharges from an actinomycotic ulcer in the mouth and throat. The disease very rarely affects the stoma oh, and though it may occur anywhere in the course of the intestinal tract its most common seat is the caecum and appendix. We shall refer briefly to the latter condition. Although a superficial actinomycotic infection of the mucous membrane has been noted in one or two cases, the disease usually begins as small nodules in the submucous tissue and these contain the fungus. These nodules soften, destroy the mucous membrane, and form ulcers which run togetlier and increase in size. This ulceration spreads deeply, the peritoneum becomes thickened and adherent to other parts, and especially to the abdominal wall; it is seldom that the ulcer perforates into the abdominal cavity. In some cases a tumour of considerable size forms in the caecum or appendix and this has usually been removed under the impression that it was a malignant growth. More commonly, however, the disease spreads to the abdominal wall and forms abscesses and