404 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES much irritated with strong cathartics, such an accident may happen. Most frequently it opens either into the intestine or the bladder. When the suppuration occurs in Douglas's pouch, it is not at all uncommon for the pus to escape through the rectum ; in other cases it escapes through the caecum or the small intestine. In the latter case fcecal matter also passes into the abscess and thus keeps up the inflamma- tion ; ultimately the suppuration may spread to the skin and a sinus will form giving exit to gas and fsecal matter—a typical faecal fistula. A faecal fistula does not form so readily when the suppuration is in Douglas's pouch. Much more rarely the appendix becomes adherent to the base of the bladder, into which the pus may find its way. An abscess on the inner side of the caecum may gradually extend to the abdominal wall and the pus makes its way out through the umbilicus. When the pus is well to the outer side of the iliac fossa, it may find its way outwards among the muscles above or below Poupart's ligament. Chronic appendicitis.—Pathologically, there is only one form of simple appendicitis which may be called chronic—namely, obliierative appen- dicitis. Here there is a progressive destruction of the mucous membrane and ultimately complete obliteration of the lumen. This usually begins about the tip and gradually extends along the tube, but it may spread irregularly, forming strictures in the canal and shutting off spaces still lined with epithelium. Obliterative appendicitis is not a dangerous condition if it goes on regularly from the tip upwards and does not suppurate, but infection and the various troubles already mentioned may occur when strictures foi-m or cavities are left. It must be remembered that appendicitis is very prone to relapse, and previous attacks are apt to render the organ more susceptible. Relapses are especially probable when there is a kink or stricture of the canal or when a concretion is present. Tuberculous appendicitis, which is also a chronic form, is discussed in connection with tuberculous peritonitis (see Chap. XXVIII.). SYMPTOMS.—There are few diseases that present such a variety of symptoms as appendicitis, owing in the first place, to the fact that there are enormous variations in the virulence of the infective organisms which may only lead to a trivial catarrh or may set up the most intense sep- ticaemia and gangrene, and in the second place to the varying position and direction in which the appendix lies and its relation to different organs, which become involved secondarily in the inflammation. For example, the appendix may become adherent to the bladder producing irritability of this organ, as evidenced by frequency of micturition and dysuria ; in other cases the inflammation may occur in the neighbour- hood of the kidney, and perinephric suppuration may be suspected. Lastly, there is a large train of symptoms, usually described as reflex, such as dyspepsia and malaise, the connection of which with appendicitis is not easily explained, but from the constancy with which these