ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 345 material manner from that appropriate to intestinal injuries (see p. 328). As a rule, even greater attention has to be paid to the question of stimu- lating the patient freely, on account of the severe auto-intoxication that occurs as the result of the long-continued absorption of putrefying in- testinal contents, and another point of the greatest importance is to avoid the use of opium or mor- phine as much as possible. It is more important in intestinal obstruction than in any other case to avoid anything leading to paresis of the in- testine which would inevitably promote the auto- intoxication from which the patient has already suffered so much. In all cases, therefore, whether the intestine be retiumed unopened, whether it be merely evacuated and returned, or whetlaer a resection has been performed, tlie administration of opium should be restricted entirely to the relief of severe pain. The patient should be kept in the semi-recumbent or upright position. Saline solution should be administered continu- ously per rectum or subcutaneously, and pituitary extract may be given hypodermically. After twenty-four hours, the action of the bowels should be promoted, enemata being given daily, whilst a saline aperient may be given by the mouth at the end of the fourth or fifth day. From the time that the bowels become well opened, the patient's condition generally improves with great rapidity. The principles guiding the question of feeding will be the same as those laid down for the treatment of intestinal injuries (see p. 328). When an artificial anus has been made and the patient recovers, the case becomes one of artificial anus which must be treated on the lines suitable for that condition (see Chap. XXXI.). VOLVULUS. Volvulus may occur in the small intestine or in the cjecum, but it is rare in those situations. In the case of the small intestine it may occur in infants, owing, apparently, to congenital narrowing of the mesentery, and then generally involves the jejunum and ileum and also the ascending colon. In later life it is generally situated at the lower end of the ileum, not infrequently after the coils have been present in a hernial sac for some time and the mesentery has undergone alterations, especially narrowing. Volvulus may also occur in connection with mesenteric cysts or tumours. Fig. 128. — Paul's Tube as used to establish an Artificial Anus. The bowel has been cut across and a tube tied into eacli end. The gut is prevented from shifting its position by tlie safety-pins thrust through its sero-mus- cular coats. Two stitches bring the skin together be- tween the tubes and thus shut, olf all communication between the two ends of the bowel.