INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 19 ulcerated gums in connection with the administration of drugs or some dyspeptic condition. The vilceration, liowe\'er, is at first limited to the gum in immediate contact with the teeth ; by making pressure on the gum, pus may be pressed up from between it and a tooth. The disease is usually due to septic infection in cases in which there is an accumulation of tartar between the gums and the teeth. TREATMENT.—All tartar should be removed as a preliminary measure, and every effort made to prevent the pus collecting l^etvveen the teeth and the gums. Much difference of opinion exists as to the further treatment of this disease. On the one hand, some authorities assert that the use of astringents and antiseptics locall)^ (such as hydrogen peroxide solution [10 vols.] and sulphurous acid, apphed carefully so as to clean out the pockets between the gums and the teeth) suffice for a cure, especially if combined with vaccine treatment directed against the organisms present in the pus. On the other hand, it is affirmed that there is little hope of curing a well-establislied case unless the teeth are extracted. It is certain, however, tliat extraction does not always result in cure, and neither does the prolonged administi'ation of vaccines made from the organism or organisms present in the mouth to which the patient's opsonic index is found to be low. The treatment should, in any case, be undertaken by a dentist. It is very important that the affection should be taken in hand early ; if neglected, it may lead to general infection, various forms of arthritis, and digestive troubles. PERIOSTITIS. The limited thickenings of the jaw which are not clue to specific in- fections sucli as syphilis or actinomycosis, generally arise in connection with carious teeth, and the swellings to which they give rise are some- times diffixult to diagnose from tumours. There may be suppuration at the base of the tooth, but marked thickennig of the jaw may occur without any pus being present. TREATMENT.—The thickening rapidly disappears on removal of the carious tooth. If neuralgic pain persists, the gum may be painted freely with tincture of iodine. ALVEOLAR ABSCESS. The most common inflammatory affection of the jaws is a limited suppurative osteitis, commonly spoken of as alveolar abscess. Alveolar abscess is a suppuration occurring around the fangs of a tooth which is usually carious ; the pus may escape between the neck of the tooth and the jaw, but more often leads to the formation of an abscess cavity in the bone which gradually enlarges as the pus approaches tlie surface. In the majority of cases it reaches the surface beneath the gum and