86 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE to the incision may be steadied by grasping it with catch- forceps while the central portion is being cut out. After the bleeding has been arrested, the sides of the V are brought together with catgut sutures inserted deeply into the substance of the tongue so as to bring the raw surfaces into apposition everywhere. No dressing is required ; the patient should use an antiseptic mouth-wash frequently. He can usuaUy be allowed to get up in two or three days and is well in about a week. The diet should be fluid or semi-fluid, and the food should be introduced into the mouth far back and to one side by means of a rubber tube attached to the spout of a feeder. {b) When the disease is super- ficial and situated at the side of the tongue.—Here a partial operation may often be done. The tongue is pulled forwards by the sutures inserted as described above (see p. 85), the frenum and the anterior pillars of the fauces divided, and the tip seized in tongue forceps and pulled well to the opposite side ; a portion of the organ in the neighbourhood of the tumour is then excised, the tip of the tongue being left intact. The portion removed may be either quadrilateral, extending well up to the raphe, or wedge-shaped, according to the extent of the disease. In all cases the line of section should be at least an inch wide of the growth in all directions. When a quadrilateral portion is removed, it is well to save as much of the mucous membrane as pos- sible and loosen it in the floor of the mouth, so that it may be stitched to the mucous membrane on the dorsum after the operation is completed. When a wedge-shaped portion has been removed, stitches are inserted so as to approximate the sides of the wedge ; although this deflects the tip of the tongue to one side, it has the advantage of rapid closure of the wound ; deflection of the tip of the tongue is inevitable under any circumstances, but in spite of this, the functional result is excellent. In many cases it is well to effect the division of the iotigue with the thermo-cautery, and this has two considerable advantages. In the first place the coagulation caused by the heat fixes the muscles, and so it is Fig. 28,—V-SHAPED Excision of the TIP OF THE Tongue. The chief object of the sketch is to show how the sutures intro- duced through the base of the organ hold the tongue firmly forwards. As the V- shaped incision is made, the tip of the portion remaining on each side is steadied with catch-forceps. The incision should go at least an inch wide of the growth in all directions.