AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 546 excessively infective, and it is most important therefore that a clear diagnosis should be made. The large condylomatous masses are usually situated near the anal -orifice, but there is often an interval of healthy skin around the anal margin which at once distinguishes the condition from haemorrhoids. The condyloma is a sessile, ovoid swelling, with its long axis generally radiating from the anal orifice, presenting a characteristic greyish-white surface and discharging a thin, watery fluid. Treatment.—The ordinary treatment for syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.) must be employed, while the best local treatment is to keep the parts dry and clean, and dust them with calomel and starch (calomel one part, starch three). It is also advisable to introduce a pad of boric lint between the buttocks so as to prevent the two sides touching, because the discharges are very irritating, and fresh condylomata may appear at any point of contact. Under this treatment the condylomata may dis- appear in a few days. Similar treatment should be used for large mucous patches accom- panied by ulceration about the anus, but there success may not be attained so readily, and it may be necessary to stretch the anus and cauterise the ulcer with pure carbolic acid or solid nitrate of silver, because, when ulceration has occurred, a fissure of the anus is apt to persist in spite of the improvement in the syphilis. The most important syphilitic affections are the tertiary lesions, which usually lead to extensive ulceration. The condition is com- paratively uncommon about the anus ; when it occurs it takes the form of an ulceration, spreading somewhat deeply and irregularly, and leading to serious contraction. A more usual condition is a deep tertiary ulcera- tion of the surface of the rectal mucous membrane, and it is more commonly met with in women than in men. Ulceration may appear at any time between the late secondary and the early tertiary periods, and usually occupies the lower part of the bowel; in the great majority of cases, it spreads from below upwards, and sometimes extends as high as the sigmoid flexure and causes serious obstruction. The fact that the mucous membrane is usually involved right down to the anal orifice is a very important point in diagnosing this condition from malignant disease of the rectum, in which the mucous membrane about the anus is usually unaffected. The ulceration occurs primarily in the mucous membrane and submucous tissues, but is soon accompanied by marked induration of the walls of the bowel. This condition is one of the chief causes of the extensive ulcerations and stenoses of the lower bowel, to which reference has been made under the head of chronic proctitis (see p. 537). The ulcers usually present clean-cut edges and are very irregular in outhne ; they bleed and suppurate freely. Treatment.—In syphilitic ulceration about the anus the treatment must be that suitable for tertiary lesions elsewhere (see Vol. I. Chap. XL),