i84 AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS contents, with its accompanying excoriation of the abdominal wall and suffering to the patient. Gastrostomy properly performed is, however, an excellent operation, relieving the patient's suffering and pro- longing his life, always provided that it is performed sufficiently early in the case. Undoubtedly some of the prejudice against gastrostomy, which still exists, may be ascribed to the fact that it is so often left to the very last, when the patient is really not in a fit state to bear the operation. The following are the main pomts to be borne in mind in performing gastrostomy. The operation chosen should be one that can be done quickly, as the patients are usually feeble. No operation should be considered satisfactory unless it is planned so as to prevent leakage of the gastric contents through the artificial opening—an event accompanied by intense irritation of the skin around. There are three operations of high excellence, which we shall describe here : they are those known by the names of Witzel, Kader, and Franck. In Witzel's method an opening is made into the stomach at the time of operation, and a tubular track is constructed extending from this to the skin incision ; this serves for the introduction of a tube through which food is poured into the stomach, and it also acts as a valve to prevent regurgitation. In Kader's operation a portion of the stomach wall, with the opening at its apex, is inverted, so as to form a nipple-shaped projection inside the organ, and this acts as a valve to prevent leakage. In Franck's operation the barrier against regurgitation is provided by puUing a portion of the stomach through the abdominal wall and altering its direction so as to make an S-shaped kink. Each operation has its own special indications, but on the whole Witzel's and Kader's operations are applicable to the larger number of cases, as they can be done in a contracted stomach, whereas Franck's cannot. In aU cases of gastrostomy the anaesthetic is a matter of importance. A frequent cause of death after the operation is septic pneumonia due to saliva, mucus, and debris of the oesophageal growth finding their way into the trachea during or after the anesthesia. Hence it is a good plan to use stovaine spinal anaesthesia in all cases in which the patient's trouble has reached an advanced stage, as the pharyngeal reflex is unaltered and all mucus and the hke can be coughed up. The hmit of the skin anaesthesia may if necessary be extended by the use of local infiltration (see Vol. I. p. 484). Witzel's operation.—A vertical incision is made about an inch to the left of the middle fine, running about four inches downward from the xiphoid cartilage. The stomach is exposed and pulled up into the wound or, if its size allows, outside it altogether. The rest of the abdominal cavity is carefully packed ofi' with abdominal cloths, and a small opening is made through all the coats of the viscus on its anterior surface about midway between the two curvatures and rather towards the