TUMOURS 35 in (see Fig. ii). The tube is tied in, the pharynx plugged with sponges fastened to tapes, the ends of which are left hanging out of the mouth, and the anaesthetic con- tinued by way of the tube if inhalation anaes- thesia is being used. Excision of the Upper Jaw.—The facial artery is compressed against the jaw, and the sur- geon grasps one side of Fig. h.—Butlin's Larvngotomy Cann'ula and Introducer. the upper lip between his thumb and forefinger, while the assistant grasps the other, so as to control the coronary arteries. The upper lip is divided in the middle line right up to the columella, and the incision is carried along the margin of the nostril curving around the ala of the nose up to the inner angle of the orbit, just below the lachrymal sac. From this point, it runs out- wards along tlie lower margin of the orbit to within about half an inch of its outer end (see Fig. 12). When the malar bone is involved and a very extensive operation is necessary, it may be advisable to carry the incision out as far as the latter bone. When, on the other hand, the opera- tion deals chiefly with the lower part of the maxilla, this part of the incision can be made shorter, or dispensed with altogether ; the shorter it is, the less is the orbicularis damaged, and when it does not extend as far out as the malar bone, the nerve supply of the muscle remains intact. The flap thus marked out is rapidly raised, care being taken to avoid going too near to the tumour ; any portion of the skin that may appear to be involved must be excised. The flap should be cleared right back to the tubercle on the under edge of the malar bone. When this has been done, sponges are applied firmly over the surface, and the chief bleeding points are seized and twisted. If the oozing from the small arteries is obstinate, the application of adrenalin chloride (i in 1000) is very efficacious. The most troublesome bleeding occurs about the inner angle of the orbit ; it is chiefly venous and usually stops after a time if the bleeding points Fig. 12.—Incision for Removal of the Upper Jaw. The incision, be, is used for partial operations; the limb, ab, along the lower margin of the orbit being used if necessary or if the entire bone has to be removed. The lower incision, de, is for excision of the lower jaw.