AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 2 When the fracture is compound and opens either into the mouth or upon the cheek, there may be free haemorrhage from rupture of the infra-orbital artery; associated with this there is often anaesthesia of the hp and the adjacent side of the nose due to injury to the infra- orbital nerve. COMPLICATIONS.—The complications of this fracture are : epiphora and emphysema from damage to the lachrymal sac and nasal duct ; anaesthesia of the soft parts from injury to the infra-orbital nerve ; and haemorrhage from the infra-orbital or some other artery. The case may also be complicated by fracture of the base of the skull and injury to the brain, while in gunshot wounds there may be a foreign body lodged in the bone or lying loose in the antrum, and this will require removal. TREATMENT.—It is most important to reduce any deformity present, both from the point of view of the patient's appearance and also because mastication may be seriously interfered with unless the fragments are accurately replaced. Reduction of the deformity may be effected by manipulation under a general anaesthetic. The most important deformity requiring remedy is displacement of the alveolar border, particularly when the whole of the latter is detached and its position relative to the teeth in the lower jaw is altered. After the alveolar border has been brought into position, it must be kept in place either by binding the two jaws together by bandages passing under the chin and over the top of the head, or by intro- ducing a moulded splint between the teeth of the upper and lower jaws on both sides. When the fracture of the alveolus is only partial, the replaced portion of bone may be held in position by securing the teeth in the fractured portion to the adjacent sound ones by means of a wire splint, such as Hammond's (see p. 5). Union takes place rapidly in these cases, and the apparatus may be discarded in about three weeks. When the fracture traverses other portions of the bone, it is unnecessary to apply any splint after reduction. When the nasal process has been fractured, reduction must be effected by instruments introduced into the nose, and as this fracture is usually complicated by fracture of the nasal bones, the after-treatment is similar to that described in Vol. III. p. 456. When the anterior surface of the bone has been crushed or the orbital margin has been displaced, it may be necessary to make a small incision, introduce a raspatory beneath the fragments, and lever them into position. When this has been done, the bones usually retain their place ; if not, they may be fixed by one of the fixation methods suitable for fractures (see Vol. II. p. 305). It must be remembered, however, that the fragments are usually so extensively comminuted that the chance of replacing them accurately is comparatively small, and that necrosis may occur if they are much comminuted. Any operation undertaken with