474 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES near the neck of the sac as possible—and usually if the \vhole sac is exposed before an attempt is made to open it some point can be made out where fluid is present and where therefore it will be safe to incise ; the rest of the sac may then be freed before any attempt is made to reduce the hernia. The intestine is only adherent to the sac when there have been recurrent attacks of inflammation, or when the large intestine is present —e.g. a caecum without a proper meso-caecum. The connection between the bowel and the sac wall may be so intimate that it is impossible to free them, and it may be necessary to return the bowel into the abdomen with a portion of the sac waU attached to it. Unusual contents of the sac.—The bladder is not uncommonly found in connection with the sac in both inguinal and femoral hernis, and may either bulge into it and form part of its contents or, more commonly, may be applied to the inner side of its neck, being pulled down along with the peritoneum ; it has happened that the fleshy mass in this situation has not been recognised as the bladder, and has been torn when separating the neck of the sac; or, what is apparently still more common, a portion has been included in the ligature applied to the neck of the sac. Should the bladder be injured, the muscular coat should be stitched up and a tube left in the wound. If the bladder has been included in the ligature, there will be haematuria, pain on micturition, and irritabihty of the bladder, and should these sjinptoms arise, it would be wise to open up the wound, remove the gangrenous portion of the bladder and stitch up the opening. Among other unusual structures found in a hernial sac are the ovary and Fallopian tube or the appendix. An appendix in a hernial sac, whether strangulated or not, is usually elongated and thickened, and may become the seat of acute appendicitis. Hence, it is always well to remove the process during the operation (see p. 417), unless the patient is so feeble that he cannot stand any prolongation of the operation. The ovary or Fallopian tubes should be returned unless the}' are considerably damaged, in which case the comfort of the patient will be best secured by remo\ing the affected parts. Treatment when the vitality of the contents is defective.— If the surgeon finds that the sac contains blood-stained fluid, that the bowel is of a deep purplish brown colour, and that the peritoneal coat has lost its shining appearance in places and shows greyish or greenish-brown patches, the condition is one of commencing gangrene of the intestine. Even when the strangulated loop is still alive, gangrene may be occurring at the seat of constriction, or the vessels in its mesentery may be thrombosed, and gangrene must therefore result. The prognosis in these cases is extremely grave. Intermediate between the cases in which the loop is evidently sound and those in which it is obviously gangrenous are quite a number in