AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES '316 rupture is a large one, there may be areas of dullness due to extravasated intestinal contents, but usually gas also escapes and gives rise to a tym- panitic note, and the liver dullness may be absent. If some time has elapsed since the injury, signs similar to those indicating free gas in the peritoneal cavity may be caused by the general intestinal distension due to peritonitis. TREATMENT.—When a person has received an abdominal injury, the first point to decide is whether there is an intra-abdominal lesion or not; given a patient with the symptoms of such a lesion, laparotomy should be performed without delay, unless the patient is already moribund. It is better to open the abdomen and find no lesion than to wait in order to make the diagnosis certain, for in the great majority of cases in which a lesion is present, delay would mean an almost certain fatal result from haemorrhage or septic peritonitis. It must be borne in mind, however, that the patient is often in a condition of collapse immediately after a severe injury to the abdominal parietes even when there is no intra- abdominal lesion. If the surgeon decides to wait a little before opening the abdomen, absolute rest in the dorsal position should be maintained and the pulse-rate should be recorded every half-hour. A rising pulse-rate may be taken to indicate a lesion and calls for operation. On the other hand, a falling and improving pulse may be taken as a contra-indication to immediate operation; but even then, the patient should be carefully watched for days to see whether any complication arises. The operative treatment may be considered under three heads—■ namely, (i) treatment of internal hemorrhage; (2) treatment of a recent injury to the bowel; and (3) treatment of cases in which a considerable time has elapsed after the injury before the case comes under the notice of the surgeon. TREATMENT OF INTERNAL HEMORRHAGE. A vertical incision, at least six inches long and with its centre opposite the umbilicus, should be made through one or other rectus—according to any indications there may be as to the side upon which the injury is situated; this can be enlarged upwards or downwards if necessary- Attempts have been made to perform these operations under local infiltration anaesthesia; these, however, do not seem to be satisfactory. If, however, the shock is great, it is of advantage to employ spinal anesthesia or the intravenous administration of ether or hedonal (see p. 32). The chief objection to spinal auccsthesia is the necessity for moving the patient. The steps of the procedure to be followed immediately after opening the abdominal cavity for any serious injury to its contents are described on p. 199. The object is to ascertain with the minimum amount of disturbance to the parts whether there is a perforation of the bowel or