POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS 137 mental exertion. The obstruction to respiration is more marked during sleep, when the mouth is closed by the approximation of the tongue to the palate. Consequently the child's sleep is broken, he suffers from ' night- terrors,' and on waking he is not refreshed, but complains of headache and giddiness. As a result of broken sleep and deficient oxygenation of the blood, the general health suffers, the child becomes anaemic, wasted and stunted in growth. In infants or in growing children the difficulty of breathing may also give rise to ' pigeon-breast ' or to well-marked depressions in the epigastric or the lower sternal regions. The open mouth necessitated by nasal obstruction produces marked deformity of the jaws. The upper jaw is ill-developed, the palate is high and narrow, the alveolar arch V-shaped, the teeth crowded and irregular. There may be protrusion of the upper incisors producing an overhung or open bite. Similar but less marked changes occur in the lower jaw. Among the more remote consequences may be i:nentioned a short barking cough and a tendency to laryngitis, bronchitis, and probably to other pulmonary complications. Attacks of croup, asthma, hay fever, incon- tinence of urine, epilepsy, etc., have all been ascribed to adenoids. Although they depend primarily upon other causes, improvement may sometimes follow removal of the adenoids. TREATMENT.—The first point to decide is the question of opera- tion—whether the case may be treated for a time with palliative remedies or whether it is better to remove the growths at once. This question must be decided by the severity of the symptoms which can be fairly ascribed to the presence of the growths, and not by the amount of growth present. Marked improvement may follow the removal of a very small growth ; on the other hand a large growth sometimes produces no symptoms of importance. The operation is by no means severe, and if any of the symptoms above enumerated be present, it is better to remove the growths. In other cases expectant treatment may be advised, and if the patient is able to take precautions, in many cases the necessity for opera- tion will not arise and tlie growths will atrophy as the child grows older. Palliative.—The object is to place the child under the best hygienic conditions and to keep him free from catarrh. Under such circumstances adenoids may give rise to no symptoms. The best plan is to send the patient to the seaside, to keep him as much as possible in the open air and to attend carefully to his diet. A warm, bright, dry place should be chosen, and cold and damp avoided. Suitable tonics such as cod-liver oil and the syrups of the phosphate or iodide of iron should be prescribed. Operative.—The risk of operation is probably very slight. The dangers to be guarded against are those arising from the anaesthesia, haemorrhage, asphyxia from blood entering the air-passages, septic pneumonia from the same cause, sepsis and especially acute suppurative otitis with its complications.