APPENDICITIS 409 always indicates suppuration either inside or outside tlie appendix; and this is still more certain if the swelling in the iliac fossa persists or increases in size. In several cases we have found pus around an appendix when, with the exception of the swelling, the symptoms had completely subsided. We have already described the situations of these abscesses and the course they may take (see p. 403), and it will be evident from what has been said that early operation is desirable. Unless these abscesses be opened early, the patient gradually wastes and goes downhill, even when no general peritonitis occurs, and may die of exhaustion before the pus has made its way to the surface ; even when a neglected abscess of this kind is opened, the patient may be in such an exhausted condition that he is unable to recover. Again, when an abscess has been allowed to last for a long time, the cavity may become irregular and one opening may not suffice for drainage ; if the drainage is insufficient, the pus extends along narrow channels in various directions amongst the intestines, and thus the suppuration may persist and fresh abscesses may form. DIAGNOSIS.—The diagnosis of appendicitis may be very easy in some cases, while in others it is very difficult ; the diagnosis of acute and chronic appendicitis must be considered separately. (a) Of acute appendicitis.—Acute appendicitis must be diagnosed from a variety of other conditions, some of which are local abdominal conditions, while others ai'e not. Of the local abdominal conditions the following may be mentioned. SalpiiigiHs.—This condition often resembles appendicitis very closely, but the symptoms are usually less severe, and in the majority of cases there will be a history of vaginal discharge, and a vaginal examination may reveal fixation of the uterus and the presence of a swelling in one or both of the lateral fornices. Riiptuyed ectopic gestation has a sudden onset combined with signs of internal haemorrhage, which are usually sufficiently well developed to prevent an error in diagnosis, but it occasionally happens that the haemorrhage ceases or only occurs very slowly, and the patient quickly regains her colour and the pulse its strength, although it is usually quickened ; the temperature is raised, but usually less so than in appendicitis. On examining the abdomen the tenderness is usually lower down and the rigidity is less than would be expected in a case of appendicitis of the same severity ; on vaginal examination a fullness can often be felt in one broad ligament, there is bleeding from the uterus, and a history of one or more periods having been missed. Acute cholecystitis sometimes has an acute onset with all the constitutional symptoms found in appendicitis. The maximum intensity of the pain and tenderness is, however, situated in the right hypochon- drium. In some cases the diagnosis will be facilitated by a history of previous attacks of biliary colic or jaundice. Perforated gastric or duodenal ulcer : It sometimes happens that the (inset of appendicitis