455 CYSTS OF THE PERITONEUM stomach and the intestines, or they may bridge over spaces between coils of intestine, and may thus lead to strangulation of the bowel beneath them, or they may cause intestinal obstruction by kinking. Apart from this, the adhesions may interfere with the proper performance of the functions of the organs and many cases of abdominal discomfort and obstinate dyspepsia are due to this cause. It is not always possible to diagnose the presence of adhesions before- hand, except by a process of exclusion. In a good many cases the exact state of affairs is only discovered after an exploratory laparotomy, when division and removal of limited adhesions may cure the patient. A non-suppurative peritonitis may result from liccmon-hage into the peritoneal cavity. After a blow on the abdomen it is not uncommon for a collection of blood to form, which, instead of becoming absorbed, remains and in its interior a cyst containing blood-stained serum is formed. These patients may be ill, and suffer from fever and pain. The evacuation and drainage of the cyst at once leads to improvement. In these cases a staphylococcus has been found which probably explains the symptoms. CYSTS OF THE PERITONEUM. Cysts occurring in the omentum and the mesentery are sometimes secondary to ovarian cysts—probably following an infection from a ruptured ovarian cyst—while sometimes they apparently originate in connection with lymphatic vessels and may even contain chyle. In other cases their origin is unknown. Hydatid cysts are not very uncommon in the omentum or mesentery^ and extra-peritoneal cysts have also been found in connection with the urachus. Blood cysts in the abdominal cavity have been referred to. TREATMENT.—The true nature of these cysts is generally diag- nosed only after the abdomen has been opened ; they may be mistaken for ovarian or renal tumours. The cysts must either be excised or drained ; in omental cysts excision can be carried out, but it is much less easy in mesenteric cvsts on account of the risk of injury to the mesenteric vessels. In many simple cysts a good result is obtained by stitching the cyst wall to the parietal peritoneum, and then opening and draining it. The best plan is to unite the cyst wall to the edges of the parietal peritoneum by a continuous suture, leaving a surface exposed sufficient for the insertion of a drainage tube. An aspirating needle is first intro- duced into the cyst, and the greater part of its contents drawn off. This is done to avoid the possibility of the contents escaping into the peritoneal cavity. An incision is next made into the cyst and a large-sized drainage tube introduced. Should it be an hydatid cyst, the daughter-cysts should be evacuated before the drainage tube is put in, and a large opening will be necessar3^