AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 4 FRACTURE OF THE ZYGOMATIC ARCH. This rare injury is usually the result of direct violence, and is often associated with fracture of the malar bone. When the fracture is due to direct violence, the fragments are generally depressed ; when it occurs in connection with fracture of the malar bone, the fractured ends are displaced somewhat outwards. TREATMEISTT.—The fragments should be brought into position, otherwise the movements of the lower jaw may be interfered with. Reposition may be attempted first by manipulation from the outside or with the finger in the mouth, but if it cannot be effected satisfactorily, a horizontal incision should be made over the zygoma, the fracture exposed, and the bones drilled and secured by plates or silver wire. FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. Fracture of the lower jaw is generally due to direct violence, the bone being fractured opposite the point struck, but not uncommonly the violence is indirect, the bone breaking on the other side. When the angles of the jaw are pressed together forcibly, the fracture often occurs in the vicinity of the symphysis. VARIETIES.—The most common seat of fracture of the ramus is in the neighbourhood of the canine teeth, and the fracture may be unilateral or bilateral; when it is bilateral, the fracture on one side may occur opposite the canine tooth, and on the other just in front of the masseter ; in some cases the fracture occurs opposite the canine tooth on both sides, and the central portion of the jaw is separated. Fracture through the symphysis itself is of great rarity. Fracture about the angle of the jaw is fairly common and is generally due to direct violence ; here the fracture is generally behind the last molar tooth. Fracture of the condyle is very rare and is only produced either by direct violence, such as gunshot wounds, or by severe blows upon the chin driving it upwards and backwards, so that the condyle is driven against the base of the skull and fracture occurs through its neck; the condyle may even be driven through the base of the skull. Fracture of the coronoid process is still more rare owing to the protected position of this part of the bone; it is usually only met with in military surgery. As a rule fractures of the lower jaw are compound, as there is nearly always laceration of the mucous membrane over the bone; this is practically invariably the case when the bone is broken in its anterior half. When fracture occurs behind the last molar tooth, however, it is not necessarily compound. The displacement of the fragments varies according to the situation of the fracture. When the fracture is through the body of the bone on one