AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 38 especially in the later stages. Sponge pressure nearly always suffices to check the oozing after the jaw has been removed, if it is associated with douching the face with ice-cold water. There is remarkably little shock accompanying the operation, and in the majority of cases the wound heals without any complications. Patients who are very feeble or advanced in age may succumb, however, especially when septic cellulitis or erysipelas attacks the wound or putrid material passes down the air passages and gives rise to septic pneumonia. As a rule, however, the cavity left is so widely open that the discharges escape freely, while the application of the chloride of zinc solution after the operation apparently protects the tissues from sepsis for two or three days. The perform- ance of a preliminary laryngotomy as a routine measure is the best safeguard against infection of the air passages during the operation. After-treatment.—The packing introduced at the time of the operation should be removed within twenty-four hours at the latest, and should not be reinserted unless there is still serious oozing. The cavity should be cleansed frequently by spraying it from the mouth with a solution of peroxide of hydrogen (lo vols.), boro-glyceride or sanitas, and the patient should wash out the mouth repeatedly with these antiseptic solutions. When the wound is granulating freely, it is a good plan to pack the cavity lightly with gauze before a meal; this forms a roof to the cavity of the mouth, and thus enables the patient to swallow without any food pass- ing up into the large cavity above. For the first two or three days it is well to rely on nutrient enemata and rectal injections of saline solution, so as to avoid accumulation of decomposible food in the mouth ; the patient may, however, have plenty of water to drink. If he is feeble, he may be fed from the first by a nasal tube passed through the sound nostril. As soon as the wound begins to granulate, liquid food may be given by the mouth by means of a feeder passed well into the pharynx along the sound side. The mouth must always be well washed out after every feed. After about three weeks, solid or semi-solid food can be taken if the cavity is temporarily plugged with gauze. The patient may generally be allowed to get out of bed after three or foirr days. In two or three months the contraction of the cavity will be nearly complete, and the patient should then be sent to a dentist to have some apparatus made to fill the cavity and to carry the teeth ; the ultimate result is often remarkably good and the deformity slight. 2. Of cases in which the disease is primarily Nasal.—When the growth originates in the nose or intheethmoidalareaof the jaw, and when surgical treatment seems justifiable, the operation described above can be modified—greatly to the patient's comfort—by retaining the palate and part at least of the orbital plate. The operation is often called by the name of Moure, who described it in 1902. It may be conveniently termed Lateral Rhinotomy, and is done as follows:— Lateral Rhinotomy.—The posterior nares must be plugged, so as to