353 ACUTE INTUSSUSCEPTION because a tumour is not detected. This especially applies to infants in whom intussusception is the only common cause of intestinal obstruction in the absence of an external hernia. In young children, a swelling of the intestine may be felt in cases of Henoch's purpura as the result of haemorrhage into its wall, and it may be very difficult to diagnose between the two conditions ; the possible presence of this disease should therefore be borne in mind, and it should not be forgotten that an intussusception may follow a haemorrhage of this kind. Resitlis.—Acute intussusception, when not operated on, is very fatal in young children and usually causes death in three or four days. Occasionally, especially in older subjects, it may be followed by recovery which ensues as a result of gangrene of the intussus- ceptum accompanied by adhesion of the neck of the intussuscipiens to the intestine above ; such cases are usually followed at a later date by annular constriction of the bowel and symptoms of chronic intestinal obstruction. Spontaneous reduction of the intussusception is very rare, although it does occasionally occur. The period during which the intussus- ception can be easily reduced is usually very short, as a constriction of the mesenteric vessels of comparatively slight duration rapidly leads to so much oedematous swelling as to make reduction difficult. This to some extent depends upon the anatomical form present, and is most rapid in the ileo-colic form, in which the ileo-caecal valve grips the small intestine extremely tightly and leads to rapid and complete strangulation. TREATMENT.—The only form of treatment admissible is reduction of the intussusception immediately the diagnosis is made. The patient cannot be watched, because tiie surgeon is not justified in hoping for spontaneous recovery, and the sooner active steps are taken the better. In the non-operative treatment—which, however, we do not recommend —an attempt is made to force back the intussusceptum from below by injecting air or fluids of various kinds into the bowel so as to distend it and exert pressure on the apex of the intussusceptum and so force it out of the intussuscipiens. This is occasionally successful, but most often it does not lead to complete reduction and the apex of the intussusceptum still remains unreduced and the trouble soon returns. Not only may precious time be lost in this way, but injury may be done to the bowel wall by over-distension. Although this plan may be of use in some cases as an aid to operation, it should not be employed alone if by any possibility operation can be performed. The operative measures consist in opening the abdomen, exposing the tumour and squeezing the intussusceptum out of its sheath. To diminish tlie shock, rapidity of operating is essential, especially in young children, IV, A A