AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 462 Another name sometimes given to these herniae is incarcerated hernia ; the term is a bad one and there is no practical advantage in its use. (i) Strangulated hernia.—Here not only is the passage of the contents of the bowel interfered with, but the circulation of the blood in the mesentery and bowel is also affected, and the condition becomes very grave. The mechanism is practically identical with that of acute intesti- nal obstruction from internal strangulation (see p. 332). The constriction is usually at the neck of the sac, and is often caused by that structure itself if it has become thickened—e.g. after the prolonged use of a truss ; in that case it forms an unyielding ring which prevents the return of the bowel and impedes the circulation of the blood. In other cases the constriction may occur at the opening in the abdominal wall through which the hernia passes—e.g. in femoral hernia, where Gimbernat's ligament plays an important part. More rarely still, the constriction is within the sac itself : for example, the bowel becomes strangulated either through a hole in the omentum or under adhesions between the latter and the sac wall; this is not uncommon in umbilical hernia, and it is most important to bear it in mind in those cases. In operating on large strangulated omental hernise the contents of the sac must not be put back en masse, but the omentum should be opened out first so as to make sure that no knuckle of bowel is caught in it. The changes in the bowel in strangulation.—Congestion rapidly occurs in the strangulated loop and it soon becomes purple in colour or even black ; the lumen is distended and the walls become swollen and less supple. The peritoneal coat, which at first retains its polish, loses it, later on sub-serous haemorrhages occur, and in the later stages it becomes grey and gangrenous—at first in spots and finally all over. All strangu- lated herniae after a time become gangrenous, and it is most important to recognise impending gangrene. A mere dark colour does not imply gangrene so long as the bowel is firm and elastic and the peritoneal coat is glistening; but directly the latter loses its polish and the bowel becomes soft, the condition is very grave. When gangrene is present, the gut becomes greyish, flabby, and collapsed and there are often soft greyish spots on the convexity of the loop where the peritoneum has lost its lustre. There is a definite sulcus at the seat of constriction and here the lesions are most profound, and gangrene usually occurs first. This part must therefore always be examined before the intestine is returned into the abdomen. The changes are most marked in the proximal portion of the constricted loop, and are generally more intense along the convex than along the mesenteric border. In the former situation the bowel wall is thinned instead of being thickened, as is the rest of the loop, and it may be gangrenous. The mucous membrane is generally affected first, and most severely. Stricture of the bowel occasionally follows after an operation for strangulated hernia in which doubtful bowel has been