507 ARTIFICIAL ANUS fistula following an abscess there need be no hurry to perform a plastic operation ; the fistula will generally close spontaneously, provided that there is no obstacle to the escape of discharges from the sinus. It is of the highest importance to provide free drainage from the sinus, and if necessary the skin wound must be opened up and the cavity packed or drained so as to make it granulate from the bottom. The bowels should be kept well open and a non-irritating and digestible diet, such as one consisting of milk and farinaceous food, fish and pounded meat, should be ordered. The patient should be kept in bed for a time, but if the discharge is slight he may be allowed to walk about. Under this treatment closure often takes place either by cicatrisation of the opening or perhaps more commonly by its adhesion to a neighbouring coil of the intestine, the omentum, or the abdominal wall. The same course of events may occur in faecal fistuke following operations. When these fistute do not heal, the treatment is very difficult. No plastic operation upon the external orifice will do any good, because it only dams up the f;ecal material in the abscess cavity ; the best pro- cedure is to open the abdomen in the neighbourhood of the fistula after temporarily closing the latter by stitches, pack off the peritoneal cavity, and explore the condition of the bowel. If the opening into it is small and situated in the large intestine, it may be possible to close it by a double row of sutures, return the bowel into the abdomen, and enlarge and drain the old sinus. If the opening is too large, or if it is situated in the small intestine, the piece of bowel should be excised and a lateral anastomosis made between the parts above and below. When the opening is immediately adherent to the skin, as is the case when a ffecal hstula has been artificially produced, the obstacle to closure in most cases is the spread of epitheliimi from the intestine to the skin, so that a mucous-lined tube is formed ; complete closure cannot occur under these circumstances, although considerable contraction of the orihce may take place as time goes on. Some kind of plastic operation must therefore be done when the contraction has reached its limit. In some cases paring of the edges, followed by suture, will suffice ; when the defect is larger, a true plastic operation may be done by turning a thick flap of skin and fascia over the opening after paring its edges. It may be necessary to repeat these plastic operations as small openings again form ; if these attempts fail, the affected portion of the bowel must be excised and a lateral anastomosis performed. ARTIFICIAL ANUS. Here there is an obstruction to the onward passage of the intestinal contents, and they are discharged through the opening. The condition is usually brought about intentionally by operation, a spur being formed by the projection forwards of the posterior wall of the intestine which acts as a valve and prevents the escape of faeces into the bowel below. This