489 INGUINAL HERNIA interfere with the muscles at alL In adults with small herniae and strong muscles we often leave the muscles alone ; in older people, or in those in whom the canal is dilated and the muscles feeble, we prefer the operation described below. Fairly thick catgut is a good material for ligaturing the neck of the sac, while silk or catgut may be used to bring the walls of the canal together, but we do not think that the material employed for the sutures is of great importance. The prol)ability is that the stitches in the canal soon cut through, but in the meantime adhesion occurs between the adjacent surfaces of the internal and external oblique muscles and this keeps the parts in position subsequently. Operation.—The following are the steps of the operation which we perform for radical cure of an oblique inguinal hernia in an adult. The thigh is flexed and abducted, and the parts shaved and disinfected in the usual manner ; the male genitals should be covered with sterilised towels and kept out of the way. A curved incision with its convexity upwards is made just over Poupart's ligament, the lower end being near the symphysis pubis and the upper above and outside the centre of the ligament ; in this way a flap is formed, and the line of incision in the skin does not correspond to the line of suture of the muscles ; the cur\'e should be a large one so as to expose the whole of the parts concerned well above and outside the internal ring (see Fig. 166). The incision is deepened until the external oblique is exposed, when the flap is peeled well down. The cord is hooked up by the finger so as to make the coverings tense, and the intercolumnar fascia is divided at its attachment to the margins of the external ring, and the external oblique separated from the cord and the internal oblique by sweeping first the handle of the knife and then the finger between the two structures. The external oblique aponeurosis is then split up be5fond the internal abdominal ring. A longitudinal incision is now made through the coverings of the cord, its constituents are spread out, and the sac (which forms a whitish band running down in front of the vas) is identified. The lower edge of the sac is most readily recognised, and, when this is found, the fascial structures are divided down to it, its margin is seized in a pair of Spencer Wells's forceps, and it is stripped up from the cord. The assistant takes charge of the vas and the other constituents of the cord. When the neck of the sac has been cleared, the finger is pushed up between the peritoneum and the abdominal muscles so as to form a bed into which the sac or its stump will be received. The sac is now transfixed, ligatured, and cut away below the ligature ; the ends of the ligature are then brought through the abdominal muscles in the manner described on p. 484 and tied so as to fasten the neck of the sac to the inner aspect of the parietes about an inch above and to the outer side of the internal ring. In other cases the sac is twisted in the manner described on p. 485. After the sac has been disposed of in one of these ways, the repair of