56o AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS generally be seen, and, by puUing aside the anal folds, the lower edge of the ulcer may come into view ; even without seeing this, however, the condition is so characteristic that no mistake should be made in the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—^The best plan is to administer a general anaes- thetic, dilate the anus thoroughly, and insert a large speculum, snip off the sentinel pile, and carry a knife through the base of the ulcer for about an eighth of an inch down to the external sphincter, but not through more than its most superficial fibres ; this should be done with the patient in the lithotomy position. A half-grain morphine suppository should be introduced into the rectum, a little iodoform dusted on the wound, and the bowels kept confined for a few days, after which they are opened daily by a laxative ; as a rule the cure is complete. Simple stretching of the anus may suffice for a cure, but is uncertain. In every case in which examination under an anaesthetic reveals the coexistence of haemorrhoids, they should be operated on (see Chap. XL.) otherwise the fissure is almost certain to recur. Occasionally the patient refuses operation, and palliative treatment must be tried. This is most likely to result in a cure when there is no sentinel pile at the lower end of the fissure and when the latter is only recent and has no indurated edges. The bowels should be kept open daily by the administration of confection of senna (3j) or equal parts of confec- tion of senna and sulphur (aa 3ss) every night, and the action of this may be reinforced by a purgative mineral water taken early in the morning. Immediately after the bowels have acted, the parts should be washed with warm water, soap, and a soft sponge ; and an ointment containing ten grains of cocaine, two drachms of carbonate of bismuth, and half a drachm of iodoform to the ounce of vaseline, should be injected within the sphincter by means of a special rectal pipe attached to a collapsible ointment tube (see Fig. 187). If there is much pruritus, extract of bella- donna thickly smeared over the anus is useful. If the healing of the fissure is sluggish, an attempt may be made to hasten matters by painting it with a solution of nitrate of silver (two or three drachms to the ounce) ; in recent cases this will often produce satisfactory results. It is, however. Fig. 187.—Rectal Pipe for the introduction of Ointments.