CARCINOMA before the stomach is opened; but there is no danger in opening the stomach at tlie time of the operation and tying in a tube (see Fig. 76). If the opening is delayed, the best way of proceeding is to cut through the serous and muscular coats with a Icnife between the two guiding stitches until the mucous membrance is reached. The protruded portion of the stomach becomes stiff from inflammatory exudation and the contrast between the rigid muscular walls and the yielding mucous membrane is very marked. The latter is snipped through with scissors, when a httle gastric juice escapes and renders it certain that the cavity has been opened ; a No. 12 catheter is introduced in the direction of the track, from left to right, and a meal administered. It is inadvisable to attempt to open the stomach by thrusting in a trochar or by cutting across Fig. 76.—Franck's Gastrostomy. The operation completed. The apex of the cone of stomach has been fastened to the edges of the second incision and a tube inserted. It now only remains to suture the original wound. (Legg, A System of Treatment.) with a knife, as the mucous membrane slips out of the way and should be identified and divided separately. The catheter should be fastened in position until the fourth day, when it may be taken out and merely passed when food is to be administered. The original dressing over the median incision should be changed when the stomach is opened, and covered by a small dressing varnished over with collodion so that the discharge from the stomach will not affect it. Primary union almost always occurs in this wound. The patient should wear a pad of salicvlic wool over the opening in the intervals between the feeding ; this presses upon the portion of the stomach wall which passes through the abdominal wall, being bent at right angles in two places, and thus prevents leakage of the gastric contents (see Fig. 77). If the patient is very feeble it is best to open the stomach at the time of the operation and administer a meal of milk and brandy through it.