430 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES removed, and part of the wound is sewn up by through-and-through stitches. If the abscess is adherent to the abdominal wall, it may not be necessary to open the general peritoneal cavity, and when the deeper layer of muscles is reached, they may be found to be yellow and infiltrated, and the separate bundles and layers cannot be defined. A fine dissector should therefore be employed to tear through the remaining tissues until the pus begins to escape. When the greater part of the contents of the abscess has been evacuated, the opening is enlarged and the finger inserted to see if the appendix can be felt. If it can, it may possibly be removed, if not, a large drainage tube is inserted and the case is treated like an ordinary abscess. To break down the adhesions and search for the appendix would subject the patient to unnecessary risk. In some cases the abscess forms in the pelvis and fills up the recto- vesical or Douglas's pouch, but does not come in contact with the anterior abdominal wall. In the female it is quite possible to make an incision through the upper and back part of the vagina, pass a pair of sinus forceps into the abscess cavity, dilate the opening, and put in a drainage tube ; when this can be done there is no necessity for an incision in front. Similiarly, when the abscess bulges into the rectum in the male, some surgeons make an incision into the rectum and allow the pus to escape in that way. Here the drainage may be unsatisfactory, unless a drainage tube is employed and, on the whole, we think that in the majority of cases it is better to open the abscess from the front. In all cases in which the appendix is not removed at the time it is well to perform appendicectomy at a later period. The former teaching, that the appendix might be looked on as destroyed if an abscess developed, has proved to be fallacious, and in most cases the patient is still liable to attacks of appendicitis. Hence the rule should be to remove the appendix subsequently. If possible it is well to wait a considerable time (six months to a 3^ear), because as time goes on many of the adhesions disappear and the removal of the appendix is a much easier operation than if it were done soon after the acute attack. But if the patient should begin to suffer from pain and inflammation in that region, no such delay is advisable. COMPLICATIONS AND SEQUELS, AND THEIR TREATMENT. General peritonitis. — If peritonitis is not present at the time of the operation, it very rarety arises subsequently, provided that the methods of operating and draining the wound described above are rigidly adhered to, and it should only be diagnosed when the symptoms are conclusive ; these symptoms and their treatment are described in Chap. XXVIII. Paralytic distension of the gut.—^There is usually a certain amount of abdominal distension in these cases as the result of the inflammation