548 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM'AND ANUS skin around the anus in the form of lupus is sometimes met with in association with lupus of the female external genitals. Sometimes a tuberculous ulcer may spread from the anal margin on to the buttock, presenting all the typical characters of a tuberculous ulcer elsewhere; this condition is sometimes mistaken for syphilitic or malignant disease. The ulceration may also extend upwards from the anus to the rectal mucous membrane. The ulcer is generally large and ragged, secreting much pus and giving rise to little or no pain on defaecation. The inguinal glands may be enlarged, and as a rule there is no induration about the base of the ulcer. The progress of the affection is very slow and is often associated with tuberculous disease elsewhere—chiefly in the intestines. When the disease affects the mucous membrane of the rectum, just inside the anus, the ulceration is very obstinate and may spread through the rectal wall into the ischio-rectal cellular tissue and give rise to an ischio-rectal abscess. Treatment.—The treatment of a tuberculous ulcer about the anus depends largely upon the condition of the patient. When the general health is good and there are no signs of tuberculosis elsewhere, the best plan is to excise the entire ulcer if possible, even when the latter extends into the rectum. This may be done after full dilatation of the sphincter and without dividing it. If excision of the ulcer involves the removal of a large area of skin, the raw surface may have to be covered by some plastic operation. It is very important to get rapid healing around the anal orifice so as to avoid subsequent contraction. Thiersch's skin- grafting may be employed when the raw surface is farther away from the anus. When the patient is feeble and suffers also from extensive internal tuberculosis, or when the disease has extended into the ischio-rectal fossa, sach radical treatment as this is often .too severe. Partial excision, scraping, or cauterising with undiluted carbohc or lactic acid, or the application of solid nitrate of silver, may be tried according to the extent and situation of tlie ulceration. For pain, an ointment containing orthoform and cocaine is the best. Tuberculin injections may also be employed. In the true rectal form of the disease, when the ulcer has not yet pene- trated the wall of the bowel, the anus should be fully dilated and the ulcers, if not numerous, thoroughly curetted and cauterised either with the actual cautery or with lactic acid ; occasionally dilatation of the anus followed by the application of a 20 per cent, solution of lactic acid or of ointments containing iodoform or balsam of Peru by means of a rectal introducer (see p. 560) will lead to a cure in the slighter cases. These true rectal cases, however, are very serious and difficult to cure, and the ulcers are often numerous and extensive. We have successfully excised the entire lower part of the mucous membrane and sub- mucous tissues of the rectum, as in Whitehead's operation for piles (see Chap. XL.).