AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 66 elapse before the diagnosis is certain, and time is of such great importance in these cases that the most rapid and certain means of coming to a decision must be employed. TUBERCULOSIS. This condition closely resembles that occurring on the lower lip (see Vol. III. p. 463). The ulcers may be primary, or secondary to tuberculous disease elsewhere ; the primary form is extremely rare. In most cases ulceration occurs in the subjects of phthisis or of tuberculosis of the larynx or pharynx, and is usually connected with some injury, such as the irritation of a rough tooth. The ulcers are extremely painful, and may give rise to great difficulty in eating and swallowing. They usually occur about the tip of the tongue, although they may appear on the dorsum farther back. They vary from a crack at the tip of the tongue with hard edges—on separating which a deep fissure may be found—to a superficial erosion beginning as a small vesicle. As the ulcer increases in size, it becomes irregular in shape, and its surface is pale and flabby, and generally covered with yellowish grey mucus. The edges are not much undermined; they are often sharply cut and redder than the surrounding parts. The ulcer is super- ficial at first, but extends more deeply as it increases in size. The tongue is generally swollen. TREATMEjJSTT.—Radical measures are indicated when the ulcer is smaU, single, and unaccompanied by advanced tuberculous disease elsewhere, and they are especially applicable in the case of the ulcers on the tip of the tongue, which cause intense pain on mastication or articula- tion. The more extensive tuberculous ulcers, associated with similar disease in the larynx or lungs, should, however, not be excised unless they are causing great pain ; excision would mean an extensive operation, whilst the cut surface would be liable to become infected. When, how- ever, the disease in the lungs is quiescent, it is of advantage to remove the ulcer, even though it be extensive. The ulcers should not be excised when they occur in the neighbourhood of the base of the tongue. The best method of removing the ulcer is by a wedge-shaped excision, the cut edges being accurately stitched together afterwards. It is useless to excise the ulcers and to leave a raw surface, as re-infection would almost certainly occur. The operation is described on p. 59. The hygiene of the mouth should be attended to before it is undertaken. Afterwards antiseptic mouth-washes should be employed. When a radical operation is not advisable, an attempt may be made to remove the infected surface of the ulcer, but in many cases it will be necessary to be content with measures designed merely to relieve the pain and inconvenience in mastication and articulation. Unless the patient is profoundly ill, it is best to remove the surface of the ulcer.