417 APPENDICITIS intestine, the bowel may be injured in trying to peel it off ; or again, the cavity of the appendix may actually communicate with that of the intestine at the point of adhesion, and detachment of the appendix inevitably leaves a hole in the latter. Should such an accident happen, the hole must be stitclied up as in ordinary intestinal wounds (see p. 324). Further, when the tip of the appendix is deep down and firmly adherent, it may be torn off if the surgeon is too rough or if he cannot see what he is doing. If this accident happens, the wound must be enlarged by dividing the muscles, and the tip of the appendix sought for and removed. In both cases the wound is apt to become septic, and therefore a drainage tube should be left in it. It is sometimes found that,, while the base of the appendix is well exposed, the process is very long and its tip is firmly adherent at some distance away—for example, high up behind the colon or low down in the pelvis. It is most important not to at- tempt to detach it blindly with the finger unless the adhesions are quite soft and easily separable ; if it is firmly adherent it is essential to see what one is doing. When it is in the pelvis, enough room may be gained by splitting the deeper struc- tures towards the middle line and retracting the lower part of the wound (see p. 413). When it is adherent high up behind the ascending colon, the following plan has answered admirably: After the position of the tip of the appendix has been ascertained, the external oblique is, if necessary, slit up farther and then a second splitting of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles is practised parallel to the original one and over the tip of the appendix, and the abdomen opened at that spot. The tip of the appendix can now be got at through this second opening and the whole process safely separated and brought out through one of the openings, generally the lower. This plan is better than that of dividing the muscles, in that it does not weaken the abdominal wall. Removal of the appendix.—When the appendix is quite free and all haemorrhage has been arrested, the head of the caecum and the appendix itself are pulled as far out of the wound as possible so as to complete the operation outside the abdomen. There is no difficulty in doing this in IV. E E Fig. 146.—The ' Cuff ' method of removing the Appendix. Fashioning the Cuff. The raeso-appendix has been ligatured and divided, an incision carried around the base of the appendix and a ligature applied around the muscular and raucous coats.