78 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE permit complete extirpation, and therefore it is important to cut down and ascertain the exact condition of affairs under these circumstances. A comparatively slight dissection will show whether removal is feasible or not, and, if the case is found to be inoperable, the wound can be closed without risk to the patient. Involvement of the carotid artery and the vagus nerve are rare except when there is extensive infiltration of the neck—when the mass will be completely fixed and there will be no lateral mobility—and ligature of the carotid artery with its serious symptoms due to imperfect blood-supply to the brain will therefore practically never be called for. Removal of portions of the vagus, on the other hand, does not seem to be attended by any particular danger. It has been done more than once accidentally, and in one case in which we found the carotid artery unaffected, but the vagus infiltrated with disease, two inches of the nerve were removed designedly, and the patient was none the worse. If, however, the disease involves the artery, we should consider the case inoperable. Should there be extensive involvement of the glands extending well down into the root of the neck, so that it is obvious that those in the thorax must also be affected, or should the glandular enlargement infil- trate the skin, thereby showing that the disease has passed beyond the limits of the gland, operation must be looked upon as out of the question. Extension of glandular disease beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, although it makes complete removal more difficult, does not necessarily contra-indicate operation. On the other hand, extension upwards into the parotid region is a much more serious matter, inasmuch as, owing to the anatomical conditions, the chances of removing all the affected glands are very slight. The general condition of the patient will influence the decision to some extent. It is rare for metastasis to occur in cancer of the tongue, although secondary deposits have been found in the lung and liver. Either the disease does not spread by the blood-vessels or else the patient dies before it has had time to establish itself elsewhere ; the presence or absence of metastatic deposits therefore does not, as a rule, affect the question of operation. But after operation for cancer of the tongue, a wound is left which must become septic, and the chances of recovery must depend, to a great extent, on the patient's power of resisting septic infection, and therefore his general state of health is a matter of great importance. Alcoholics, for instance, stand these operations badly, particularly when the area involved is the base of the tongue, and it is not advisable to undertake extensive operations in habitual drunkards, even though they have no albuminuria or definite visceral disease. The operation is frequently followed by an attack of delirium tremens, and, moreover, the tissues of these patients seem peculiarly unable to resist sepsis, so that the chances of a fatal result are great. There would be the same hesitation in operating upon the subjects of albuminuria or diabetes.