CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 385 outside the abdomen ; if this is not possible, the surgeon should ascertain by careful palpation whether it is better to enlarge the existing incision or to make a fresh one in order to examine it more accurately ; this should not be done unless it seems possible to excise the tumour. The question of excising the tumour will be decided not only by anatomical con- siderations but also by the condition of the patient ; when obstruc- tion has set in it is often inadvisable to proceed to such a severe operation as excision. If it is found that the tumour could be removed, but that the patient would probably succumb if the operation were done immediately, a short-circuit may be established if the situation of the growth and the condition of the bowel and of the patient allow of it, and the tumour can be excised later. If, on the other hand, removal of the disease is out of the question, a short-circuit operation should be done, if possible, as it leaves the patient without the disability of an artificial anus ; if this is not possible, a permanent colostomy must be estab- lished ; in the small intestine short-circuiting is the only possible pro- cedure. Short-circuiting in no way interferes with subsequent excision of the stricture—in fact, it renders that procedure easier. In the cases which we are now considering the bowel is still able to empty its contents, and therefore there is not the same objection to short- circuiting as in the cases in which complete obstruction has existed for a considerable time. OBSTRUCTION FROM CAUSES IN THE INTERIOR OF THE BOWEL. FOREIGN BODIES may be introduced into the alimentary canal, intentionally or unintentionally ; the most frequent subjects of this form of obstruction are lunatics, and those who swallow objects for the purpose of gaining a livelihood. The various substances that have been found are too numerous to mention. As a rule the dangers attaching to foreign bodies are chiefly from their liability to perforate the in- testine rather than from actual obstruction, and this especially applies to those furnished with sharp points or edges. Foreign bodies usually become impacted in the narrower parts of the bowel, such as the ileo-cfecal valve. ENTEROLITHS are usually found in the rectum ; they may reach an enormous size and may be very hard; they are also met with in the caecum. Their nuclei may be composed of portions of food, such as the shells of nuts or cherry-stones, and, in addition, they generally contain salts of lime and magnesia. GALL-STONES.—Intestinal obstruction by gall-stones, although rare, is well known. A gall-stone that can pass into the bowel through the conmion duct can hardly be large enough to cause intestinal obstruc- tion, and it is probable that those sufficiently large to do this find their IV. c c