AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 388 out by a spoon or the finger. A copious oil enema should then be given, and after some hours one of soap-and-water with an ounce of turpentine, so as to soften and clear out any scybalous masses situated higher up. When the obstruction is higher up than the rectum, the chief re- liance must be placed on enemata of soap and water or. hot water, which should rather take the form of irrigation of the bowel than of an ordinary enema. For this purpose a double tube is often used so that the water can escape freely. This tube is passed as high up the rectum as it will go (usually six to eight inches) and the anus is packed round to prevent the escape of the fluid beside it. The buttocks are elevated on a pillow, and a large quantity of fluid, sometimes several gallons, is run into the intestine by means of a funnel. If the second opening of the tube is blocked and the fluid prevented from running away at once, it will gravi- tate upwards into the colon and reach the lower end of the faecal mass, and frequent repetition of these douches will ultimately soften and bring the masses away. The irrigations may be employed three or four times a day for a quarter of an hour or longer at a time. Once or twice a day an ordinary soap-and-water enema containing about a dram of turpen- tine may be administered. The long tube usually employed in these cases has no particular advantage and in unskilful hands is actually dangerous. The faradaic current is sometimes employed to produce contraction of the bowel and displace these faecal masses. One electrode is introduced into the rectum, while the other is applied over the faecal mass, and a current mild enough not to cause pain is employed. Some surgeons strongly urge the employment of the faradaic current at the very beginning of the case as a means of diagnosis, holding that, if it fails to dislodge the mass, the case is one of stricture and not faecal accumulation. At any rate, when the mass has been softened by the irrigation and the administration of pure paraffin or small doses of salines by the mouth for a day or two, the current may be employed. The drugs which are most useful are those that give rise to exudation of fluid into the intestine without any violent purgative action, and which also increase the peristaltic power of the intestinal waU. Of the drugs which give rise to exudation of fluid, salines—such as phosphate of soda, in dram doses every four hours, sulphate of magnesia, or one of the various aperient mineral waters, are among the best; pure paraffin, in doses of §ss, two or three times a day, is often given for its lubricat- ing action. When there are signs that the accumulated materials are softening and tending to move onward, the more active purgatives, such as calomel or castor oil, may be administered. Of the drugs which increase the peristaltic power of the intestine, belladonna and strychnine are the best. Strychnine may be administered subcutaneously (one- thirtieth of a grain three or four times a day). Belladonna may be