267 GASTRIC ULCER if it is too near the pyloric end, the bowel is apt to be kinked at the point where it leaves the pancreas, when the stomach resvimes its normal position. The stomach is now lifted up and the portion selected for the anasto- mosis is pushed through the opening in the meso-colon from the front by the left hand, so that the posterior wall can be grasped by the right hand and pulled through the opening in the form of a vertical fold or ridge with its long axis running from the lesser to the greater curvature. This portion of the posterior wall, three to four inches in length, is now included in one blade of a clamp, shown in Fig. 95. The clamp should be applied parallel to the long axis of the patient's body, the handles pointing towards the feet, the points towards his head. The loop of jejunum, also three to four inches in length, is next taken, pulled taut at the duodeno-jejunal junction, emptied of its contents by gently passing it between the lingers and then secured in the other blade of the clamp. Before closing the clamp, along narrow strip of gauze is placed beneath its centre, opposite to the point where the posterior line of sutures will be inserted. The object of this is to catch any of the intestinal contents that may escape when the viscera are opened, and it must l)e thick enough for this purpose and long enough for its ends to escape from the wound, so that there shall be no danger of its being left behind. As the jejunum is being clamped, the forceps ai"e rotated so that they now lie horizontally, the handles facing the assistant and the points facing the surgeon. When the clamp is in place, the stomach, omentum, and transverse colon are pushed back into the abdomen and kept in place within it by a large abdominal pad. Large hot abdominal cloths are then laid over the abdo- minal wall and their edges drawn up underneath each end of the clamp until they surround this portion of stomach and jejunum and the edges of the abdominal incision in every direction. The entire suture can thus be carried out outside the abdomen which is protected from infection by the gastric or intestinal contents. This packing may be reinforced by thick gauze swabs, which receive any fluids that escape when the incisions are made into tlie stomach and the jejunum, and can be changed at once. The first suture to be applied is a continuous stitch of fine catgut threaded on a large fully-curved round intestinal needle and introduced through the serous and muscular coats of the jejunum and the stomach, beginning about half an inch beyond one end of the proposed incision. This end is left long and caught in Spencer Wells's forceps, whilst the surgeon proceeds to connect the opposed surfaces of the jejunum and the stomach about a quarter of an inch below the proposed line of incision (see Fig. 96). This suture extends about half an inch beyond the other end of the proposed incision, when it is knotted and the end left long. This secures the serous surfaces together throughout the whole of the posterior portion of the anastomosis. The surgeon then makes the incisions in the stomach and jejunum about two inches in length through