CHRONIC TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS Many authors look upon tuberculous intestinal ulceration as the most common causes of tuberculous peritonitis. The tubercles forming the base of the intestinal ulcer gradually infiltrate the wall of the bowel until they reach the sub-serous coat, and then rapid infection of the peritoneum follows, at first local but soon becoming general. The form associated with intestinal ulceration is usually extremely serious. Per- foration and suppuration may occur ; the latter may be localised, and ffecal fistula is not uncommon. When the Fallopian tubes are affected they become large, hard, and tortuous, and form sausage-shaped masses full of cheesy material or broken-down pus with their walls dotted with tubercles. The tubes usually become adherent to the uterus and intestine. The disease in the tubes almost always commences close to the fimbriated extremities, and the canal is quickly shut off from the peritoneal cavity by fibrous adhesions. Large tuberculous mesenteric or retro-peritoneal glands are commonly present, and in some cases may have been the source of the peritoneal infection. Varieties.—The results of tuberculous infection of the peritoneum differ widely, and the conditions found may be divided into three main groups. These groups are quite arbitrary, and there is no hard and fast line of separation between each ; they are, however, clinically important. 1. The peritoneum is studded with tubercles, some being small, greyish and transparent nodules, others large and becoming cheesy. They are scattered over the visceral and the parietal peritoneum and frequently have patches of fibrinous exudation over them ; in the early stage there is not necessarily any matting of the intestines or distortion of the omentum or mesentery. In these cases there is almost always fluid in the abdominal cavity, usually of a light straw colour, or opalescent, or blood-stained. The sensation on putting the finger into an a,bdomen in this stage is the same as if it were passed into a bag of sago. The tubercles generally occur in patches, and are most marked in the vicinity of the primary lesion. Although matting together of the intestines is not a feature of the disease at this early stage, they may become adherent to a certain extent, and thus the fluid in the abdomen does not pass freelv from one part of the cavity to the other, and may accumulate in parts and become practically encysted. 2. In a second group, adhesions of the intestines and fibroid indura- tion of the omentum and mesentery are the marked features. The intestines become bound together by firm fibrous tissue in which miliary tubercules are present, and these adhesions may constrict the intestine, or may cause kinking and lead to obstruction. The intestines are adherent to one another and to the abdominal wall ; this is a cause of anxiety in opening the abdomen in these cases and is the chief objection to aspira-