174 AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS be discontinued, and the patient must either pass them himself or have them passed for him at intervals for the rest of his life. The best bougie for the purpose of intermittent dilatation is probably the silk-web form, which is quite safe and with which it is practically impossible to do any damage. The more soUd forms are somewhat more dangerous, especially when there is any ulceration. It is important not to use too small an instrument at the first sitting ; the best plan is to try one of full size (No. 24) and to work downwards until a size is found that wiU pass the stricture. The bougie should be softened by immersing it in boiling water and the instrument should then be lubricated with butter or glycerine ; the former is preferable, as some patients object to the sweet taste of the glycerine. The pharynx and the laryngeal aperture may be painted with a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine in order to lessen the spasm as the bougie passes over the glottis. The patient sits facing the surgeon in a chair with a high back or against the wall, the head being so supported that it cannot be drawn back, The hard palate should be horizontal and the mouth wide open. The instrument is passed well back into the pharynx without touching the dorsum of the tongue and pressed against the posterior pharyngeal wall, when the softened tip bends easily and the instrument find its way down the pharynx. If preferred, a slight downward bend may be imparted to the tip of the instrument before it is passed, and this is advisable in the case of the larger instruments, so as to avoid undue pressure on the posterior pharyngeal wall ; with the smaller sizes it is unnecessary. As the bougie passes the region of the glottis there is usually considerable spasm, the patient coughing and choking, but this only lasts for a few seconds and is greatly diminished by instructing the patient to bend the head well forward so that the saliva runs out of the mouth, and to take a few- deep inspirations ; this rapidly checks the spasm, and when the point of the bougie has passed beyond the laryngeal aperture the spasm soon ceases. The instrument should be passed down the oesophagus slowly and steadily without using any force, otherwise spasm is easily set up and greatly embarrasses the procedure. The application of cocaine to the fauces and posterior pharyngeal wall usually abolishes the spasm entirely. When the stricture is reached, careful attempts are made to insinuate the bougie through it, much in the same way as in the case of a urethral stricture ; if force is used, the point of the instrument may either pene- trate the oesophageal wall or may curl upon itself and return through the mouth. It can generally be ascertained whether the bougie has found its way into the stricture by feeling that its point is grasped, that is to say, it cannot be pulled out readily. When this is the case and the instrument cannot be passed on through the stricture without using undue force, the best plan is to leave the bougie in position for live minutes, the patient in the meantime bending the head weU forwards over a basin to allow the saliva to escape ; the bougie is then withdrawn. No attempt should