534 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS It not only diminishes the danger of bad sepsis, but it gives a chance of healing without a faecal fistula, which otherwise results in nearly all cases in which it is necessary to open up the pre-sacral tissues down to the wound in the rectum. In performing the colostomy care must be taken to make the interruption to the passage of the fsces complete, and the closure of the colostomy wound is subsequently carried out in the usual manner (see p. 507). (b) Of wounds caused by foreign bodies in the rectum.— When the wound is non-penetrating—that is to say, only injures the mucous and perhaps the sub-mucous coats of the bowel—the condition of affairs will be ascertained by examination with a proctoscope or sigmoidoscope (see p. 522). If there is much haemorrhage, it may be arrested by tying or under-running the bleeding point, or, if necessary, by leaving a pair of clamp forceps in position should it be too high up for ligature. In many cases it is sufficient merely to cleanse the surface of the wound, to introduce a large drainage tube into the bowel so as to prevent accumulation of gas or faeces, and to leave the injured part to heal. When the foreign body has penetrated the rectal wall below the peritoneal reflection, the peri-rectal cellular tissue behind it will require free drainage, otherwise septic pelvic cellulitis is almost certain to occur. Drainage is best effected by the perineal route—as already described for similar injuries associated with fracture. When the rent extends into the peritoneal cavity the shock is less than in cases associated with fracture of the pelvis, but the treatment of the rectal condition is identical. In both cases the performance of a temporary colostomy [vide supra) will add to the chaijces of recovery. FOREIGN BODIES. Foreign bodies may find their way into the rectum from above or from below ; in the former case they are either comparatively small objects—such as fish-bones—which have been swallowed, or they consist of a gradual accumulation of indigestible material—such as the skins or pips of fruits, cherry-stones, or indigestible portions of vegetables—which form a nucleus on which faecal material and salts are deposited, and so give rise to the formation of an enterolith. Apart from these causes, the normal intestinal contents may form a dense hard mass in the rectum, and this condition is most common in elderly persons who are the subjects of habitual constipation. This faecal impaction may take the form either of one huge mass, which dilates the lower end of the rectum and blocks up the anus like a ball-valve, or of distension of the rectum and a considerable portion of the large intestine with hardened masses which the bowel is unable to pass on. The other foreign bodies met with in the rectum are those