FOREIGN BODIES 535 introduced through the anus, and an enormous variety has been met with—from a small stone or marble up to a large object like a soda-water bottle. The symptoms of a foreign body in the rectum are mainly those of the proctitis produced by it—namely, tenesmus and the passage of blood and mucus. The sharp bodies are apt to injure the mucous membrane and to produce an acute suppurative condition, and frequently cause ischio-rectal abscess and fistula in ano. There may be symptoms of intestinal obstruction if the body is large. Faecal masses impacted in the rectum also set up proctitis, which leads to an irritative diarrhoea, with the passage of large quantities of mucus and a small quantity of faecal material. There is generally some loss of control over the anus, and the patient shows signs of stercoral poisoning and has all the symptoms of chronic obstruction. TREATMENT.—The removal of a foreign body should be effected as soon as possible, and no special rules need be given. An anaesthetic is generally necessary, and the sphincter should be dilated ; the body can then be inspected and removed. Small, sharp bodies can usually be extracted at once by forceps introduced through a speculum when the anus has been dilated. When the foreign body is a jagged object—such as a piece of broken glass—removal must be effected extremely carefully, lest deep-seated injuries to the rectal wall and peri-proctitis should occur. If these objects are large they may be broken up by cutting-pliers and removed piecemeal. Incases of /^ca/ impaction, the mass must be broken up and removed with a spoon, forceps, or any other suitable instrument, and the debris flushed out with a large enema. An anaesthetic may be called for and it may be necessary to dilate the sphincter fully. The treatment of these cases is of course not completed by the removal of the impacted mass, for the predisposing condition—namely, obstinate constipation— requires careful treatment also. The administration of strychnine and belladonna internally, combined with abdominal massage, is very useful; the daily use of a weak faradaic current, one pole being placed over the sacrum and the other introduced into the rectum, is also very valuable. Dietetic and hygienic rules, for which the reader is referred to medical text-books, must also be imposed. Purgatives are of little value, but benefit may be obtained by the use of pure liquid paraffin (3ss twice or thrice daily).