APPENDICITIS 415 of the pain ; when this was higher up than usual, the hbres should be separated a little above the level of the anterior superior spine, and vice versa. When the parts are fully retracted, an area about 2\ by i| inches is exposed, which gives ample room when there are no extensive adhesions. If more room is required the splitting of the deeper muscles may be continued inwards until the fibres of the rectus are seen, and this muscle may be pulled inwards and the tissues behind it split still farther ; this gives good access towards the brim of the pelvis. The transversalis fascia and the peritoneum are now divided transversely (see Fig. 145). The next step is to identify the ca;cum. It frequently presents in the wound, and is easily recognised by its muscular bands. If small intestine appears first, it is pushed inwards and the cfficum is souglit further outwards and deeper down. The anterior band is seized between the thumb and finger, and tlie ca:cum is gently pulled out of th.e wound until the lower end of the ileum appears and the ileo-csecal junction is seen. When this is done, the base of the appendix can usually be recognised, and the finger should be slipped down along it in order to ascertain if adhesions are present ; if so, and, if they are quite fine, the finger will tear them across and allow the appendix to be brought out into the wound. As the head of the caecum is pulled out, the upper part is tucked back into the abdominal cavity. The appendix is now separated, and the best way of freeing it is to begin from the tiji of the process, which must be exposed as fully as possible by pulling the edges of the wound to whichever side may be necessary. Any adhesions are then gently detached with the finger or a dissector and divided. This must be done with the greatest care and not in the dark. When the appendix has been separated right up to its attachment to the Cfecum, the meso-appendix is clamped and ligatured in sections until the base of the appendix is reached. Fig, 144, — rHE OBLiyUL, ok ' Gridiron ' Incisio.v for .Appendicecto.m^' Splitting the Internal Olilique and Transversalis Miisiics. I'hv peritoneum has also been opened and the caecum is seen beneath.