351 ACUTE INTUSSUSCEPTION from without inwards, there are three complete thicknesses of the bowel wall concerned in an intussusception—namely, the outer wall of the intus- suscipiens, the inner or reflected layer of the latter, and the intussusceptum. It is important to note that the apex of an intussusception is a constant point. The increase in length of the tumour occurs at the expense of the sheath, which becomes more and more invaginated; as the apex travels on, it causes reflection of an increasing portion of the sheath. Two very important points arise in connection with the presence of the mesentery. As the intussusceptum travels along the bowel, the mesentery becomes more and more constricted as it passes over the neck of the intussuscipiens, and the circulation in the intussusceptum becomes interfered with ; further, owing to the pull upon the mesentery, there is an alteration in the direction of the intestinal tube and increased obstruction at the apex of the intussusceptum. The vessels in the mesentery being constricted, the intussusceptum and the reflected layer become cedematous and swollen, and if the constriction at the neck of the intussuscipiens is tight, the circulation in the intussusceptum may be entirely arrested. The result is that hemorrhage takes place into the intestinal wall and inflammation of the mucous membrane occurs ; these two changes give rise to the chief symptoms of intussusception—namely, the passage of blood and mucus. When the constriction is very tight, the interference with the circulation may be so severe as to cause partial or complete gangrene of the intussusceptum. The time of onset of the gangrene varies ; it may be present at the end of twenty-four hours, or several days may elapse before its occurrence ; the tighter the constriction, the more early will gangrene occur. Another effect of the presence of the mesentery is obstruction to the passage of intestinal contents through the intussusceptum. In the early stages, before much swelling or alteration in the direction of the canal occurs, the liquid contents may pass on. As the swelling becomes more intense, the obstruction becomes greater, and this is increased by the fact that, as the intussusceptum becomes longer, it curves towards the mesenteric border until finally its apex is more or less firmly pressed against the wall of the intussuscipiens and a mechanical blockage is added to that produced by the swelling. Further, the pull of the mesentery causes the opening in the apex of the intussusceptum to become changed from a round hole to an elongated slit which still further interferes with the passage of intestinal contents. When obstruction is thoroughly established, no intestinal contents pass through the intussusception, although the patient's bowels may be acting frequently ; all that is passed is a quantity of mucus and blood derived from the engorged vessels of the intussusceptum and the inflamed bowel in the vicinity. This swelling of the intussusceptum forms one of the chief obstacles to the reduction of the intussusception. The