AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 522 of a chair, with the knees extended ; ]i£emorrhoids, a polypus, a prolapse, or a fissure of the anus are thus often easily detected. By means of the finger nearly the whole of the mucous membrane of the rectum proper may be investigated, according to the position of the patient. Unless the rectal affection be a very painful one, an anaesthetic should not be used—at any rate, at first—and the patient should lie on the left side rather than over on the face, and should have the knees well drawn up. The rectum should be emptied by a purge administered overnight, and it is also well to wash it out with an enema just before the examination. The index finger—which may be protected by a lubricated rubber glove or fingerstall—is insinuated through the anal orifice, and as much of the rectum is palpated as is within reach. If the patient is made to stand up or to strain, or if the surgeon com- presses the abdomen forcibly, an additional inch or so of the rectum can be brought within reach of the finger. Any exami- nation with a bougie is untrust- worthy and not worth carrying out. Examination of the rectum proper must be effected by direct vision, and is best carried out by means of special specula, of which those designed by Kelly and termed proctoscopes are the most useful. These are cylinders of varying length up to $\ inches, with a rounded obturator (see Fig. 175). They are introduced within the anus; the obturator is withdrawn, air passes in and expands the bowel, and the lower part of the mucous membrane of the rectum may be inspected as the speculum is slowly withdrawn. The speculum should be pushed slightly upwards every now and then, so as to stretch the mucous mem- brane and to open out its folds. Reflected light from a forehead mirror is necessary for this examination. An improved form of proctoscope is also in use, furnished with an electric lamp near its distal end, which gives perfect illumination. For examination of the pelvic colon and the upper part of the rectum, the instrument known as the sigmoidoscope is now in common use, and enables the observer to inspect the mucous membrane of the lowest thirteen inches or more of the bowel. The instrument is shown and described in Fig. 176. It can be used without aneesthesia in many cases—especially in women—but general anesthesia may be required for nervous patients or those who are the subjects of an enlarged prostate or a painful affection of the rectum. The patient should lie upon the left side upon a high couch or table, with the knees drawn well up and the buttocks projecting