41 TUMOURS to that for the previous operation, except that it is carried up to the inner end of the eyebrow above. This flap is dissected back, the canine fossa being cleared of the muscles covering it. The soft parts on the affected side are detached from the bony framework and puHed aside. The anterior wall of the antrum is then divided with a chisel obliquely downwards and inwards from the orbital margin just above the infra- orbital foramen to the junction of the outer margin of the bony meatus of the nose with its floor ; the infra-orbital nerve should be avoided if possible (see Fig. 18). Stout cutting-pliers are inserted at the lower end of this incision and made to divide the entire length of the bony wall between the antrum and the nose, as near the floor of the nose as pos- sible. The inferior turbinal bone comes away with this portion of the jaw. There is generally smart oozing at this stage, which is best stopped by using hydrogen peroxide (10 vols.). The next step is to remove the nasal bone on the affected side, and with it the whole of the nasal process of the inferior maxilla and most of the lachrymal bone. This operation throws the nasal and antral cavities into one, and exposes the middle turbinal and the ethmoidal area completely, so that either or both can be cleared out, and other areas, such as the sphenoidal or frontal sinuses can also be explored (see Fig. ig). It gives access to the pharynx, and the opening can be enlarged, if necessary, by removing as much of the posterior antral wall as may seem desirable. The exact limits of the tumour can be ascertained and its removal effected by knife, cautery, or sharp spoon, as circumstances direct. Bleeding is fairly free until the tumour has been got away ; packing with ribbon gauze or dorrching with peroxide of hydrogen are the best preventives ; it is rarely dangerous. After ah the disease has been removed, the oozing from the cavity left is checked by douching with peroxide of hydrogen, and the interior inspected with the aid of the electric forehead lamp. Any suspicious p,Q 17,—The Skin-incision for Lateral Rhinotomy.