APPENDICITIS 401 of the caecum, with its tip pointing either upwards or downwards. In other cases it runs up along the outer or posterior aspect of the caecum. In a third set of cases it passes over the brim of the pelvis and its tip hangs down into the pelvic cavity. The appendix is completely sur- rounded by peritoneum except along the line of its mesenteric attachment and usually hangs free in the peritoneal cavity. In some cases, however, when the appendix lies along the posterior aspect of the caecum, it may be partly retro-peritoneal—that is to say, as the ascending meso-colon fuses with the parietal peritoneum to fix this portion of the bowel, the appendix may be included between the two layers of peritoneum, and when these two layers fuse and disappear, it becomes in consequence retroperitoneal. In some cases no doubt this condition is pathological. The appendix consists of mucous, sub-mucous, muscular, and peritoneal coats. The first two are rich in lymphoid tissue, and the mucous surface is lined with c^dindrical epithelium arranged as in Lieberktihn's follicles ; apparently a free secretion of mucus takes place when there is any inflam- matory condition. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal, circular, and spiral fibres—the longitudinal fibres being very scattered or entii'ely absent at the mesenteric attachment. At the junction of the appendix with the caecum there is a valve, and a much debated point is whether fjecal matter can penetrate into the appendix under normal conditions. It has been said that the concretions so frequently found in the appendix are really formed in the caecum and find tlieir way into the appendix ; but there seems little reason to doubt that these bodies are actually formed in the appendix itself by the deposit of lime salts, either on portions of hardened mucus or possibly on faecal material which has passed into the tube. It is true that a material apparently faecal is not infrequently found in the appendix, but it is a question whether this is true ffecal material, and, further, the appendices in which this is found are diseased. Pathology.—Appendicitis is an infective lesion, the organisms most commonly concerned being the Bacillus colt communis and the pyogenic cocci, especially the Streptococcus pyogenes ; more chronic cases may also be due to tuberculosis or actinomycosis, but these are rare. The infection most commonly comes from the caecum, and intestinal stasis and chronic constipation are in all ]")robability important causative factors. In some cases—for example, when it is associated with tonsillitis —it seems possible that the organisms (usually streptococci or pneumococci) reach the appendix through the blood stream. The exact cause which determines the onset of infection is unknown, and many cases of the severest type occur suddenly in patients who were previously in excellent health and who had never been troubled with constipation or any other intestinal disorder. By some observers it is assumed that the appendix does not normally contain faces and that the entrance of such material into the organ is a cause of the infection. It is certainly very probable IV. D D