CHAPTER XXXVII. IV. 545 N N SYPHILIS AND TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS, SYPHILIS. Primary syphilitic chancre at the anus is not very rare, and occurs more frequently in women than in men. It is generally situated about the anal margin, but may be actually within the rectum—usually in the sphincteric area. The diagnosis is most important, as the sore may be mistaken for a carcinoma of the rectum. The appearances are almost precisely similar to those of chancre elsewhere, except that, owing to the irritation of the fjEces, there is more inflammation and ulceration, and when the chancre is situated well within the anus, the inflammation about the base may be so marked as to suggest malignant disease. One of the chief points of distinction between carcinoma and chancre in this situation is the limitation of the ulceration in a chancre and the absence of the foul, slougliing, irregular surface, which is common in carcinoma. A positive Wassermann reaction may clear up the diagnosis, but in the early stage this may not be present. The glands first affected in chancre about the anus are the inguinal chain; when it is situated within the bowel, the enlarged glands lie in the hollow of the sacrum. In a short time secondary symptoms occur, and then the diagnosis becomes clear. Treatment.'—This is the same as that for chancre elsewhere (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). Owing to the pain and irritation that the patient suffers, it is important to obtain rapid healing, and therefore salvarsan should be chosen. Locally, suppositories containing calomel and opium —if necessary combined with cocaine—are useful. In the secondary stage syphilitic affections are frequently met with about the anus ; the rectum itself is rarely affected, except in the tertiar}^ period. Tlie typical manifestations are mucous tubercles or condylomata. Condylomata are frequently mistaken for haemorrhoids, and th.e small ulcers for fissures of the anus, and very serious results may follow such a mistake ; not only is there no necessity for any operative interference in these syphilitic cases, but the discharges are