AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS l82 varying with the size ot the stricture, and terminating above in an expanded funnel-shaped opening, while below it is furnished with a terminal opening. To the funnel-shaped end silk threads are attached which are brought out through the mouth and fastened round the ear. The tube is inserted upon a special holder until it has passed well into the stricture, the funnel-shaped end resting upon the upper surface of the growth and preventing the tube passing right through. The largest sized tube that will go through the stricture should be chosen, the size of the stricture having been previously ascertained by the passage of a sound. All these tubes should be furnished with a terminal opening, as blockage is apt to occur if the opening is lateral, either from lateral pressure against the stricture or from a collection of food in the blind end. The tube is introduced upon its guide exactly as is a long oesophageal tube, and when it is in place the guide is withdrawn and the silk threads are passed between two of the teeth and fixed ^^^^^^ A Fig. 65.—Dr. William Hill's permanent Oisopiiageal Tube. This tube is intended to be worn continuously in cases of stricture of the cesophagns. It is of soft india-rubber fitted with a vulcanite end to facilitate introduction and a malleable silver stylette, the proximal end of which may be attached to a denture or bent round the patient's ear to keep it in position. The stylette also prevents the tube from being coughed or vomited up. A, represents the tube full size ; B, gives enlarged details of coustructiou. around the ear. It is difficult to prevent the threads from being bitten through, and the most satisfactory way is to substitute a piece of silver wire for the upper part of the silk. The end of this may be either hooked round the necks of the teeth or may project from the mouth and be fastened to a button outside the lips. The advantage of these tubes is that they enable the patient to swallow his food, and they avoid the accumulation of saliva that is so distressing. The patient can also taste his food. Unfortunately, however, their usefulness is limited. On the one hand the tubes are more difficult to introduce than the ordinary long form, and it is not uncommon to fail to pass them when the long tube goes in comparatively easily ; this, however, is mainly a matter of practice. A point of greater importance is that, in certain situations, they can only be retained a short time owing to the presssure and irritation that the funnel-shaped end produces. This is particularly the case when the growth is situated at the upper end of the oesophagus, the expanded part of the tube then pressing upon the