456 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES ASCITES DUE TO CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER. Although not necessarily a disease of the peritoneum, this seems to be the most convenient place to refer to the modern treatment of ascites when it occurs as the result of obstruction of the circulation, usually from cirrhosis of the liver. In the cases of ascites due to other causes, paracentesis still remains the only surgical measure. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this form of ascites may be either palliative or radical. In the former case the fluid is removed by tapping, the operation being i:epeated whenever the re-accumulation of fluid renders this desirable ; in the latter an attempt is made to establish a collateral circulation or to drain the fluid into the lymphatic vessels outside the abdomen. Paracentesis abdominis, or tapping the abdomen, is best done with the patient in the semi-recumbent position, so that he can be laid flat at once if he becomes faint. The spot selected for puncture is generally the middle line about two inches below the umbilicus, but in any case the puncture must be made into an area from which the bowel—as ascertained by percussion—is absent. The bladder should be emptied before the operation. The skin is purified in the ordinary manner and a broad bandage is arranged around the abdomen, which can be tightened as the fluid escapes. A nick is made through the skin with a scalpel, and a trocar and canula of appropriate length thrust rapidly through the abdominal wall. When the trocar is withdrawn, a long piece of sterilised india-rubber tubing is connected with the canula and the fluid is con- ducted into a suitable receptacle. Care must be taken to ensure asepsis throughout. A local anaesthetic may be employed if desired, but this is rarely necessary. The fluid should be allowed to escape very gradually ; an hour may be necessary, otherwise faintness is apt to occur. Some surgeons prefer Southey's tubes, and proceed in the following manner: The canula, guard, and tubing are all fitted together and tlie tubing is drawn sideways across the end of the canula, so as to form a diaphragm through which the trocar is thrust. The trocar and canula are then thrust into the peritoneal cavity and the trocar is withdrawn leaving the tube in position; the small hole made by the trocar in the tubing either falls together or is closed by pushing the tube a little farther on to the canula. As the flow lessens, the sides of the abdomen may be compressed either by the patient himself or by the broad bandage passed round the body. When the flow ceases, the tubing is disconnected, the finger is applied over the orifice of the canula and the instrument with- drawn. The opening is closed by a small pad of cyanide gauze fastened in place with collodion, and a firm binder is applied for a few days. Radical treatment.—Only a limited number of cases are suitable for radical treatment. Cases of severe alcoholic cirrhosis in which the