251 FOREIGN BODIES portion of the stomach. Should a sharp foreign body be definitely im- pacted in some other part of the anterior wall, however, it may be advis- able to make the incision directly over it. The opening should be free enough to allow the foreign body to be withdrawn without stretching or damaging the stomach walls, as an increase in the length of the incision is of no consequence in comparison with the risk of bruising the stomach. The serous and muscular coats are first divided with a knife, and then the cut edges are seized with forceps and raised by an assistant so that the escape of the stomach contents is prevented when the mucous membrane is incised. The mucous membrane is picked up with forceps, and a small hole made into it with a knife, the incision being completed with blunt- pointed scissors. The foreign body will now be exposed, or, if not, it is felt for and removed by suitable forceps, the incision in the stomach being enlarged if necessary in order to enable it to be extracted without force. There is no difficulty in removing it if the incision is of sufficient size, and the foreign body should be manoeuvred so as to bring its shortest axis out through the wound. If, however, the body is actually perforating any of the gastric coats it must be disentangled with the greatest possible gentleness, and great care must be taken not to cause a perforation in so doing ; if necessary it may be broken up with cutting-pliers and removed piecemeal. The seat of impaction should be examined to see whether the stomach wall has been damaged and if so, this must be treated either by excision or by inversion and suture of the stomach walls. When the foreign body is impacted in the anterior wall, the incision should be made directly over it ; the surgeon can cut out the damaged portion of the wall and obtain a healthy surface for suture. After the foreign body has been removed, the incision in the stomach wall is held up by the assistant and is sutured as described on p. 243. The anterior surface of the stomach is then cleansed, the abdominal cloths are removed, the stomach is dropped back into place, the abdominal wound closed in the ordinary manner (see p. 215), and the usual dressings applied. There is no risk of fouling the abdominal cavity if the abdominal cloths are properly arranged, and no drainage is necessary. The after- treatment is identical with that for wounds of the stomach (see p. 24S).