INJURIES 323 and any further faecal extravasation must take place outside it, while the injured coil is quickly exposed to view and much time is saved. Large hot abdominal cloths must be at hand for the reception of the intestines and these may be steeped in some bland sterile lubricant such as vaseline or pure paraffin, as, if they are dry, they tend to stick to the coils. The intestines can be turned out in a moment if the incision is sufficiently large and the edges are held well aside. They should be rapidly douched with hot saline solution (105° F.) so as to wash away any faecal material on the surface, and then enclosed in the abdominal cloths. Before proceeding further with the treatment of the intestine, the surgeon turns his attention to clearing out the extravasated faeces from the peritoneal cavity ; in fact the assistant can be doing this while the surgeon is attending to the injured bowel. A strong stream of warm (105° F.), sterilised saline solution is directed into the peritoneal cavity, the edges of the incision in the abdominal wall being held apart so as to allow the fluid to escape freely ; the whole abdomen is filled up and the solution is allowed to overflow freely, using many pints in the process. When the extravasated material has been thoroughly cleared out, it is well to mop up the fluid so as to remove any particles still floating in it ; for this purpose it is best to employ gauze pads, which should not be used a second time. Special attention should be paid to Douglas's pouch and the lumbar regions. The peritoneal cavity is finally filled up again with the hot saline solution, a cloth is thrown over the abdominal incision, and the extruded coils are examined. During the examination it is well to keep a stream of hot saline solution flowing over the intestines so as to wash away any faecal material; to avoid the risk of this passing into the abdomen the patient should he turned slightly over on one side. Commencing at the lower end of the ileum, the intestinal coils are rapidly and methodically passed under review and irrigated, and the uninjured bowel is slipped back coil by coil into the abdomen until the damaged portion is reached. This is closed at once, by clamp forceps, wrapped up in an abdominal cloth of suitable size, and given to the assistant, who grasps the whole of the damaged coil in his hand and holds it well out of the way. The mesentery and the intestinal coils in its immediate neighbourhood are next irrigated thoroughly and the rest of the intestinal loops are passed rapidly under review, irrigated and returned into the abdomen if uninjured. Should a second injury be found, the coil is similarly isolated. In this way the intestines are cleansed effectually and the sound coils replaced in the abdomen, whilst the damaged bowel is shut off and further extravasation prevented. As soon as all the sound coils have been returned into the abdomen, fresh hot abdominal cloths are packed over them so as to keep them in place. The above procedure takes some time to describe and sounds rather formidable, but it can be done with the greatest rapidity, and a Y 2