AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 436 the sinus shows no sign of heahng after three months, the externa opening may be dilated very cautiously by a laminaria tent (because there are often comparatively few adhesions around it), and the cavity searched for a foreign body with a probe, a pair of forceps, or (if large enough) with the finger ; a small scoop may also be introduced and the cavity gently cleared out. A large drainage tube is then introduced and the wound is dressed daily. It is very important not to be impatient in these cases. As long as the discharge is slight, there is always a probability of healing taking place, and we have seen these sinuses heal after two or three years. If, however, there are recurrent attacks of inflammation and accumulation of pus, there is nothing for it but to open up the sinus, even though that involves opening the peritoneal cavity. Indeed, in most cases it is best to open the peritoneum, pack off the intestines, and expose the bowel and the lower end of the sinus, and open up the sinus thoroughly. The wound must be packed and drained after such an operation just as after removal of an appendix in the acute stage (see p. 426). If the appendix has not been removed, the probability of healing of the sinus without further operation is not good, and the question of removing the appendix in spite of the presence of a septic sinus must be considered. As a matter of experience it is found that there is no great risk in removing the appendix with proper precautions unless there is free suppuration from the sinus. When there is free suppuration, virulent pyogenic cocci are present, but in many cases of persistent sinus there is only a slight serous discharge which is probably only feebly infective. The best way of performing the operation is not to open up the sinus, but to make an independent incision. The sinus should be gently scraped first of all and packed with a little gauze, partly to define it and partly to prevent any septic material from running out into the wound. A separate incision is then made in the immediate vicinity to open the general peritoneal cavity and get at the appendix from within. The amount of adhesions met with will of course vary very much, and the surgeon must work from the caecum and the ileo-ccccal valve to the appendix itself which will usually form part of the wall of the siiius. If it is firmly adherent, the simplest plan is to expose the root of the appendix and divide the peritoneum over it, and then gradually separate the peritoneum from the appendix, ligature the latter at the base, cut it off and bury it. This avoids all risk of injuring the intestine, and it is of course the mucous membrane which gives rise to the trouble in healing. If the appendix is not very adherent, it may be separated and removed in the ordinary way. The sinus is now thoroughly cleared out and the abdominal incision is extended into the orifice, which is then packed with gauze, after which the upper part of the wound is closed with stitches. In the course of twenty-four hours the peritoneal cavity is well shut off, the gauze packing is removed, and there is usiially no delay in healing.