241 INJURIES ail proportion to the severity of the injury. If this condition continues and if the pulse becomes rapid and the abdomen distended as well as tender, the suspicion will become almost a certainty. Later on the pain is greatly increased, and persistent vomiting occurs as peritonitis sets in. When there is any doubt, it is much wiser to make a small incision in the epigastrium to ascertain the exact condition of affairs than to watch the patient until the diagnosis is certain ; by thai time the peritonitis which follows these accidents will have become too extensive to be successfully treated. In order to overcome this difficulty in diagnosis, it has been suggested to inflate the stomach, and so to ascertain whether air passes freely into the abdominal cavity. This, however, is an extremely dangerous plan unless practised after the abdomen has been opened, as it is apt to force out the contents of the stomach into the peritoneal cavity and may do an infinity of harm. It sometimes happens that these abdominal injuries are accompanied by laceration of some of the large vessels in the greater curvature or the omentum. This question is discussed in connection with injuries of the intestine (see Chap. XXI.). Symptoms of perforating wounds of the stomach accom- panied by a perforating wound of the abdominal wall.—Here there is less likelihood of making a mistake in the diagnosis since there is already a wound in the abdominal wall, and the only point to settle is whether there is also a perforation of the stomach. Any suspicion, such as would be aroused by the symptoms detailed above, can easUy be verified by enlarging the abdominal wound, when the condition will be evident at once. The proper examination and treatment of the wound in the abdominal wall necessitates an anaesthetic in any case, and very little more manipulation is necessary in order to settle the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—I. Of doubtful rupture of the stomach accompanied by a contusion of the abdominal wall.—When there is no wound in the abdominal wall and the symptoms do not clearly indicate perforation, the surgeon is justified in waiting for a few hours to see the course of events. The patient should be put to bed surrounded by hot bottles and warmly covered so as to diminish shock. The knees are flexed over a pillow and the thorax slightly raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles. A large flat ice-bag (see Fig. 88) applied to the epigastric region may help to control the vomiting if this is severe. Nothing should be given by the mouth, but a hot enema containing beef tea, brandy, and half an ounce of strong coffee should be administered. Liquor strychninae (n\v) may be injected h3^podermically if the shock is profound, but morphine should not be given until it has been decided whether there is rupture of the stomach or not. Should no perforation have occurred, the symptoms will subside gradually, and the patient will be well in a week. It should always be remembered that the stomach is not the only organ that may be injured by blows upon IV. " R