407 APPENDICITIS temperature may rise rapidly to 102° to 104° F., and the pulse to 100 to 140 and higher. Here again, however, the temperature and pulse may be very slightly affected, although the patient is extremely ill. The tongue is usually furred and somewhat dry, the lips are dry and cracked, and the patient rapidly acquires the typical abdominal look. When the abdomen is examined at the onset of the disease, the tenderness will be found to be widespread, but it will probably be more acute over the iliac region, and ultimately both pain and tenderness become localised to this area if the patient is doing well. Rigidity is a marked feature, and this is also at first generalised, but later on it becomes restricted to the right side where a lump can often be detected. A rectal examination may reveal tenderness, or bulging high up and to the right side. Some cases suffer from troublesome irritability of the bladder. A blood examination shows a marked leucocytosis, which rapidly increases. Of these severe types of cases, there are many degrees, varying from early recovery to abscess formation or general peritonitis. In some cases the symptoms diminish in severity, and a well-defined, localised swelling forms in the right iliac fossa. This swelling is tender and may be either dull or resonant on percussion. If it is large it will usually be dull and will probably be palpable by the rectum ; fluctuation will probably be present, but no attempt should be made to elicit this sign owing to the risk of rupturing the abscess wall. Occasionally, the rigidity and tenderness are most marked in the loin, the iliac fossa being comparatively free. In other cases, again, general peritonitis maybe present almost from the onset, while in some the local symptoms may be comparatively trivial, but there may be very severe toxaemia, and the patient passes rapidly into the typhoid state. These cases belong to the group of 'fulminating appendicitis,' which is the gravest form of the disease. In it one of two distinct events may have happened : a perforation of the appendix may occur suddenly, coincident with or very soon after the onset of the symptoms, or there may be a complete and rapid gangrene of the whole appendix; the latter is the typical form of 'fulminating appendicitis,' and is that most commonly associated with early and profound toxaemia. In these cases the onset is very much more acute, and, unless speedy relief be obtained by operation, death may occur within two days. The patient is suddenly seized with violent pain in the right iliac fossa, and all the symptoms indicating rapid and severe infection of the peritoneal cavity ; these symptoms are most strongly marked in cases of gangrenous appen- dicitis. In some cases the temperature and pulse may be normal or only very slightly elevated. In many cases of fulminating or perforative appendicitis theie has been no time for the formation of adhesions to shut off the appendix from the general peritoneal cavity, and consequently the result of the perfora- tion or tlie gangrene is an immediate infection of the peritoneal cavity.