232 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH does not mix with the stomach-contents, and contains nothing which will complicate the subsequent chemical analysis. If oil or glycerine are used, they should be tested with litmus paper, and any that is strongly acid must be discarded. As a rule there is no difficulty in withdrawing the contents of the stomach when once the tube has been passed, the retching which this procedure usually induces in those not familiar with its passage being sufficient to expel the partially digested material. If this is not the case, the patient should be made to lie face downward with the end of the tube on the floor : the escape of the fluid may also be assisted by ' milking ' the free end of the tube between the finger and thumb. In no case must water be added to start the flow, as, even if a measured amount is used, this would complicate the chemical analysis to such an extent as to render it quite untrustworthy. After as much as possible of the undiluted stomach contents have been removed, it is advisable to wash out the stomach with warm water, collecting the washings. A comparison of the total acidity of these with that of the undiluted contents will allow the total volume of the material in the stomach to be calculated with some accuracy. In health this volume should be from to 2 ounces, and any decided increase beyond the latter figure indicates some degree of dilatation. When this condition is severe the amount removed after an hour's digestion may be almost or quite as great as the amount taken. In such cases sarcinse will usually be present in considerable numbers. The examination of the material removed must be both microscopical and chemical. The material should be filtered, and the former examina- tion carried out on the material which remains on the filter-paper, the filtrate being reserved for the chemical analysis. Microscopical examination.—A small amount of the solid residue should be examined wet, between slide and cover-glass. The bulk of the material present will be found to consist of partially digested food (mainly starch). In health, but few organisms are seen; the amount of hydro- chloric acid present in normal gastric juice being sufficient to inhibit growth. Sarcinae are characteristic of dilatation of the stomach, in which condition they occur in large numbers. They are readily recognised in unstained preparations as retractile masses consisting of agglomerations of cocci pressed together so as to have a roughly cuboidal shape : the old comparison of the resulting mass to a bale of wool is a good one. Sarcinse are rarely found in large numbers in carcinoma of the stomach. Yeasts are frequently found in a variety of diseases, and appear to be able to grow in a larger percentage of hydrochloric acid than can most other micro-organisms. The Boas-Oppler bacillus is a form of lactic acid bacillus which is frequently found in cancer of the stomach, and is comparatively rare in other conditions : its presence in large numbers has, therefore, a considerable amount of diagnostic value. It is a rather large bacillus with parallel sides, and is grouped in long chains, the