50 CHAPTER V. TUMOURS OF THE NASO-PHARYNX. Tumours in the naso-pharynx may be either polypoid or sessile, simple or malignant. The ordinary naso-pharyngeal polypi may be simple fibro- mata, but, perhaps, most frequently they are fibro-sarcomata, and are very apt to recur unless carefully removed. They generally have a broad attachment to the under surface of the sphenoid, and often run forwards on to the posterior part of the roof of the nose. They are usually firm and contain large blood-vessels, especially venous sinuses, and the vessels do not lie in a sheath and therefore do not retract when divided ; hence, incision into one of these naso-pharyngeal polypi is usually followed by furious bleeding, which does not cease spontaneously. The naso-pharyn- geal polypi grow with varying rapidity according to their nature. They fill up the naso-pharynx, bulge down the soft palate and may even escape behind the latter and project into the pharynx itself ; they also grow forward into the posterior part of the nose. The surface frequently becomes abraded, and severe bleeding is common. Hence, it is necessary to attempt the removal of these tumours whenever this is possible. THBATMEISTT.—Attempts have been frequently made to remove these tumours by means of a wire loop, an ecraseur, or the galvanic wire, but they are not to be recommended. Apart from the difficulty of getting the loop round the base of the growth, the great objection is, that only the neck of the tumour is cut across and the base is left behind and bleeds severely, and later it tends to grow quickly. Hence, in most cases, it is well to expose the base of the tumour more thoroughly, and remove it along with the periosteum from which it grows. We shall here indicate the chief routes by which the polypi can be got at ; the actual details of these operations need not be given, because there is no urgency in the operation, as a rule, and the various plans can be considered at leisure. In one set of operations, the tumour is got at through the month. Of these probably the best is that introduced by Nelaton, which consists