CANCER 301 When the growth is situated near the pyloric end of the stomach, there is, in addition to the s\'mptoms proper to the growth, gradually increasing obstruction to the passage of the gastric contents and consequent dilatation of the stomach. When the growth is situated at the cardiac end, the entrance of food into the stomach is hindered, and the symptoms may be practically those of oesophageal obstruction. When the grow'th is situated in the body of the organ the symptoms proper to cancer of the stomach are chiefly in evidence. These are severe pain and dyspeptic symptoms combined with the most profound mal- nutrition. The patient is sallow and anaemic, loses flesh rapidly, and suffers to a marked degree from the cancerous cachexia. Vomiting is frequent, and the contents of the stomach show altered blood and absence of free hydrochloric acid. The latter point is one of the most marked symptoms of cancer of the stomach and is a valuable diagnostic point in deciding between it and gastric ulcer. The entire gastric mucous membrane is in a condition of chronic catarrh and rapidly atrophies. Free hydrochloric acid soon disappears and its place is taken by lactic acid resulting from the fermentation of the stomach contents ; these have a peculiarly offensive odour. The presence of the Oppler-Boas bacillus is extremely suspicious. Sometimes the tumour can be felt through the abdominal wall, but this is not always the case, either because the growth is small or because the organ is drawn up under the liver. Occasionally the weight of the tumour drags the stomach down into the abdomen and it is then (juite easily felt. When the growth is situated at the pyloric end it is generally small, but when on the anterior surface of the stomach it may attain a considerable size ; when at the cardiac end the growth cannot as a rule be felt unless it is very extensive. If a large bismuth meal is given and an X-ray photograph taken immediately afterwards, it may be possible to see the encroachment of the growth upon the lumen of the viscus ; this is not pathognomonic, however, as a similar appear- ance may be presented by perigastric adhesions or by spasm of the wall of the stomach. TREATMENT.—The treatment of cancer of the stomach may be either medical or surgical. As far as the former is concerned, it is limited to the treatment of the symptoms, and when no operation is advisable, the patient must be made as comfortable as possible, especially as regards l)ain. Surgical measures consist either in complete extirpation of the growth and any infected glands, or in some palliative procedure, chiefly with the view of relieving the obstruction to the passage of food. The surgical treatment suitable for cancer of the stomach will vary with the situation of the disease ; we may therefore consider first the treatment of cancer of the body of the stomach not causing obstruction at either urihce—the so-called non-obstructive cancer of the stomach ;