AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 340 with sterilised vaseline or pure paraffin in order to avoid damage to the epithelial coat. RELIEF OF THE OBSTRUCTION'.—After the obstruction has been found, the intestines should be packed out of the way and the state of matters carefully examined. Most frequently the cause of the strangulation is a band or an aperture in the omentum or mesentery, and if a band is found it must be divided. In long-standing cases the band itself may have become practically gangrenous and so soft that it tears through, and the obstruction is relieved immediately. If not, the band should be divided in the usual manner by inserting beneath it either a director or the finger, upon which it is divided with a herniotome. The two ends of the band should be seized in forceps and each end should be cut away as completely as possible after division, so as not to leave any loose tags which might adhere again and form fresh bands ; a thick band should be ligatured before division. Omental adhesions should be dealt with in a similar manner. When the constriction is due to the adhesion of some structure, such as the tip of the appendix or Meckel's diverticulum, it may suffice to detach the adherent end if the patient's condition is bad. If, however, the patient's condition will allow a prolongation of the operation, it is well to remove the diverticulum or the appendix in the usual manner (see Chap. XXVI.) so as to avoid recurrence of the trouble. When, however, the constriction is formed by a Meckel's diverticulum twisting itself around the intestine, this structure must be removed in spite of the extra time required, otherwise the obstruction will very probably recur. Any aperture in the omentum or mesentery should be dilated or enlarged by tearing, so as to permit the reduction of the herniated intestine, after which the slit is sewn up. Acute kinking of the bowel from ad- hesions is rectified by careful detachment of the adhesions, which is often a matter of extreme difficulty. If the bowel is adherent to the abdominal wall, the best plan is to leave a piece of the parietal peritoneum adherent to it rather than to attempt to peel it cleanly off the intestine, as the latter structure may easily rupture. If one portion of the intestine is adherent to the other, it will be necessary to separate the two and in doing so the greatest care is required to avoid tearing the bowel. Should no band or other common cause of strangulation be found, the various seats of internal hernia should be carefully examined. It is almost impossible to relieve strangulation at the foramen of Winslow when the hernia is of any size, because there is no part of the foramen that can be divided safely with the knife so as to relieve the obstruction. Hernia through a slit in the diaphragm is also very difficult to treat; peri-csecal hernife generally pull out easily, and we have already referred to Treitz's hernia (see p. 333). TREATMENT OF THE INTTESTINE.—The treatment of the bowel after relief of the strangulation will depend upon its condition