432 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES this passes off and all that is noticed subsequently is that there is a little difficulty in getting the bowels to act ; in others, it persists and ends fatally unless promptly remedied. The symptoms do not differ from those described in Chap. XXII. If the bowels become completely obstructed after an operation for suppurative appendicitis and the patient becomes distended and begins to vomit, it may be assumed that a kink is present. Treatment.—It is usually better to make a separate incision in the middle line in order to deal with this condition. Before doing this, the original wound should be packed and carefully covered up with a piece of gauze, wet with i in 2000 perchloride solution ; a piece of mackintosh should be applied over it, its inner border being stitched to the skin external to the proposed site of the fresh incision. The distended bowel is sought for and traced down to the point at which it is adherent. Some- times it is possible to detach this without breaking into the infected area ; in other cases this will not be possible, and it is then advisable not to attempt to detach it, but either to perform a lateral anastomosis, short- circuiting the kink, or to open the bowel above it. These procedures are carried out in the manner described in Chap. XXII. When an anastomosis is performed, the second wound can usually be closed throughout the greater part of its extent, but if any detachment of the kink has taken place it may be safer to put in a drainage tube, and to sew up the rest of the wound with through-and-through sutures so as to minimise the effect of a subsequent sepsis. If the patient is in a very bad condition when the operation is performed, and especially if the distension has lasted for some time, the anastomosis will probably not act properly, and the only thing to be done is to bring forward a coil of intestine above the kink, open it, introduce a Paul's tube and establish a temporary faecal fistula. This can be closed after recovery has taken place (see Chap. XXXI.). Residual abscess.—In some cases the symptoms continue after the operation, and this is often due to the presence of another abscess. In other cases an increase of the symptoms is observed after the tempera- ture and pulse have settled almost to normal, and a careful search should then be made for an abscess. This may be merely a loculus of pus in the neighbourhood of the operation wound, into which it ultimately ruptures, or there may be an abscess in the pelvis or beneath the diaphragm. The directions in which the pus may spread are referred to on p. 403. These abscesses may be completely shut off from the original wound or they may communicate with it by a narrow canal. In the latter case the discharge of pus is often profuse and the surgeon may be led to think that the symptoms are due to general septic absorption rather than to a localised abscess, the discharge being so copious that it is difficult to realise that sufficient drainage has not been obtaii:ied. It must be borne in mind, however, that a badly drained