448 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES ting it for the removal of fluid. When tlie entire abdomen is affected, the adhesions are most marked near the diaphragm. The omentum is early involved ; its layers become matted together and the whole structure becomes thickened and shrunken and, in the advanced stages, forms a sausage-like mass lying more or less transversely about the level of the umbilicus. It is generally adherent to the abdominal wall at this point. The omentum contains numerous tubercles in its .substance and scattered over its surface, while the mesentery is thickened and shrunken and drags the small intestine up towards its root, so that, when fluid is present, it generally collects towards the left side of the abdomen. It is seldom that any large quantity of free fluid is present in these cases, but encapsuled collections are not uncommon. The mesenteric glands are also enlarged, though not as a rule cheesy. The spleen is frequently enlarged. 3. In the third group, which is a very grave one, the masses are larger and are undergoing caseation. The mesenteric glands are large and caseous, the omentum is often converted into a caseating mass, and similar masses form in the adhesions which bind the intestines together. The contraction and distortion of the bowel, the shrinking of the mesentery and the other changes mentioned under the second form are much more marked. This condition is usually associated with ulceration of the intestine, which is tliinned and may even be perforated in places, while in others several strictures (some of them quite tight) may be present and may cause more or less obstruction. Collections of fluid are not uncommon ; they are usually encapsuled and generally purulent, the pus presenting all the characters of ordinary tuberculous pus. In some cases, however, it is foul and contains the Bacillus colt communis either from infection through the intestinal walls or from actual perfora- tion of the intestine. In young children these abscesses are most common near the umbilicus, through which pus may find its way and lead to the formation of a sinus or even a faecal fistula. As the latter is often high up in the small intestine the child rapidly emaciates. The above are the chief types of tuberculous peritonitis, but inter- mediate varieties are met with. The affection may be localised, especially in connection with tuberculous perityphlitis or disease of the Fallopian tubes, and the mass thus formed has frequently been mistaken for a tumour; in the csecal region such masses may give rise to more or less complete obstruction. Apart from these cases the essential trouble may consist of masses of tuberculous glands in the mesentery, some calcareous and some suppura- ting, without any eruption of tubercles on the peritoneum. Although these cases hardly come under the heading of tuberculous peritonitis proper, it is perhaps best to include them here. The affection may occur at any age, but it is most frequent between the ages of twenty and thirty-five ; it is common in children, but com- paratively rare after thirty-five. Difference of opinion exists as to