211 EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY doses of liquid paraffin twice a day are also helpful. When very much discomfort or distension of the bowel is present and the seat of the operation is above the large intestine, considerable relief may be obtained by passing a long tube up the bowel, or by the use of enemata, such as a pint of soap-and-water containing two ounces of turpentine or an ounce of turpentine and half an ounce of tincture of assafoetida. A very excellent enema is one containing three drams of confection of rue and twenty ounces of infusion of chamomile. A smaller enema may be used consisting of twenty minims of oil of rue to six oimces of emulsion of starch. Relief of severe flatulence may sometmies be obtained by the adminis- tration of eserine salicylate (gr. every four hours for five or six doses), and also by the employment of pituitary extract. When the large intestine has been resected or opened, enemata are not safe, because they may reach the seat of union, and, especially if containing irritating substances such as turpentine, may endanger the healing. In the third class of cases, it is well not to use purgatives in the first instance, and it is better to wait until about the end of the second or third day before giving medicine by the mouth. Relief from flatulence can usually be obtained by the enemata referred to in the previous para- graph, the insertion of the long rectal tube, or the administration of eserine or pituitary extract. Great care must be taken not to force the feeding of the patient ; as a rule, he can do without a large amount of nutriment for several days—water, or albumen water, or milk and water being administered in small quantities; the thirst may be allayed by saline rectal enemata. Any special points in the after-treatment will be referred to in connection with the various diseases. EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY. Laparotomy is performed under varying circumstances, but consider- ing the difficulty of making an accurate diagnosis in abdominal diseases, there is always a certain element of doubt as to what will be found, and therefore in a certain sense all laparotomies are exploratory, and the surgeon must always be prepared for some condition other than the one he expects. The term ' exploratory laparotomy ' is usually applied, however, to cases in which there is great uncertainty as to the diagnosis, and the operation is performed with the view of clearing it up. The conditions under which the operation is done and its technique vary according as it is done for an acute or a chronic disease. Wlien the condition is acute and the surgeon is satisfied that he has to do with a surgical affection and not with a general medical ailment, no time should be wasted in investigations to determine the finer diagnosis, e.g. between P 2