ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 333 diverticulum to the intestine, mesentery, or abdominal wall ; or again, without any previous peritonitis, a long Meckel's diverticulum or an appendix may coil itself around a portion of the intestine and so produce strangulation. Again—possibly following some injury to the abdomen or some abdominal operation—an aperture may be formed in the omentum or the mesentery, through which intestine may pass and become strangulated. The portion of bowel strangulated beneath a band is practically always some part of the small intestine, usually the lower end of the ileum, and it is very important to remember this in searching for the obstruction. The most distended coils generally accumulate in the middle line at or below the umbilicus, and the seat of strangulation is very commonly to the right of this, and somewhere in the neighbourhood of the caecum. Similar symptoms may be caused by her nice, both external and internal, and the hernial apertures should always be investigated before operating. The question of strangulated external hernia is considered in connection with hernia in general (see Chap. XXIX). Much more rarely there may be an internal hernia. Among the common seats of true internal hernife the following may be mentioned : Hernia may occur through the foramen of Winslow into the lesser peritoneal cavity, but this is extremely rare. Treitz's hernia or hernia into the fossa duodeno-jejiinalis (see Fig. 120) is more common. There are two forms of this hernia, termed right- and left-sided. In the ' right-sided ' cases the bowel passes into a fossa formed by a fold of peritoneum behind the junction of the duodenum with the jejunum, and although in the normal state this is a depression only admitting the thumb, it may become gradually dilated until a large loop of the intestine can pass into it. The other form is ' left-sided,' and is situated in the meso-colon, and is bounded by the vascular arch formed by the left colic artery and the inferior mesenteric vein as they come in contact and cross each other. Here it is impossible to enlarge the opening by cutting. The sac in these cases has a narrow orifice, and as the hernia enlarges, this travels downwards and to the right, so that finally it may lie in the neiglibourhood of the caecum. The inferior mesenteric vein lies in the anterior margin of the neck of the sac, and the left colic artery above and in front of it, and should it be necessary to operate on a case of this kind, the neck of tlie sac can only be safely divided in the downward direction. A very rare form of internal hernia, known as the inler-sigmoid variety, occurs in the fossa formed by the layers of the sigmoid meso-colon situated about the bifurcation of the iliac vessels and to the left side of the sigmoid meso-colon. A fourth form is peri-ccccalliernia. which, may be of three varieties—namely, the ileo-colic form which occurs in the fossa situated in the angle between the ileum and the commencement of the ascending colon, the ileo-csecal situated further back, and the sub- caecal behind the caecum. Diaphragmatic hernia, usually occui^ through