CHAPTER XXXV. 532 INJURIES OF THE RECTUM : FOREIGN BODIES. INJURIES. Injuries of the rectum are not very common, but are very serious when they occur. They may be met with in association with fractures of the pelvis (more particularly fractures of the sacrum) and also as the result of the penetration of foreign bodies from below. Lacerations of the rectum, produced by fractures of the pelvis or sacrum, are of extreme gravity, as a communication is established between the intestine and the fractured bones, and this will often result in an osteo- myelitis and a spreading pelvic cellulitis, which is generally fatal. The rectum may also be completely torn across, and here the result is usually the same. The patient is often so collapsed that any attempt to carry out the obvious line of treatment—namely, the repair of the injury to the rectum and the cleansing of the peritoneal cavity—is out of the question. Penetrating wounds of the rectum—The%& may be due to the pene- tration of a foreign body, as when the patient falls in the sitting position on to a pole or a stick. Minor degrees of wounds of the rectum are also produced by foreign bodies introduced into the bowel. These wounds may be complicated with injury of the bladder. The seriousness of an injury of this kind depends upon whether or not there is a communication between the lumen of the bowel and the peri-rectal cellular tissue or the peritoneal cavity. When" the mucous membrane alone is injured the prognosis is not very grave, the chief risk being haemorrhage, which may be free and which is especially serious from the fact that it may go on for a long time unnoticed, because the contraction of the sphincter may prevent the escape of blood externally, and considerable distension of the rectum with blood-clot may occur. TREATMENT.—This will vary according as the injury to the rectum is associated with fracture of the pelvis or with rupture of the bladder, or extends into the peritoneal cavity or into the peri-rectal