STRICTURE 171 SYPHILIS. This is also a rare condition, but tertiary ulceration of the mucous membrane or gummata in the oesophageal wall may be met with. The chief symptom is dysphagia; the diagnosis is difficult and is practically only made because of a previous history of syphilis, by the presence of a positive Wassermann reaction, and by finding that improvement occurs under antisyphilitic treatment and that there is no characteristic sign of cancer. It must, however, be remembered that in the majority of cases the patient is old and worn out, and the syphilitic affection may be the forerunner of a cancerous one. The treatment should be the general treatment of syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XL), combined with the routine passage of bougies (see p. 173) to avoid any coiistriction. STRICTURE. Difficulty in swallowing may be due to causes external to the gullet, such as pressure from new growths in the mediastinum or the neck, from tumours originating in the vertebrae, or from an aneurysm of the large vessels. It may also be caused by changes in the oesophageal walls, the result of inflammatory conditions or new growths, or it may follow blocking of the tube by foreign bodies in the interior. Finally, it may be a purely nervous affection, due either to paralysis, or, much more frequently, to spasm of the oesophageal muscle. All these causes must be borne in mind by the surgeon who investi- gates a case of difficulty in swallowing. The most important of all is the possibility of the affection being due to the pressure of a thoracic aneurysm, and therefore in every case the surgeon must examine the chest and satisfy himself that no aneurysm is present before any attempt at treatment or diagnosis by passing an instrument is undertaken. Neglect of this precaution has led to the most lamentable accidents, as a bougie passed down the oesophagus, even with great gentleness, may readily find its way into the sac of an aneurysm which has so thinned and softened the oesophageal wall by pressure that the slightest touch will perforate it. As a large aneurysm may exist without its presence being revealed by the ordinary methods of percussion and auscultation, an X-ray examination should be made before instruments are passed. SIMPLE CICATRICIAL STRICTURE. This is usually the result of some ulceration of the mucous membrane such as that produced by caustics, by the long-continued impaction of foreign bodies in the oesophagus, or by [syphilitic or tuberculous disease.