AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE io8 present in it. If enlarged glands are present, they should be removed and a slice of the parotid gland taken with them. All the fat, fascia and glands below the spinal accessory are next removed right back into the posterior triangle. The glands are usually not markedly enlarged in this situation and are readily peeled down with a blunt dissector or the finger ; only an occasional touch of the knife or the scissors is required. When the glandular area ha.s been removed, all the structures in the anterior triangle of the neck should be visible, and the carotid artery and the vagus nerve should be pulled aside to see whether there are enlarged glands behind them. The various structures in the submaxillary region are also seen. The under-surface of the sterno-mastoid should be stripped bare of its fascia, and the deeper muscles of the neck should also be seen devoid of theu" fascial covering. The divided sterno-mastoid is then united with catgut in the ordinary manner (see Vol. II. p. 62). Clearance of the submental and submaxillary regions.—As a rule it is not necessary to interfere with the submental area unless enlarged glands are present in the submaxillary triangle or unless the growth is situated near the tip of the tongue or on or below the frenum. When this is the case, however, the submental or both submaxillary regions should be cleared. If there is any reason to fear infection of the anterior triangle, the incision should be carried out to the sterno- mastoid muscle and another incision made parallel to the anterior edge of that muscle, as already described. These areas are most conveniently cleared by an incision parallel to and a little below the lower border of the jaw, running from angle to angle and curving downwards at its extremities. The flap is turned downwards and exposes the whole area. The submaxillary regions are cleared in the manner described above. The glands in the submental region are partly superficial to, and partly beneath and between, the genio- hyoid muscles. After the superficial fat and fascia have been removed the latter muscles should be separated and the fat and glands beneath them taken away. After-treatment.—When the wound does not communicate with the mouth no drainage tube is required. The incision is closed by a con- tinuous suture and the ordinary antiseptic dressings are applied, a large mass of wool being put on at the time of the operation so as to act as a splint and keep the parts at rest. When the wound communicates with the mouth, drainage must be employed, and the tubes should be brought out at the most dependent part, one at any rate being made to emerge in the posterior triangle through a button-hole in the skin. THE TREATMENT OF INOPERABLE CASES. A patient dying of inoperable cancer of the tongue is in such a pitiable condition that if possible something must be done to relieve him. The