454 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES lasted for some time or (in the case of intestinal tuberculosis), the gut has become narrowed and symptoms of obstruction are present ; as a matter of fact, there were symptoms of commencing stricture before operation in Mr. Mayo Robson's cases. It does not seem probable that there is much of a future for short-circuit operations in intestinal tuberculosis apart from obstruction. The extent of the mischief is variable and a large portion of the alimentary canal might have to be shut out and, further, the operation will not give complete rest to the intestine unless there is marked obstruction, as a large portion of the contents will still pass through the ulcerated bowel. Treatment of a fsecal fistula.—Here operation is practically hopeless. Suppuration followed by feecal fistula occurs especially in the very bad caseating forms in which the intestine is not in a fit condition for repair ; generally also the patient is in a very low state of health and the chances are probably equally good if he is left alone. Quite a considerable number of these fistulse close if the condition of the patient improves. CHRONIC NON-TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. A sub-acute non-suppurative peritonitis may occur as the result of rupture of an hydatid cyst into the peritoneal cavity. This is often followed by symptoms of acute poisoning, probably from some toxic substance in the fluid effused, and this may be dangerous to the patient if the fluid is not evacuated ; a certain amount of peritonitis is also set up, which may lead to the formation of adhesions. In these cases the sooner the peritoneum is opened, the cyst removed or drained, and the abdomen washed out with saline solution, the better. Rupture of an ovarian cyst may lead to an attack of peritonitis which tends to fix the cyst. This is more marked if the cyst is a proliferating one, in which case villous growths quickly form over the peritoneum. In these cases the abdomen should be opened as soon as possible after the rupture, the cyst removed, and the effused fluid washed out. A generalised chronic peritonitis also accompanies peritoneal cancer, which usually follows extension of a growth through the peritoneal coat of the bowel or some other viscus ; it may arise, however, without any primary focus outside. Ascites rapidly develops, but there is no marked tendency to the formation of adhesions. For these cases nothing can be done except to perform paracentesis if the abdomen becomes so much distended with fluid as to affect the action of the heart or lungs. Localised chronic peritonitis also occurs over ulcers and inflammations of the stomach, intestines, and other viscera, leading to the exudation of lymph and the formation of adhesions. We have already referred to the gravity of these adhesions in certain cases, and have pointed out that they may compress the organs over which they have formed, e.g. the