4o8 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES in the first instance in the immediate neighbourhood of the appendix, but rapidly spreading over the whole abdomen. Unless speedy relief be obtained by operation, the patient develops an acute general septic peritonitis. In other cases there may be sufficient old and fresh adhesions to localise the infection, and, if the patient survives the profound toxaemia, an abscess may develop. Suppuration may occur in connection with any of the severe forms of appendicitis just mentioned, and it may or may not be associated with perforation of the appendix. The cases in which there is no perforation, at any rate at first, must be kept distinct from the former ; in them suppuration is not the initial occurrence, but takes place after a period of peritonitis giving rise to a matting of the intestines around the appendix, which is thus shut off from the general peritoneal cavity. The pus generally contains the Bacillus coli comnmnis and pyogenic cocci, and it is not certain which organism is the more active agent in producing the suppuration. The symptoms vary very much in severity. As a rule they commence quite acutely and present all the symptoms of ordinary acute appendicitis in the first instance. There is often a rigor at the onset, although this is not essential, nor does it necessarily indicate suppuration ; it is always, however, a suspicious feaiure. After two or three days, the patient, instead of improving as he should do, were the case of the non-suppurative form, continues ill, the temperature remains high, the tenderness increases not only in severity, but in extent, the rigidity on the right side becomes very marked, and a distinct lump, more or less hard in character, may be felt. This lump may be dull on percussion, but it may sometimes be more or less tympanitic. In the great majority of cases, we may assume that, if the acute symptoms last for five days without improve- ment, suppuration has occurred, and the absence of general peritonitic symptoms implies that this is taking the form of a localised abscess; in young children suppuration occurs more rapidly than in adults. In some cases suppuration sets in after the third or fourth day and then marks the occurrence of a perforation ; the appendix is by that time shut off and only a localised abscess develops. An increase in the severity of the symptoms and the onset of suppuration is often set up by injudicious attempts to obtain an action of the bowels. The patient is prone to attribute his troubles to constipation, and either he or his medical attendant attempts to overcome this by strong purgatives ; there is nothing more calculated to convert a simple into a suppurative appendicitis. It must not, however, be supposed that, when the symptoms are less severe, suppuration will not occur. It is not at all uncommon for the symptoms to improve after the second or third day, and for the tempera- ture to fall almost to normal, and then to become irregular ; the occurrence of an irregular temperature, several days after the commence- ment of an acute appendicitis which has temporarily improved, almost