256 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH of the ulcer may be obtained by noticing the position of greatest ease ; for example, if the dorsal position is the most comfortable, the probability is that the ulcer is situated on the anterior wall of the stomach ; if lying on the right side gives most ease, it is probable that the ulcer is near the cardiac end and vice versa. The pain is in the middle line, and when the ulcer is near the cardiac end of the stomach it is generally complained of in the upper part of the epigastrium ; when it is at the centre of the viscus, it is near the middle, and when at the pyloric end, at the lower part of the same region. When the ulcer is on the anterior wall, there is marked tenderness in the epigastrium; when on the posterior surface, the tender spot is to the left of the last dorsal spine. Vomiting commonly occurs at some period in the course of a gastric ulcer, but its diagnostic importance is comparatively slight as it occurs so frequently in many other affections. If present it generally sets in some considerable time after food. It is invariably present when an ulcer in the region of the pylorus has cicatrised and the stomach has undergone dilatation, and then large quantities of food in a state of decomposition and undergoing yeasty fermentation are vomited at irregular and infrequent intervals. Bleeding is the most certain sign of ulcer of the stomach, but it may be entirely absent, and even its presence is not certain evidence of the presence of a visible ulcer (see p. 252). When it is slight it is dangerous, more from the anemia produced by the constant recurrence of the bleeding than from the actual loss of blood at any given time. In other cases the haemorrhage is very grave and the patient may actually die from loss of blood, although this is very rare. Haemorrhage from the stomach may occur in malignant disease and in other conditions such as cirrhosis of the liver, but the occurrence of occasional attacks of haemorrhage from the stomach accompanied by pain and vomiting in a young chlorotic woman is almost pathognomonic of a gastric ulcer. Hyper-acidity of the gastric contents due to an excess of free hydrochloric acid, is an almost constant feature in the acute stages of the affection, but is not diagnostic in itself and is not invariably present. TREATMENT.—In the early stages, the treatment is essentially a matter for the physician, but when the disease is established surgical measures are being adopted in an increasing number of cases and often with the greatest benefit. We may summarise the chief circumstances under which the surgeon may be called in :— 1. When the symptoms are long-continued and do not yield to medical treatment, and particularly when profound anaemia is resulting from the repeated haemorrhages. 2. To arrest haemorrhage that threatens life. 3. When perforation has occurred. 4. To treat a sub-phrenic abscess. 5. To relieve constriction of the pylorus or an hour-glass contraction.