EPITHELIOMA 8i important that the same precautions should be taken to disinfect instru- ments, hands, etc., as are employed in operations through unbroken skin. Although organisms abound in the mouth, many of them are compara- tively harmless, and it is essential to avoid the risk of introducing more virulent ones from without. Another point of importance is to diminish the amount of sepsis present in the mouth before operation. These cancerous ulcers are often excessively foul, and there is much putrid material not only on the surface of the sore but also between the teeth and in the folds of the mouth, and this may soil the cut surface extensively during removal of the tongue. Hence attention should be directed to the hygiene of the mouth for some days before the operation. The patient should cleanse the mouth frequently with mouth-washes, such as boro-glyceride (3j to the oz. of water), strong sanitas solution or peroxide of hydrogen (lo to 20 vols.). The teeth should be scaled and stumps removed, and the folds between the gum and the cheek, and the gum and the tongue, should be cleansed with antiseptic lotions. It is on and between the teeth that the septic material mostly accumulates, and this accumulation is facilitated by the fixity of the tongue so often present. It is well to put the patient into the dentist's hands a few days before operation. It has been recommended that the patient should undergo preliminary vaccine treatment against those organisms in his mouth to which his opsonic index is unduly low. Theoretically this is very plausible, but in practice it is of doubtful value, and it wiU hardly ever be wise to spend the comparatively long time required for the investigation and carrying out of this treatment. It is always important to remove a cancer of the tongue as soon as possible. We have employed preliminary injections of anti-streptococciis serum (see Practitioner, April 1897) with the view of diminishing the risk of sepsis. The chief organism concerned in septic troubles after these operations is the streptococcus pyogenes, and it seems worth while to administer this serum beforehand, so as to render the patient less susceptible to the streptococcus rather than to wait until it has gained a footing in the tissues. At the time of the operation the ulcer itself should be painted over with undiluted carbolic acid, or seared with the actual cautery, before any incision is made. Care must be taken to prevent the acid from coming in contact with the healthy mucous membrane, and the tongue should be pulled as far out as possible before it is applied. The risk of sepsis may also be diminished by planning the operation so that part, if not the whole, of the wound in the mouth may be subse- quently closed by stitches. It used to be the custom to leave a large raw surface after removal of half or the whole of the tongue, which necessarily became the seat of septic infection, so that it is not surprising that in many cases the organisms spread into the cellular tissue between the muscular planes and gave rise to serious constitutional disturbance. If IV. G