143 RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS the swelling projects markedly into the pharynx, it may not be feasible to give an anaesthetic. Under these circumstances the child should be firmly pinioned in a blanket or jack-towel and held almost inverted, or at any rate with the head very low, while a suitable gag such as Doyen's (see Fig. 27) is introduced. The forefinger of the left hand is then passed well back over the dorsum of tlie tongue, which is depressed and hooked forward out of the way, and a cleft-palate knife, or a guarded bistoury (see p. 129) with the cutting edge downwards is plunged into the abscess cavity in the middle line so as to open it freely. The escape of the pus from the mouth is facilitated by the above position ; pus can hardly find its way into the air passages. After the operation it is only necessary to have the back of the throat sprayed or swabbed out frequently with sanitas or Condy's fluid. ACUTE RETRO-PHARYNGEAL OR PREVERTEBRAL ABSCESS. This is due to acute suppuration in the lymphatic glands in front of the prevertebral muscles. The posterior pharyngeal wall is displaced forwards by the swelling, which is usually situated to one side of the middle line. TREATMENT.—The abscess should be opened from behind the sterno-mastoid muscle in the manner described below, and a drainage tube inserted into the cavity. CHRONIC (tuberculous) RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. Chronic tuberculous abscesses occur at the back and sides of the pharynx and are usually the result of tuberculous disease of the cervical vertebrae. Sometimes, however, they may be due to suppuration in tuberculous post-pharyngeal (prevertebral) glands. The abscess pushes forwards the posterior pharyngeal wall and narrows the throat and may be large enough to interfere with swallowing and breathing ; it may be situated to one side. If left alone, it extends into the neck, hut before long it may burst into the pharynx, giving rise to a septic tuberculous sinus. This is especially the case when the abscess depends upon disease of the spine ; a painful foul ulcer is then formed on the posterior pharyngeal wall, with a pouch behind it in which septic material collects, and the patient goes steadily downhill. TREATMENT.—If the abscess is opened from the outside, the contents washed out and iodoform emulsion injected, it does as well as a chronic abscess elsewhere, and it may also be possible to get at the tuberculous focus in the spine and to treat it appropriately, removing sequestra and scraping out the cavity. Under no circumstances whatever should a chronic abscess of this kind be opened from the pharynx. Even when there is considerable dyspnoea, there is always time to open the