AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 74 indurated without any marked ulceration and without being warty, and the disease progresses slowly and resembles in its characters the atrophic scirrhus of the breast. The cancer is at first superficial and the patient's attention may only be drawn to it by some slight pain or interference with mastication or articulation. The disease spreads not only superficially along the mucous membrane, but also deeply into the muscles, and before long this leads to difficulty in protruding the organ ; this is most marked when the disease occurs far back. When the growth is situated on the edge of the tongue or floor of the mouth, it spreads not only on to the dorsum, but also, and often chiefly, along the floor of the mouth and thence to the mucous membrane covering the lower jaw, the periosteum and bone being soon affected. When situated at the back of the tongue, the growth spreads to the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, to the tonsil and anterior pillar of the fauces, the pharynx, and the orifice of the larynx, and upwards on to the soft palate ; so that in cases of extensive cancer of the base of the tongue there may also be disease of the tonsil, fauces, and soft palate. In other cases the disease in the tongue in this situation is secondary to a primary focus in the palatal or tonsillar regions. When the growth spreads from the tongue to the floor of the mouth or commences in the latter situation, it affects the lymphatic glands early, and the sublingual salivary glands also become infiltrated. Removal of the tongue alone, even at a very early stage, seldom arrests the disease altogether. It may not recur in the mouth, but it almost invariably does so in the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The greater severity of the disease when it occurs in the tongue may be partly due to great suitability of the soil for the growth of epithelium, but is also partly the result of the early infiltration of the lingual muscles. When cancer attacks a muscle it soon becomes diffusely distributed over it by way of the lymphatic vessels as a consequence of the muscular movements. In cancer affecting the side of the tongue, the hyoglossus is liable to early infiltration, while in the more centrally and deeply situated growths, it is the genio-hyoglossus that is most involved. This point has a most important bearing on the extent of the operation necessary in these cases, and more especially on the question of partial operations. The lymphatic glands first affected vary according to the seat of the primary disease in the tongue. In cancer of the tip, the frenum and the anterior part of the floor of the mouth, the submental glands are first affected, and after them those in the submaxillary region. In cancer oj the middle of the tongue and floor of the mouth, the glands in the sub- maxillary region will generally be first enlarged. The submaxillary salivary gland itself usually escapes, but there are lymphatic glands in intimate connection with it which soon become enlarged. The disease