APPENDICITIS 423 probablj/ not have reached and become adherent to the anterior abdominal vvah. Finahy, we shall discuss the treatment of various complications which may arise during the treatment of the case. 1. Operation during the first period.—In all operations performed during the acute stage the opening must be free and the surgeon must see what he is doing. Hence during this period the vertical incision through the linea semilunaris is the best. The further procedures depend on the condition which is present. In most cases a little fluid escapes when the peritoneum is opened, but if it is clear or only slightly turbid it does not necessarily imply infection of the peritoneum, and may be disregarded. In a good many cases operated on within a few hours of the onset of the symptoms, the inflammation in the appendix may not yet have reached the peritoneal coat, and in that case the further procedures are the same as in the operation in the quiescent stage, and the wound in the abdominal wall may be subsequentlv stitched up in layers without a drainage tube. If the fluid which escapes is turbid and the condition of the peritoneum is suspicious, it is best to leave in a medium-sized drainage tube leading down to the bed in which the appendix lay. If after two or three days there is no sign of sepsis the tube is removed and the wound allowed to close. If sepsis should occur, the part will in all probability be shut off by that time ; but the drainage tube should be retained and gradually shortened as in an ordinary septic wound. If it is found that the appendix has ruptured, the wound must be enlarged for a sufficient distance to give thorough access, the healthy intestines packed away by a roll of gauze, the appendix removed, and the cavity in which it lay thoroughly mopped out. A large drainage tube is introduced to the bottom of the wound, and some gauze packed around it in the manner described on p. 426 and the wound left open. One or two through-and-through stitches (see p. 219) may be introduced at eacli end of the wound in order to diminish its size, but no buried stitches should be employed, otherwise they may become infected and have to be extruded from the wound before healing is complete. We cannot convince ourselves that it is good practice, as advised by some, simply to mop out the cavity and close the abdominal wall without drainage in these cases as if the case were in the quiescent stage. 2. Operation during the second period.—In these cases a swelling may or may not be felt befoi'e the abdomen is opened. If present, it will be composed of intestines and omentum matted around the appendix, and there may or may not be pus in the middle of it. When no distinct lump is felt, the usual oblique incision is made, its centre corresponding to the supposed situation of the appendix, and the muscles may be separated, care, however, being taken that in doing so the surgeon does not press inwards, lest he should displace pus. When the peritoneum has been opened, the edges of the wound are retracted, and