521 METHODS OF EXAMINATION transversely to the long axis of the bowel, the most important of which are known as Houston's folds. The lowest projects from the left-hand wall of the rectum opposite the prostate ; the middle one projects from the right-hand wall about 3 inches above the anus, wliilst the upper one projects from the left-hand wall near tlie commencement of the rectum. When the bowel is empty these folds stand out about half an inch from the rectal wall and overlap one another, and they thus serve to keep the pressure of the rectal contents off the sphincter. There are also longitudinal folds (the columns of Morgagni) prolonged upwards from the radiating folds about the anus, which are united at their lower ends by small valvular folds of mucous membrane, and serve to prevent the escape of the liquid contents of the bowel. It is amongst these folds that a fissure of the anus usually occurs. The arterial supply of the rectum is derived partly from the mesenteric and partly from the internal iliac vessels. The entire upper part is supplied by the superior hfemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery, the mucous membrane of tlie middle part is supplied by the same vessel, while the rest of the wall is supplied by the middle hcnemorrhoidal branch of the internal iliac ; the lower part is supplied by the inferior haemorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic. These vessels perforate the muscular coats and run down vertically in the sub-mucous tissue, anasto- mosing freely with one another by cross branches. The veins about the anus form the ha.'morrhoidal plexus, and run vertically upwards, passing through slits in the muscular walls ; they are without valves, and therefore the circulation in them is readily interfered with by distension of the bowel. The lower veins join the systemic circulation, the upper ones empty into the inferior mesenteric vein, and thence into the portal circulation. There is free communication between the two sets of veins, so that an obstruction to the hepatic circulation may give rise to distension of the plexus, and consequently to hfemorrhoids. The arrangement of the vessels above described is best seen in the lower four inches of the bowel. The lymphatic vessels of the rectum proper pass into the internal iliac group in the lateral wall of the pelvis. From the pelvic colon they run to the glands between the layers of the meso-sigmoid. The nerve supply is from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic, and this is reinforced by branches of the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, the supply from the last-named being most abundant. METHODS OF EXAMINATION. The physical examination of the rectum may be carried out either by palpation or by inspection. Inspection of the external parts is eifected by separating the folds of the anus and making the patient strain while he l)ends over the back