AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 8 need not be removed until the sixth or seventh week ; it lies comfortably around the necks of the teeth and causes no inconvenience if the hygiene of the mouth is duly attended to. It is removed by cutting the main wire opposite each tooth. In aU cases, free and frequent irrigation of the mouth with sanitas or boric lotion wiU be necessary. {b) Fractures situated behind the last Molar.—In these cases the lower jaw must be kept closely applied to the upper while the fracture con- solidates. This is done by a jaw bandage which is made from a strip of cahco three inches wide and a yard long (see Fig. 4). A small slit is cut in the centre of this for the reception of the chin, and a four-tailed bandage is then made by splitting up each end to within a couple of inches of the central sUt. When ap- plying the bandage, the point of the chin should lie in the central orifice. The upper limb of the bandage is carried horizontally backwards, and the ends are knotted together beneath the external occipital protuberance, while its lower limbs are carried vertically upwards and knotted over the vertex in front of the bregma; the ends of the vertical and horizontal limbs are then tied together so as to prevent the anterior strips from sUp- ping forward."' 1 Before applying the band- FiG. 4.—Jaw Bandage. The lower limb of the ™ attempts should be made bandage should be tied immediately below the external ° ' -"^ _ occipital protuberance. by manipulation to entangle the broken surfaces so that the bandage simply has to keep the parts at rest after they are placed in position. In some cases a moulded gutta-percha splint is applied to the chin inside the bandage, but as a rule this is a source of annoyance and is of little advantage, except when the patient is restless or delirious. The saliva often dribbles away in these cases and soils the bandage rapidly, so that it requires changing frequently. When there are no teeth in the posterior part of the jaw, a modification of Gunning's splint may sometimes be modelled upon the alveolar margins so as to keep the jaws in position when fixed by the bandage, spaces being left for feeding. The patient should be kept on a liquid diet, administered by means