ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 347 its most prominent portion, a small incision made into it, and the contents evacuated (see p. 343). It will then be possible to manipulate it easily. After the loop has been emptied, the small hole should be cleansed and sutured before proceeding further with the operation. It is seldom that the colon above is so distended as to interfere with the subsequent steps of the operation, but if so, it should be brought out over the side of the abdomen and its contents evacuated in turn ; it is, however, a difficult matter to get the descending colon well out of the abdomen, and in most cases the opening must be made in the transverse colon. When the twisted loop has been emptied, it is carefully examined to see in what direction the twist is, whether from right to left or vice versa, Fig. i2y.—Paul's Tube as used to establish a temporary F/Ecal Fistula. The introduction of the purse-string suture is shown in A ; instead of occluding the lumen of the loop by means of the fingers of an assistant, as shown above, one or two pairs of intestinal clamp forceps or Lane's clamps may be used. When the suture is in place the bowel is opened, the tube is inserted and tied in, and the loop of bowel is fastened to the skin as is shown in B. and whether the loop is twisted round itself or whether one coil of intestine is twisted round another. In order to untwist it, the whole mass should be grasped between the surgeon's two hands and rotated bodily in the opposite direction to that in which the volvulus has occurred. If the twist is recent, the lumen of the bowel is at once restored, and there is no great risk of recurrence. When, however, it has lasted for several hours, the tissues around the neck of the volvulus are much infiltrated with lymph, and not only is the unwinding very difficult and unsatis- factory, but the coil is apt to re-wind again as soon as the pressure is released ; in order to get it untwisted the adhesions should first be gradually separated by the finger. To prevent recurrence, it is a good plan to pass a large-sized thick india-rubber drainage tube through the anus and rectum well up into the sigmoid and leave it in positicni for at least