AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 56 the tongue. K purge (calomel gr. v or mist. alb. gjss) should be adminis- tered, and an antiseptic mouth-wash (boric acid, sanitas, or Condy's fluid), as hot as the patient can bear it, should be used every half hour. If the case is acute, but without embarrassment to respiration, four or five leeches (see Vol. I. p. 5) may be applied externally over the hyoid region. Should these measures fail to relieve the swelling, or should the latter become so marked as to give rise to dyspnoea, the best plan is to make free incisions into the tongue under a general anaesthetic ; gas or gas and oxygen will usually suffice. The incisions should be made on the dorsum of the tongue, on one or both sides, according as half or the whole is affected, and should run parallel to the long axis of the tongue through- out its whole length, extending well down into the muscular tissue. Bleeding should be encouraged by the employment of hot boric mouth- washes. The object of the incisions is to favour free escape of the oedematous fluid, and so diminish the swelling of the tongue. Abscess of the Tongue.—Abscess most commonly forms between the genio-hyoglossus muscles, so that by pulling up the tongue with forceps, incising the mucous membrane a little to one side of the middle line (taking care to keep well internal to the ranine artery), and then pushing sinus forceps into the substance of the tongue in the direction of the abscess, the pus can be evacuated. A free opening should be made and the wound kept open by introducing a strip of gauze into the cavity ; this should be changed twice daily until the cavity has contracted sufficiently. The condition will subside quickly unless the infection is streptococcal, when the condition known as Ludwig's angina (see Chap. X.) may set in. ACUTE SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS. 1. The most common form of acute superficial glossitis is that met with in connection with the growth of the ' oidium albicans ' in the mucous membrane in children and weakly adults—the affection known as ' thrush.' In this condition whitish spots appear on the mucous membrane of the tongue, palate, cheek, tonsils, or pharynx ; they increase in size rapidly, and coalesce to form fairly large patches. The patient generally feels ill, and there is usually diarrhoea. In adults the affection is most common in those who are prostrated by severe disease such as phthisis. 2. Acute superficial glossitis often accompanies ulceration of the mucous membrane of the mouth—the so-called ulcerative stomatitis. 3. An eruption of herpes may occur on one half of the tongue leading to a superficial inflammation accompanied by the formation of vesicles and minute ulcers. Acute superficial glossitis may also occur in connection with foot-and- mouth disease.