468 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES shape of the pad should be specified when ordering, together with some idea of the amount of force required to keep the hernia in position. The latter point is ascertained by reducing the hernia, keeping the thumb or forefinger over the orifice, and making the patient cough or strain. The size of the ring is also an important point and should always accom- pany the instructions to the instrument-maker. The surgeon should never leave the choice of the kind of truss to the instrument-maker. In applying the truss the patient should lie down and reduce the hernia, which he usually does readily after a little practice. While he is in the horizontal position he should pass the spring of the truss around the body, the pad lying well above the hernial aperture. He now makes sure that the hernia is entirely reduced and then slips the pad into position ; the truss is then fastened and the perineal band applied. In order to test the efficiency of the truss the patient should be examined sitting and walking, and should be made to cough and to lift weights ; under all conditions a suitable truss should keep back the hernia. The truss should be worn continuously night and day. Many authors hold that, unless there be some distinct reason—such as chronic bronchitis —it is needless to wear the truss at night, but there is no doubt that sudden movements in bed or during sleep, or a fit of sneezing or coughing may force down the hernia and lead to serious consequences ; quite a number of herniae become strangulated during the night. As however the strain on the truss is only slight during the night, a much lighter spring may be used. An india-rubber-covered truss is required for use in the bath. The skin beneath the pad is apt to become excoriated from friction and the accumulation of moisture ; the sweat decomposes and soaks into the pad which becomes hard and foul and is a further source of irritation. The parts should therefore be cleansed night and morning and dusted with equal parts of boric acid, oxide of zinc, and starch or powdered talc, while boric lint should be inserted between the truss and the skin to absorb the moisture ; it is also well to use linen covers over the pad, and these should be changed frequently. If the truss causes pain it may be that it fits badly—in which case an alteration in the spring or a readjustment of the pad will remedy the discomfort—or that there is adherent omentum in the sac which becomes pressed on and gives rise to pain. Careless patients may adjust the truss before the hernia is quite reduced and there is then pain and inflammation, and a previously reducible hernia may be transformed into an inflamed and irreducible one. A similar condition occurs when the truss does not keep up the hernia completely ; one of the commonest causes of irreducibility is imperfect truss support. Much rarer complications caused by wearing a truss are adenitis and the occurrence of varicocele. These are generally due to too powerful a spring and are remedied by altering it or the shape of the pad. In