METHODS OF EXAMINATION 233 Individual elements of which are so closely united that the whole appears to be one long thread. It is usually non-motile, but occasionally seems to possess a slow crawling motility. The long threads have frequently a characteristic angle at some portion of their length, from which feature the organism is sometimes termed B. geniculatus. The solid residue should also be examined for pus, blood, and, most important of all, fragments of growth. For the latter examination the material left on the filter-paper may be diluted with water or normal saline solution and spread out in a thin layer in a Petri dish on a piece of black paper. Suspicious fragments should be examined under a low power of the microscope, and if they appear to consist of animal tissue the wisest course is to embed them in paraffin and cut sections. In this way conclusive evidence of the presence and nature of cancer of the stomach is occasionally forthcoming. Chemical examination.—This is to carried out in the filtrate, and the most important point is the determination of the presence or absence of free or physiologically free hydrochloric acid. The terms need a little explanation. A watery solution of hydrochloric acid contains the acid as such, and it will react to all the customary tests. If, however, some protein material, such as blood-serum or egg-albumen be added, the acid enters into a state of loose chemical combination therewith, and fails to react to some of the tests. Such acid is physiologically free : it is avail- able for peptic digestion, and it must be estimated when the amount of acid secreted by the stomach is to be determined. The only method by which this can be accomplished with exactness is Volhard's or one of its modifications. Two equal portions of filtrate are evaporated to dryness and incinerated—the one as it is and the other after addition of soda. The free and physiologically free acid is driven oft' from the former, whereas in the latter it combines with the soda to form sodium chloride. The amount of chlorine in each residue is now estimated, and the difterence gives the amount of chlorine occurring as active hydrochloric acid in the amount of filtrate examined. This test is chemically sound, but is tedious; it requires more fluid than is usually available, and in practice it is usuallv replaced by titration with a standard (decinormal) alkali, making use of certain indicators which only react, or are most sensitive to, free inorganic acids. Of these tests the most important are Topfer's and Giinzberg's. 1. Topfer's test consists of a 2 per cent, alcoholic solution oldimethyl- amidoazobenzol, which turns bright crimson in presence of inorganic acids. The reaction may be given if large amounts of free organic acids are present, and it may be masked by a great excess of protein material, but as applied to the filtrate obtained from a test-meal it is fairly trustworthy. 2. Giinzberg's test consists of phloroglucin two parts, vanillin one part, alcohol thirty parts. It should be prepared fresh. For the test a few