445 GENERAL SUPPURATIVE PERITONITIS operations in which septic material has been introduced, or it may occur without any definite local abdominal lesion, in which case it is usually due to the pneumococcus. The characters and treatment of this condition have already come up for discussion in connection with various conditions such as rupture of the stomach and intestines, and acute appendicitis; it may be well here to make a few remarks on the foim due to the pneumococcus. PNEUMOCOCCAL PERITONITIS. The occurrence of pneumococcal infection of the peritoneum has been variously explained, one view being that the organism is introduced through the alimentary canal or the genital passages, while another is that the disease is primarily a septicemia which produces a local lesion in the peritoneal cavity, the original point of entry of the organisms being the respiratory tract. In about 50 per cent, of cases an affection of the lungs or pleura is present as well, the two affections being either concurrent or the peritonitis following the pneumonia. The disease usually commences as a generalised infection of the whole peritoneal cavity, but in favourable cases it may become localised and a limited abscess may form, usually situated in the pelvis or around the caecum. In the diffuse cases, as in all other forms of acute generalised peritonitis, the prognosis is extremely grave, but in the localised type it is more hopeful. It is most commonly found in children, and there is a definite pre- ponderance in the female sex, which is more marked as the age increases. The organism is usually found in pure culture, but a mixed infection with the streptococcus pyogenes may occur, although it is possible that in some cases the organisms described as streptococci may have been merely atyjMcal pneumococci. In the early stages of the disease the symptoms are dii^use over the abdomen. There is tenderness and rigidity, which, however, may be absent in infants, and there is evidence of general absorption. Diarrhoea with foul stools is a fairly constant symptom, and, in consequence, the distension of the abdomen which is so characteristic of peritonitis is not marked. At first the abdomen is retracted, but later on it may become slightly fuller owing to the presence of exudation, and occasionally tumours composed of thickened and matted omentum may be palpable. The exudate is similar to that found in other pneumococcal infections, that is to say, it is inodorous, greenish and fioccident, and it may vary from a sero-piuulent fluid to thick pus with large flakes in it. In a severe case the symptoins are intense, and the patient passes rapidly into the typhoid state and dies ; in the milder forms complete resolution or the formation of a localised abscess may occur, or the disease may become sul)acute with or without the formation of localised abscesses.