ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 339 As soon as the peritoneal cavity has been opened, distended coils present in the wound, and these are inspected to ascertain whether they are small or large bowel, as this at once gives a guide to the position of the obstruction. Should the case be one of volvulus, the large distended loop will be evident immediately on opening the abdomen. If serous fluid escapes, this usually indicates severe strangulation, and the presence of lymph on the surface of the intestine indicates peritonitis and possibly perforation. The finger should first be swept round the inside of the abdominal wall over the orifices of the various openings through which external herniae take place, particularly the obturator foramina. It is next passed down to the caecum to ascertain whether it is empty or dilated ; if it is empty the obstruction must be in the small intestine, whereas if it is distended the large bowel will be the seat of the mischief. The above examination is about all that can l)e made through a three- or four-inch incision, which is the length usually made in the first instance. The incision should now be enlarged with scissors, generally in the upward direction. As the incision is enlarged and the edges of the wound are held aside, it will be impossible to prevent the escape of intestinal coils through the opening, and the search for the obstruction will be much facilitated by allowing them to escape into hot abdominal cloths which cover them up as they protrude. It is not usually necessary to pull out more coUs of intestine than protrude spontaneously ; the distended coil is gently pulled on to see if it is held somewhere, and if so, by following this downwards, the seat of obstruction will be encountered. It is, however, best to look for collapsed intestine and to follow it up to the constriction, rather than to follow the distended bowel down. It is not only easier to do, but also there is not so much chance of injuring the bowel. This method of allowing the intestines to escape without actually eviscerating the patient is far superior to a blind search made by plunging the hand into the abdomen, or by pulling on individual coils of bowel. The hand in the abdomen is an absolutely uncertain instrument which bruises dilated coils and sometimes even ruptures the peritoneal coat without any certainty that the search is being made in the direction of the obstruction. Moreover, by pulling upon the coil of distended bowel, perforation at the seat of obstruction may be actually produced. The only objection to allowing the coils to escape in this manner is the difficulty experienced in putting them back when they are greatly distended. In most cases, however, it is well to empty the coils before any attempt is made to return them into the abdomen (see p. 341), and this difficulty is thus overcome. The greatest gentleness should be observed in the manipulations, and the surgeon should have plenty of room, and should never attempt to pull on intestine or work in the dark. It is becoming a favourite practice to receive the protruded coils into hot cloths smeared