132 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS is employed, only the projecting part of the tonsil is shaved off, but as a rule most of the open crypts are taken away. It is not uncommon, however, for recurrence of the enlargement to take place, and a second or third operation may be necessary. When, on the other hand, complete enucleation is practised, recurrence does not of course take place, but the operation is more serious and prolonged, and it has only been extensively practised quite recently, so that its possible effect, more especially on the singing voice, can hardly be gauged as yet. When adenoids are removed at the same time it is usual to begin by taking away the adenoids and then to deal with the tonsils ; the trouble with bleeding is generally less when this sequence is followed. Removal by the Guillotine.—The best guillotine for this purpose is Mackenzie's (see Fig. 44). The ring into which the tonsil is received is variously shaped, being sometimes circular for tonsils that are not unduly elongated in any particular direction, and sometimes oval, with its long axis either horizontal or vertical for tonsils that are especially enlarged in either of these directions. Unless the patient is a young child, no assistance is required, but in the young it is necessary to have some one to keep the mouth open with a gag and also to make counter- pressure over the tonsil and to hold the head. This can be done by the anaesthetist when an anaesthetic is employed. The tonsillotome is intro- duced with its flat surface parallel to the dorsum of the tongue until it reaches the back of the pharynx, when it is turned so that the tonsil is received into the ring of the instrument. If the operation is done without an anaesthetic, care should be taken to avoid touching the tongue as the instrument is passed in, and the parts should be anaesthetised by painting with a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine. As the tonsil is received into the ring of the instrument, the assistant presses firmly inwards beneath the angle of the jaw so as to steady the tonsil and push it well into the loop. The surgeon then manipulates the instrument so as to press its end firmly outwards against the pharyngeal wall, the handle being carried towards the opposite side of the mouth, and he then pushes the cutting blade home sharply with the thumb. This movement, although momentary, requires care to avoid tilting or rotating the instrument as the blade is pushed home. Unless the tonsillotome is held absolutely steady, its end is apt to be deflected inwards and a portion of the tonsil wiU escape. Especial care