AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 442 confusion. Inflammatory conditions, such as appendicitis, although at first perhaps accompanied by diarrhoea, are also usually marked by complete arrest of the passage of faeces and gas, but even then it is often possible to get away some gas with a long tube or with enemata. The character of the tongue is also of importance. In bad septic conditions—such as gangrenous appendicitis or general peritonitis—the tongiTe becomes brown and dry, while in obstruction it remains white and moist until near the end. Diagnosis.—The symptoms often overlap very much, and there are so many exceptional conditions that an accurate diagnosis may be impossible, especially in the early stage when, from the point of view of surgical treatment, it is most important. The presence or absence of symptoms indicating in\'olvement of particular organs will help in the diagnosis. Take for example, acute affections in connection with the kidney. Renal and ureteral colic are very typical. The excruciating paroxysms of pain, not limited to the back but shooting down into the thigh and testicle, frequent and scanty micturition, blood in the urine, and the absence of intestinal colic and abdominal rigidity, are sufficiently characteristic. But even in renal colic the symptoms may not be nearly so acute or typical, and the difficulty of distinguishing between appendicitis and renal or ureteral colic, when the symptoms are not severe, is sometimes considerable, and mistakes in diagnosis have been repeatedly made ; we need not, however, go into this subject here, because we are only dealing with cases of the most acute type. The condition of intermittent hydronephrosis is also sometimes confusing. Here the urine becomes temporarily dammed back and the pelvis of the kidney swells up rapidly ; the patient is usually seized with severe pain and vomiting, but the pain is definitel}' located in the loin and side ; colicky pains are absent, there is tenderness, and a distinct swelling may often be detected, which is much larger and better defined and develops much earlier than that in appendicitis or cholecystitis ; there is no elevation of temperature. Other acute renal conditions—such as peri-renal abscess—^may also cause some difficulty, but are generally fairly easily recognised by the position of the pain and the absence of signs pointing to other possible conditions. Abscess forming after duodenal rupture is probably the most difficult condition to distinguish from peri-renal abscess in the later stages. Gall-stone colic is also fairly definite, the violent epigastric pain shooting through to the back and shoulders, doubling the patient up and relieved by pressure, and the absence of pyrexia, being generally very characteristic. It is in the less acute cases that the difficulty arises. When the alimentary canal is apparently involved, an important point is whether the lesion is of inflammatory or non-inflammatory origin.