UMBILICAL HERNIA 499 point should be borne in mind, and in strangulated cases the surgeon should not be content with reducing the contents of the sac as a whole ; they must be opened out to see whether there is strangulation within the omentum. The omentum is usually much thickened, either by deposit of fat or by inflammatory exudation, and it is often impossible to return the greater part of it into the abdominal cavity. There is usually a good deal of separation of the recti in these cases. It will be best to consider the ti'eatment (a) in infants and young children, {b) in adidts, and (c) in old age. Treatment in young- children.—Here the protrusion is usually through the true umbilical opening, and, unless the case is neglected, it seldom attains any great size ; if the hernia is well looked after, there is a strong tendency to closure of the opening without operative interference. Trusses.—The hernia is generally noticed soon after birth, and an efficient truss should be applied at once. During the early period, the best arrangement is to fix a pad over the umbilicus ; this pad should be quite flat and without any knob projecting into the opening. A pad with a projecting knob will retain the hernia, but it prevents the closure of the opening. In infants, home-made pads are cpiite sufficient. A penny, or a flat piece of block-tin about the size of half a crown, is covered first with strapping and then with linen ; the child is laid on its back, the sides of the abdomen are compressed so as to push forward the opening, a piece of boric lint is placed over the umbilicus, and the pad applied, and kept in position by means of an elastic binder. Great care must be taken in the management of these pads. The skin must be kept dry ; fresh pads and lint should be applied when there is the least sign of soiling, and in any case once a day. If this treatment is carried out assiduously, the opening will gradually close and the hernia will be cured in the majority of cases. In older children it is sometimes more convenient to have a flat pad made of vulcanite sewn in an elastic abdominal belt. Radical cure.—If it is found that the opening does not close in spite of the prolonged use of retentive apparatus, operative measures may be required, and are usually quite satisfactory in young children ; there is no excess of fat, the opening is small, and its sides are easily brought together. The skin over the hernia is usually thick, and should be turned aside as a flap, so as to carry the line of suture in the skin away from that in the deeper parts. When the sac of the hernia is exposed it should be opened to see that none of the contents are adherent ; when it has been cleared it is cut away, and the peritoneal edges sewn up by a continuous purse-string suture of catgut. The opening in the abdominal wall is then closed in two layers by lifting up the edge of the opening and splitting the fibrous wall horizontally; each layer is sutured separately, and mattress sutures are applied through both layers so as to give extra K K 2