114 AFFECTIONS OF THE FLOOR OF THE MOUTH difficult, especially when there is much inflammatory thickening of the tissues around. As the duct passes backwards to the submaxillary gland it lies deeper and deeper in the floor oi the mouth, and it comes into close relation with the lingual gustatory nerve which lies on the outer side about the level of the anterior border of the hyoglossus muscle, so that if the incision deviates from the direct line of the duct, the nerve is very apt to be divided, and in several cases this has occurred and led to a troublesome and persistent anaesthesia of one half of the tongue. It is best to operate under a general anaesthetic, as it is almost impossible to control the movements of the tongue if a local anaesthetic is employed. The mouth is opened with a gag, the head is propped up in a good light, or a powerful forehead light is employed, and the tongue is pulled over to the opposite side so as to make the structures in the floor of the mouth as tense and steady as possible. The calculus is then felt for, and is steadied by the forefinger of the left hand pressing it outwards against the ramus of the jaw, whilst the surgeon cuts directly down upon it in the line of the duct. The fixation by the finger should not be relaxed until the stone has actually been exposed, otherwise the parts recede deeply into the floor of the mouth and a second incision may go in a different direction and do damage. When the stone is situated very far back, it is a useful plan to thrust a sharp hook through the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth beneath the swelling and hook it forcibly upwards and so fix it while it is cut down upon. When the stone has been reached, the duct is slit up sufficiently to enable it to be withdrawn without using any force. The calculus must be examined after removal to see if any portions have been broken off and left behind, and if so they must be searched for and removed, otherwise they may become the nuclei of fresh calculi. The wound in the mouth needs no treatment beyond the use of a mouth- wash of chlorate of potash for a few days. There is generally some interference with the movements of the tongue at first, as a result of the swelling foUowing the operation, but this subsides quickly. When the calculus is situated in the gland itself, an attempt to remove it from the mouth wiU not only jeopardise the lingual nerve, but may give rise to dangerous cellulitis, as it necessitates a deep dissection in the floor of the mouth. Moreover, stricture of the duct is apt to occur subsequently from cicatricial contraction. Under these circumstances, it wiU be best to excise the gland and its duct completely by an external operation, as a simple incision for extraction of the stone would probably be followed by a salivary fistula. The operation is described on p. 103. DERMOID CYSTS. Dermoids are not uncommon beneath the tongue and generally occur in the middle line either in the anterior third of the tongue itself or more deeply seated in the floor of the mouth, when they bulge between the jaw