495 FEMORAL HERNIA IRREDUCIBLE INGUINAL HERNIA. In these cases it is always advisable to slit up the external oblique so as to have the entire sac exposed to view ; all oozing points should be tied at once. The sac is opened, and the separation of the contents pro- ceeds until the omentum is freed and it is possible to pull down healthy omentum in all directions. If the omentum is not much thickened, it can be returned into the abdomen, and the subsequent proceedings are similar to those described on p. 489. In long-standing cases, however, the omentum is so nuich altered that its return is difficult and inadvisable, and therefore, after all the adhesions have been divided, the omentum is pulled clown until the normal portion is seen ; this is ligatui"ed in sections (see Fig. 115), care being taken not to remove it nearer to the colon than one inch. The stump is then returned into the abdomen, and the finger is pushed up after it in order to make sure that the stump is clear of the internal ring, otherwise adhesions may form there and inconvenience the patient afterwards. When the intestine or other structures are adherent to the sac the lines laid down on p. 474 must be followed. When the neck of the sac has been torn in separating the adhesions it must be ligatured, if that is possible, or cut clean away and the edges of the peritoneum united by a continuous suture. In these cases it is always necessary to repair the canal, and this should be done by Bassini's method (see p. 487). In the treatment of obsintcied/inflavicd, or stvanguhitcd oblique inguinal hernia, there is nothing to add to what has been said in Chap. XXIX. When taxis is performed for inguinal hernia the thigh should be flexed to a right angle and rotated inwards ; full details are given on p. 483. Instructions are generally given to divide the neck of the sac or the internal ring directly upwards in cases of strangulated hernia. No doubt it is very important to bear in mind the relation of the deep epigastric artery to the neck of the sac, but we always slit up the external oblique in all cases of strangulated hernia and so we have the neck of the sac freely exposed, and this obviates all risk of injuring the vessel wherever it may be. Moreover, we have never found it necessary to divide the muscles ; we have always found the stricture in the neck of the sac itself, and division of the latter, followed by stretching the ring with the fingers, has always rendered reduction easy. FEMORAL HERNIA. This form of hernia descends through the femoral canal on the inner side of the femoral vein and pushes before it the sub-peritoneal fascia the septum crurale,the sheath of the femoral vessels, and the cribriform fascia. These structures are seldom sharply marked off from one another, and there is often much fat among them, so that the sac may lie in the midst of a projecting fatty mass and ma}' be difficult to find, especially