TREATMENT OF IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA 471 formation of an artificial anus is too small to be worth taking into account. Time should not be wasted upon such measures as warm baths, the administration of opium, or the application of ice; if any of these are employed it should only be while preparations are being made for operation. In former days the principal method of treatment was by taxis. and it was only after failure of this that operation was resorted to. Nowadays, however, in view of the great safety and the great value of operative interference in hernise which are not strangulated, operation has practically entirely displaced taxis. The great objections to taxis are that considerable force has often to be employed, and that, with a tight strangulation, the bowel may be so badly damaged by the procedure as to complicate subsequent operation very seriously ; actual rupture of the bowel at the seat of constriction has occurred frequently as the result of forcible taxis. In order to apply taxis properly, an anjesthetic is necessary—and the anaesthesia is the chief risk of operating in these cases ; the experience of radical cure amply proves that the risk of operation per se is practically nil. Other accidents may also happen in taxis: thus there may be a diverticulum from the sac under the abdominal parietes, and the external hernia may be pushed into this, and the strangulation remain unrelieved; the sac may rupture below the neck and the bowel may be reduced, still strangulated, into the sub- peritoneal tissues; the hernia and the sac together may be reduced en masse inside the abdomen ; or the strangulation may have occurred beneath a band or through a hole in the omentum in the interior of the sac, and the hernia may be reduced as a whole without relieving the constriction. A further consideration is that in the reduction of a strangulated hernia by taxis, nothing has been done to effect a radical cure, and the condition may recur at any time. Therefore, we unhesitatingly condemn the employment of taxis except in very rare cases. It should only be practised by the surgeon who is responsible for the entire treatment of the case, and he should be ready to proceed to operation at once should it fail or should any of the accidents mentioned above occur. It should not be carried out for longer than ten minutes in any case, and not so long, unless it be evident that an impression is being made upon the tumour. It should never be employed in femoral hernis, nor in any hernia that has been strangulated for more than twenty-four hours. Although we strongly condemn taxis as the ordinary procedure in strangulated hernia, we shall briefly indicate the chief points to be attended to in performing it. It should always be practised under an aneesthetic, either general or spinal. Before administering a general anaesthetic, the stomach should be washed out so as to diminish the risk of vomited material passing into the air-passages ; it is well also to empty the bladder and the lower bowel. Taxis should be very carefully and gently employed.