552 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS may form, so that eventually there are a number of fistulous openings in the ischio-rectal fossa or on the buttocks, which usually converge to a single track opening into the rectum. Ischio-rectal abscess situated above the levator ani.-^An abscess of this kind may arise either in the peri-rectal cellular tissue or may extend from a stricture or cancer of the rectum or some disease of neighbouring structures—such as the caecum, the broad ligament, or the prostate. It is usually accompanied by fever, anorexia, and severe deep- seated throbbing, with difficulty in defsecation. The abscess burrows in various directions, generally opening into the bowel above the levator ani, and also extending through the latter into the ischio-rectal fossa and finally bursting through the skin ; the result is that an external opening is formed from which a track runs thi-ough the levator ani into the rectum. Tuberculous ischio-rectal abscesses are not accompanied by sjanptoms so severe as those of the ordinary acute variet5^ and may even rupture without having caused the patient any marked discomfort. TREATMENT.—An ischio-rectal abscess should be opened freely as soon as its presence is detected, in order to avoid the risk of a fistula in ano ; the application of poultices or fomentations only wastes time and allows extension of the disease, and makes the formation of a fistula almost certain. The incision into the ischio-rectal fossa should be made in all cases in a line radiating from the anus, and, when the abscess is deep- seated, the incision should be kept as near as possible to the middle line so as to avoid dividing important structures. In a superficial abscess the pus is reached immediately the skin is divided ; in the deeper-seated ones Hilton's method (see Vol. I. p. 28) may be emplo3'ed—a finger being placed in the rectum to prevent the risk of the forceps penetrating the bowel. It is generally well to add a second incision at right angles to the outer end of the first—converting the single incision into a J.-shaped one—as this allows of better drainage afterwards. In the ordinary ischio-rectal abscess the pus is very superficial and has so thinned the mucous membrane just inside the anus that it gives way even after the abscess has been laid freely open by an external incision, and a second operation for fistula in ano will thus be required. Hence, when it is found on opening one of these abscesses that the pus has come round the lower edge of the external sphincter, the best plan is to introduce a probe-pointed, flexible director (see Fig. 185) from the opening in the skin to the highest point of the cul-de-sac beneath the rectal mucous membrane, and to push the director through into the bowel, hook the point of it out through the anus, and then divide the bridge of tissue lying upon it. The operation is thus a combina- tion of opening an abscess and slitting up a fistula in ano. The cavity is packed and treated just as an ordinary fistula in ano (see p. 554). This radical treatment is only called for when the pus burrows