CHRONIC TUBERCULOUS PERITOxNITIS 453 fistula or a fatal perforation may follow. We therefore recommend that in advanced cases it is better to be content with a simple laparotomy unless the primary focus is readily removable. In some cases, when the abdomen is opened, the chief trouble is found to be in the mesenteric glands. These may be small and calcified, or larger and undergoing caseation, or actually forming abscesses which have not as yet burst into the peritoneal cavity. When they are small and calcareous, it is seldom necessary to interfere with them, but when they are larger and breaking down, it may be advisable to try to shell them out, taking care, on the one hand, not to injure the mesenteric vessels and, on the other, not to rupture the glands, otherwise a tuberculoiis peritonitis may be set up ; sometimes very marked improvement may follow this procedure. When the disease is more advanced, quite a large abscess may have formed in the mesentery and may not yet have infected the peritoneal cavity. In such cases, any attempt at excision of the abscess would be very serious and might lead to extensive injury of the mesenteric vessels involving immediate resection of a portion of the bowel. On the other hand, it would be difiicult to open and deal with these abscesses inside the abdomen without soiling the peritoneal cavity with tuber- culous pus, and this might lead to an acute tuberculous peritonitis. In such a case we have brought forward a portion of the abscess wall to the opening in the parietal peritoneum, stitched it carefully to that opening so as comj)letely to shut oif the peritoneal cavity and then opened the abscess, evacuated the pus, and dealt with it in the usual manner (see Vol. I. p. 234). Laparotomy for obstruction.—Another reason for surgical intervention is intestinal obstruction (see p. 449). When the abdomen has been opened, the surgeon must judge how far tlie condition can be remedied either by resection of the infected portion of the intestine (which, however, can only be seldom practicable) or by an anastomosis of healthy bowel above and below the seat of obstruction. Cases of recovery after a short-circuit operation done for almost complete occlusion of the intestine Jiave come under our care and similar cases have occurred in the practice of others.^ Therefore, in all cases in which symptoms of grave obstruction are present, the abdomen should be opened and a short-circuit operation done if possible. When this is impossible, the abdomen must be closed again in tlie hope that the mere laparotomy will lead to improvement. Mr. Mayo Robson ^ has suggested that a short-circuit operation should be done in cases of tubercidous ulceration of the intestine, not only to avoid obstruction but also to give rest to the aft'ected portion of the bowel. This is no doubt theoretically good, but practically the surgeon rarely sees the cases until the tuberculous peritonitis has 1 See Lancet, January 12, 1902. ^ .See Clinical Society's Transactions (1902), p. 5S.