414 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES with by enlarging the incision upwards or downwards as may be neces- sary. Its disadvantages are that it may not leave such a satisfactory abdominal wall; even though it is carefully stitched up in layers, the abdominal wall may give way and a hernia may result. When the incision is at the outer edge of the rectus, the nerves to the inner part of the muscle may be divided, and even though care is taken to isolate them when making the incision, it is difficult to keep them intact, if a large opening is made. Further, in a muscular individual it is not easy to sew up the peritoneum accurately, the stitches often tear through, and a raw surface is left to which the omentum may become adherent. In cases in which the appendix lies behind the ascending colon it may not be easy to reach it from this incision. Nevertheless, it is a very valuable incision in many cases and is largely employed. The oblique incision.— This runs from above, down- wards and inwards, with its centre at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of a line from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; the position of the centre of this incision may, however, be varied if there has been any indication during the acute attack that the appendix is situated higher up or lower down Fig. 143.—The Oblique or ' Gridiron ' Incision for than normal The iucision AppENDicECTOMY. Splitting the fibres of the External Oblique, The muscular fibres of the internal oblique are exposed. ' is Carried down tO the ex- ternal oblique tendon, which is split in the direction of its fibres throughout the whole length of the wound (see Fig. 143). The finger is now swept between the external and internal oblique muscles and the tendon of the former is retracted. The fibres of the deep muscles are then separated by sinking in a blunt dissector parallel to the fibres until it has passed completely through the muscles ; it is then passed backwards and forwards so as to separate the muscular fibres. The forefinger of the operator is now slipped down by the side of the director and the muscles sufficiently separated to enable him to introduce a large retractor with which the anterior angle of the wound is pulled forwards ; if necessary the muscles may also be retracted upwards or downwards, or in both directions (see Fig. 144). The exact point at which to separate the muscular fibres is to some extent determined by the previous situation