176 AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS urethra, may be tried. A long oesophageal tube (see Fig. 63) large enough to fill the stricture is passed through it and left in position, the end emerging from the mouth and being fastened to the cheek with strapping or with silk round the ear. The patient is _ confined to bed and the head should be turned over to one side so as to allow the saliva which collects above the stricture to escape freely. Feeding is carried out by means of the tube, carefuUy filtered milk and beef-tea being introduced into the stomach as required. This tube is left in position for twenty-four to forty-eight hours, when it will be found that, whereas at first it was tightly grasped by the stricture, it has now become loosened, and, when it is withdrawn, a tube two or three sizes larger may be passed, tied in and left as before, a larger one being then substituted for it in turn, and so on until full dilatation is reached. The great trouble is to persuade the patient to sub- mit to the treatment as it is most irksome. The annoyance may, to a great extent, be mitigated by substituting a Symonds's short tube (see Fig. 64) for the long one as soon as a moderate degree of dilatation (such as may be reached in about a week) has been accomphshed. This allows the patient to swallow sahva and food and to taste the latter, and with a little practice it can be passed easily after some preliminary dilatation with the longer tubes has been carried out. Symonds's tubes are, however, only suit- able for cases in which the stricture is situated well below the cricoid cartilage, otherwise the funnel-shaped end presses upon the larynx and causes considerable laryngeal irritation. These tubes are referred to in detail in connection with cancer of the oesophagus (see p. 181). In order to diminish the salivation, tincture of belladonna or hquor atropinae sulphatis (B.P.) may be given. Operative procedures.—^When these methods fail, the question of operative measures must be considered. It wiU suffice if we indicate shortly the various operative procedures that can be employed. Forcible dilatation by instruments passed down the canal has been suggested, but there is great risk of rupture of the wall of the oesophagus Fig. 63.- -Long Oesophageal Tube.