AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS l62 I I Various measures may be taken to determine the presence and exact situation of the foreign -body. When it is opaque to the X-rays, these are a ready and certain means of diagnosis. When, however, the body is not opaque to the rays, an ohve- headed oesophageal sound (see Fig. 55) may be employed. This is passed down the oeso- phagus until the obstruction is reached, but no attempt should be made to dislodge the body by the instrument. When the body has been located, a small instrument should be passed and if possible insinuated beyond it, so that its size may be made out. The direct-vision oesophagoscope is a very valu- able method of investigating the state of matters and should always be employed if it is available (see p. 163). After the position and nature of the foreign body have been ascertained an attempt should be made to remove it, either by making it traverse the oesophagus and enter the stomach or by withdrawing it through the mouth or through an opening in the neck. While care should be observed in the manipulation of any foreign body in this situation, special precautions must be taken if it has remained in situ for some time, because inflammatory softening of the oesophageal wall may have taken place, and consequently there will be a risk of damage to the oesophageal wall and other important structures during the attempts to remove it. Propulsion of the foreign body into the stomach.—Boluses of food and smooth round bodies should be pushed down into the stomach, especially if they are situated at the lower part of the oesophagus. Small coins may also be similarly treated, if attempts to remove them with the aid of Kilhan's tubes and for- ceps, or to hook them up with a coin-catcher, fail. This is done by passing a full-sized sponge probang (see Fig. 56) down into contact with the foreign body and then slowly and steadily pushing it on into the stomach ; if done gently and steadily, this may not cause pain. The most difficult Fig. 55.—GisopHAGEAL Sounds. This stem is made of whalebone and is flexible. The bulbous ends are made of aluminium and screw on and off the stem, so that one size is easily substituted for another.