FOREIGN BODIES i6g or if necessary cut off by cutting pliers and removed separately ; it is far better to cut up a body into small pieces and remove it in fragments than to cause any laceration by tugging at it during removal. The incision in the oesophageal wall should be closed as after pharyn- gotomy (see p. 121), and the after-treatment is similar to that described on p. 121. Free drainage should be provided, as leakage is apt to occur through the oesophageal wound ; indeed, when the foreign body has been in position for some time, the best plan is to leave the incision in the neck open and stuff it lightly with iodoformed gauze. This is particularly important when the wound is low down in the neck ; when it is higher up, it may be sufficient to insert a large drainage tube down to the neighbour- hood of the incision in the oesophagus and to close the rest of the wound by sutures. Healing by granulation occurs readily enough, even when primary union in the oesophagus fails, and a permanent fistula is not likely to follow. When the foreign body is impacted below the level of the clavicle, the case is much more serious ; unless the body is removed, death will in many cases take place before long, either from ulceration into the large vessels, which usually occurs within the first fortnight, or from ulceration into the mediastinum followed by fatal mediastinitis. Hence every effort must be made to remove the foreign body, and even if the first attempt fails, important information may be gained as to the value of other methods, and the employment of the oesophagoscope or the fluorescent screen (if the body is opaque to the X-rays) is often of very great assistance. When the foreign body is impacted near the upper end of the thoracic part of the oesophagus it may still be reached by an opening as low down in the neck as possible. Gastrotomy.—When the foreign body is impacted quite close to the cardiac end of the oesophagus it may sometimes be removed by making an incision into the anterior wall of the stomach that will admit the hand, dilating the cardiac orifice and extracting the foreign body either directly with the fingers or with suitable instruments passed up from below. The steps of the operation of gastrotomy are described in Chap. XVI. Mediastinal cesophagotomy.—The most important and difficult cases are those in which the foreign body is impacted in the thoracic portion of the oesophagus in such a position that it cannot be reached either from an opening in the neck or from the stomach. It may be said at once, however, that the lower part of the cesophagus, immediately in front of the aorta, is inaccessible to the surgeon, and the oesophagus can only be reached in the upper and middle part of the thorax. The best operation for exposing the thoracic portion of the oesophagus is that suggested by Dr. J. D. Bryant 1 for gaining access to the mediastinum, either with the view of exposing the oesophagus, evacuating pus, or removing mediastinal tumours. The patient should be aucesthetised by the intratracheal ' See- Operative Surgery, by Joseph D. Bryant, M.D., vol. ii. p. 1046 (Kimpton, London 1901), to which the reader is referred for full details of the operation.