CHAPTER XXXI. 506 F.ECAL FISTULA AND ARTIFICIAL ANUS. The term ' faecal fistula ' is applied to those communications between the interior of the intestinal canal and the surface, in which there is no obstruc- tion to the passage of faeces along the bowel and in which, therefore, only a small portion of the contents escape through the opening, while the larger part, and at times all, passes on along the ordinary route. The term ' artificial anus,' on the other hand, is limited to the cases in which there is a distinct obstacle to the onward passage of the fcccal contents and in which they all, or almost all, escape through the external opening. F^CAL FISTULA. This condition may arise either from disease of the intestine or from operative procedures, and the opening in the intestine may be imme- diately adherent to the abdominal wall, or may lead into a cavity in the interior of the abdomen which again communicates with the surface by a sinus. The latter condition is not uncommonly met with after abdominal suppuration, especially in connection with the appendix. A faecal fistula may also originate in connection with malignant disease of the intestine ; in that case, perforation takes place and an abscess forms and discharges externally. Faecal fistula may follow rents of the peritoneal coat in operating on cases of tuberculous peritonitis (see p. 450), it may result from accidental wounds of the bowel in operations such as the removal of adherent ovarian cysts, or the surgeon may deliberately establish a faecal fistula, as when an artificial opening is made into the caecum. ' Congenital faecal fistula ' is referred to on p. 369 ; these are usually, however, cases of artificial anus because all the intestinal contents are discharged through the opening owing to the small calibre of the intestine below. TREATMENT.—A considerable number of faecal fistulae close spon- taneously under suitable non-operative treatment—at any rate, when the opening in the bowel is not immediately adherent to the skin. In faecal