GASTRIC ULCER 259 SURGICAL TREATMENT.—The indications for surgical inter- ference have been given on j). 256. Tlie measures employed aim at removing the ulcer, or at placing the stomach under conditions favourable to the healing of the ulcer or at both combined. The second aim may be carried out surgically either by enlarging the pyloric opening, or by forming a new communication between the stomach and the intestine. Of these methods the second is more often applicable. Excision of the ulcer, although theoretically the better procedure, is often not advisable, and its results may be disappointing. A large proportion of the ulcers are so situated that excision is out of the question ; even when it is feasible, the procedure may involve an extensive operation in a subject unable to undergo it. Finally the wound made by excision of the ulcer may fail to heal or a fresh ulcer may develop independently elsewhere ; the hyper- acidity of the stomach contents and the spasm of the pylorus are not affected by excision of the ulcer and the original cause of the ulceration may still remain active. When the ulcer is easily reached and is small, however, it is good treatment to excise it, but in most cases this should be supple- mented by pyloroplasty or gastro-jejunostomy, so as to provide for the free escape of the stomach contents and enable the organ to get rest. The ulcers best suited for this method of treatment are those situated on the anterior wall of the stomach. Gastro-jejunostomy.—The operation that we advocate for chronic ulcer of the stomach in suitable cases is gastro-jejunostomy, or the formation of a permanent artiiicial opening between the stomach and the small intestine. This operation is, however, only satisfactory when the pylorus is narrowed as the result of the disease or is artificially narrowed by the surgeon. Some surgeons however—notably Kocher— prefer gastro-duodenostomy when it is feasible. There are two methods of performing gastro-jejunostomy, according to the surface of the stomach to which the bowel is attached: namely, anterior and posterior gastro-jejunostomy. The anterior form is subdivided into the pre- and post-colic forms, in the former of which the loop of jejunum is brought up around the lower edge of the omentum in front of the trans- verse colon and attached to the anterior surface of the stomach, while in the latter the transverse meso-colon and the gastro-colic omentum are perforated and the loop of the jejunum is drawn through the slit thus made and attached to the anterior wall of the stomach. Fig. 92 indicates diagrammatically the principle of these operations ; the pre-colic form is the one in common use. There are also two methods of performing the posterior operation: namely, the ' loop ' and ' no-loop ' methods ; in the former some distance intervenes between the duodeno-jejunal junction and the anastomosis, while in the latter the anastomosis is made as near the junction as possible. The latter method would appear to be safer, since there is no long loop that may become distended with bile and intestinal contents.