AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 94 the tongue, and the affected portion is easily clipped away with scissors, or, still better, divided with the thermo-cautery, well wide of the disease. The arteries are seized and tied as they are divided. There is no doubt that this is a good method for complete extirpation of the tongue. When the disease infiltrates the muscles down to the hyoid bone, it is easy to leave some portion of it behind in less extensive operations, whereas in Kocher's- the whole muscular mass is exposed and the excision can be carried as far back and as low down as may be necessary. But at the same time, it is only essential for those cases in which the infiltration extends far back or deep down, and in which the whole of the organ has to be removed right back to the hyoid bone. Kocher himself speaks of it as an operation that could be carried out antiseptically. This, of course, is not possible. At the same time, however, the sepsis is more or less superficial and possibly may be kept under control by packing the wound in the mouth with antiseptic gauze ; this can be continued as long as a tracheotomy tube is retained. Dressings.—After the tongue has been removed, and the bleed- ing arrested, the surface of the stump is sponged with a solu- tion of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to the oz.) and the mouth is firmly packed with cyanide or iodoform gauze. Caution must be observed in using the latter because several cases of iodoform poisoning have occurred. The external wound is stitched up and one or more drainage tubes are inserted, passing from the most dependent parts of the mouth wound into the neck, so as to carry off all dis charge freely. The Hahn's tube is removed, and either a fresh one is inserted for twenty-four hours or an ordinary tracheotomy cannula is substituted, according to the hkelihood or not of discharges finding their way through the glottis. [e) When the disease extends from the base of the tongue to the surrounding structures.—Cancer of the base of the tongue, with extension to the floor of the mouth so that the tongue cannot be protruded owing to infiltration of the muscles, cannot be treated efficiently by intra-buccal operations. It is most essential to obtain Fig. 32.—Kochee's Incision for Removal of THE Tongue. The dotted line shows the direction in which the anterior triangle may be opened up if necessary.