HERNIA : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 461 can or cannot be completely returned into the abdomen. This is the most important condition from the point of view of treatment, and will be considered first. Reducible hernia.—In this form the contents can be returned into the abdominal cavity by manipulation ; with the exception of those having no proper peritoneal sac, all hernise are usually reducible in the first instance. Irreducible hernia. — Irreducibilit}/ is an extremely important factor and may depend on various conditions. We may distinguish the following classes : {a) simple irreducible hernia ; {b) inflamed hernia ; (f) obstructed hernia ; and {d) strangulated hernia. ((?) Simple irreducible hernia.—By far the most common cause of irreducibility is adhesion of the contents of the Jiernia to the irall of the sac, and this may occur at the neck or in the body of the sac or in both com- bined ; the adhesions are generally omental, but in long-standing cases the bowel may be adherent either to the omentum (which may also be adherent to the sac wall) or to the wall of the sac. Sometimes—especially in umbilical hernia—the omentum, the bowel, and the sac wall may be inextricably matted together. The adhesions are due to attacks of local peritonitis, and are often set up by the long-continued pressure of a badly fitting truss. Another cause of irreducibility is a disproportion in size letiieen the neck of tlie sac and the contents. Thus the herniated omentum often increases in size fi'om inflammatory exudation or by the deposit of fat, and cannot pass back into the abdomen ; in these cases adhesions to the wall are also practically always present. This condition may not give rise to any special symptoms, but some- times there is a dragging pain from the pull on the intestine and this is often increased after food. (b) Inflamed hernia.—^This is due to inflammation following a direct injury or the pressure of a badly fitting truss. The inflammation takes the form of a localised exudative peritonitis which transforms a previously reducible hernia into an irreducible one. The symptoms are often too slight to attract special attention ; some- times all that is noticed is that a truss cannot be worn on account of pain. When the inflammation is more severe, the condition may be mistaken for true strangulation, but can usually be readily distinguished from it ; there is pyrexia, localised pain, and a definite impulse on coughing. (c) Obstructed hernia.—^This form of hernia borders closely on the strangulated one, in which it often ends. It is a hernia in which the passage of faeces is interfered with or entirely inteiTupted, without any true strangulation. The patient is very constipated and may suffer from colicky pains, but there is still an impulse in the hernia on coughing and none of the special symptoms of true strangulation. Strangulation may, however, supervene if the condition is not relieved, as the increasing distension of the bowel interferes with the circulation in the loop.