210 GENER.\L REMARKS ON LAPAROTOMY to marked distension of the bowel and also to headache and nausea or vomiting. Heroin (in doses of gr. seems to do less harm than morphine, and when the pain is severe, it may be repeated in an hour or two. The arrangements as regards food and the action of the bowels depend to some extent on the conditions for which the operation has been per- formed ; three of these may be mentioned : 1. Cases in which the alimentary canal has not been interfered with and the bowel has not been opened ; for example, operations for gall- stones, for hernia, or on the pelvic organs. 2. When incisions have been made into the bowel or stomach, or portions of the alimentary canal have been removed. 3. When the operation is in connection with an acute inflammatory condition of the bowel. In the first class of cases, the patient may be given small quantities of hot water as soon as the chloroform sickness has passed off, and later two ounces of milk and water may be administered every hour. This may be supplemented after a few hours with Benger's food, and albumen water, beef tea, or chicken broth with rusks may also be administered. As soon as the bowels have acted, soft solids are given, and in about a week the patient may be placed on ordinary diet. A purge should be administered on the day after the operation, and salines followed by an enema are the best. Some surgeons administer calomel in half-grain doses every hour until three or four grains have been taken, but calomel has often a depressing effect on the patient and is not so good as salines. In J;he second class of cases it is important not to irritate the stomach or the bowel unnecessarily; but at the same time, if the operation has been properly performed, there ought to be no danger of leakage, and therefore fluids, especially hot water, may be given from the first. The diet must be more carefully attended to in these cases than in the former, any food being avoided which is likely to upset the stomach or the bowels, or to give rise to flatulence ; in stomach cases care as regards the diet should be exercised for a considerable time, according to the morbid condition present. When the small intestine has been the seat of operation, it is well to defer the administration of a purgative by the mouth for two or three days, so as not to set up any violent peristaltic action which might strain the stitches. In the case of the large intestine, the faecal matter becomes hard if the action of the bowels is delayed too long, and may unduly stretch the seat of union, and therefore in these cases it is well to begin with frequent small doses of sahnes about the second day so as to render the contents of the bowel liquid. The best compound for the purpose is the ordinary hospital white mixture which may be adminis- tered in two-dram doses every two or three hours until about a couple of ounces have been taken. If no result follows at the end of twelve hours, a full dose (an ounce or more) may be administered. Teaspoonful