POST-NASAL ADENOID GROWTHS 139 still, should sit in the same position with regard to a lamp as for an ordinary laryngoscopic examination, and the light should be reflected into the throat by means of a frontal mirror. The anaesthetic having been given, the dental prop is changed for a powerful gag and the mouth widely opened. Unless a good view of the growths has been previously obtained it is well to commence the operation by inserting the index linger of the left hand well up into the post-nasal space in order to examine the site of the growth, and see whether or not it spreads on to the Eustachian cushions, and also to ascertain the existence of hypertrophy of the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates. The curette is passed well up behind the soft palate until it touches the lower part of the nasal septum. It is then pressed upwards and backwards, keeping the blade in contact with the posterior edge of the septum, until the roof of the naso-pharynx is reached. The curette being now in position, it is necessary to see that the handle is exactly in the middle line. Then whilst firmly pressing backwards, the handle of the instrument is sharply raised, the blade swept down over the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx, and the major portion of the growth is cut off in one piece. This curette with the growth attached is removed, the smaller instrument introduced and three or four rapid sweeps made over the post-pharyngeal wall. The finger is again introduced to ascertain that the operation is complete. In some cases the growth will be found to have been left hanging by a small thread of mucous membrane, and directly the patient comes out of the aneesthetic this will set up violent coughing and retching ; it must always be sought for and can be easily removed with a pair of forceps, aided if necessary with the scissors. The bleeding is usually free for a second or so, but rapidly ceases and requires no special treatment. The operation under chloroform.—The operation should be performed with the patient lying down, either on a flat table or with a small pillow beneath the head. The position with the head hanging down over the end of the table has no advantages ; it is more difficult and takes more time to remove the growths thoroughly in this position ; and the chief danger of the operation—asphyxia from entrance of blood into the upper air passages—is probably greater, as the veins in the neck are congested and the haemorrhage is thereby increased. Also in this position the throat is narrowed, its capacity for holding blood is less, and it is more difficult to introduce the finger. With the patient lying flat, the operation can be performed more easily and more quickly. Should any trouble arise from obstructed breathing—which will only occur wlien the anaesthesia has been pushed too far—the patient should be immediately rolled over on to his face, when the blood will run out of the mouth and throat and the breathing will be at once relieved. The surgeon must stand facing and on the right-hand side of the patient, and it is well to operate upon a low couch or table so that the surgeon stands well over the patient. The left forefinger is introduced