222 GENERAL REMARKS ON LAPAROTOMY INTESTINAL SUTURE AND METHODS OF DEALING WITH WOUNDS OF VISCERA. The surgical treatment of wounds of the stomach and mtestine is by- no means a modern subject, but has been considered at various periods in the history of surgery. No real progress was however made until it was pointed out by Joubert at the beginning of the last century that in order to obtain proper union, serous surface must be opposed to serous surface. His method, however, had the fault that the sutures were applied in such a manner that they penetrated all the coats. As a consequence, leakage of the contents of the intestine was very apt to occur along the track of the suture. A great advance was however made not very long afterwards by Lembert, who recognised the drawbacks of through-and-through sutures, and carried his stitches only through the serous and part of the muscular coats. Lembert's method of suturing still remains the basis of intes- tinal work and the plan now generally adopted in closing openings in the hollow viscera is to apply two layers of sutures, an innermost layer uniting the whole thickness of the walls, and an outer layer applied on Lembert's principle. Operations on the alimentary canal have to be performed for various reasons, of which the following may be mentioned : To close simple incisions which have been made into the viscera for purposes of exploration of the interior, or in order to remove foreign bodies or tumours, such as polypi, which project into the interior ; to close wounds inflicted acci- dentally or by other means than the surgeon's knife, ruptures, and so on ; to close perforations ; to enlarge the lumen of the canal; to unite portions of bowel which have been divided—for example, in the removal of a tumour of the intestines or of gangrenous intestine ; or to form a union between different parts of the intestinal canal as in the operation of gastro-jejunos- tomy, or in anastomosis between various parts of the intestine. The exact details of the methods applicable for these different purposes will be given under the various headings. A few remarks may, however, be made on the methods of union in general, and especially on the union between different parts of the bowel. What has already been said with regard to Lembert's sutures will suffice as regards cases in which an incision has been made into the lumen of the intestine. The cut edge is united by a continuous through-and- through suture, and this line of union is buried by a continuous Lembert's suture applied all around it, so as to invaginate and shut off the deeper layer of sutures. The sutures are applied in various ways, but the most convenient seems to be a running continuous stitch (see Fig. 86). When portions of the intestine have been lost, and there is con- sequently some tension on the line of junction, it may be advisable to