EPITHELIOMA 91 great aid throughout the operation, and mvich depends upon the dexterity of the assistant in anticipating the intentions of the operator, and in always making traction in exactly the right direction, his aim being to make tense those tissues which are immediately to be divided. ' The first step in the actual operation consists in the separation of the tongue from its attachment to the floor of the mouth and the anterior pillars of the fauces, and I would lay stress upon the way in which this is done, because the ease with which the operation is continued depends largely upon the freedom with which this separation is carried out. The two structures principally responsible for the retention of the tongue within the mouth are the frenum and the anterior pillars of the fauces ; and, if these are completely divided in the first instance, the tongue may be so freely drawn from the mouth that the operation is practically converted into an extra-oral excision. Extended practice has made me conduct this part of the operation with less deliberation and more rapidity than was my habit in my earlier cases. Instead of the cautious snipping I originally advocated, I now boldly cut until I get close to the vicinity of the main arteries, disregarding all bleeding, unless an artery distinctly spurts, when I twist it and proceed. The more profuse the general oozing the more rapidly I proceed, my object being to get as quickly as possible to the main arteries, as I have confidence that all subsidiary bleeding will cease immediately after their division. There is, in reality, no difficulty in determining the actual position of the lingual arteries, as they are practically invariably found in the same situation, and it requires very little experience to seize them with a pair of forceps before dividing them ; if this be done there need not be the slightest haemorrhage from this source. When once the vessels are effectually twisted, the rest of the tongue may be removed without any further anxiety about hfemorrhage ; but it is desirable, before finally severing the last attachments, to pass a loop of silk through the glosso-epiglottidean fold, as a provisional measure of security, in case it may become necessary to make traction on the posterior floor of the mouth, either to assist respiration or to arrest any possible consecutive haemorrhage. Traction on this ligature of itself arrests haemorrhage, and makes it an easy matter to secure any bleeding vessel. As the retention of this ligature is a source of some annoyance to the patient, I always remove it at the end of twenty-four hours. As a matter of fact, I cannot recollect its having been required in more than two cases, and but for the certain sense of confidence it gives to those who are left in charge of the patient I should dispense with the precaution altogether were I influenced solely by the amount of benefit I liave derived from its use. ' The treatment of the floor of the mouth after the tongue has been removed is a matter of considerable moment. The first object is to make the cut tissues as far as possible aseptic, and for this i)urpose I am still in the habit of swabbing the parts with a mercurial solution, and. after