AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 28o by doing this the vertical measurement of the stomach may actually be increased so that, even allowing for some contraction subsequentl}^ the sectional lumen of the viscus will not be diminished. When the ulcer is not excised, but the base is thinned and perforation is probable, it should be infolded by a series of Lembert's sutures—as is done in some cases of perforated or actively bleeding ulcers (see p. 286)—• and a gastro-jejunostomy performed, the pylorus being narrowed by stitches if it is not already contracted. TREATMENT OF ACTIVE GASTRIC HEMORRHAGE. The surgeon is not infrequently called in to treat this condition. In connection with operation under these circumstances, it is weU to boar in mind that bleeding in cases of gastric ulcer is very rarely fatal per se, however profuse it may be for the moment, and that most cases of active haemorrhage from a gastric ulcer can be checked by purely medical means and the bleeding does not necessarily recur. Further, if the haemorrhage is severe enough to endanger the patient's life, this danger will be enormously increased by operative interference, and the resulting shock may be sufficient to bring about a fatal termination. Lastly it may be by no means easy to find the source of haemorrhage, or to treat it appropriately when found. The source of the haemorrhage may vary considerably. Thus it may come from large vessels such as the coronary or gastro-epiploic arteries, or only a small branch may be involved. On the other hand, the bleeding may not be derived from any large vessel at all, but may come from superficial erosions of the mucous membrane, the oozing from which is exceedingly difficult to check. We therefore recommend that operative interference should only be undertaken on account of haemorrhage pure and simple, when the bleeding is so severe as to threaten the patient's life if it continues any longer, and only after attempts to check it by medical measures have proved unavailing. In all cases of active haemorrhage from the stomach the patient should be confined to bed in the strictly horizontal position. The head should be kept low and a large ice-bag placed over the epigastrium. Ice may be given freely by the mouth and the patient should be kept quiet, and friends and relatives should not be allowed to see him. While the haemorrhage is active, ergotinine citrate (gr. t-V) n^a-Y be injected subcu- taneously, combined with morphine ; these may be frequently repeated, and pil. saponis co. (gr. iij) may be given every four hours followed by gallic acid in ten-grain doses as the bleeding diminishes. Supra-renal extract is valuable in doses of five minims every three or four hours. Irrigation of the stomach with iced water may also be employed, a soft tube being used and great care exercised both in passing it and in performing the