SYPHILIS 65 considerable induration about the ulcer, especially when the latter has existed for some time, and it is not always easy to make a diagnosis between it and the cancerous form; indeed epithelioma not infrequently develops in these ulcers. TREATMENT.—In the primary and secondary stages the general treatment for syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.) must be employed ; for mucous tubercles, the local application of calomel is also valuable. In applying calomel the tongue should be held out of the mouth and dried, and the surface of the ulcer lightly dusted with a powder composed of equal parts of calomel, boric acid, and starch ; this should be done twice or thrice daily. The secondary ulcerations are often very painful, and the pain is best relieved by the occasional application of solid nitrate of silver. In obstinate cases, painting the affected area over once or twice a day with a 10 per cent, solution of chromic acid is of service. The patient should only take soft food, and must avoid smoking and the use of anything acid or very hot or cold. In cases marked by excessive pain which renders sleep and feeding matters of the greatest difficulty, the patient will go downhill, unless he is brought rapidly under the influence of antisyphilitic remedies ; salvarsan should be employed, or failing that the intra-muscular injections of mercury (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). The local application of orthoform or cocaine (5 per cent.) to the affected spot is sometimes useful, by enabling the patient to take food in comfort. In treating the tertiary ulcers, the chief reliance must be placed upon the use of salvarsan, as it is most essential to get rapid healing, especially in view of the risk of malignant disease ; should this drug not be avail- able, recourse must be had to the administration of iodide of potassium internally in large doses, commencing with 15 grains and rapidly increasing to 30 grains or even more, three times a day ; it is well to combine the use of this drug with mercurial treatment. Local applications should be limited to mild antiseptic mouth-washes. Tobacco, alcohol and highly spiced and acid articles of,diet should be forbidden. Rough teeth should be filed, stumps removed, tartar taken away, and the teeth kept clean. When there is a deep ulcerated crack in the tongue, equal parts of balsam of Peru and white of egg may be painted on several times a day with a camel's-hair brush, and an alkaline mouth-wash, such as bicarbonate of soda (gr. xv-xx to the oz.) may be used. The most important cases are those in which the ulcer has lasted for some time and induration is developing about the edges. These cases are extremely difircult to diagnose from epithelioma. An early diagnosis can only be made by the microscope, and therefore, a portion of the edge and base of the ulcer should be excised and submitted to microscopical examination. If the surgeon attempts to make up his mind from the results of anti-syphilitic treatment, at least two or three weeks must w. F