398 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES sinuses discharging pus, in which the fungus may be found; these occur most frequently in the loin. In some cases the infection may be limited to the appendix in the first instance, and if it has become complicated by infection with bacteria an appendicitic abscess may form. TREATMENT.—-These cases may go on acutely or may be chronic, but a fatal termination results in the great majority; a few cases have recovered, however, either spontaneously or under treatment. Attempts have been made to excise the affected intestine or appendix, but although one or two cases have recovered, the great majority have died either as the result of the operation or from the spread of the disease. As a rule no radical operation can be thought of, and the surgical treatment consists in opening up the infected area and the fistulse freely, removing the granulation tissue with a sharp spoon, and destroying the wall of the sinus by the thermo-cautery. Free drainage must be established, and boric fomentations, packing with iodoform gauze, painting the sinuses with tincture of iodine, or irrigating them with peroxide of hydrogen may be employed. These procedures should be combined with the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium. Even though complete cure has only occurred in a small number of cases, considerable improvement and prolongation of life is not uncommon under this treatment. SYPHILIS OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. Syphilis of the stomach seems to be very rare, but gummata have been found post mortem in a few cases. There are no clinical symptoms which would enable the diagnosis to be made between a syphilitic and a simple ulcer of the stomach; when gastric symptoms arise in a patient with other syphilitic lesions and no definite diagnosis can be made, it is well to bear in mind the possibility of syphilis of the stomach and to give the patient the benefit of the doubt by putting him through a course of antisyphilitic treatment. Syphilis of the intestine, with the exception of the rectum, which is considered in Chap. XXXVIL, is very rare, though somewhat more common than in the stomach ; it seems to be more frequent in congenital than in acquired syphilis. In congenital cases the small intestine is more often affected than the large, and on post mortem examination, small ulcers of the mucous membrane, gummatous infiltra- tion of the muscular coat, and an eruption of small nodules in the various coats have been found. Clinically there is nothing in the symptoms to lead to a diagnosis, but when intestinal symptoms are present in association with other lesions such as syphilitic pemphigus or syphilitic osteo-chondritis, the condition may be suspected; if the suspicion is orrect, the symptoms quickly clear up under appropriate treatment. In acquired syphilis the small intestine is the more frequently aftected.