STRICTURE 173 TREATMENT.—In all cases of cicatricial stricture of the oeso- phagus, tlie treatment is both medical and surgical. (a) Medical.—-The medical treatment should provide for the nutrition of the patient and also allay the pain and spasm in swallowing, which are frequently present, especially when there is ulceration above the stricture ; the difficulty in swallowing produced by the mechanical obstruction is much increased by spasm of the muscular coat. The diet should be concentrated and nourishing, and should be either entirely fluid or at most semi-solid and free from masses which might become arrested and block the lumen. If there is much difficulty in taking sufficient food by the mouth, and if the patient cannot bear a per- manent tube, rectal feeding (see p. 257) should be resorted to as well, especially if the case is in the early stage and if the difficulty arises more from spasm due to the inflammatory condition than from actual narrowing of the oesophagus. If, however, the latter is so extreme that the patient runs the risk of actual starvation, no time should be wasted in feeding by the rectum, but surgical measures, such as oesophagostomy if the stricture is high up (see p. 168), or gastrostomy if it is too low down, should be adopted. The intense thirst from which many of these patients suffer should be met by rectal injections of normal sahne solution. The best sedatives are opium and beUadonna in small quantities, which may be given mixed with a little glycerine or in an emulsion, so as to make a dose small in quantity and sufficiently tenacious to cling to the oesophagus as it is swallowed; this should be given a short time before food. {b) Surgical.—This has two main objects. In the first place it aims at dilating the stricture and maintaining this dilatation, and nothing further is required when the contraction is not too great to pre- vent bougies being passed, and when the patient can swallow sufficient food to maintain his strength. In the second place, when the patient has an extremely tight stricture which will require some time for its dilatation, and is at the same time unable to swallow, the first object is to feed him, and for this purpose it may be necessary to perform gastrostomy at once. Dilatation of the stricture.—This may be done in a variety of ways, but as a rule the best results are obtained by simple dilatation with graduated bougies. Intermittent dilatation.—This consists in passing a bougie of suitable size through the stricture, retaining it in position for a few minutes, and, if deemed advisable, passing a larger one immediately afterwards. After allowing an interval of three days at least to elapse, so that the irritation caused by the instrumentation may subside, further dilatation is carried out. Unless the stricture is very obstinate, this method will dilate it in the course of time, and the interval between the passage of the bougies may be gradually increased. The use of bougies can, however, never