MALIGNANT TUMOURS pharynx with stenosis is Ukely to occur after heaHng and to interfere seriously with the patient's comfort. Further, the disease is hable to spread superficiahy along the pharyngeal mucous membrane for a con- siderable distance beyond any tangible induration, and therefore the probability of immediate recurrence is great. The situation of the disease is most important, especially its rela- tion to the orifice of the larynx. When the latter is free, the operation is more favourable than when the epiglottidean folds have become involved. In the latter case, the great majority of patients operated upon die of septic pneumonia, because it is almost impossible to avoid the leakage of septic material into the air-passages. Hence in cases of this kind it is probably better to extirpate the larynx as well as the affected portion of the pharynx, should an operation be decided upon. Operations for malignant disease of the pharynx are very discouraging, especially on account of the serious risks immediately following them, but these risks may be considerably diminished by taking certain pre- cautions. The chance of recurrence is also no doubt very great, but that is a risk common to all operations for cancer, and in cases of small malignant tumours of the pharynx and tonsil the results in this respect are not very much worse than those after operations on cancer elsewhere. Since the sufferings that these patients must undergo in the final stages are extreme, it seems justifiable to give them the chance afforded by operation in suitable cases. The operation should never be strongly pressed upon the patient, however, and all sides of the question should be explained to him. We should recommend that, if the operation involves complete removal of the larynx as well as removal of the affected portion of the pharynx, the patient should be advised not to undergo it, as no description can make him realise the deplorable condition in which the operation, even if immediately successful, will leave him. Poor patients would probably be condemned to spend the rest of their lives in the workhouse, and the operation therefore merely offers a prolongation of their misery. Of course it is possible that a patient of a literary disposition, who is well off, might find other compensations in life, even though suffering from the tremendous disadvantage that the deformity entails ; but on this point he must be left to judge for himself. The chief dangers of the operations and their prevention.—The chief dangers of these operations are sepsis in the neck and septic pneumonia. In practically all cases the anterior triangle must be opened up, not only for the excision of the disease in the pharynx, but also still more exten- sively for the removal of enlarged glands ; an acute diffuse cellulitis spreading in the planes of the cervical fascia is not uncommon after the operation. With the view of avoiding sepsis in the neck, it is only natural to ask whether it is not possible to remove the glands from outside whilst the