AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 384 anastomosis. The possibility of this may have been ascertained at the first operation. Should it be evident at the time of the original laparotomy that resection will be feasible later on, it is weU only to draw enough of the sigmoid into the abdominal incision to allow the colostomy tube to be inserted. It is not even necessary to make a complete spur as the second operation will be done as soon as the effects of the obstruc- tion are recovered from, and a small lateral opening into the bowel is much easier to close than a complete transverse division. It is also advisable to make the artificial anus well above the growth so as to give plenty of room for the subsequent resection and anastomosis. In these cases the upper part of the bowel may be paralysed and unable to discharge its contents properly, and it may be necessary to evacuate it artificially (see p. 341). It is for this reason also, apart from the length of time required, that a short-circuiting operation is in- advisable in these cases, and if it is done it is well also to open the bowel higher up and evacuate its contents. CASES IN WHICH THE PATIENT'S CONDITION IS GOOD AND THE DISTENSION IS NOT GREAT. In these cases a more prolonged operation is possible and therefore a median laparotomy wound should be made in order to permit of due examination of the abdomen. The incision should be a little to one side of the middle line and should run from the umbilicus downwards for about four inches ; it may be enlarged as may be required. The obstruction should be searched for in a methodical manner. In the first place the hand is passed over to the caecum and its condition ascertained : if it is dilated the obstruction will be in the large intestine ; if collapsed, it is in the small bowel. The condition of the appendix should also be ascer- tained. If the caecum is dilated, the hand should next be passed over to the left side, and the condition of the sigmoid flexure similarly ascer- tained ; this is the commonest situation of a malignant stricture. If the sigmoid is collapsed, the obstruction must be somewhere between it and the caecum, and it will be advisable to extend the incision above the umbilicus so as to obtain good access. The ascending colon is then examined from the caecum up to the hepatic flexure, then the transverse colon, and finally the descending colon ; in this way the stricture will be identified with the least possible waste of time. Should the caecum not be found dilated, it will be necessary to examine the coils of the small intestine, and this is most satisfactorily done by beginning at the caecum, hooking up the ileo-caecal valve, and passing the small intestine through the fingers from below upwards ; as each coil is done with, it is packed into the abdomen and kept in place by abdominal cloths. When the obstruction is found, it is, if possible, brought into view