400 CHAPTER XXVI. APPENDICITIS. The question whether typhUtis or perityphUtis exists apart from appen- dicitis is still discussed, but there is no doubt that the diseases formerly classed as typhlitis and perityphlitis were, as a rule, cases of appendicitis, and, although a localised typhlitis or perityphlitis may occur from ster- oral or other forms of ulceration, the cases in which severe symptoms are produced, apart from appendicitis, are very rare. Anatomy.—The vermiform appendix springs from the postero-intemal aspect of the caecum, a little below the ileo-caecal junction, and is readily found by tracing down the anterior longitudinal muscular band of the large intestine. The root of the appendix is fairly constant in situation and corresponds on the abdominal wall to the spot known clinically as ' McBurney's point ' ; this is at the junction of the outer and middle thirds of a line drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior iliac spine. The process is usually from three to four inches long in adults ; it may, however, be considerably longer, and an appendix nine inches long has been recorded. In the infant it is approximately straight and relatively longer than in the adult, while in old age it atrophies con- currently with the other lymphatic structures. The mesentery of the appendix (' meso-appendix ') is triangular or sickle shaped, the blood- vessels running along its free border. The arterial supply of the appendix is derived from a branch of the ileo-colic artery which passes behind the termination of the ileum and runs along the free border of the meso- appendix to the tip of the organ, giving off branches to the appendix in its course. From one of its earhest branches, there is a recurrent twig of fair size which anastomoses with the arteries of the ceecum. This probably accounts for the fact that the proximal portion of the appendix may be living although the distal portion is gangrenous. As the appendix grows it tends to become curled upon itself. Its position varies ; but for clinical purposes, three positions or rather sets of positions may be described. It most commonly lies to the inner side