152 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS pharyngeal disease is removed from within the mouth without estabhshing a communication between the two wounds. Owing to the anatomical condition of affairs this is unfortunately seldom possible. Another pre- caution would be to divide the operation into two stages, in the first of which the glands are removed, whilst in the second the wound is opened up again sufficiently to give proper access to the pharynx. This undoubtedly renders the second operation more troublesome than if both were done at the same time, and, apart from the question of sepsis, there is the risk of the wound becoming infected with cancer cells in the vicinity of the disease in the throat during the interval between the two operations. We are therefore in favour of performing the whole operation at one sitting. Prevention of septic pneumonia.—Septic pneumonia may be guarded against, to some extent, in various ways. The first precaution is the performance of a preliminary tracheotomy. When the orifice of the larynx is not involved and can be packed off during the operation, a laryngotomy may suffice. The object of performing tracheotomy is not only to allow the patient to breathe, but also to prevent blood and discharges running down the trachea. Since the pharynx can seldom be plugged as is done for opera- tions on the tongue, a Hahn's or a Trendelenburg's tube must be employed. The Hahn's tube is surrounded by compressed aseptic sponge, which swells up and blocks the trachea for the time being (see Fig. 52). The Trendelen- burg tube is surrounded by an india-rubber casing which can be blown up, so as to fill up the trachea (see Fig. 53). The disadvantage of the latter is that the air is apt to leak out and the closure to become imperfect ; its advantage is its cleanliness. The disadvantage of the Hahn's tube is that the sponge becomes saturated and blood may leak down, and on removing it, fluid is squeezed out and runs down the trachea. The latter trouble can be avoided, to some extent, by placing the patient in the Trendelenburg Fig. 52.—Hahn's Cannula, Fig. 53.—Trendelenburg's Tampon Cannula.