AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 392 are washed out again after a few minutes with saline solution. This lavage should be continued for about nine months. When it is discon- tinued, the opening contracts and leaves a little mucous dimple with very little secretion ; if the patient has permanently recovered, the mucous membrane may be cut away and the opening allowed to heal. Valvular ccBcosiomy.-—This is practically Witzel's operation (see p. 184) performed on the caecum. The csecum is brought forward and clamped, or the ileum and ascending colon are clamped if enough csecum cannot be brought out. An incision is made into its lumen, into which a No. 12 catheter is introduced, and the wall of the cfecum is folded over the catheter for one and a half inches by a double row of Lembert's sutures (see p. 184), and this part of the caecal wall is attached to the parietal peritoneum. The wound is then brought to- gether around the catheter, the skin at the point of emergence of the catheter being tucked down to the peritoneum. A tube or plug must be kept in always, but there is no discharge of the contents of the caecum as in an open caecostomy. When the patient is well, the open- ing will close of itself on leaving out the tube. ACUTE ULCERATIVE COLITIS. Fio. J41.—AppENDicosTOMY. Fixing the appendix to the abdominal wall. This is a much more serious disease, and a large number of the patients die. It is an acute colitis accompanied by the formation of numerous ulcers on the mucous membrane of the large intestine. The condition can be readily diagnosed with the sigmoidoscope. The patient is very ill; there is constant diarrhoea and tenesmus, passage of blood- stained mucus or pus, high and irregular temperature, and rapid pulse. Here early operation is imperative. In some cases an appendicostomy or a caecostomy may sufifice if it is followed by irrigation with saline or antiseptic and, later, astringent solutions. Solutions of protargol (3 to 4 per cent.), Condy's fluid, sanitas, or hazeline, may be employed. In some cases, however, this will not suffice, and then it becomes necessary to arrest the passage of faeces through the colon completely for a time. For this