577 HEMORRHOIDS out of boiling water firmly applied against the anus will quicldy relieve it. At the end of the first week the patient may be allowed to get up, and he can generally return to work within a fortnight. When there are external piles, and these have not been removed, there may be a good deal of swelling around the anus for some days after the operation ; but this soon subsides and the external piles shrink up. Ligature.—^This is a method fi-equently employed, but it has several disadvantages, which are referred to below. The sphincter is fully dilated, the pile is pulled down by forceps, the mucous membrane around its base is snipped through from below upwards, leaving the pile attached to the bowel only by the submucous tissue in which are the branches of the hcemorrhoidal vessels which supply it. The pedicle is then sur- rounded by a stout silk ligature and tied very tightly. All the piles are treated in this way and the parts are then returned Avithin the anus. The object of snipping through the mucous membrane before applying the ligature is to diminish pain. The chief reason urged in favour of tliis method is the avoidance of hjemorrhage, but in our opinion it does not, on the whole, bear comparison with either of the plans already described. The presence of silk ligatures in a septic area like the rectum must necessarily be a source of irritation and danger, whilst the sloughing of the pile and the separation of the ligature are apt to be accompanied by septic thrombosis and a risk of secondary haemorrhage. What we have seen of the pain and discomfort following this operation contrasts unfavourably with the results of the clamp and cautery method. TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE IN CONNECTION WITH PILES. This may be divided into bleeding occurring as a complication of piles, and bleeding occurring during or after one of the operations for their relief ; bleeding in the two latter cases is rare when the operation is properly performed. Haemorrhage complicating piles.—^This is a mere symptom; the removal of the haemorrhoids will cure the bleeding. Should the patient decline operation, or be an unsuitable subject for one, it may be necessary to employ local measures for the arrest of the hjemorrhage. For this purpose the ordinary palliative treatment already described (see p. 566) must be adopted, and the use of adrenalin or astringents locally will also be advantageous. Amongst astringents, one of the best is the tincture of hamamelis, diluted with an equal quantity of water, half an ounce to an ounce of this solution being injected through the sphincter and left in the rectum after each action of the bowels. In mild cases injection of cold water or lead lotion may be sufficient, whilst suppositories containing one to three grains of sulphate of iron may be employed in bad cases in addition to the adrenalin and hamamelis. IV. p p