405 APPENDICITIS symptoms disappear after appendicectomy, there can be little doubt that they are due to the diseased appendix ; they, however, often mislead the medical attendant. It will be convenient to describe the symptoms by taking typical examples of varying degrees of severity and describing their clinical course. In the mildest group of cases the infection is comparatively trivial and does not spread to the peritoneum. In some of these cases there is little to point to the appendix, and the main symptoms are frequently referred to the stomach ; there may be pain after food, flatulence, and general abdominal discomfort. These symptoms, however, are not constant, but come on in attacks without any definite indications as to their cause ; ill-health, over-fatigue, errors in diet, and excessive exercise seem to precipitate an attack. Sooner or later, if the patient is examined while the symptoms are well developed, it will be found that there is a little tenderness at some point in the right iliac region, with slight rigidity of the overlying muscles; further, on asking the patient to flex the right leg against resistance, abdominal pain may be elicited and sometimes an elongated tumour may be felt in the appendix area. This tumour is not the appendi.x in the majority of cases, but is a phantom tumour produced by a spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres of the abdominal wall or by a contracted caecum. The con- stitutional symptoms in these mild cases are trivial and the patient generally speaks of them as bilious attacks ; there may be headache, slight anorexia, and, if the temperature is carefully watched, a slight rise may be detected. In other mild cases the pain in the iliac fossa may be more constant, and the patient may have short attacks of severe pain. He is, however, never really ill, and may not have to give up his occupation at all. On the other hand, he is never quite well ; there is a more or less constant dragging pain in the right iliac fossa, which is relieved by flexion of the right leg, there is a certain amount of tenderness over the appendix region, and dyspeptic symptoms may be present. The changes in the appendix in these cases are eitlier simple catarrh of the mucous membrane or obliterative appendicitis ; sometimes a small concretion may be found. In a second group of cases, which more often come under the notice of the surgeon in the early stage, there are quite definite attacks, during which the patient is decidedly ill. The onset is usually sudden, but it may have been preceded by malaise and abdominal discomfort for a few days. There is usually vomiting at the onset and a considerable amount of pain, which is at first in the epigastric region and colicky in character, but after some hours becomes more constant and referred to the right iliac fossa. The bowels are constipated as a rule, but there may be diarrhcea. The temperature is sometimes raised to a moderate degree (100° to 102° F.) and the pulse is quickened (100 to 120); in other cases the temperature and i)ulse are very little altered. On examining the abdomen there is