514 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES with tow soaked in plaster after first greasing it and filling up any holes with soap. The operative treatment of these cases has received very little attention, and, considering the nature and extensive character of the deformity, no cure can be expected from operation. At the same time, a considerable amount of benefit has resulted in a few cases on which we have operated, and, with the aid of suitable corsets, the patient's condition has been much improved. In cases of dilated stomach without any obstruction to the exit of the contents—cases which in all probability belong to the group of enteroptosis—gastroplication or taking tucks in the stomach has been performed; but the operation has fallen into disuse. Gastro-jejunostomy has also been done with little or no benefit. It seems to us that attempts to remedy the trouble by operation must be directed towards raising and keeping up the viscera. The stomach can be raised to some extent and (what is probably of more importance) steadied by taking tucks in the gastro-hepatic omentum. This can be done by passing a series of catgut stitches in a vertical direction through the upper and lower part of this omentum and tying them. In these cases also the hepatic and splenic flexures of the colon are loose, and therefore in addition to the above procedure we also stitch up the hepatic flexure to the under surface of the liver, as far as possible in its normal position, and the splenic flexure to the under surface of the diaphragm. In many of these cases the liver is also loose, and we have fastened it to the diaphragm in the manner referred to in speaking of hepatoptosis (see Vol. V.). When the recti are separated and the abdomen is very pendulous advantage will also be gained by suturing the walls and bringing the recti together. These various procedures may be carried out through a long vertical incision to the right of the middle line, but a transverse limb below the ribs on the right side will be necessary when the liver has to be sutured, and this facilitates the fixation of the hepatic flexure of the colon. The looseness of the kidneys, which is practically always present, may be dealt with later, if necessary (see Vol. V.). CHRONIC CONSTIPATION AND INTESTINAL STASIS. This is a condition which has been usually regarded as lying within the province of the physician, but of latfe years attempts have been made to relieve it by surgical means. The chief work in this department has been done by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane who has written much on the evil effects of intestinal stasis. These he attributes to the absorption of the products of decomposition, and holds that this occurs to a greater extent from the small intestine than from the large. According to him not only does it exert a deleterious effect upon the patient, producing such conditions as anaemia, mental depression, languor, and general ill-health, but also strongly predisposes or even leads to the occurrence of various