262 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH and the operation has proved so very unsatisfactory under such circum- stances that it is becoming the rule not to perform it when the pylorus is quite patent, or, if it is done, to take steps to constrict the pylorus. It has been found in experiments on animals, that when the pyloric orifice is patent, it is only in a small proportion of cases that the stomach contents pass directly down the efferent limb of the intestine ; in some they still pass through the pylorus and re-enter the stomach through the anastomotic opening, in others exactly the opposite occurs, and in others again they pass into the afferent limb through the anastomotic opening and then regurgitate into the stomach through the same opening. The conclusion seems to be that when gastro-jejunostomy is performed and the pylorus is patent, either that orifice must be constricted by stitches applied outside it or Roux's Y-shaped anastomosis or a lateral anasto- mosis between the limbs of the intestine should be employed. Other causes of a ' vicious circle' are connected with some error in the technique of the anastomosis, e.g. the formation of a spur at the point where the efferent limb leaves the opening, the occurrence of a kink in the intestine beyond, the presence of a long loop before the anastomotic opening which may become twisted on itself, or a twist in the efferent loop ; lastly the opening made in the meso-colon in order to permit of the application of the jejunum to the posterior wall of the stomach may be too small or may not be properly fixed, and may constrict the intestine. The introduction of the ' no-loop ' method has obviated some of these difficulties to a considerable extent ; twisting of the intestine on the proximal side of the anastomotic opening is no longer possible and kinks at or beyond the opening should not occur. Perhaps the most common cause of the condition is the formation of a spur in the intestine at the site of anastomosis, which guides the contents of the afferent loop into the stomach and prevents them from passing along the intestinal tract. This spur also makes it easier for the stomach to expel its contents into the duodenum than along the ileum. The dilata- tion of the duodenal loop that follows this backward propulsion of the stomach contents still further displaces the spur, so that it may ultimately act as a valve and completely occlude the efferent loop. Another cause of the affection is an unduly long loop between the pylorus and the anasto- motic opening. When there is any considerable interval between the end of the duodenum and the anastomotic opening, the weight of the loop when filled with bile and pancreatic secretion tends to cause such an acute kinking at the stomach orifice that the bile cannot find its way into the ileum. A third, and most important, cause met with in the posterior form of the operation, is an insufficient opening in the transverse meso-colon, or imperfect attachment of the edges of this opening to the stomach. If the edges are imperfectly attached to the stomach, the meso-colon may slip downwards when the operation has been completed, and the narrow opening in it constricts both the afferent and efferent loops, squeezing them together