227 Q 2 CHAPTER XV. THE METHODS OF EXAMINATION OF THE STOMACH. Many stomach affections which were formerly left under the care of the physician are now amenable to surgical treatment, and the surgery of the stomach has assumed a position of great importance. We may enumerate some of the cases in which surgical measures are necessary. The various forms of injury to the viscus, such as contusions, ruptures, or incised wounds naturally call for surgical treatment, while foreign bodies that remain located in the organ require removal. It may be necessary to open the stomach in order to remove a foreign body from the lower end of the oesophagus, or to treat a stricture in that situation, or to establish a permanent opening through which the patient may be fed (see Chap. XII.). The chief affections, however, that have come into the domain of surgery of recent years are simple gastric ulcer with its various sequelae, and malignant disease. In cases of simple ulcer, the surgeon may have to intervene on account of excessive haemorrhage, or to excise the ulcer or to perform gastro-jejunostomy ; operation may also be necessary to save the patient's life when an ulcer has perforated ; or an abscess due to a localised peritonitis accompanying perforation may have to be opened. Stenosis of the pylorus (congenital or acquired), the con- dition known as ' hour-glass contraction,' or extensive adhesions between the stomach and neighbouring parts, all of which interfere with the action of the organ are also conditions which call for surgical treatment. Operation is now frequently employed in cases of cancer of the stomach, either for the purpose of excising the tumour, or, if that is not possible, of establishing a connection between the stomach and the jejunum. Before proceeding to operation it is necessary to make as accurate a diagnosis of the condition present as possible, and in doing so a number of points must be taken into consideration and various methods of investigation must be employed.