AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 324 little reflection will show that it is the most satisfactory way of dealing with those extremely grave injuries. An intestinal clamp is next applied to the bowel on each side of the injury, the portion of the gut between them being emptied by squeezing them and the whole loop is cleansed thoroughly. The assistant may now begin to stitch up the large wound by through-and-through stitches of silk-worm gut. Treatment of the injured boivel.—This will vary with the seat and extent of the lesion. In the cases of which we are speaking, the edges of the rent are almost always irregular or contused and are very likely to slough, or at any rate to become the seat of development of bacteria, such as the colon bacillus, so that the stitches fail to hold, and septic peritonitis and possibly perforation may follow. Therefore, it will be necessary to remove the contused edges in all these cases so as to provide a clean-cut surface for union ; should the rent be extensive, this may entail so much narrowing of the lumen of the bowel when the incision is sutured that in most cases it is best to excise the damaged portion and make an end- to-end or preferably a lateral anastomosis. This is particularly the case when the rent extends through the mesenteric border of the intestine, the suture of which is by no means easy. Hence, we recommend that the rent in the intestine should only be sutured when it is comparatively small and is so situated that this does not result in constriction of the bowel. In some cases a short, longitudinal rent may be converted into a transverse one by bringing the extremities of the wound together, as is done in pyloroplasty or gastroplasty, thus actually increasing the lumen of the bowel (see p. 288) ; this, however, will not be feasible if the rent is a long one. When the small intestine is torn across from one border to the other, end-to-end anastomosis may be carried out if the two portions of the loop are equal in diameter; and before doing this, it is well that the torn edges should be cut away so as to insure that the surfaces which are united are healthy. It is best, however, in most cases to remove a larger portion of the injured bowel and make a lateral anastomosis. If the large bowel is torn across and the edges of the tear cannot be sutured, the injured piece of bowel must be excised and a lateral anastomosis performed. We have already referred on p. 223 to the methods of uniting divided bowel, and we need only make some remarks specially applicable to these injuries. We believe that simple suture without any accessory apparatus such as bobbins or buttons is the best, and that either end-to-end suture or preferably lateral anastomosis should be employed for the small intestine, and lateral anastomosis alone for the large. The junction of small and large intestine may also be accomphshed by lateral implantation. In recent wounds of the intestine the procedure is as follows : The portion to be excised is emptied of its contents and closed by intestinal