298 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH seized in catch-forceps and held up by an assistant so as to prevent the escape of the gastric contents. The dilatation of the pylorus is now undertaken. We use Hegar's dilators for this purpose, passing one after the other through the pyloric opening until this admits the little finger easily. This is a very safe method but somewhat tedious, and it requires considerable judgment to perform full dilatation without actually splitting the pylorus. The expansion is carried out until the peritoneal coat shows signs of splitting or the superficial fibres of the pyloric ring give way. The dilator is then withdrawn, after which we are in the habit of introducing a feed of four ounces of weak peptonised milk through a catheter into the duodenum. The incision in the stomach is then closed rapidly in the usual way and the abdomen sewn up. The chief danger in the operation is rupture of the pylorus or perforation of the duodenum. Rupture of the pylorus generally takes place on its posterior aspect and may escape notice at the time of the operation ; it can only be guarded against by the greatest care in performing the dilatation. In all the cases in which this accident has occurred in our hands, the rent has been sutured as in pyloroplasty (see p. 289) and the patient has recovered ; in the case in which perforation of the duodenum occurred, the accident passed unnoticed and fatal peritonitis ensued. The after-treatment demands great care and to it the successful re- sults are largely due. At the completion of the operation a hypodermic injection of half a drop of liquor strychninse may be given, and it is always well to run in four to six ounces of saline solution beneath the skin in the groins or axillae. For the first eight hours the child is fed entirely by rectum. After that time mouth-feeding is beguir in very small quantities {vide supra) and gradually increased. The feeding must be attended to with the greatest care for weeks or even months after the operation. Breast-feeding, either by the mother or by a wet nurse, should be employed as the child recovers. There is a remarkable tendency to the supervention of diarrhoea soon after the operation, apparently as the result of food passing down the intestine again. NON-OBSTRUCTIVE DILATATION OF THE STOMACH. Dilatation of the stomach may occur without any organic obstruction to the exit of its contents or adhesions interfering with its mobility. It may be an acute or a chronic condition. Acute dilatation of the stomach is a very serious condition, and unless recognised and treated early not uncommonly proves fatal. It may occur rapidly and may or may not be accompanied by the same condition in the intestines. The stomach may become enormously distended