450 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES intestinal obstruction due to kinking, to bands, or to stricture following ulceration. Perforation may also occur from rupture of an ulcer, or there may be abscess formation, with discharge of pus fr om the umbilicus and faecal fistula. The disease is sometimes complicated with phthisis or pleurisy. The diagnosis is not always easy. The affection has to be distinguished from ulcer of the intestine, malignant disease, gastric catarrh, typhoid fever, peritoneal cancer, chronic peritonitis from other causes, and ovarian cysts. The points in favour of tuberculous peritonitis are a family history of tuberculosis, tubercle elsewhere, the presence of localised thickenings in the abdomen, a fairly rapid formation of fluid with no demonstrable cause, a feeling of weight and uneasiness, percussion note changing slowly with alterations in position, a hectic temperature (though sometimes there is little or no fever), albuminuria, and no other demonstrable cause for the ascites. The prognosis is undoubtedly very grave, but much depends on the form of the disease and on the presence or absence of complications. Physicians now take a much more hopeful view of the trouble than they did and, provided that no complication such as phthisis, obstruction, or perforation arises, the outlook in the young is not now considered nearly as bad as it was formerly. TREATMENT.—This is partly medical and partly surgical; in the early stage the treatment lies with the physician. Medical.—The patient should be placed under the best hygienic conditions ; tuberculin injections (see Vol. I. p. 522) should have a trial. When there is intestinal ulceration, the diet must consist entirely of fluids which should be selected for their nutritive value, such as milk and raw meat juice. The bowels should be regulated ; if ascites is present, diuretics will be called for. Cod-liver oil may be given either by the mouth or by the rectum, and arsenic is of use. Intestinal anti- septics, such as creosote, salol or guaiacol may also be employed. Dr. Burney Yeo speaks highly of abdominal inunction with iodoform ointment and the internal administration of iodoform in the form of one-grain pills three times a day. When pain is very marked, the local application of belladonna to the abdomen or a subcutaneous injection of morphine may be desirable. Open-air treatment, with complete rest in bed in the first instance at any rate, should be carried out. Surgical.—Until comparatively recently surgical interference was not thought of unless some complication occurred, and this, to some extent, is the case even now. It has been found however, in a number of cases in which the abdomen has been opened for other reasons, that tuberculous peritonitis has been present, but that nevertheless the condition has rapidly improved after the operation, although nothing was done beyond opening the abdomen ; this has occurred so frequently that, of late years, simple laparotomy has become the chief surgical measure for cases which do not yield to medical treatment.