126 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS FOLLICULAR TONSILLITIS. This is an affection of the crypts or follicles of the tonsil and is of bacterial origin. It is commonly ascribed to bad hygienic conditions, such as defective drains, dirty bedding, or direct infection by the dis- charges from the mouths of those suffering from a similar affection. It is particularly liable to occur in those who are the subject of chronically enlarged tonsils. Symptoms.—The disease is characterised by acute symptoms such as headache and pyrexia, and is marked by the presence of small whitish grey spots upon the tonsils, generally on both sides ; these are at first multiple, but may coalesce in patches and form a pseudo-membrane which somewhat resembles that of diphtheria, but differs from it in being easily detached with a camel's hair brush. The diphtheritic membrane is very adherent and usually occurs in a single large patch, which tends to spread beyond the limits of the tonsils, whereas the patches in follicular tonsillitis are small and scattered over the tonsil. There is usually much painful swelling of the glands behind the angle of the jaw, even though the local disturbance is slight. Prognosis.—^As a rule the attack passes off quickly. Although the temperature may be high and the swelling of the glands very marked and very painful at first, the acute symptoms usually subside in four or five days and the glands rarely suppurate. The trouble is, however, extremely liable to recur, especially if the patient is exposed to fresh sources of infection, or if there is chronic enlargement of the tonsils. In view of the latter fact, the enlarged tonsils should be removed after the attack has subsided (see p. 131). Moreover, the enlargement of the glands in the neck should be carefully attended to, as they are liable to become the seat of tuberculous disease unless the inflammation in them disappears under suitable treatment. TREATMENT.—It is important to try to ascertain the cause of the mischief and to remove the patient from any insanitary surroundings. Thus if the drains are defective, the patient should be removed to another house while the defects are being remedied. The possibility of infection from dirty rooms, dirty mattresses or pillows, should also be remembered, and all bedding should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. At the same time it is of extreme importance to point out to the patient the distinctly infectious nature of the disease, so that at any rate a certain amount of isolation may be practised. The other members of the house- hold, especially children, should be kept away from the patient as much as possible, and infection by kissing, or by using the same eating or drinking vessels, should be guarded against. In the treatment of the disease itself a purge such as calomel (gr. ij. to v.), or mist. alb. (§iss.), should be given when the patient is first