236 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH a syringe. A soft, red rubber oesophageal tube (known as Jaques') about thirty inches long is connected by an inch of glass tubing with a length of india-rubber tubing, at the other end of which is a glass funnel capable of holding from half a pint to a pint. The tube—which should have both a lateral and a terminal opening, so that if one gets blocked the other may act—is passed in the same manner as an oesophageal bougie (see p. 174), being assisted by swallowing efforts on the part of the patient. When it is in position, the patient's head is bent well forwards or turned to one side so as to allow the saliva to flow out of the mouth, and the funnel is held at or below the level of the stomach. As a rule the gastric contents begin to run into the funnel immediately the end of the tube passes into the stomach, and may be collected for analysis. If the fluid does not run immediately, the funnel should be lowered well below the level of the stomach and the patient asked to cough or strain. Should this manoeuvre fail, it is only necessary to fill the funnel with a little warm water and to raise it above the level of the mouth ; when some of the contents of the tube have thus been made to enter the stomach, the funnel is lowered and the fluid syphoned off. As much of the gastric contents as possible is run off first and then the irrigation is proceeded with. The funnel is filled with either saline solution or boiled water at the body temperature, and by raising it to the level of the mouth when the patient is in the sitting position or slightly higher when he is recumbent, this is allowed to enter the stomach graduahy. Before the funnel is quite empty, it is again lowered below the level of the stomach and as much fluid as will run away is withdrawn. This process is repeated several times until the fluid returns quite clear, and is a better plan than that of first filhng the stomach with a large quantity of fluid and then allowing it all to run away. If one funnel-full at a time is introduced and withdrawn there is no risk of over-distending the stomach, and the procedure is painless. There are no real difficulties or dangers attaching to this method. It should not however be carried out in bad heart-disease or great cachexia from constitutional mischief, as the nervous disturbance caused by it might be prejudicial. It should not be used in cases of gastric ulcer or gastric cancer with active bleeding. In other cases, howevei, both of ulcer and cancer, it is unobjectionable. Gastric lavage is also employed as a method of treatment, and this will be referred to again ; it is not curative, but it renders the patient much more comfortable by withdrawing fermenting contents from a stomach that is unable to pass them on, and thus diminishes the distension. It is also an exceedingly valuable preliminary to abdominal operations. Transillumination of the stomach has also been employed, a sound bearing a powerful electric lamp at its end being passed into the viscus, which mayor may not be artificially distended (see p. 229). The object of the procedure is to give a view of any shadow produced by growths or