AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 286 by a free incision from the xiphoid cartilage to the left of the umbilicus in the manner already described (see p. 32). The peritoneum must be opened with care as there may be adhesions between an ulcer on the anterior wall of the stomach and the parietes. Finding the f erf oration.—The diagnosis is usually confirmed im- mediately the abdomen has been opened, by the escape of gas and sour-smelling gastric contents. Whether this be so or not, the incision is widely retracted, abdominal cloths are packed in, especially at the lower angle and sides of the wound; and the stomach is drawn gently out of the wound and packed behind with other abdominal cloths. As the ulcer is on the anterior wall in the majority of cases, it is seen without any difficulty; if, however, it is not evident, the pyloric region and the first part of the duodenum should be next examined and, failing that, the cardiac end of the stomach. As a rule the seat of the ulcer is easily detected, as slight pressure on the abdomen or the stomach causes gas to bubble out at the opening ; this bubbling can be both heard and seen. Should no ulcer be found on the anterior surface, the posterior wall of the stomach is examined in the way described on p. 281. In this situation extravasation is uncommon, and if it does occur, it is generally into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, which becomes shut off from the general peritoneal cavity. If left, suppuration occurs and an abscess forms which may spread in various directions, most commonly in the subphrenic region ; this must be opened and drained. The treatment of subphrenic abscess is dealt with in Chap. XXVI. Closure of the perforation in the stomach.-—Attention is next directed to the closure of the perforation in the stomach. Theoretically, the simplest plan is to invaginate the stomach wall over the area of the ulcer and to suture the opposing surfaces with one or more continuous sero- muscular sutures. This is often difficult, however, as there is much induration around the edge of the ulcer ; but if the stitches are passed far enough away from the perforation it can usually be closed, and if an excessive degree of narrowing is produced gastro-jejunostomy should be performed. In other cases it will be better to excise the ulcer, especially if it is of limited extent. In the rare cases in which the ulcer is very large and its walls so dense and thickened that they can neither be inverted nor safely excised, it has been proposed to close the opening by turning up a portion of the omentum and fastening it over the base of the perforated ulcer with catgut stitches. To this should be added a gastro-jejunostomy (see p. 265), if the patient be in a condition to bear it; this may be rapidly done, and will give the patient a good chance of recovery. This plastic method of covering up the perforation with a portion of omentum is also parti- cularly applicable to ulcers in the neighbourhood of the first part of the duodenum ; in some cases the gall-bladder has been stitched over the opening.