410 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES is accompanied by an acute tearing pain across ttie upper part of the abdomen, and wlien tliis occurs in a patient who has been previously dyspeptic, and is combined with all the other symptoms of acute abdominal mischief, a diagnosis of perforated gastric ulcer may be made. The possibility of the symptoms being produced by appendicitis must, how- ever, be borne in mind, and if no perforation is found, the appendix should always be examined. The reverse error may also occur, more especially in the case of duodenal ulcer, which may be mistaken for acute appen- dicitis (see Chap. XX. p. 312). As the duodenal contents track down- wards, the point of greatest tenderness may be over the appendix, and the patient may not be able to remember where it was situated in the first instance. Renal colic must also be thought of, but the absence of inflammatory symptoms and of intestinal complications, and the presence of other signs of renal colic, more especially blood in the urine, will help the diagnosis. In some cases, however, a diagnosis from pyelitis is not easy, especially when the appendix lies behind the ascending colon and its tip is in the neighbourhood of the kidney. We have seen several cases in which infection of the pelvis of the kidney has apparently taken place, and there has been both pus and blood in the urine, and yet the essential trouble has been acute appendicitis. The rigidity of the abdominal wall, the distension of the intestine, the constipation, and the history of the onset, however, all help to make the state of matters clear. Confusion between an appendicitis and the other acute abdominal conditions just referred to, is not as a rule a serious mistake, inasmuch as these also call for a laparotomy, and the only result of the mistake is that a second incision may be necessary. In some cases, however— for example, in early pneumonia—symptoms may be present referable to the abdomen, which may lead to error. The differentiation between appendicitis and pneumonia is very important, and when there are no localising signs of appendicitis the thorax should always be carefully examined, especially towards the right base, as it is a basal pneumonia which is specially liable to be confounded with an abdominal lesion. Occasionally physical signs in the chest are absent, and the diagnosis must then be made by a consideration of the rate of respiration and its ratio to the pulse, by the presence of dyspnoea and movements of the accessory muscles of respiration. Marked movement of the alse nasi and the peculiar grunting respiration of early pleuro-pneumonia are important signs. The abdomen may be rigid and there may be diffuse tenderness, but these are usually less marked than would be expected in a case in which the temperature and pulse were correspondingly raised. It sometimes happens, however, that during the course of a pneumonia or even without any infection of the lungs, distinct abdominal symptoms occur, due to an invasion of the peritoneum by the pneumococci [pneumococcal peritonitis). In these cases there is usually an antecedent