AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 92 drying, finally painting the surface with the iodoform styptic varnish which I introduced in 1881. This preparation, in addition to its antiseptic properties, has the advantage of lessening the discomfort which follows when the surface is left unprotected, and it also enables the patient to take food in the ordinary manner almost immediately after the operation. ' The mercurial solution I prefer is that of the biniodide, and the strength I am in the habit of using is ytjott- ^ have recently made, and I think with advantage, a slight addition to the iodoform varnish. My original custom was simply to substitute for the spirit ordinarily used in the preparation of friar's balsam a saturated ethereal solution of iodoform, but now I prefer to mix with the ether one volume in ten of turpentine. This addition has a very marked influence in promptly checking the capillary oozing which occasionally prevents a dry surface being quickly secured. ' I was at one time in favour of suspending all alimentation by the mouth for the first four days, and feeding the patient entirely by nutrient enemata ; but for some years I have entirely abandoned this practice, and I now feed the patient with liquids, by the mouth, as freely and as early as possible, only using enemata when it is necessary to supplement the ainount of food the patient is otherwise able to take ; and I find that if a coat of the varnish is applied daily, patients rarely have any difficulty in taking an adequate amount of sustenance. It fortunately happens that the patients appreciate rather than object to the application of the varnish, and they will often ask for its use more frequently than once a day.' The ligature at the base of the tongue should either be fastened to the teeth or kept hanging out of the mouth by the weight of a pair of forceps. Kocher's Operation.—This is a well-known operation and was at one time widely used. We generally, however, prefer operations such as Langenbeck's or Syme's (see p. 96), in which the jaw is divided, as they give a much better view of the parts than is obtained in Kocher's operation. In a typical Kocher's operation a preliminary tracheotomy is necessary, so as to enable the pharynx to be plugged with sponges. This prevents blood passing into the air passages and also does away with the risk of the epiglottis falling back over the larynx after the entire tongue has been removed ; when the base of the tongue is removed, the orifice of the larynx will almost certainly become blocked and the patient will become asphyxiated unless a preliminary tracheotomy has been done. A laryngotomy opening is too near the area of operation, and blood might get down the tube ; intra-tracheal administration of the anaesthetic (see p. 33) may, however, replace the tracheotomy. After the tracheotomy tube has been inserted—which should preferably be a Hahn's or Trendelenburg's cannula (see Fig. 31)—-the shoulders are raised on sandbags and the head is allowed to hang some-