263 GASTRIC ULCER and forming an acute kink at the site of anastomosis. Occasionally, though very rarely, there may be a volvulus at the anastomosis, the efferent loop being twisted on itself over to the left side of the spine. An insufficient anastomotic opening.—Although the question of the ' vicious circle' is all-important as regards the patient's recovery from the operation, another point of the greatest practical importance is that the anastomotic opening should be sufiiciently free to answer the purposes for which it is required. The anastomotic opening, being composed of cicatricial tissue, is rigid and has a constant tendency to contraction, |ind as the opening becomes smaller, recurrence of the symptoms is apt to take place and food may indeed cease to pass through it. In addition to the narrowing due to contraction it must be borne in mind when the anastomosis is performed for dilatation of the stomach, that the organ will contract after the obstruction has been relieved until it has resumed its normal size, and with this contraction there must be pari passu some diminution in the size of the anastomotic opening ; thus an opening which was satisfactory at iirst may become so small that the symptoms recur. The only remedy against this danger is to make a large anastomotic opening in the first instance, and the only way in which the sui"geon can be certain of doing this is to make the junction by simple suture. If mechanical aids (such as Robson's bobbin or Murphy's button) are employed, the size of the opening is determined by the size of the button employed, and in a gastro-jejunostomy, the maximum size of the opening will be the size of the largest bobbin or button that can be inserted into the small intestine without unduly pressing on its walls. In most cases this is much too small, as only a small bobbin can be inserted into the jejunum. By simple suture, on the other hand, the surgeon can make an opening of considerable length in both viscera. When the operation is done in the case of a greatly dilated stomach, the opening should be made especially large in order to allow for the shrinkage of the stomach which must occur subsequently. The operation.—Whichever operation be chosen, the preliminary steps are identical. The stomach should be washed out before the operation so as to lessen the risk of vomiting under the anaesthetic and to obviate the escape of gastric contents into the abdominal cavity during the operation if the surgeon does not apply a clamp to the stomach. The preliminary washing out of the stomach also diminishes the post-operation vomiting ; it is described on p. 235. The most suitable ancesthetic is chloroform ; in feeble and aged persons the A.C.E. mixture may be employed; but ether should be avoided, as it causes congestion of the intestines, promotes peristaltic action, and does not insure such complete relaxation of the abdominal walls as does chloro- form. This objection does not apply, however, to the intravenous administration of the drug (see p. 32) which may be very valuable in