51 TUMOURS OF THE NASO-PHARYNX in splitting the uvula and soft palate and carrying the incision forwards in the middle line to about the centre of the hard palate. At the anterior end, transverse incisions are made halfway across the hard palate on each side, and muco-periosteal flaps are raised (see Fig. 23). In this way the posterior part of the bony palate is exposed and is chipped away with a chisel. When this bone has been removed, the mucous membrane of the floor of the nose is exposed and also the septum, and the former is divided close to the septum and turned aside ; such portions of the septum are clipped away as may be necessary to expose the base of the tumour. The result is that a view of the growth is obtained, although the operation does not give good access to its base. It certainly is sufficient to allow an ecraseur loop to be passed around the tumour through the nose ; when the main mass of the tumour has been removed in this way, the periosteum from which it is growing can be peeled off, provided that the bleeding can be checked in the meantime. Cutting through the pedicle is apt, however, to be followed b}^ very severe bleeding, which is difficult to check, and the operator may be unable to go on to the complete removal of the pedicle. A iminarv laryngotomy F'f'- 23.—nelaton's operation for naso-pharyngeal . ^ Polypi. The earlier stage of the operation. The palate is divided should always be done. along the dark lines. In cases of malignant polypi about the back of the nose it is best to remove portions of the upper jaw rather than to attempt to work through a small opening in the mouth. In some cases, the operation for malignant intranasal growths, described on p. 38, gives sufficient access; in others, especiahy when the growth infringes on the lateral part of the pharyngeal vault, a modification of Fergusson's operation (see p. 35) may be used. It is not necessary to remove the orbital plate, nor the muco-peri- osteum of the hard palate, but it may be well to take away the rest of the bone, and if the muco-periosteum of the hard palate be turned aside, in the way already described (see p. 44), and an incision carried through the bone below the orbital margin, the lower part of the maxilla