AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 386 way by ulceration from the gall-bladder into the duodenum. These stones do not occlude the intestine by reason of their large size. What usually happens is that spasm of the intestine occurs below the stone and the latter lies on the top of this contraction and completes the closure of the intestinal lumen. After death the stone is often found h'ing loose in the bowel. The two principal situations in which obstruction from this cause occurs are in the duodenum or at the ileo-caecal valve. These foreign bodies give rise to a form of obstruction which is often more or less acute, with such symptoms as griping pains in the abdomen, tenderness, and perhaps sickness. The foreign body gives rise to in- flammation of the part of the bowel in which it lies, and dilatation of the intestine occurs above as in other forms of obstruction. A correct diagnosis is seldom made, although sometimes a gall-stone is recognised by the symptoms, the previous occurrence of bad attacks of biliary colic and the presence of a tender swelling. In some cases the following sequence of symptoms has led to the diagnosis—namely, intense pain in the gall-bladder region, violent vomiting, disappearance of the pain from the region of the gall-bladder, and its reappearance after a few hours in the umbilical region somewhat less severe than before and accompanied by less marked vomiting, with incomplete constipation. POLYPI.—Intestinal polypi may give rise to incomplete obstruc- tion, but they very rarely cause complete occlusion. They are commonly adenomata, though sometimes they may be fibromata, fibro-mj'omata, lipomata, or cysts. They usually have a narrow pedicle of mucous and sub-mucous tissue. They give rise to bleeding and excessive secretion of mucus, and may be mistaken for malignant tumours ; they are not infrequently multiple. Treatment.—Of foreign bodies.—When the foreign body is impacted in the small intestine it should be removed through a median laparotomy wound. When the abdomen has been opened, the seat of the impaction should be sought for in the same manner as in cases of chronic obstruction from other causes, and the portion of the intestine involved pulled out of the wound, clamped above and below, opened, and the foreign body removed. It is well to open the intestine above and not immediately over the foreign body, as the wall of the bowel in the latter situation is usually inflamed, and sutures may not hold satisfactorily in it; it is generally easy to extract the foreign body from above either entire or piecemeal. The incision in the bowel is closed in the usual manner. Of polypi.—The loop of bowel affected is brought out of the wound, clamped above and below, and its wall divided over the tumour; after the pedicle has been transfixed b}' a double ligature the growth is snipped off. The closure of the intestine is carried out in the usual way (see p. 222). When the tumour is sessile it may be necessary to excise the portion of the intestinal wall. Of cysts.—These are extremely rare causes of obstruction and they