586 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS of the entire prolapse, or colopexy. The steps of the operation for excision of the prolapse vary according as only the mucous membrane or the entire bowel wall is involved. When the mucous membrane alone forms the prolapse, the operation of excision is practically identical with Whitehead's operation for piles (see p. 569). The prolapse having been brought down as far as possible, an incision is made along the muco-cutaneous anal margin, and the sleeve of mucous membrane is dissected up with scissors and fingers until the apex of the prolapse is reached ; the mucous memebrane is then divided in a circular manner, and the cut edge is united to the anal margin as in Whitehead's operation. No traction should be exerted on the mucous membrane ; if the cut edge lies in apposition to the skin around the anus there will be no tension or subsequent stricture. When the prolapse involves the whole thickness of the bowel wall, the operation of excision is per- formed as follows : The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, the prolapse is brought down to its utmost limit, an incision is made along the muco-cutaneous junc- tion, and the mucous membrane is stripped down (see Fig. 197), until the point of attachment of the peri- toneum is reached, when the incision is carried through the entire thick- ness of the bowel wall, and the peri- toneal cavity opened (see Fig. 198). The opening must be small in the first instance lest small intestine should prolapse ; elevation of the buttocks, however, will cause the intes- tines to fall away as air enters the peritoneal cavity. The division of the peritoneal coat is now continued all round, the bowel is gently drawn down as far as it will come, the cut edge of the peritoneum is sutured to the peritoneal coat of the bowel, and the protruding portion of the latter is cut off, the cut edges being sutured to the skin around the anal margin. The best way to suture the bowel to the skin is to divide it by a series of short snips, following each division by suture of the divided bowel waU to the corresponding surface of the skin, and at the same time clamping and tying any bleeding vessels. As a rule there is very little bleeding, except posteriorly, where the large vessels run in the meso- rectum (see Fig. 199). The suturing must be accurately done ; there must be no tension upon the stitches, and care should be taken to draw the Fig. I'i'j.—lixciiioN oi- a I'KuLArsE of the Rectum. Siilitre of the cut edge of the bowel to the skin. Below is seen the thick mass of the meso-sigmoid containing the vessels.