APPENDICITIS 413 disease, or diabetes—that is to say, conditions which negative any operation except one of immediate urgency. Medical treatment.—If the patient refuses operation or if operation is not desirable on account of his general health, he must nevertheless take certain precautions against a fresh attack and employ treatment for his general condition. He must be careful as regards diet, especi- ally avoiding hard substances which are not readily digested, such as tough meat, raw vegetables, hard potatoes (it is well not only to mash potatoes, but to put them through a fine sieve) ; he must also avoid food which is not fresh or which readily undergoes decomposition. As the occurrence of an attack of appendicitis is often associated with decom- position and retention of food in the caecum, measures must be taken to avoid this. The use of intestinal antiseptics is of value, especially naphthaline in three- to six-grain doses in coated pills three times a day after food, salol in ten-grain doses in a cachet, salicylate of bismuth or sodium in five- to ten-grain doses. The regular action of the boivels must also be ensured. The patient must not be allowed to become con- stipated, and if the bowels do not act of themselves mild aperients should be taken. Patients very quickly find out for themselves what laxative suits them best ; those most commonly employed are senna-tea (eight to twelve pods) every night, cascara (three to ten grains), aperient mineral waters, or liquid paraffin two to six drams. Exercise is necessary, but games which involve violent twisting movements—such as football or tennis—should be avoided, especially soon after an attack. Operation.—Several operations have been employed for reaching and removing the appendix in the quiescent stage. We need onlv mention two—namely, the oblique or ' gridiron ' method and the vertical incision through (or just outside) the rectus muscle. Each has its advantages and disadvantages. The advantages of the ' gridiron ' incision are that it does not weaken the abdominal wall and that it is quicker and comes directly down on the appendix in many cases. Its chief disadvantage is that other parts of the abdomen cannot be explored through it, and if the con- dition of the appendix does not account for the patient's symptoms a fresh incision must be made to explore the rest of the abdomen. If there are very extensive adhesions it may be difficult to deal with them, but more space can be obtained by continuing the splitting of the peritoneum and fascia inwards behind the rectus muscle. Tlie gridiron operation is unsuitable for acute septic cases in whch a free opening is essential ; hence it is only employed when the diagnosis of appendi.x trouble is quite certain, when there is no reason to suspect disease of other organs, and when the operation is performed in the quiescent stage. The great advantage of the vertical incision is that it gives more room, and that various other organs—such as the uterus and ovaries, the gall-bladder and the stomach and duodenum—can be examined and dealt