no AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE sound side, and the opposite angle is pulled back with a retractor. The tip of the tongue is seized with forceps and pulled forcibly over to the sound side, when the nerve should start into prominence beneath the mucous membrane just behind and below the last lower molar tooth. If a vertical incision is made through the mucous membrane in this situation, the nerve can be identified, cleared, and a portion excised. At the same time it is obvious that if the growth extends into this region the operation will be difficult or impossible. The fcetor of the breath should be treated by the frequent use of various antiseptic mouth-washes (sanitas, peroxide of hydrogen, or boro-glyceride), and by powdering the surface of the sore frequently with iodol and touching it occasionally with pure carbolic acid after drying it carefully. The excessive salivation, which is a source of intense discomfort, may be diminished by the administration of atropine. The hcpmoyyhage often reduces the patient considerably, and it has been proposed to tie the external carotid to prevent this ; secondary haemorrhage is, however, very apt to occur. Styptics are of little use, as they generally cause severe pain and do not check the bleeding materially. In some cases the haemorrhage may be so severe as to kill the patient almost immediately. Ligature of both lingual arteries as they come off from the external carotid is sometimes worth doing at an earlier period, as it not only diminishes the risk of bleeding, but exerts a distinct restraining influence upon the growth ; in some cases sloughing of a considerable portion of the growth may take place and a cleaner and less painful sore be left behind in the mouth. Still better than simple ligature of the lingual artery is the injection of boiling water into the branches of the external carotid artery, especially the facial and lingual. When the vessels are simply tied, the blood reaches their terminations by the collateral circulation and the effect produced is only slight. If, however, boiling water is injected, the walls of the smaller vessels are so injured that the blood clots in them and the ciixulation is completely arrested in that area. The result is partial sloughing of portions of the diseased tissue and atrophy of other parts, and we have seen most remarkable improvement follow this treatment ; in some cases, indeed, it has been possible subsequently to remove the remainder of the disease in the tongue. The vessels on both sides should be treated, but a week should elapse between the two operations. The ex- ternal carotid artery is exposed and its branches defined (see Vol. II. p. 204). A syringe is filled with boiling water, the needle is pushed through the wall of the various branches in turn and the water injected. Before dealing with a fresh branch, the syringe is refilled, as it is essential that the water should be as hot as possible. After the needle is withdrawn the vessels are ligatured on both sides of the puncture. As a rule the