437 CHAPTER XXVII. THE 'ACUTE ABDOMEN' AND ITS TREATMENT. Bv the term ' the acute abdomen ' is meant a condition in which a patient is suddenly seized with severe symptoms pointing to some abdominal lesion, the most prominent being pain in the abdomen, vomiting, and collapse. These symptoms vary in intensity in different conditions, and may be combined with others which help the surgeon to come to a decision as to the nature of the trouble, but it is often extremely difficult to make an accurate diagnosis at an early stage. Nevertheless, it is most important to do so, because in many cases the only thing that can save the patient's life is immediate operative interference. And, further, as operation in these cases often adds to the collapse, it is highly desirable that as much as possible concerning the situation and nature of the trouble should be known beforehand so as to shorten the length of the operation and avoid unnecessary manipulation of the abdominal contents. We may therefore summarise the chief points, many of which have already been referred to in detail. Many conditions may give rise to these symptoms ; the following may be mentioned. They may occur in connection with a calculus in the kidney or ureter, displacement of a movable kidney, or intermittent hydronephrosis ; they may also occur in cases of gall-stones or pancreatic calculi. In twists of structures, such as the ovary, ovarian tumours, or a retained testicle, similar symptoms may arise. The trouble may be connected with the intestinal tract, for example, simple intestinal colic, strangulated hernia (external or internal), strangulation by bands, intussusception, or obstruction by foreign bodies or tumours. Again, the symptoms may accompany rupture of the stomach, intestine, appendix, gall-bladder, or Fallopian tubes (extra-uterine pregnancy), or of ovarian, hydatid, or pancreatic cysts. They may be due to irritant poisoning, or to an inflammatory condition, such as appendicitis, or inflammation of Meckel's diverticulum, or of the appendices epiploica-, or uterine appendages. Peritonitis (septic, pneumococcal, or tuberculous), or acute pancreatitis, gastritis, enteritis, colitis, abscess in the abdomen or liver,