363 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION the patient becomes absolutely constipated and realises that there is a difficulty in the onward passage of the intestinal contents. He gradually becomes distended from the accumulation of gas, he begins to suffer from acute griping pains, and finally vomiting sets in; but it is usually at quite a late period that the vomited material becomes what is called fcecal. If the condition is unrelieved, the patient usually dies from the increasing weakness produced by the continued vomiting, from the mechanical strain thrown upon the heart and lungs by the distension, from poisoning by the intestinal contents or from ulceration above the obstruction, sometimes followed by perforation and peritonitis. Sometimes, however, the symptoms subside, the bowels are relieved, and the patient recovers temporarily ; but before long a similar attack occurs. The symptoms of chronic obstruction are fairly typical, but it is by no means always easy to come to a definite conclusion as to its cause or its situation. Nevertheless, it is most important to determine both these points as accurately and as quickly as possible. At any moment complete intestinal obstruction may occur and the patient's condition then becomes rapidly very grave. An operation under such circumstances entails the most serious risks to the patient's life ; a search for the seat of obstruction is most difficult and dangerous in a distended abdomen, and the surgeon has to content himself with a palliative operation such as colotomy, when in the absence of obstruction a radical operation such as excision of a growth might have been undertaken with a good prospect of success. The nature of the trouble may be indicated by special symptoms. For example, a cancer of the large intestine may give rise to haemorrhage from the bowel, to pressure on nerves, or to cachexia. Examination of the abdomen either from the surface or bimanually through the rectum or vagina, and also under an anesthetic if necessary, may reveal the presence of a tumour, while an ulcer or stricture may be seen by the sigmoidoscope. The seat of the obstruction may also be indicated in various ways. For example, the shape of the abdomen 'is of importance ; a generalised globular distension points to an obstruction in the small intestine ; a flattened abdomen, distended especially in the flanks, suggests obstruction in the large intestine generally about the sigmoid flexure ; while irregular and locahsed distensions generally occur above the stricture. The presence of an area of unusual tympanites or dulhiess should also be looked for, the coil of intestine immediately above the obstruction being frequently distended with gas and consequently tympanitic, or it may be full of solid or liquid material and give a dull note on percussion. In obstruction of the large intestine valuable information can some- times be obtained by making the patient swallow fourteen ounces of bread and milk, into which 2-4 ounces of oxychloride of bismuth has