125 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS such as tooth-plate, with cuttmg forceps and remove it piecemeal. In doing this care must be taken to see that none of the pieces find their way into the larynx or down the oesophagus ; they should be grasped in forceps before they are divided. When the instruments are available, Killian's tubes (see p. 164) are very useful, though they are not essential when the foreign body is high up. They should always be used if possible in pre- ference to performing pharyngotomy. When the foreign body is too large or too irregular to be extracted through the tube, it and the tube may be withdrawn together, after the foreign body has been seized by suitable forceps passed through the tube. Pharyngotomy.—In some instances the impaction may be so firm and the difficulty of getting at the object so great that pharyngotomy is necessary. The anterior triangle is opened and the vessels are freed and pulled out of the way. Whether they are pulled inwards or outwards will depend upon the position of the foreign body ; in most cases they are pulled outwards. Care must be taken not to injure the superior laryngeal nerve, and it is well to introduce a bougie into the pharynx so as to make it more prominent. The pharynx is opened by a clean cut of sufficient size to enable the foreign body to be reached and extracted without undue force. Should the body be irregular and possess sharp hooks, these may be cut off with cutting pliers before removal. In all cases it is essential to avoid bruising of the pharyngeal wall by rough handling. The method of suture of the pharynx and the after-treatment are similar to that for the removal of a pharyngocele (see p. 121). INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS. Inflammatory conditions of the tonsils may be considered under the headings of acute parenchymatous tonsillitis, follicular tonsillitis, tonsillar abscess, acute ulcerative tonsillitis and Vincent's angina. ACUTE PARENCHYMATOUS TONSILLITIS. This condition may be unilateral or bilateral, and in it the tonsil is much swollen and the fauces are reddened. It commonly passes off in a few days without suppuration. TREATMENT.—Little requires to be done. A purge should be given, the patient confined to bed or to a warm room, the throat wrapped up in hot flannel, and a spray of sanitas or Condy's fluid employed. Some of these cases are looked upon as rheumatic, and the administra- tion of ten-grain doses of salicylate of soda three times a day will often relieve the symptoms considerably in those who are susceptible to rheumatism.