INJURIES 327 certainly increases the length of the operation and may cause subsequent trouble from adhesions. They may be of advantage, however, when a large portion of bowel has been removed and there is a considerable amount of tension on the stitches. Lateral anastomosis.—The method of end-to-end anastomosis can only be employed when the two segments of bowel to be united are of equal size. It cannot be employed when they are of unequal size or of irregular outline, as in the large intestine. Under these circumstances, it is best to invaginate and close the divided ends of the two portions, and then to perform a lateral anastomosis in the manner described on pp. 225 and 265. Many surgeons have indeed given up end-to-end union altogether and employ lateral anastomsis in the small intestine as well as in the large. Artificial anus.—The question of the formation of an artificial anus or a faecal fistula, which often arises in cases of intestinal obstruction, will Fio. 119.—End-to-end Union of the Intestine.—Completion of the anastomosis. Tlie guiding sutures liave been removed and tlie opening in tlie mesentery sutured. hardly ever require consideration in cases of wounded intestine when seen soon after the accident. In them the bowel is healthy on both sides of the injury, and there is no reason why an anastomosis should not be made at once. {h) In the large intestine.—The above remarks concerning wounds of the small intestine apply also to those of the large. In the latter, however, the treatment is in some inspects simpler, whilst in others it is more difficult. On the one hand, the damage to the bowel rarely extends to complete division, and, moreover, the size of the colon enables even large wounds to be sewn up without material interference with its lumen. On the other hand, the arrangement of the peritoneum in connection with the colon in certain situations makes it difficult to get proper access to the peritoneal coat and renders the manipulations necessary for the suture 01 large rents or complete divisions of the gut in these situa- tions a matter of the greatest difficulty. This is especially the case in injuries of the ascending and descending colon, where all the procedures