472 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES and should if possible be attempted on a table and not on the bed. The pelvis should be raised, full relaxation should be secured by suitable position of the limbs, and the hernial orifice should be made the highest point of the abdomen. The surgeon grasps the neck of the sac with the left thumb and forefinger and puUs it down in the direction of the canal, and thus prevents the hernia, when pressed up by the other hand, from overlapping the edge of the orifice, and so guides it in its proper course. The entire hernia is grasped with the right hand, and gentle and equable pressure is exerted on it ; the tips of the fingers should not be pushed into the sac. The object is to squeeze out the contents of the incarcerated loop gradually, so that the emptied bowel may pass back through the ring. The experienced surgeon will soon be able to tell whether or not the taxis is likely to succeed. The chief indication of success is the gradual diminution in the size of the tumour. As the reduction goes on, the bubbling of gas is often felt; when this happens, and not before, the compression of the sac is changed to a steady upward pressure so as to push the remaining loop through the hernial orifice. Strangulated hernia in infants is a rare condition, probably owing to the fact that there is no definite fibrous ring developed in the neck of the sac. In these cases, therefore, inversion may be tried for five or six hours, when the hernia cannot be reduced by gentle taxis. The child is laid on his back on the seat of an arm-chair with his head towards the edge, and the buttocks are raised on a firm pillow and the legs tied with a scarf or bandage over the back of the chair so that the hernia is at the highest point of the abdomen. Gravity will generally serve to reduce the hernia. Operation.—The steps of the various operations ai"e described in connection with each particular form of hernia. In the first place the hernial sac and its coverings are exposed. The coverings are then divided, separated from the sac, and slit up until the neck of the sac is exposed. The sac is now gently pulled down so as to ascertain whether the constriction is in the neck itself, or is due to the rigid abdominal ring. In the former case, it is often possible to relieve the constriction by nicking the thickened neck ; in the latter, the ring should be enlarged in certain definite directions, either upon the finger-nail or upon a director insinuated between the neck of the sac and the abdominal parietes. If it be necessary to enlarge the opening in the abdominal parietes—i.e. to incise the ring—this is best done before the sac is opened, as there is then less risk of injuring the bowel. The next step is to open the sac below the neck, taking care, however, to ascertain first that the bowel is not adherent to its wall. As a rule the sac of a strangulated hernia contains fluid which (except in old irreducible cases) distends it and removes its wall from the intestine. A small portion of the sac is pinched up and nicked, a director is introduced, and the sac laid freely open. The opening in the sac is then