555 FISTULA IN ANO A careful examination is made, both by inspection and by the probe, and any undermined mucous membrane is slit up with scissors and any diverti- culum followed up with the probe and laid well open. Finally, the sinus is scraped with a sharp spoon, or, if the walls are very indurated, the whole track may be excised, after which the surface is sponged with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to the ounce) and sprinkled with iodoform. Strips of iodoform gauze are finally laid along the track so as to prevent the edges of the incision from coming together, a half- grain morphine suppository is introduced into the rectum, and a pad of cyanide gauze and salicylic wool is fixed on with a T-bandage. When put back to bed the patient's legs should be tied together with a small pillow between the knees, so as to keep the parts at rest as much as possible, and he should lie upon one side. A dose of opium should be given the same night both to relieve the pain and to produce constipation, and this may be repeated when necessary. Retention of urine may follow this and other operations upon the rectum; there is, however, no objection to the patient getting up to pass water after this operation, and this is better than passing a catheter. The dressings should be changed on the day following the operation, but the plug should be allowed to remain in situ until the bowels act, which should be on the third or fourth day, after the administration of a dose of castor oil. It is well to inject an ounce or more of olive oil just inside the anus immediately before the bowels are gomg to act, and, in giving this, care must be taken to introduce the nozzle of the syringe against the sound side of the rectum. After deffecation the parts should be washed and a fresh iodoform gauze plug introduced ; this should be changed as often as the bowels act. When changing the plug the forefinger should be well oiled and introduced into the rectum, so as to feel the upper end of the incision and guide the fresh plug into its place. In doing this the finger should be kept pressed against the opposite side of the anus from the wound, and only after it has passed above it should it be turned so as to feel the upper end of the incision ; this saves the patient much pain. A probe should then be passed along the track, to make sure that there is no tendency at any point for the surface to close over and reproduce the fistula. Unless great care be employed in dressing the wound, it is quite possible for healing to occur at the surface before the wound has granulated from the bottom, and for the fistula to re-form. In about a fortnight's time granulation is so far advanced that there is little chance of this occurrence and the plugging may then be discontinued, the patient merely wearing a small pad until the wound has healed ; in simple cases this will take about four weeks. The patient may be allowed to walk about ten days after the operation. When tliere are multiple external openings, a probe shovild be passed from the external orifice nearest to the opening into the bowel, and the