ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 343 a most useful form of intestine guard when sewing up the abdominal wall in these cases. 3. When the bowel is not likely to recover.—When the constriction has lasted for some time or has been very tight, gangrene of the affected loop is very likely to occur. The strangulated intestine will be black, will have lost its glistening character, and will be soft and tend to collapse when the constriction is relieved. Under these circumstances the coil cannot be returned into the abdomen. If the patient's condition is good, the coil should be excised, and a lateral anastomosis performed. The line of section of the bowel should be made at least six or eight inches on each side of the seat of constriction. The enterectomy is done in the usual manner (see p. 324). In these cases it is advisable to take away a V- shaped piece of the mesentery, both because the vessels may have become thrombosed and also to avoid leaving a large projecting piece of mesentery to which bowel is very apt to become adherent. When there is much distension of the coils, it will be advisable to empty them before making the anastomosis. In these cases it may be necessary to excise a Fig. 126.—Intestine Guard. This instrument tapers from end to end and is concavo-convex. The narrower end is slipped into the abdomen beneatii one end of the wound with the convex surface of the guard uppermost. The intestines are thus kept easily in place and the abdominal parietes are readily sutured without any risk of the bowel being injured. As the closure progresses the instrument is gradually withdrawn. large piece of intestine, and in order to provide for efficient evacuation of the coils above the anastomosis, a Paul's tube or a rubber drainage tube may be inserted for a time into the proximal loop of the coil in which the anastomosis has been done (see Fig. 127) and the bowel attached to the abdominal wall. If a rubber tube or catheter (size 15) is used, it may be fixed in position in a manner similar to that employed in Kader's method of performing gastrostomy. When the distension has subsided, a plastic operation may be required to close the fistulous opening. In cases in which the patient's condition is bad, the gangrenous portion is brought outside the abdomen, clamps are applied on each side, the gangrenous part is cut away, and a Paul's tube tied into each open end. The bowel is then fixed to the abdominal wall with safety-pins, which pick up the sero-muscular coat above and below the tube (see Fig. 128), and the abdomen is closed. In these cases it is not advisable to attempt to unite the ends of the bowel. This does not, however, complete the operation, for the surgeon must see that the upper portion of the intestine is evacuated efficiently through the Paul's tube just as in the previous case. This may sometimes be done by filling up the tube with water and so forming