358 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES the rectum, or even by seeing it protruding from the anus; rectal examination should never be omitted. TREATMENT.—Palliative.—If it is decided to postpone operation, either because the symptoms are not urgent and the surgeon is not sure of their cause, or because the patient wishes to wait before an exploration is undertaken, careful dieting is very important. Only fluids—peptonised milk, meat-juice, etc.—should be given by the mouth, and this may be reinforced by rectal feeding, except in cases in which there is marked tenesmus. Simple enemata may be employed in order to promote the action of the bowels, but no strong purgatives should be administered ; small doses of salines may, however, be given. If there is much pain, opium or opium and belladonna may be used. But as soon as it has been decided that the case is one of chronic intussusception, operative measures should be undertaken. Operative.—As a rule there is no firm adhesion between the intus- susceptum and the intussuscipiens in these cases, and much of the inva- gination may be undone by pressure. The apex of the intussusception, however, may not come out, and either Barker's operation or resection of bowel, including the irreducible portion of the intussusceptum, must be undertaken, followed by lateral anastomosis or end-to-end union of the divided portions of the bowel. If the affected part is the sigmoid and a large portion has to be excised owing to the presence of a malignant growth, it may be better not to attempt to bring the ends together, as the tension on the stitches may be so great that they may cut out, and fatal peritonitis result. Under such circumstances the lower end may be sewn up and a colostomy established at the upper end, or both ends may be sewn up and an anastomosis made between the lower end of the ileum or the transverse colon and the lower segment. OBSTRUCTION DUE TO ADHESIONS AFTER LAPAROTOMY- Intestinal obstruction occurring after abdominal operations, parti- cularly in the pelvis, is an accident that must always be borne in mind. These cases are intermediate between the acute and chronic forms as regards the acuteness and severity of the symptoms, but really belong to the acute form as regards their pathology, and they constitute a true intermediate group between the two. The course of events in this form of obstruction is as follows : for the first day or two after the original operation the patient apparently goes on well, but then begins to suffer from flatulence, distension, sickness, and frequent colicky pains. At first the bowels may act and flatus may be passed, especially after the employment of enemata; but the obstruction rapidly increases and ultimately becomes complete, and the patient will die unless relief is obtained. The condition is usually at its worst about five or six days