387 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION are usually so intimately incorporated with the bowel wall that excision of the ai^ected loop of the intestine is the only radical treatment. As a palliative measure the outer wall of the cyst may be clipped away so as to allow the portion which is projecting into the lumen of the bowel to collapse. F^CAL IMPACTION. From a practical point of view one of the most important conditions to be considered in connection with chronic intestinal obstruction is fjecal accumulation or faecal impaction. Its chief importance lies in the fact that symptoms really due to an organic stricture are apt to be attributed to faecal impaction, and this may lead to delay in calling in surgical intervention in cases urgently requiring it. As a matter of fact faecal accumulation leading to complete intestinal obstruction is rare, and in an oldish patient it certainly is not the first tiling that ought to be thought of; whereas, unfortunately, it generally is. Patients in whom this condition occurs are generally the subjects of long continued constipation and a peculiar sluggishness of the ali- mentary canal accompanied by the formation of indurated fsecal masses. These masses may give rise to complete obstruction in some cases ; in others there is a spurious diarrhcea due to a certain amount of fluid faeces passing down by the side of the inspissated material and to the formation of a quantity of mucus as the result of colitis. The forma- tion of the mass is gradual, and there is no sudden and complete obstruction, such as takes place in connection with a tumour. The symptoms vary from slight discomfort to seveie pain and vomiting, which ultimately becomes stercoraceous; if the condition is unre- lieved it may be accompanied by all the signs of chronic intestinal obstruction. The impaction may occur in any part of the large intestine. Usually the faecal masses are in the rectum, when of course the diagnosis is quite clear. Above the rectum, impaction most frequently occurs in the caecum and about the fie.xures, where a definite tumour may form ; sometimes the whole of the colon may be one mass of indurated faeces. TREATMENT.—This varies with the site of the impaction. When it is in the rectum the mass can be felt by digital examination, and an attempt should be made to get it away by soap-and-water enemata. If these fail, si.x to eight ounces of olive oil should be run into the bowel through a catheter or rectal tube introduced as high up as possible. If the patient can retain this for some time it helps to soften the masses and enemata may then dislodge them. If this fails or if the symptoms are urgent, an anaesthetic should be administered, a speculum introduced, and the mass gradually broken down and scooped