FOREIGN BODIES i6i FOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. Many varieties of foreign bodies may be found ; the most common are large boluses of food, fragments of bone, pins, needles, tin-tacks, coins, and tooth-plates. The symptoms to which the foreign body gives rise vary with its seat and its nature. Thus, large bodies generally become lodged at the commencement of the oesophagus and may cause not only much difficulty in swallowing, but also pressure upon the upper air-passages and a rapidly fatal dyspnoea. Needles, pins, or sharp fish-bones may penetrate the oesophageal wall and produce cellulitis or a peri-oesophageal abscess, or may even find their way into the large vessels, such as the arch of the aorta, and cause fatal hsemorrrage, either at once or after the lapse of some days. Needles may pass out of the oesophagus and migrate for considerable distances, often without causing any ill effects. Small objects, such as coins, usuaUy pass further down the oesophagus and may cause no other symptoms than a certain amount of dysphagia, in the early stages, although they generally give rise to oesophageal ulceration if left alone. Ragged and irregular objects, such as tooth-plates (especially those with hooks), may become firmly impacted in the oesophagus, and the projections may ulcerate through the oesophageal wall, and lead to peri- oesophageal inflammation, or may ulcerate into the large vessels. This kind of foreign body is most dangerous because the projections become embedded in the oesophageal wall, and not only are a source of mischief in themselves, but often make the removal of the body by forceps passed down from the mouth a very hazardous proceeding. Foreign bodies are usuaUy arrested at one of the narrow parts of the oesophagus—namely, the upper and lower extremities, and the point at which the aorta crosses it. TREATMENT.—This wiU depend on the period after the accident at which the surgeon is called in, and varies with the seat of lodgment, the size, the shape, and the nature of the foreign body. When the surgeon is called in immediately after the accident, the treat- ment must depend on the nature of the foreign body and the symptoms produced. In some cases the body may be only partly impacted in the upper part of the oesophagus and may project as a large mass into the lower portion of the pharynx, so that pressure upon the air passages and urgent dyspnoea may occur. These cases are dealt with on p. 123. When a foreign body lodges in the upper part of the oesophagus, it may cause dyspnoea, but as a rule the symptoms are not sufficiently urgent to threaten life and there is plenty of time to locate the body and to decide how to deal with it. This is a point of importance, because the same treatment may not be advisable for smooth rounded bodies as for sharp pointed ones. Further, it is necessary to make sure that a foreign body is actually present in the oesophagus. It is not uncommon for a very nervous patient to vomit up the foreign body and still complain of all the symptoms of its presence. IV. M