561 PRURITUS ANI hardly ever worth while to employ palliative treatment in preference to operative measures, as the time spent by the patient and the pain he must necessarily undergo are far greater than if an operation were undertaken. Should the fissure occur in connection with a syphilitic condylomatous patch, anti-syphilitic treatment must be employed, and, if this is combined with the palliative measures already spoken of, the fissure will often heal, unless it has existed a long time ; should it refuse to heal, the ordinary operative measures (vide supra) should be undertaken later. ECZEMA ANI. Chronic eczema of the anus is not uncommon when there is some cause of irritation about the anus—such as fissure, piles, worms, acrid discharges, or want of cleanliness. The eczematous condition causes intolerable itching, and the patient scratches the part and increases the trouble, so that in bad cases it is almost impossible to sit, walk, or lie down in comfort. TREATMENT.—^The cause must be removed before anything else is done. Fissures should be treated, piles removed, or worms got rid of and the parts kept clean by washing them with warm water and superfatted soap two or three times a day, drying them by pressure with a soft bath-towel—they must not on any account be rubbed—after which they are dusted with equal parts of boric acid and oxide of zinc, and a piece of boric lint is placed between the buttocks and fixed on with a T-bandage. When the discharge is acrid, a lotion of carbonate of soda may be employed ; when there is much thickening of the parts, 10 per cent, ichthyol ointment is often valuable. PRURITUS ANI. This is a most troublesome condition which may or may not be associated with the previous one and which is characterised by intense itching around the anal orifice and over the perineum. Amongst the general causes of the affection may be enumerated gout, diabetes, and errors in diet—especially overfeeding ; whilst occasionally it is neurotic in origin. Among the local causes the most common are constipation, piles, fissure or fistula in ano ; it also occurs in subjects of chronic diarrhoea, and may be set up by irritating vaginal discharges, the presence of worms in the rectum, and sometimes after operations for piles. The itching, which is often present without any visible lesion, is sometimes intolerable, and is generally most marked on sitting down or after going to bed; scratching aggravates rather than relieves it. After the condition has lasted for some time, the skin may become indurated, cracked, and fissured. IV. o o