133 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS must be taken to hook the guihotine round the lower border of the tonsil. If the operation is done under a general anaesthetic, a gag should be used, and the whole procedure can be carried out by the sense of touch rather than by sight, the forefinger of the other hand being introduced into the mouth to see that the ring of the instrument is properly in position. When no general anaesthetic is used, a good light is essential. The anaesthesia should not be pushed too deeply ; the reflex act of swallowing should remain, so as to prevent blood passing into the larynx. The left tonsil is easily removed in this manner, and if the surgeon is ambidextrous an exactly similar procedure can be carried out upon the right side. If he is not ambidextrous, he must either have an instrument with an interchangeable handle, so as to enable him to remove the right tonsil with the right hand, or he must stand somewhat behind and to the side of the patient, and introduce the tonsillotome from that position. Removal of the tonsils should be done as rapidly as possible ; no attempt should be made to stop the bleeding from the first tonsil before attacking the second. If done sufficiently quickly, the second tonsil can be removed before any considerable bleeding has had time to occur from the first, and attempts to check the bleeding before proceeding to the second operation merely serve to obscure the view and to give the patient's courage time to evaporate. HcBmoryJiage after tonsillotomy is rarely severe and usually stops on sucking ice, or the application of ice, or by temporary sponge pressure. Should the bleeding be so severe as to demand something more, the surface may be painted over with supra-renal extract or with some styptic, such as tincture of matico or liquor ferri perchloridi (for methods of using styptics, see p. 122). A few cases have occurred in which the bleeding has been arterial and profuse and has, indeed, proved fatal. In all cases of bad bleeding the mouth should be opened widely with a gag in a brio-ht light, and any spurting vessel looked for and, if seen, caught and tied. In other cases similar measures must be adopted to those already described on p. 122. Injury to the internal carotid artery has been described as a result of this operation, but this accident is practically impossible when a tonsillotome is used, and it is hardly likely to happen, even when the other methods are employed. Removal by Enucleation.—In this operation the tonsil is shelled out of its bed by means of the finger or some suitable instrument. It is especially indicated in cases of shallow, flat, broad tonsils, especially when they are small and closely adherent to the adjacent tissues. It is also the best method when there has been recurrence of the enlargement after a previous operation with the guillotine or when that instrument cannot be satis- factorily employed, or when the tonsil is so diseased that complete extirpation would appear to be the only satisfactory method of treatment. A general anaesthetic is necessary and the tongue is pulled forwards, so that the tonsil is fully exposed. The tonsil is seized by a volsella or