AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 550 sepsis in operations upon the rectum—a point referred to fully in connection with excision of the rectum (see Chap. XLIL). The condition when once established must be treated on the lines applicable to diffuse cellulitis elsewhere (see Vol. L p. 31). The wound must be laid freely open and copious irrigation practised, or, better still, the patient may be kept in a warm bath. Injections of anti-streptococcic serum may be employed, but are frequently power- less, as the condition is often complicated with infection by the Bacillus coli communis. Vaccines may also be used, but they seldom do good. ISCHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS. This condition is far more common than the last, and the abscess may commence either below or above the level of the levator ani (see Fig. 184). Suppuration is generally due to infection from the rectum and may follow ulcers, fissures, piles, growths, foreign bodies, strictures, or injuries. There are three chief ways in which the abscess may form—namely : (i) by direct extension from a wound or injury of the mucous mem- brane ; (2) from suppurative phlebitis ; and (3) as a result of septic lymphangitis. Ischio-rectal abscess superficial to the levator ani.—More than one variety may be met with. The common form is a small superficial abscess just outside the anal margin, and probably originating in the glands of that region. The pus burrows beneath the anal mucous membrane, and perforation may occur there as well as on the skin externally, the result being the formation of a small superficial fistula. In other cases the abscess is situated beneath the mucous membrane covering the internal sphincter, and probably results from septic throm- bosis of a pile. Here the pus either bursts into the bowel and gives rise to the so-called ' blind internal fistula,' or it m.ay find its way down in the submucous tissue and turn round the lower edge of the sphincter into the ischio-rectal cellular tissue, where it forms an ischio-rectal abscess. Perforation of the mucous membrane usually occurs comparatively early, and then an external opening also forms, giving rise to the ordinary fistula in ano. The swelling and the external opening usually occur in the lateral region of the anus, whilst the internal orifice is generally situated more posteriorly. Another variety—fortunately a rare one—results from septic lym- phangitis in the ischio-rectal fossa. This form is more deeply seated and gives rise to swelling both in the ischio-rectal region and beneath the mucous membrane over the upper part of the internal sphincter. Ultimately the abscess bursts, both internally and externally, and may burrow widely in the ischio-rectal fossa, often opening far out upon the skin of the buttocks and communicating with the internal orifice by a long and tortuous canal. In cases left untreated fresh abscesses