AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH 292 This operation may fail for two reasons. In the first place the artificial opening thus made diminishes in size as the cicatrix contracts, and recur- rence of the stricture takes place. In the second place adhesions are very likely to form as the result of the manipulations about the stomach and this may subsequently interfere with the functional result. The first difficulty can be met to a considerable extent by making the incision into the stomach long enough to give a wide opening and allow for the sub- sequent contraction. The second can only be met by performing the operation as quickly as possible and by taking care that the surface of the organ is not irritated mechanically or chemically. Gastro-gastrostomy.—When the stomach is divided into two large and distinct sacs the operation of gastro-gastrostomy has been performed (see Fig. 108). In this the actual constriction is left alone and the dilated portions on either side are united by an ordinary lateral anastomosis, usually below or in front of the seat of constriction. The anastomosis is made by simple suture, and a glance at Fig. 108, B, will explain its mechanism. The operation is really not very satisfactory and is only of use when the constriction is merely a part of extensive distortion of the walls of the stomach which renders it impossible to perform a satisfactory gastroplasty. Partial gastrectomy.—It has been proposed that, when the distal portion of the constricted stomach is very small, a partial gastrectomy should be performed, the small distal portion of the stomach being removed and the end of the duodenum implanted into the part left behind (see p. 307). This is a severe operation and offers no particular advantages over other methods. When the constriction is in the middle and there is much induration, the whole constricted area may be excised and the two halves of the stomach reunited (see Fig. 108, D). This suggestion should be borne in mind, especially when the proximal sac is the smaller of the two. Gastro-jejunostomy.-—This operation is very useful, but, as it puts out of use the distal portion of the stomach, it should not be per- formed except when the stricture is near the pyloric end, and when one or other of the procedures already referred to is not applicable. It will chiefly be employed for the cases in which the surface of the stomach is markedly deformed by adhesions from perigastritis due to extensive or multiple ulcers. Plastic operations upon the stomach under these circumstances are not satisfactory. With regard to the question of gastro-jejunostomy, it is well to remark that it has happened more than once that the anastomosis has been made between the distal portion of the stomach and the jejunum instead of between the latter and the proximal sac. This is particularly likely to occur when the constriction of the stomach is near the cardiac end, and the result is of course that the patient obtains no relief. Consequently the surgeon must make quite certain of the topography of the stomach and