CHRONIC PROCTITIS 537 ounce of thin starch containing thirty to forty minims of laudanum, may be administered when necessary. Hot fomentations to the perineum and anus, or a hot sitz bath, are very comforting in bad cases. In severe cases the sphincter should be dilated, and if the patient can bear it, irrigation of the rectum with dilute Condy's fluid or boric lotion at the body temperature should be carried out two or three times daily. This is readily done with a douche-can and a soft double-way tube ; the latter is introduced well up the rectum and the can raised about two feet above the level of the pelvis. This will wash away mucus and give much relief. After the irrigation, the skin around the anus should be dried and dusted with a powder composed of equal parts of oxide of zinc, boric acid, and starch. As the disease subsides, general tonic treatment should be employed. CHRONIC PROCTITIS. This condition may follow the acute form or it may be chronic from the first ; it may be associated with prolapse or piles. Gonorrhoea of the rectum may pass into a chronic condition and there are also certain non-specific forms of hypertrophic and stenosing proctitis which are chronic in their onset. The most common causes of chronic proctitis are syphilis or tuberculous disease, but these are considered separately (see Chap. XXXVII.). In chronic proctitis the inflammation may affect only the mucous membrane or it may extend to the sub-mucous tissue, and it usually involves the greater part of the rectum, although the disease is generally most marked at the lower end. The mucous membrane is red and swollen, and there is a somewhat free discharge of mucus from it. Hypertrophy of the glandular tissue, giving rise to papillomatous vegetations, often occurs, and this form is known as papillomatous proctitis. After infiltration of the sub-mucous tissue has lasted for some time, the lumen of the bowel may become narrowed ; inflammation and suppuration in the tissues outside the rectum may also occur. SIMPLE CHRONIC PROCTITIS. The milder forms, such as occur in connection with foreign bodies or in the neighbourhood of an ulcer of the rectum, are generally limited to the mucous membrane, and usually disappear when the cause is removed. A similar condition also occurs in cases of mucous colitis that have involved the rectum. TREATMENT.—This is very similar to that of the acute form (see p. 537). Tlie cause should be searched for and removed. The bowels should be kept gently open, and the patient put to bed and confined to a milk diet. The rectum should be frequently irrigated, first with dilute