AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 396 namely, either by traction from without or by protrusion from excessive pressure within the bowel. Traction from without may be caused by a tumour or, more commonly, by adhesion of the intestine to some other structure ; an example of the latter condition is seen when the large intestine becomes adherent to the gall-bladder ; in this case the diverticulum is composed of all the coats and is a ' true ' diverticulum. In other cases the protrusion is supposed to occur by excessive pressure within the bowel, often in connection with obstinate constipation combined with sacculation and congenital weakness of the wall; this leads to a hernia of the mucous membrane through the muscular coat which may either be completely penetrated or may be represented by a few fibres stretched over the sac, the diverticulum in these cases being of the ' false ' variety. These false diverticula are said to occur most often at the mesenteric border, where the muscular wall is weakened by the passage of a blood vessel through it; they may occur at other points in the circumference of the bowel, however, and not uncommonly penetrate into the bases of the appendices epiploicae. They are often multiple and vary in size from mere excrescences, the size of a pea, to considerable saccules an inch or more in diameter, which then communicate with the bowel by a wide or a narrow opening. Symptoms usually occur after fifty years of age, but there may be a history of trouble extending over several years. Diverticula are occasionally found post ntoyiem without any symptoms attributable to them having been recognised during life, but generally they are a source of danger to the patient, especially when the wall of the diverticulum contains no muscular tissue and the mucous membrane is in immediate contact with the peritoneum. The diverticulum may become filled with f?eces which are not evacuated regularly, and in consequence it is liable to become the seat of severe inflammation. This may take the form of an acute inflammation with localised peritonitis which may be comparatively trivial, or a perforation of the diverticulum may occur leading to a general peritonitis or a localised abscess. This abscess may discharge into the bowel, and recovery may ensue, or rupture into the general peritoneal cavity or into a neighbouring hollow viscus such as the bladder may occur; in the latter case a fistulous track between these organs will be formed. In other cases the inflammation is less acute and a certain amount of chronic inflammatory infiltration of the bowel is produced. This may be quite trivial or may lead to the formation of an inflammatory tumour of considerable size, which projects into the bowel and obstructs the lumen from within and also produces stenosis by fibrous infiltration of its wall. Several cases of carcinoma have been reported in conjunction with this inflammatory condition, and it is quite possible that it is an important predisposing cause of malignant disease of the large intestine. It probably accounts for some of those cases of malignant disease in