113 SALIVARY CALCULUS the patient to the more severe measures required for complete removal of the cyst. If this becomes necessary, it should be done under a general anaesthetic, the cyst dissected out and the raw surface swabbed over with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. xl. to the ounce). SALIVARY CALCULUS. Calculi may be met with in any part of Wharton's duct, but are most common near its orilrce. They are generally more or less spindle-shaped, and consist mainly of phosphate of lime with a little calcium carbonate deposited around a nucleus of inspissated mucus. At first the calculus passes unnoticed and the patient's attention is often only called to it by enlargement of the submaxillary gland. This enlargement is due partly to distension of the ducts with saliva and partly to thickening from chronic inflammation ; the gland undergoes chronic inflammation from the obstruction to the outflow of the saliva, and becomes enlarged, the enlargement increasing on taking food and often causing much discomfort. A calculus impacted near the orifice of the duct is easily detected as a hard, elongated mass in the line of the duct, the orifice of which is fre- quently swollen and reddened. After the stone has remained in the duct for some time, the tissues around become much thickened, and it is some- times difficult to be certain that the case is not one of tumour, so that it may be necessary to incise the swelling or to introduce a needle into it to make sure. Suppuration may occur behind or around the stone, and a ragged sinus discharging pus, or even an extensive ulcer in the floor of the mouth may be left ; through this opening the calculus may sometimes escape. When calculi occur farther back or in the gland itself, the diagnosis is often difficult, and the exact nature of the affection may not be evident until the gland has been cut down upon. TREATMENT.—The stone should be removed as soon as its presence is diagnosed. // it is situated near the orifice of Wharton's duct, the operation is simple and no general anassthetic is required. The mucous membrane is swabbed with a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine, a few drops are injected in the neighbourhood of the duct and a fine canaliculus director is passed through the orifice, when the stone is struck. In introducing the director it should be held at right angles to the mucous surface until it is well in the duct, when it is inclined backwards and outwards. A canaliculus knife or a very fine tenotome is introduced along the groove of the director, and the orifice of the duct slit up sufficiently for the stone to be extracted. The calculus often shoots out of the duct as the incision is made ; if not, it can be removed with a line pair of sinus forceps. There is little bleeding and there is no need to suture the opening in the duct. A mouth-wash of chlorate of potash (gr. xv. to the ounce) should be used for a few days. When the calculus lies far back, the operation may be exceedingly IV. I