148 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS glands are usually enlarged and caseous, and the ulcers cause the patient intense pain on swallowing. Death generally occurs before long from exhaustion. TREATMENT.—The general treatment suitable for tuberculosis (see Vol. I. p 231) must be adopted, and it is hardly ever worth while to adopt any radical treatment, even were it feasible, since the ulceration is usually accompanied by advanced tuberculosis elsewhere. Tuberculin injections (see Vol. I. p. 522) should be used. The local treatment is mainly directed to the relief of pain, and this is best done by blowing orthoform on to the ulcerated surface about half an hour or more before meals. Should orthoform fail to relieve the pain, a 25 per cent, solution of menthol in parolein in an atomiser, or a spray containing cocaine or morphine, may be used. If the ulceration is limited and the patient's general condition is good, the ulcers may be scraped with a sharp spoon after cocainising the surface thoroughly. This is particularly called for when the pain on swallowing is intense. Should this fail to give relief, pure lactic acid may be brushed over the ulcerated surface every day for a fortnight or longer ; the surface of the ulcer should be well cocainised before the applica- tion as it often causes intense pain. As a result, healthy granulation may be produced and the ulcer usually ceases to cause much pain, although it may not cicatrise. Should the pure lactic acid fail, the ulcer may be touched once or twice a week with undiluted carbolic acid ; besides its antiseptic action, the acid has a powerful antesthetic effect. Stenosis may follow the cure of this affection and may call for appro- priate treatment [vide supra). Unless there is actual ulceration, no local treatment is required ; should it be necessary, it will be similar to that just described. TUMOURS OF THE TONSIL AND PHARYNX. These are best considered together because a malignant growth arising in the tonsil constantly tends to encroach upon the neighbouring part of the pharynx and vice versa. BENIGN TUMOURS. Papillomata may occasionally be found about the margin of the fauces and the uvula. Adenomata are not infrequently met with on the soft palate and were at one time mistaken for carcinoma. Myomata, fibro- mata, or lipomata are very rare and do not give rise to any trouble except by their bulk. Sometimes, however, these tumours—and especially the myomatous form which occurs somewhat lower down in the pharynx —become pedunculated and give rise to a pharyngeal polypus which interferes with deglutition and, if large, with respiration. TREATMENT.—A small tumour of this kind will probably pass