GASTRIC ULCER 285 TREATMENT OF PERFORATED GASTRIC ULCER. The S3'mptoms of perforation of a gastric ulcer are not always constant or typical. In their most characteristic form they consist of sudden acute localised pain, accompanied by exquisite tenderness and local rigidity of the abdominal wall. This is followed rapidly by collapse, vomiting, and diffusion of the pain with tenderness and rigidity over the whole abdomen. There may be loss of liver dullness indicating free gas in the abdomen, and if the perforation is large and the amount extravasated great, there will be dullness in the flanks from the accumulation of fluid. In something like 80 per cent, of these cases the perforated ulcer lies on the anterior wall of the stomach. The perforation is usually a minute aperture in the peritoneal coat over the base of the ulcer ; sometimes, however, it may be of considerable size. An ulcer situated anywhere on the stomach may perforate, but when this occurs through the posterior wall, or when adhesions have so shut off the general peritoneal cavity that no extravasation takes place into it, the symptoms may be extremely slight. When a gastric ulcer perforates into the abdominal cavity, it gives rise to either local or general peritonitis. When the opening is fairly large and there are no adhesions, general peritonitis sets in, and the condition is practically always fatal if left alone. In some cases, however, sufficient adhesions are present to shut off the surface of the stomach from the general abdominal cavity, and under these circumstances there is only a localised peritonitis, which practically always ends in suppuration and gives rise to a subphrenic abscess (see Chap. XXVL). In some cases a small amount may trickle down into the pelvis and give rise to a pelvic abscess. When perforation into the general peritoneal cavity has occurred, it is clear that the only chance for the patient is an immediate operatioir designed on the one hand to close the opening in the stomach and on the other to remove the gastric contents from the peritoneal cavity. The success of this operation depends to a great extent on the length of time that has elapsed between the occurrence of the perforation and the performance of the laparotomy. After the first twelve hours the mortality increases enormously, and very few cases recover in which general peri- tonitis has set in. Hence, if there be any doubt as to the occurrence of a perforation, it is far better to open the abdomen early than to wait until the diagnosis is placed beyond doubt by the development of peritonitis. Pi'eliminaries.—The shock is very often intense, and measures must be adopted for combating it (see Vol. I. p, 118). The anaesthetic employed should be ether, and if the patient's condition be very bad it may be well to employ the intravenous method (see j). 32). The skin should be purified as rapidly as possible and the abdomen opened