378 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES empty, a fresh incision must be made over the caecum. Hence when the seat of stricture is uncertain, and the patient is in extremis, it is safer to perform a right-sided colostomy at once rather than run the risk of having to do a second operation. Even here the opening may still be on the distal side of the stricture. We have known a case in which the ascending colon was opened without relief to the symptoms, and, post mortem, the stricture was found at the ileo-csecal valve. Hence, when the ascending colon has been exposed, the condition of the csecum and ileo-caecal valve must be examined especially when the ascending colon is not distended. Colostomy on the right side.—-The ascending colon may be reached either by an operation behind the peritoneum, or the incision may be made further forward and the intestine exposed through the peritoneal cavity. The latter operation is much to be preferred as it allows the surgeon to make sure that he is opening a distended portion of the bowel, and he can also pass his finger down along the colon and investigate the state of the caecum and the ileo-caecal valve. If the bowel here is above the seat of stricture, the artificial opening can be made quite satisfactorily. The chief drawback to a right-sided inguinal colostomy is the difficulty of securing an efficient spur, but this is not a matter of great importance, as a right-sided colostomy is often only a temporary measure in these cases, and therefore the less definite the spur the better for the subsequent restoration of the channel. The incision is made obliquely downwards and forwards with its centre a little more than an inch above the crest of the ilium and about two inches behind the anterior superior spine, the muscle fibres being partly divided, but chiefly separated. The large intestine will usually present at once on opening the peritoneum, and its condition is examined and it is brought into the wound, the peritoneum on the outer side being detached so as to free it sufficiently. A large Paul's or Collier's tube is inserted into the bowel (see p. 381), which is then sutured to the skin in the usual manner. If a spur is wanted, it can be formed by passing a silk stitch or glass or ivory rods through the meso-colon in the same manner as in left inguinal colostomy (see p. 380). The chief objections to right-sided colostomy are that the contents of the ascending colon sometimes irritate the skin a great deal, and that a long piece of gut may intervene between the opening and the disease, in which faeces and gas may accumulate and cause a good deal of trouble. For these reasons a right-sided colostomy should only be regarded as a temporary expedient, and when the patient recovers from the obstruction the possibility of obtaining a more suitable opening, of excising the stric- ture, or of making an anastomosis, will have to be considered. Unless there is some distinct contra-indication, or unless the nature and seat of the obstruction have already been determined, the proper treatment is to open the abdomen in the middle line at a later date, search for the obstruction, and deal with it according to the principles already laid down