464 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES easy to diagnose as there may be no tumour present, unless there is also omentum in the sac. There may be no constipation because the lumen of the bowel is not actually interfered with ; vomiting may not be present, and flatus often passes freely. The constitutional symptoms, however, are often well marked ; the pulse is small and rapid, the breathing is hurried, and there is the same anxious aspect as in complete strangulation. The portion of intestine nipped is usually badly damaged, and gangrene often occurs quite early. In the condition known as L Hire's hernia, Meckel's diverticulum becomes strangulated and the lumen of the bowel is not absolutely occluded. TREATMENT.—^The treatment of hernia depends on a number of varying conditions—such as the age of the patient, the situation of the hernia, its reducibility or irreducibility, the presence or absence of strangu- lation, and the general fitness of the patient for operative interference ; these points are dealt with in connection with the individual forms of hernia (see Chap. XXX.). We shall here only indicate the general principles of treatment. As the most important questions with regard to the treatment of a hernia depend on its reducibility or irreducibility, we shall consider the treatment suitable for reducible and irreducible hernia respectively. TREATMENT OF REDUCIBLE HERNIA. The treatment of this form of hernia consists either in reduction of the hernia by manipulation, and its retention by a suitable truss, or in the so-called ' radical cure,' in which the contents of the sac are reduced, the latter obliterated, and the opening in the wall of the abdomen diminished or completely closed. The question of operative versus non-operative methods is influenced by many considerations—e.g. by the nature and situation of the hernia, the probability of permanent cure by operation, the age and occupation of the patient, whether he is able to obtain medical assistance should strangulation occur, his health, and the size of the hernia. Further, no one suffering from a hernia is admitted to the public services—e.g. army, navy, police, and others—and operation may be desirable to enable them to do so. Treatment in infants.—Hernia in infancy is usually umbilical or inguinal, and there is still a diversity of opinion upon the question of operation. Some surgeons delay the operation until the child is three or four years old, partly on the ground that the prolonged use of a truss may cure the hernia, partly because of the small size of the parts to be operated upon and the difficulty of keeping the wound clean, and partly because of the natural reluctance to operate on an infant unless it is absolutely necessary. Experience shows, however, that complete obliteration of the sac is not effected by a truss nearly so often as has been