TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 203 and in all probability the abdominal cavity will be completely shut off. When the opening is small, there may also be symptoms of strangulation ; indeed the patient may not be seen until actual gangrene of the omentum or the intestine has taken place. The conditions in these cases are there- fore totally different from those seen immediately after the accident, and different treatment is called for. It would never do to reduce the protrusion into the abdominal cavity without previous disinfection, for this would probably entail a fatal peritonitis. When the protrusion is formed by the omentum and not more than two days have elapsed since it occurred, the abdominal wall and the protruded portion should be cleansed in the usual wa3' (see Vol. I. p. 100), the prolapse being scrubbed just as the cutaneous surface is scrubbed, and then the adhesions to the soft parts around should be detached and the omentum freed and pulled out until the healthy portion is reached. The protruding portion is then ligatured and cut away and the stump is dropped back into the abdomen ; the peritoneum, muscles, and the skin are sutured in the usual manner, and a small drainage tube leading down through the peritoneum to the stump of the omentum is inserted for two or three days. When intestine is present, but has not yet become strangulated, a good deal will depend upon whether the coil is covered by omentum or is exposed. In the former case the treatment is the same as for protruded omentum [vide supra) ; the latter is disinfected, carefully separated and cut off, the stump dropped back into the abdomen, the bowel reduced, and a drain inserted. When, however, the intestine is not covered by omentum, the protruded portion should be cleansed and returned just within the abdominal cavity after enlarging the opening through which it has emerged ; ample provision for drainage must then be made. A good plan is to leave the wound freely open for two or three days, keeping the prolapsed coil of intestine lying at the bottom of the wound, which is carefully packed with gauze so that adhesions will form early and shut off the general peritoneal cavity. It is also well to introduce a series of silkworm-gut stitches through skin, muscles, and peritoneum and to leave these loosely knotted together at the ends. If no suppuration or peritonitis occurs after three or four days, the packing is gradually reduced and stitch after stitch is tied so as to decrease the wound in the abdominal wall. When the intestine has been prolapsed for some time and strangulation has occurred, the case must be treated as a gangrenous strangulated hernia. If the patient's condition warrants it, the strangulated portion may be excised and the bowel reunited, whereas, if the general condition is grave, an artificial anus is made by cutting away the strangulated portions, tying in Paul's tubes, and leaving the closure of the openings in the bowel to a later date. In the majority of cases the latter j^ro- cedure is to be preferred, as tlie wound is generally foul, and an attempt