144 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS abscess from the outside ; there is not the same urgency as in the case of acute abscess. When the affection is due to spinal disease, great care is necessary in moving the head when the patient is under the anaesthetic, otherwise serious damage may be done. Operation.—An incision is made just behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, commencing above at the mastoid process and running downwards for about an inch and a half. This incision is deepened until the deep fascia is opened behind the muscle, the posterior border of which is hooked up with a retractor ; some enlarged glands may require removal before the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle can be defined. The finger is then introduced into the wound and feels for the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and a blunt dissector is gradually insinuated behind the vessels until the abscess cavity is reached ; this is facilitated by keeping one finger upon the abscess in the mouth so as to ascertain the right direction in which to work. If the instrument is kept close to the anterior surface of the transverse processes and made to bore directly into the abscess cavity, no difficulty is encountered and the abscess can be opened in a few seconds. The channel is enlarged by introducing a pair of dressing-forceps along the dissector and carefully expanding the blades in the vertical direction. The finger may then be insinuated into the abscess cavity and the state of matters explored. Hsemorrhage rarely occurs during the operation, but if it does it is venous and ceases as soon as the pus is evacuated. The cavity should be scraped out with a flushing-spoon, great care being taken not to exercise any pressure against the pharyngeal wall lest perforation should occur. If the case is one of spinal disease, the bone may also be scraped and any sequestrum which is present removed. Iodoform and glycerine is then injected, the wound stitched up, and the treatment appropriate for the spinal disease gone on with (see Vol. III. p. 294). The abscess should never be opened through the anterior triangle as is sometimes recommended. It is extremely difficult to reach the abscess cavity by this route, as the vessels have to be carefully defined and pushed out of the way, and considerable bleeding and a tedious operation may result. GRANULAR PHARYNGITIS. This condition is marked by enlargement of the lymphoid follicles at the back and sides of the pharynx ; it is often associated with enlargement of the tonsils and adenoid vegetations in the naso-pharynx. The con- dition is common in public speakers, and is one of the most frequent causes of the affection known as ' clergyman's sore-throat.' Its principal symptoms are perversions of sensation in the pharynx, cough, hawking-up of mucus, hoarseness, a feeling of tiredness and sometimes loss of voice. TREATMEJSTT.—When the follicles are much enlarged, an effectual method is to destroy them with the electric cautery. The posterior wall of