CHRONIC PROCTITIS 543 Internal prodoiomy.—This procedure, closely analogous to internal urethrotomy, is of doubtful value except for a cicatrix which only involves the mucous membrane. Division of strictures involving the entire thick- ness of the rectal wall must lead to the introduction of septic material into the peri-rectal tissues and is not good practice. Electrolysis is apparently of no permanent value. External proctotomy, or free longitudinal division of the stricture—the incision being prolonged down through the sphincters and the skin of the anus externally—has also been employed. The wound thus made is packed with gauze to prevent it from closing for some time, in the hope that epithelium will spread along the surface and so enlage tlie calibre of the lower end of the rectum. When, however, healing is complete, the constriction rapidly becomes as bad as ever, and the patient may be in a worse condition than before because the sphincters may not unite. Excision of the stricture is theoretically the ideal method, but in practice it is not at all successful. The stricture, especially that following extensive syphilitic idceration, may be so long as to render union of the two ends impossible. The inflammation may spread up to the pelvic colon, the peritoneal surface of which may be so affected that the gut becomes bound down in the iliac fossa and cannot be pulled down. Moreover, the operation is necessarily accompanied by great danger of septic infection. Should infection occur and the patient survive, the inflammation set up in the pelvic cellular tissue is apt to reproduce the contraction. Nevertheless, this method must be carefully considered in any case of hmited stricture. Should the operation be decided upon, the best result will be obtained by performing a temporary colostomy in the first instance in order to avoid the risk of sepsis. This will allow the incision to heal without much inflammation and subsequent contraction, and may also avoid the risk of a fistula. When healing has occurred, the colostomy wound can be closed (see p. 507). The steps of the excision will vary according to the position of the stricture. The operation is most valuable for strictures low down, in which the induration can be removed without injuring the sphincters. It is similar to Whitehead's operation for piles (see Chap. XL.), except that the dissection penetrates more deeply. For more severe cases either the perineal or Kraske's method (see Chap. XLII.) of excising the rectum must be adopted according to the situation and extent of the stricture. Colostomy.—Should the patient be getting attacks of obstruction, or should the pain and distress be great, and the foregoing methods impotent to relieve the symptoms, colostomy must be performed (see p. 378). This is still more urgently indicated when ulceration accom- panies the stricture, and it is then done mainly to allow the ulceration to heal. After colostomy the ulceration heals, the induration about the stricture diminishes, and the latter becomes gradually amenable to dilatation, and therefore in many cases the colostomy need only be a