TUMOURS 205 These affections give rise to very varied symptoms, the earliest of which, such as abdominal pains, colic, fever, and slight distension of the abdomen, are generally referred to digestive troubles. In the early stages it is not easy to make an accurate diagnosis ; this must remain tentative until a distinct tumour has formed. The abdominal wall is usually tense for some distance around the area of inflammation ; when this occurs in the hypogastric region it may be accompanied by frequent and painful mic- turition, and similar trouble may arise when the suppuration is in the loin. It is difficult to distinguish these cases from peritonitis, but the pain is more limited, there is not the same distension of the abdomen, and vomiting is not a prominent symptom. On the other hand, the symptoms may be very slight at the commencement, and the swelling may be mistaken for a tumour, especially when the liver region is affected. In some cases gas is found in the abscesses, especially when the colon bacillus is present ; the diagnosis is then still more difficult. The general condition of the patient is bad, the contents of tlie abscess being particularly poisonous, especially if the Bacillus coli communis is present, and hence the abscess should be opened as soon as possible ; a leucocyte count will generally be helpful (see Vol. I.). In many cases, more particularly when the abscess is situated in the loin, fluctuation is not easy to make out at an early stage, and may not be evident until the pus reaches the subcutaneous tissues. Nevertheless it is not advisable to wait for evident fluctuation, for by that time the abscess may have become very extensive. When the acute symptoms have lasted for four or five days, it is almost certain that pus has formed, and an incision should then be made over the indurated area and the tissues bored through until the pus is reached. Even should no pus be found, the incision will afford relief. TUMOURS. There is little to be said about these ; ordinary simple tumours may occur, the most frequent being lipomata (especially in the sub-peritoneal tissue), and fibromata in connection with the fascial coverings of the muscles ; desmoids (see Vol. I.) are not infrequently found in the anterior abdominal wall. The chief point of importance in the diagnosis is whether the tumours are inside or outside the abdominal cavity, and this is not always easy to make out, especially in the case of large tumours situated laterally on the abdominal wall. The chief points to notice are whether the tumour is an integral part of the abdominal wall and whether it moves with it on respiration and not with the abdominal contents ; for instance, when the patient takes a deep breath, the abdominal wall is not raised from the tumour as it would be were the latter within the abdomen, and when the patient is rolled over to one side the tumour does not change its position as it would were it freely movable inside the