AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 452 with various antiseptics such as carbolic acid or sublimate lotions, or was flushed with salt solution and carefully dried with sponges. These methods seem unnecessary, as equally good results are obtained after simple laparotomy. When adhesions are present, great care is necessary in opening the abdomen to avoid injury to the intestine and, if the adhesions are firm and numerous, it is better to close the wound rather than force a way in among the intestinal coils ; the bowel is usually fragile, and any attempt to separate adherent coils may result in laceration of the intestine at the time or may so injure its wall as to lead to the formation of a fsecal fistula subsequently. When pus is found, it should be washed out by salt solution, and some iodoform and glycerine emulsion should be introduced into the abscess cavity before it is closed. Various important points have to be considered in connection with the operation, the first of which is the question of drainage when fluid is present. There seems to be no advantage in this when the fluid is serous ; indeed, it may lead to a tuberculous sinus. When pus is present, provided it is not foul or apparently infected, it is best to treat it like a chronic abscess elsewhere, washing out the cavity and leaving in a little iodoform and glycerine (see Vol. I. p. 234) ; if, however, the pus is infected with pyogenic organisms, drainage must be provided. Another important question is whether the primary focus should be searched for, and removed. Much will depend on the condition of the patient and the extent of the disease in the peritoneum. Theoretically, of course, the primary focus should be removed, and practically it has been found that the best results have followed this practice in suitable cases, seen early. On the other hand, the disease is very extensive in the majority of cases to which the surgeon is called and the question becomes much more complex. As a result of what has been done in this way, we would formulate the following opinion : When the tuber- culous disease is strictly localised to the neighbourhood of the primary focus—e.g. when only a few coils of small intestine are affected in the neighbourhood of an intestinal ulcer ; when the disease is confined to the Ccecum and the neighbouring parts of the ileum as is not infrequent^ the case ; when the appendix is the primary seat of the disease ; or when there is only a commencing eruption of tubercles about the Fallopian tubes without any extensive matting of the intestine, the primary focus should be removed, provided the patient's strength is good, even though it involves resection of the small intestine or of the caecum, or removal of the appendix or of the Fallopian tubes, and the results obtained are certainly better than those of simple laparotomy. On the other hand, in the more advanced cases, adhesions are present and it is exces- sively difficult, in the first place, to find the primary focus and, in the second, to remove it when found. Here also the patient is generally run down and cannot stand a prolonged operation ; moreover, the tuberculous intestines are so fragile that they tear readily and a ftecal