354 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES in whom the whole operation in an uncomplicated case ought not to take more than fifteen to twenty minutes. Normal saline solution should be infused into the axillse during the operation ; in an infant four to six months old, two to six ounces of saline are sufficient. The laparotomy wound should be made by preference through the right rectus. When the abdomen has been opened, the intestines should be packed away and the tumour brought into view. The swelling should first be examined in situ especially to see if there are any signs of gangrene at the neck—in which case no attempt must be made to reduce the tumour. The tumour should then be brought into view as much as possible, so that the surgeon can watch what happens when the intus- susceptum is reduced, especially whether there is any splitting of the peri- toneal and muscular coats ; the tumour should not be reduced in the dark. The best method of reduction is to grasp the lower part of the swelling in the left hand so that it lies completely surrounded by the palm ; then the apex of the intussusceptum is pushed up by a gentle squeezing movement, and as it goes it will unroll the intussuscipiens. This onward pressure should be very gentle and slow, so as to avoid rupture of the coats, while at the same time it should be fairly firm so as to lessen the oedema at the apex of the intussusceptum. In most cases it will be found that the greater part of the intussusception can be reduced readily in this way. It is dangerous to atteiupt to pull out the intussusceptum, for not only will the attempt fail in most cases, but also there will be a great risk of tearing the neck of the intussusceptum which has been con- stricted and which may be on the verge of gangrene. A point is usually eventually reached at which it is difficult to reduce the intussusceptum, not so much on account of adhesions as of the swelling at its apex. If a cautious continuation of the pressure reduces the intussusception, well and good ; any split of the peritoneal coat that accompanies reduction can be stitched up with a fine Lembert suture, the bowel dropped back, and the abdomen closed. On the other hand, however, the attempt may not succeed, and, further; the intussusception may not only be irreducible, but also gangrenous. The further procedure will therefore depend partly on which of these conditions is present, and partly on the state of the patient. When the tumoiir is irreducible but not gangrenous.—The ideal treat- ment is to excise the part affected and unite the divided portions of the intestine ; this, however, is often inadvisable on account of the serious condition of the patient. To excise the whole of the affected portion—that is to say, to make one incision through the bowel above the neck of the tumour and another below the apex of the intussusceptum, to remove the entire intervening portion, and then restore the bowel either by end-to-end suture or by lateral anastomosis, is a severe measure in an infant. Several procedures have been suggested, of which we may mention