120 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS is composed of the mucous and submucous coats only, which have been protruded through the lower and posterior part of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, where a weak area is present owing to deficiency of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the upper end of the oesophagus. Other factors which predispose to the formation of diverticula in this situation are the normal, sphincter-like action of the upper end of the oesophagus and in some cases actual narrowing from disease. The exciting causes are injury and the constant pressure of the food in the act of swallowing, the latter leading to the outward propulsion of the mucous pouch. The condition leads to dysphagia from the entrance of food into the sac, which then presses on and obstructs the oesophagus. The food in the sac also decomposes and causes foetor of the breath. The result is starvation, or septic pneumonia as the result of the accumulation of putrid material. In some cases ulceration has occurred followed by perforation of the sac with consequent fatal cellulitis. Diagnosis.—On passing a bougie it is not uncommon to find that at one time a large bougie passes easily into the stomach, while at other times it stops about eight inches from the teeth, the explanation being that in the latter case it enters the pouch. The existence of a pouch can be demonstrated by administering bismuth oxychloride, well mixed with bread and milk. Some of this material wiU enter the sac, especially if the latter has been previously emptied by external pressure and efforts at swallowing and abstention from food for a day or two. As a result the presence, size, and situation of the sac can be seen on the X-ray screen or in a radiogram. By means of the oesophagoscope the orifice of the opening can also be demonstrated and a bougie can be introduced into the sac. The latter method of investigation, which is somewhat trying to the patient, is not however always necessary. TREATMENT.—The only method of treatment is by operation, and two procedures have been adopted, viz., excision or invagination of the sac. The great risk of excision is the occurrence of septic cellulitis from infection of the wound in the neck, either during the operation or as the result of subsequent leakage from the pharynx ; this cellulitis may spread downwards into the posterior mediastinum, and generally proves fatal. In most cases, however, this risk can be avoided if the operation is carefully performed. It was with the view of minimising this risk that invagination instead of excision of the sac was suggested, but this is not a good plan, and, if employed at all, should be restricted to very small diverticula. If a large diverticulum is invaginated, it forms a polypus in the oesophagus, which may obstruct the canal and cause dysphagia, and may cause coughing and much discomfort. Protrusion of the sac and reproduction of the original trouble has also occurred after this operation. Before proceeding to excision of the sac, the teeth and mouth should