FOREIGN BODIES IN THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS 123 the carotid should be exposed in the neck and the external carotid trunk and its branches isolated, especially the ascending pharyngeal branch. If the latter can be picked up and pressure on it arrests the bleeding, it should be tied. If not, the trunk of the external carotid artery should be compressed, and if the bleeding then ceases it should be tied close to its origin so as to include the ascending pharyngeal branch (see Vol. II. p. 204). Should pressure on the trunk of the external carotid artery not control the bleeding, there is probably some wound of the internal carotid artery, which should then be examined and if necessary ligatured, or the wound in it may be sutured ; the latter, however, would probably be a very difficult proceeding on account of the situation of the wound. In attempting suture, the circulation should be arrested by means of Crile's clamps applied above and below the wound in the artery, which is then turned out so as to expose the opening in the vessel. When, however, the case is one of haemorrhage from a wound in the internal carotid trunk, the patient usually bleeds to death before help can be obtained. Should the patient be seen in time, temporary digital compression of the bleeding point by the finger in the mouth pressing outwards against another pressed well in behind the angle of the jaw should be employed until the patient can be operated upon. Instead of a finger in the mouth, pressure may be made by a sponge or a piece of gauze held in forceps, or by a piece of wood covered with lint. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS. Foreign bodies may occasionally be found in the tonsils, usually in the form of sharp pieces of bone or fish-bones which can be seen on examin- ing the throat in a good light and may be renioved with forceps. The foreign bodies in the pharynx are of various kinds. They are generally bodies which are too large to pass into the oesophagus or which are sharp or jagged, and they often give rise to very severe symptoms from their presence in the neighbourhood of the aperture of the larynx. The chief of these are boluses of meat, tooth-plates, pieces of bone or coins. The symptoms wiU vary according to the size and nature of the object. If it is large—such as a bolus of food—the aperture of the larynx may be blocked, and the patient may die of asphyxia unless relieved immediately. In cases of smaller bodies such as fish-bones, there is constant pain on swallowing, usually referred to a definite spot, and the constant irritation of the foreign body leads to a desire to cough and hawk up mucus. The body can generally be seen with the laryngoscopic mirror or a Killian's tube. TREATMENT.—When the foreign body is large, and asphyxial symptoms are urgent, a gag of some sort (t".^^. a piece of wood or the handle