240 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH viscus is uninjured, and which vary from a simple contusion to partial rupture of the coats of the stomach ; these are usually accompanied by non-perforating injuries of the abdominal wall, such as simple contusions, but occasionally a non-perforating wound of the stomach may occur in connection with a perforating one of the abdominal wall when the injury is done with a blunt instrument, the chief force being expended in driving the instrument through the muscles. 2. Perforating lejounds, in which the interior of the stomach communi- cates with the general peritoneal cavity ; these again may be subdivided into («) injuries accompanied by perforating wounds of the abdominal wall and [h) those occurring independently of this condition. The injuries are not necessarily limited to the stomach itself; in gunshot or sword wounds, for instance, the pancreas, liver, or spleen is frequently injured at the same time. Symptoms of non-perforating injuries of the stomach and abdominal wall.—It is often extremely difficult to separate the symp- toms due to the injury to the abdominal wall from those due to the injury to the stomach. Hfematemesis and melsena may be present, but they do not indicate the exact nature of the lesion in the stomach. When the patient receives a blow in the region of the stomach there is great shock from the blow on the solar plexus, and if this is pro- longed and the pain becomes more intense and the vomiting persists, a severe contusion of the stomach is probable. These symptoms will pass off in the course of three or four days unless the injury is so severe as to lead to local gangrene, when they will persist and will be followed at the end of a week or ten days by those of sudden perforation or of a spreading peritonitis. Symptoms of perforating wounds of the stomach unaccom- panied by a perforating wound of the abdominal wall.—In some of these cases the diagnosis is simple, in others it is extremely dif- ficult. Should there be free communication between the stomach and the abdominal cavity, gas will find its way into the peritoneum ; this very important symptom shows itself by distinct decrease of the liver dullness, although the abdomen is not distended. There is also extreme collapse, a rapid pulse, a peculiarly anxious countenance, and rigidity of the abdominal muscles. The temperature is subnormal, the breathing is entirely thoracic, and the skin is cold ; there is fre- quently hfematemesis. When, however, the rupture of the stomach is small, is situated on the posterior surface, or takes place during fasting, the symptoms may be slight until acute peritonitis sets in. An important help in arriving at a correct estimation of the state of affairs is the condition of the stomach at the time of injury ; suspicion of rupture will be aroused if the accident has occurred after a full meal, and especially if there is also blood-stained vomiting, marked thoracic breathing, and an amount of collapse out of