515 ENTERO-SPASM other diseases, such as tuberculous diseases of glands and joints, rheu- matoid arthritis, mastitis, cancer, and many others. Indeed, Mr. Lane goes so far as to recommend operations for intestinal stasis as the first procedure in the treatment of these diseases. As yet few surgeons have felt able to follow Mr. Lane's lead in these matters, and we should have the greatest hesitation in recommending intestinal anastomosis for such cases as tuberculous gland- or joint-disease or chronic mastitis. In our opinion it is very problematical whether any real benefit would result from these operations in such cases, and the operation itself is a very severe one and apt to leave behind it very unpleasant consequences. But as a means of dealing with intestinal stasis itself, due to atony or atrophy of the colon or to extensive adhesions matting the bowels and preventing their proper movements, or to kinks such as Mr. Lane describes in the lower end of the ileum, his suggestions must be carefully considered. Two operative procedures are proposed—namely, ileo-sigmoidostomy and excision of the colon. In the former operation the small intestine is cut across at its lower end and implanted into the sigmoid flexure while, the distal end is closed by sutures. This operation is not accompanied by much danger, but it has the great disadvantage of leaving the whole of the large intestine above the anastomosis as a blind tube in which fjecal material and intestinal secretions may collect and still lead to absorption. In order to overcome this, it has been suggested that appendi- costomy should also be performed with the view of washing out the colon, but this entails constant lavage of the intestine and much trouble to the patient. The most logical method of getting rid of this difficulty is excision of the entire colon, but this is a measure of such severity that it can only be justifiable in a small percentage of cases. The advisability of per- forming this operation must, however, be considered in some cases, but it must be admitted that the type of patient in which it may be necessary is an unpromising one. It is a question whether partial operations, such as excision of the lower end of the ileum and the ascending colon in cases in which the trouble is situated in the lower end of the ileum or the first part of the colon, as is apparently not uncommon, followed by anastomosis of the ileum with the transverse colon, would not be more advantageous than either of the above operations. ENTERO-SPASM. Spasmodic contraction of the intestinal wall occurs in connection with various conditions and is an important factor in many forms of intestinal obstruction. It is an essential element in obstruction by gall- stones, for example, for it is seldom that the gall-stone itself blocks the canal sufficiently to produce obstruction ; this is brought about by the L L 2