594 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS tenesmus or loss of power over the sphincter, accompanied by constant discharge from the rectum, the operation will ameliorate the condition and should certainly be advised. Another condition calling for colostomy is obstruction, either actual or impending. This subject has already been dealt with (see p. 371). After a properly performed colostomy the health of the patient improves rapidly as a result of the unhindered evacuation of the bowels, and if an abdominal exploration, made at the time the colostomy is done, shows that excision is feasible, it may still be possible to perform it at a later period when the patient's health has improved. A colostomy should therefore always be done when there are signs of impending obstruction and also as a preliminary to an extensive excision where the radical operation is inadvisable for the time being. On the other hand, as long as a patient suffering from manifestly inoperable cancer of the rectum remains comfortable without colostomy, it is very much better that he should continue as he is; he should be kept under observation, so that, if at any time it is found that his colon is not being properly emptied or that obstruction is impending, colostomy may be done without delay. The patient's comfort is materially interfered with after colostomy, and sensitive persons may be intensely upset by it, and, therefore, if this condition is brought about by operation without any tangible benefit to show in exchange for it, the operation is likely to become discredited. We do not lay any stress on the view that a colostomy will lessen the rapidity of the local growth. Palliative treatment.—Should the patient refuse an operation, or should excision be deemed inadvisable and the time inopportune for a colostomy, palliative measures must be adopted. The diet must be regulated so that the food shall reach the large intestine as complete]y digested as possible. There is no more fruitful cause of obstruction in these cases than the lodgment of hard, indigestible masses above the growth. Suitable laxatives must be employed, and a good plan is to give the patient a grain or two of extract of cascara every night in a pill, and to follow this up with a dose of an aperient mineral water in the morning, so as to obtain a fluid evacuation daily. This will often relieve the distressing tenesmus. Should there be much pain, opium, morphine, or heroin must be given either by the mouth or as a subcutaneous injection rather than by the bowel, as it is doubtful whether the rectal mucous membrane retains its normal absorbing power. When there is offensive discharge from the growth, irrigation with weak sanitas, permanganate of potash, or boro-glyceride solutions are useful. When there is much oozing of blood from the growth, rectal injections of half an ounce of tincture of hamamelis with an equal quantity of water may be tried. The general health must be attended to and the patient should be encouraged to interest himself in his ordinary pursuits as much as he can without exhausting himself.