147 TUBERCULOSIS out of position. After the operation, the palate must be kept from contracting fresh adliesions if possible by the frequent use of blunt instruments, bent to a suitable curve, passed into the pharynx and swept between the palate and the posterior pharyngeal wall. This may be done by the patient himself if necessary, and in the early stages should be repeated twice daily ; later on, once a day or every other day suffices. If it causes much pain, cocaine antesthesia may be employed. The stricture, however, is almost invariably reproduced, to some degree at any rate. When there is stenosis of the pharynx, the case practically becomes one of stricture of the upper part of the oesophagus, and bougies will have to be passed as for that affection (see Chap. XII.). This treatment must be persisted in for the rest of the patient's life. Sometimes, as the result of syphilitic ulceration, the stenosis of the pharynx is fairly high up, and consists rather in obstruction to the passage of food by bands and diaphragms than in any uniform contraction. Under these circum- stances, benefit may be obtained by dividing these obstructions. The greatest care must be taken in doing so because impoi^tant vessels, such as the lingual or the carotid trunks, may be dragged inwards by the con- traction and maybe endangered by the operation. The best plan is to nick any contracted bands, and then to stretch the structures so nicked until sufficient dilatation is produced ; for this purpose general anaesthesia is necessary. A direct vision oesophagoscope is inserted down to the stricture, and a long-handled knife is passed through it and made to divide the adhesions or bands, after which bougies of different sizes are used to dilate the lumen of the stricture. The after-treatment of these cases is very difficult, and when the stenosis is high up in the pharynx, the ordinary oesophageal bougie is not large enough to keep the pharynx properly dilated. In some of the cases of which we have been speaking it may be necessary to employ a specially made dilating instrument with a suitable curve, and blades which can be separated by means of a screw handle, or two or three bougies may be inserted at the same time. It may be necessary also to give the patient an anaesthetic from time to time and repeat the division of the stricture. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TONSIL AND PHARYNX. Tuberculosis may affect the tonsil and the pharyngeal wall. It is, however, rare except in connection with enlarged tonsils, when there may be no ulceration, and is usually associated with tuberculous disease of the lungs or larynx. Lupus sometimes occurs in this region independently of lung disease. Tuberculous ulcers are generally shallow, unhealthy in appearance and covered with a dirty yellowish layer which is partly exudation and partly degenerating tissue. In tlie case of lupus nodules are frequently seen in the neighbourhood of the ulcers. The L 2