146 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS Locally calomel and starch powder are of great value, or the ulcers may be painted with chromic acid solution (gr. x to xx to the ounce) after having been carefully dried. The tertiary forms are the most serious on account of the rapid destruction of tissue often caused by them, and they are common on the pharynx as well as on the soft palate. Gummata form and break down rapidly, leading to deep ulceration of the mucous membrane. Unless the condition is arrested quickly, the ulceration may extend and lead to extensive cicatrisation and stenosis of the pharynx. The soft palate may become adherent to the posterior pharyngeal wall, and may thus obstruct or entirely obliterate the connection between the naso-pharynx and the pharynx proper. In congenital syphilis similar lesions are not very uncommon. Immediate and energetic treatment is called for on the lines laid down above. During healing every effort should be made to prevent stenosis of the pharynx and adhesion of the soft palate, but it must be admitted that this is excessively difficult. Bougies should be passed frequently into the naso-pharynx, but if the ulceration has extended on to the edge of the palate it is almost impossible to prevent considerable closure. STENOSIS OF THE PHARYNX. This affection may be due to a variety of causes, of which congenital or acquired syphilis is by far the most frequent ; it follows burns, scalds, the action of corrosive substances, and ulcerations such as lupus. It is most common in the upper part of the pharynx and is generally associated with adhesion of the soft palate to the posterior pharyngeal wall. Slight adhesions in that situation may not give rise to marked difficulty either in deglutition or articulation, but both these actions are affected when the adhesions are extensive, the patient having a pronounced nasal voice, and deglutition being very difficult ; the food constantly returns through the nose owing to imperfect action of the soft palate. Should the stenosis affect the lower part of the pharyngeal wall, deglutition may be interfered with in another way ; there may be some degree of actual stenosis, giving rise to a condition very similar to stricture of the upper part of the oesophagus. TREjATMBNT.—The treatment of adhesions of the palate and stenosis of the pharynx is very difficult. When the palate is adherent there is a constant tendency to recurrence in spite of repeated operations to divide the adhesions, and no plastic operation is likely to be entirely successful. All that can be done under the circumstances is to divide the adhesions between the palate and the pharyngeal waU with scissors or a blunt-pointed bistoury, taking care to do this slowly so as to avoid the possibility of doing damage to vessels which may have been dragged