AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 4i8 the majority of cases ; at most, a few adhesions binding down the caecum may have to be divided before the latter is sufficiently freed. It is much easier and better to deal with the stump of the appendix outside the abdomen than at the bottom of the wound. Various methods are employed which differ in detail, but the practical result seems to be the same. The following is a method which is frequently employed. The peritoneal coat is divided by a circular incision about half an inch from the caecum, and turned aside as a cuff, exposing the muscular coat (see Fig. 146). This can usually be done quite easily, except in those cases in which the peritoneum is adherent to the musclar coat : the cuff is not really essential, but is a useful additional precaution against perforation. As the cuff is reflected, one or two fair-sized branches of the appendicular artery will be exposed, and it is well to divide these with a fine pair of scissors to prevent tearing the cuff. The contents of the A B C Fig. 147.—The ' Cuff ' method of removing the Appendix. Burying the Slump. A shows the muscular and mucous coats of the appendix grasped with Spencer Wells's forceps on the distal side of the line of section. B shows the ligature round the divided stump of the appendix and the reflected cuff of peritoneum outside it. C shows this stump—the cuff of peritoneum having been turned forward again—being buried in the Ceecum by means of Lembert's sutures. appendix are next pressed away from the neighbourhood of the base, and the appendix is clamped with a pair of Spencer Wells's forceps, about half an inch from its root, so as to prevent the escape of its contents when it is divided. A catgut ligature is then tied round the muscular and mucous coats of the appendix as close to the caecum as possible, and a piece of sterilised gauze is wrapped round the root of the appendix between the caecum and the ligature, so as to prevent any soiling of the field of operation by the contents of the appendix, the gauze being held in position with a pair of Spencer WeUs's forceps. The appendix is then cut off and the mucous membrane from the stump carefully removed with a small spoon—such as that employed for evacuating Meibomian cysts ; the bare surface left is thoroughly cauterised with undiluted carbolic acid, which is then washed away with saline solution. The gauze is now removed, the ligature cut short, the cuff pulled back over the stump of the appendix, and the whole buried in the wall of the caecum by a few interrupted Lembert sutures (see Fig. 147).