370 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES its long axis transverse to that of the bowel ; it may encircle the bowel more or less completely and lead to an annular constriction. The ulcera- tion may pass deeply into the sub-mucous and muscular coats, in which case peritonitis occurs outside, and the contraction of the exudation increases the narrowing still further. The affection is often accompanied by tuberculous peritonitis (see Chap. XXVIII.). Typhoid ulcers and acute duodenal ulcers rarely give rise to stricture. Very severe stricture may follow the spontaneous cure of an intussusception by sloughing. Dysenteric ulcers commonly lead to a certain amount of stricture, but as they occur in the large intestine, they seldom produce so much narrowing as to cause prominent symptoms of obstruction ; when they do so, they are generally situated in the sigmoid flexure or towards the upper part of the rectum. Ulcerative colitis is a very fatal disease, although it may also occasionally be the cause of constriction. Syphilitic ulceration, leading to stricture, is very rare, except at the lower part of the rectum; this is dealt with in Chap. XXXVII. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION DUE TO MALIGNANT STRICTURE. New growths causing stricture of the bowel are practically always malignant and are adeno-carcinomata. In the great majority of cases the growth is primary in the bowel itself, and springs from the Lieberkiihnian follicles ; it soon infiltrates the sub-mucous tissue, and finally penetrates to the muscular and peritoneal coats. The wall of the bowel, however, may sometimes be involved secondarily—chiefly from direct continuity—by malignant disease of other parts, such as the uterus, prostate, ovaries, or stomach. Malignant growths are by far the most common cause of stricture of the large intestine, and, after forty or fifty years of age are almost the only ones. In the small intestine non- malignant strictures seem to be more common than malignant ones. Carcinoma of the bowel forms a hard, raised nodule projecting from the mucous surface of the intestine. This nodule soon ulcerates and the disease spreads around the bowel until a characteristic constriction is produced—namely, a sort of diaphragm of growth across the lumen presenting towards the centre a ragged ulcerated aperture, which is often very narrow. The amount of growth present in proportion to the constriction produced is very variable ; sometimes the stricture is ex- tremely tight like a ring round the bowel, while the amount of growth is very small indeed ; sometimes there may be extensive growth, but no great blocking of the canal. The disease affects the glands in the neigh- bourhood—in this instance, in the mesentery—and leads to secondary growths, especially in the liver. It is an important point that the disease in the glands and in the liver usually grows more slowly than the primary disease in the bowel, and when the latter has been removed, a considerable time may elapse before the secondary growths cause death. Sometimes