48 AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS for the first few days. After the fifth day, the drainage tube can be taken out and shortened and put back in the external part of the track. The tube can usually be left out about the tenth day, by which time the whole incision will be healed with the exception of the drainage tube track. For the first two or three days, the patient must be fed mainly by enemata unless he is very feeble, but he may have plenty of water by the mouth. At first he finds it difficult to swallow, and putrescible food may lie in the wound and increase the septic troubles. In two or three days, however, the tissues are sealed off, and liquid nourishment may then be given by the mouth, the fluid being put in a feeder to which a piece of india-rubber tubing is attached, and carried well back towards the pharynx on the sound side. It is well to turn the head to the sound side and rather depress it when taking food, so that the fluid runs down along the healthy mucous membrane and does not come in contact with the raw surface. If this is not tolerated, the nasal tube may be used. After taking food, the mouth must be thoroughly washed out. At the end of a week semi-solid food may be given, and usually the patient may be allowed to get up. The bowels should be kept freely open and the mouth frequently syringed with antiseptic lotions, especially after taking food. The operation often requires modification according to the size and situation of the tumour. In some cases portions of the skin over the tumour must be taken away ; a plastic operation is then necessary. As a rule, it is unnecessary to cut through the free margin of the lip at the anterior end of the incision, but when the tumour is of great size, it may be impossible to avoid doing this ; care must then be taken in suturing the incision to see that the red line is in accurate apposition. When the jaw is much destroyed by the growth, fracture may take place when attempting to disarticulate it; under these circumstances, the fractured portion should be detached as rapidly as possible and the ascending ramus of the bone seized with lion forceps, pulled downwards, and twisted or dissected out as before. Removal of the Horizontal Ramus alone.—When the tumour is endosteal and well limited, or when it is a small epithelioma, the ascending ramus may sometimes be left behind. The method is similar to that already described, except that, instead of detaching the coronoid process and disarticulating, the jaw is sawn across at the angle. When the ascending ramus is left, it is well to try to keep the teeth on the sound side in proper position, in some more effectual manner than by the use of inter-dental splints. A method by which the gap can be kept open, and which is convenient in some cases, is by bridging it with a bar of nickeled steel or an ivory peg fixed into the bone. Holes are drilled on each side to receive the metal peg, the length of which is such that the gap shall be of proper width when the ends are fixed into these