284 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH the stomach is opened and can be stopped temporarily by pressure until the stomach contents have been evacuated. The difficulty is to treat the ulcer. Attempts have been made to excise it by introducing the hand along the posterior gastric wall through a slit in the omentum and gradually separating the ulcer from the pancreas, but the adhesions are generally too extensive and, further, the patient's condition is probably so bad that speed is of urgent importance. Under these circumstances oneorother of the following measures may be adopted—namely, to pick up the vessel and tie it ; to arrest the bleeding by the actual cautery ; to underrun the bleeding vessel with stout catgut and tie it and a portion of the pancreas en masse ; or to pass stitches through each side of the ulcer and tie them tightly so as to block the orifice of the vessel. The last plan is the best in the majority of cases. When the hcemorrhage comes from an ulcer of the pylorus or the first part of the duodenum, the simplest plan is to perform a gastro-jejunostomy. The patient will certainly not be in a condition for excision of the ulcer either alone or combined with excision of the pylorus, and unless there is actual erosion of a considerable vessel, the bleeding will stop when the gastric contents cease to pass over the ulcerated surface. When the bleeding is the result of very free oozing from the mucous membrane or when no bleeding point can be found, a gastro-jejunostomy will usually suffice. The cautery applied at a dull red heat to a simple erosion will sometimes check the bleeding from it, but usually the best plan is to swab over the oozing surface with adrenalin chloride (i in 1000) or five minims of supra-renal extract in a little water, and then to perform a gastro-jejunostomy. Some supra-renal solution may be introduced and left in the stomach while the anastomosis is being made. From the nature of things it cannot be expected that the role of surgical intervention for the purpose of saving a life imperilled by severe bleeding is likely to be a very brilliant one, as the condition of the patient must necessarily be so unsatisfactory. Indirectly, however, hemorrhage is treated by surgical means with great success in cases in which the bleedings are small and repeated and threaten, if allowed to persist, to endanger the patient's life. These cases really fall under the first group already described (see p. 256). When called upon to interfere for active haemorrhage, the surgeon will nearly always find that the bleeding has been checked by medical means, but that the haemorrhages have been so free and so often repeated that something must be done to stop them permanently. Under these circumstances it is best to wait for a short time, if possible, until the patient has to some extent recovered from the immediate loss of blood; but if the hsemorrhages are repeated daily or every few days this is not permissible, and excision of the ulcer, gastro-jejunostomy, or both, must be practised immediately.