EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY 213 of the two branches of the profession. The surgeon should be associated with the physician at the early stage in these cases ; it should not be left to the latter to spend a long time in preliminary investigation and treat- ment before obtaining surgical advice, nor to determine alone when such advice should be called for. On the other hand, unless in cases in which an immediate diagnosis is a matter of urgency, surgical intervention should not be carried out, until an attempt has been made to obtain some light on the state of matters by other means. These means are referred to in speaking of the various abdominal conditions ; they consist in observation of the symptoms—such as pain, tenderness, or flatulence, of the shape of the abdomen, its mobility, the presence of swelling, of dilated coils of intestine, of rigidity, of vomiting, the condition of the bowels, the results of palpation, the size and character of various organs, the presence of fluid, digital examination of the rectum or vagina, the use of various instruments such as the sigmoidoscope, cystoscope, or stomach tube, chemical examination of the contents of the stomach, or of the faeces or urine, the use of test meals, radiographic examination—especially by the use of bismuth meals—and so on. As the result of these investigations a definite diagnosis and decision as to treatment maybe arrived at, or if not, a good idea maybe formed as to the probable seat of disease, and the possibility of improving the condition of the patient by operation. Further, if an exploratory laparotomy is decided on, the best position for the incision may be indicated, there wiU be less disturbance of the contents of the abdominal cavity, and the surgeon will be prepared to proceed at once with any remedial operation that may be found to be necessary. If however it is evident that the condition is irremediable, there is no object in opening the abdomen. At the same time pessimism must not be carried too far ; conditions that appeared unpromising have turned out on investigation to be amenable to surgical treatment. In performing an exploratory laparotomy, the preparati<in of the patient should be carried out on the lines laid down on p. 208, and it is most important that the surgeon should be prepared to go on to any further operation that may be found desirable. The position of the incision will be determined by the previous investigations, but in most cases (especially when the indications are indefinite) it will be vertical and to one side of the middle line. Whether it should be at the upper or lower part of the abdomen will depend on what has been made out, but when the condition is uncertain, it is best to make it so that the umbilicus is opposite the centre of the incision which can then be prolonged upwards or downwards if necessary. The incision should be large enough to admit the hand, which is introduced so as to explore the whole of the abdominal cavity. In the first instance the condition of the peritoneum can be ascertained and then the CcEcum and appendix should be examined. In most cases the caecum can be brought to the opening, especially if the latter