AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 48o —although an effort should always be made to keep it from descending during the changing of the bandage—and, the bandage is drawn tight with the point at which the ends pass through the loop exactly over the internal ring. The free ends are carried round the fold of the perineum, brought up behind the buttock on the affected side, and fastened to the horizontal limb of the bandage ; while this is being done pressure is made to keep up the hernia. The loop is stitched at the point where the ends of the bandage pass through it, in order to prevent it from slipping. Unless the hernia is large this arrangement will generally keep it up ; should the hernia descend behind the bandage it usually means either that the pressure is not applied at the proper spot or that the band has not been drawn tight Fig. 159.—^The Flannel Bandage for Inguinal Hernia in Infants. The sketches show how the bandage is looped so as to exert pressure over the inguinal canal. enough. In a bilateral hernia a similar bandage may be used for the opposite side. The child should be bathed before the bandage is removed, and then it should be taken off and a fresh one applied ; the old one can be washed and used again when dry. A skein of worsted is often used instead of the flannel; one loop is brought over the seat of the hernia and the other end of the skein is passed round the pelvis as before, brought through this loop, and the whole is tightened up until the point of junction is over the internal ring, when the free end of the skein is carried down between the legs and fastened to the horizontal limb as described above. The objection to the worsted is the expense, because this sort of truss in an infant must be changed several times a day, and the worsted soon shrinks and becomes hard, while the individual threads mark the skin and cause discomfort; on the whole the flannel is preferable. The difficulty with these bandages is that the mother or nurse often fixes them wrongly. It is not sufficient to explain