122 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS or water escaping through the drainage tube—the patient should be instructed to gargle frequently with boric lotion and to swallow small quantities of it, with the object of keeping the pharyngeal wall as clean as possible and of allowing a certain amount of boric lotion to find its way down through the drainage tube and thus wash it out. If the temperature rises and remains elevated, the wound in the neck should be opened up freely and packed with cyanide gauze ; in addition the drainage tube should be retained. INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS. These are not common, but foreign bodies, such as a pipe-stem, may be driven deeply into the substance of the tonsil or pharynx and cause a lacerated wound, or may pass through the wall of the pharynx and injure the vessels outside. The haemorrhage in these cases may be severe, and usually comes from the tonsillar circle of vessels, composed of the anasto- mosing branches of the following vessels—the dorsalis linguae branch of the lingual artery, the ascending palatine and tonsillar branches of the facial, the ascending pharyngeal branch of the external carotid, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. TREATMENT.—^The patient should be placed in a good light and the mouth opened with a suitable gag. If good daylight is not available, a forehead mirror and an artificial light should be employed. The blood is mopped up with small sponges upon sponge-holders or forceps, and any spurting vessel seized with forceps and tied. If the haemorrhage merely consists in oozing from small vessels, the best plan is to push a small plug of wool dipped in a solution of adrenalin chloride (i in looo) into the wound and hold it there for a short time, M^hen the bleeding will usually cease. In the more serious cases of oozing it may be necessary to hold a sponge firmly pressed against the wound, whilst counter-pressure is made by the finger just behind the angle of the jaw externally. The sponge should be impregnated with a solution of adrenalin chloride or, failing that, tannin or matico, and it may be necessary to keep up the pressure for some hours. A convenient method by which the pressure may be maintained is to pass a suture from one pillar of the fauces to the other by means of a long-handled needle. A piece of sponge to which a string has been securely fixed, so that the sponge cannot be lost, is then placed on the bleeding spot and held in position by tying the ligature. It may be left in situ for twenty-four hours, the string hanging out of the mouth ; the stitches are then cut and the sponge removed. When severe haemorrhage comes from a deep wound of the tonsil it may be necessary to control the main vessels temporarily before the bleeding can be arrested. If this should be called for, the bifurcation of