AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 170 method and turned over on his face and a flap raised towards the middle Hne on the left side of the spine. Portions of three ribs are resected without damaging the parietal pleura, which is pushed aside with the finger. The foreign body may then be felt and an incision for its extraction made over it ; if it cannot be felt, the oesophagus may be opened on a bougie and the body reached by forceps or the finger. The great danger of the operation is the risk of fatal mediastinal suppuration. It is almost impossible to suture the oesophagus accurately, and, in addition, the wound becomes contaminated when it is opened ; at the same time, however, it must not be forgotten that a foreign body impacted in this situation will ultimately cause a fatal result, and it is almost imperative to give the patient the chance that this operation offers. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. We distinguish between an oesophagitis and a peri-oesophagitis, according as the inflammation is actually in the oesophageal wall or in the tissues around. Acute oesophagitis is very rare except as a complication of injury, such as may be produced by foreign bodies or by swallowing caustics. The oesophagus may become acutely inflamed in septic condi- tions of the mouth, thrush, diphtheria, and the like, but the condition is one of great rarity. Chronic (oesophagitis.—This may follow upon an acute inflamma- tion ; it is common in the portion of the oesophagus above a stricture and may then considerably increase the dysphagia and the pain. Peri-cesophagitis or inflammation of the cellular tissues around the gullet may occur from perforations of the oesophageal wall or may spread from inflammatory foci in the neighbouring tissues such as the glands or the spine. TREATMENT.—This will consist in incising any large inflam- matory swelling or evacuating any abscess that has formed. Tracheotomy may be required in bad cases. TUBERCULOSIS. This is a very rare affection in the oesophagus, and only a few cases are on record. The condition gives rise to very indefinite symptoms, dysphagia being the most marked ; as a rule the cases are mistaken for cancer. Little can be done in the way of local treatment ; general treatment must be carried out on the lines laid down in Vol. I,