538 AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS Condy's fluid or boric lotion, and later with such mild astringents as a solution of perchloride of iron (gr. ij to the ounce), tannin (gr. v to the ounce), or nitrate of silver (gr. -J to the ounce). In the intervals between the irrigations a suppository containing sub-nitrate of bismuth (gr. xx) and cocaine (gr. |), is often very useful, and a grain of opium may be added to each suppository if there is much pain. The treat- ment by zinc ionisation {vide infra) is useful in the cases associated with mucous colitis. ULCERATIVE PROCTITIS. This form of proctitis may occur under various conditions : it may follow traumatism; it may be a sequel to an acute inflammation in which an abscess forms or in whch there is extensive sloughing ; it may complicate haemorrhoids, or it may be part of a general ulcerative colitis. It is also not infrequently found in association with papillomatous or stenosing proctitis. When an ulcer of the rectum has formed just above the sphincter it may remain open for a long time, as the contraction of the sphincter and the accumulation of faecal material above it retard healing very greatly. The symptoms are not very marked, unless the ulceration involves the sphincteric area. The chief troubles are discomfort, frequent stools, and free discharge of mucus, often tinged with blood. When the ulceration involves the sphincters, symptoms of fissure of the anus may be present (see p. 522). An examination with a protoscope or sigmoidoscope will detect the ulcer, and this should always be used, because the finger may fail to detect a small ulcer if unaccompanied by induration ; moreover, it is essental to see how far up the rectum the disease extends. TREATMENT.—The patient must be kept in bed in the recumbent position, and the bowels should be cleared out at first by a purge and afterwards by laxatives, whilst the diet should consist mainly of milk. Gas should be administered and the sphincter thoroughly stretched, and this should be repeated every few days as muscular power recovers and as long as ulceration persists. It may even be necessary to divide the sphincters in bad cases, but this is a serious procedure which should only be undertaken as a last resort. For the treatment of bad tenesmus a starch-and-opium enema (see p. 536) may be given every three or four hours, and this may be combined with irrigation of the rectum with warm antiseptic solutions, followed by weak astringents [vide supra) night and morning as the affection subsides. Should the ulcers be sluggish in healing they may be touched with solid nitrate of silver through the proctoscope. The action of the caustic should be neutrahsed after a few minutes by washing out the rectum with salt solution.