AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 434 displacement of the heart, and the condition is fairly easily diagnosed from pleural effusion, but is often confounded with a liver abscess. A simple liver abscess is, however, rare in connection with appendicitis, and if it is present, rigors and sweating are common. An X-ray photograph or an examination with the fluorescent screen will often show a bulging upwards of the diaphragm on the right side and arrest of movement of the muscle. Treatment of a subphrenic abscess.—When the pus has tracked up behind the ascending colon the abscess may be opened by an incision in the lumbar region below the twelfth rib. When an abscess has formed in front of or on the inner side of the colon, it is opened there and the cavity under the diaphragm may be drained through the same incision. In most cases an attempt should be made to reach the abscess by an incision below the ribs, the peritoneal cavity being packed off and the operation conducted in the same manner as in opening an appendicular abscess through the healthy peritoneal cavity. The abscess may also be opened by taking out a portion of the tenth, or possibly of the ninth and tenth ribs, in the mid-axillary line so as to get at it below the pleura. If it become necessary to open the pleura, the parietal layer should be stitched with catgut to the diaphragmatic layer all round before incising the abscess, and the proposed opening carefully packed off with gauze. The diaphragm is then incised and the opening dilated with forceps, until it is large enough to allow the introduction of a drainage tube (No. 24), which is usually firmly grasped by the diaphragm. A little gauze packing is left around the tube for the first twenty-four hours so as to shut off the pleura. Should a localised empyema occur from infection, it may be opened and drained either through the same opening or by a separate incision. When possible, the incision through the thoracic wall should be avoided on account of the risk of producing an empyema. Thrombosis. — This occurs after appendicitis, as after many other conditions, and emboli may be carried to the lungs. Thrombosis of the femoral vein—on the left side, usually—may also be met with, but this is not more common in this disease than in any other. A form of thrombosis which is not uncommon, however, in appendicitis is septic 'pylephlebitis. leading to the formation of numerous small abscesses in the liver. The symptoms are those of pyaemia, e.g. rigors, high and irregular temperature, quick pulse, and tenderness, and sometimes enlargement of the liver. Unfortunately no treatment is of any avail in these cases. Septic infections.—The patient is not only liable to general septic diseases (septicaemia and pyaemia), but also to localised infections, such as gangrene of the wound or cellulitis of the abdominal wall. These must be treated on the lines laid down in Vol. I. Pneumonia.—The possibility of this should always be borne in mind when the patient is not doing well. It may occur as the result of septic emboli carried from veins in the region of the wound, and the