581 CHAPTER XLI. PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. By this is meant a protrusion of portions of tfie mucous membrane or of the whole thickness of the rectum through the anus. When only the mucous membrane protrudes it is termed ' prolapse of the anus ' ; if the entire wall of the gut comes out, the condition is described as ' prolapse of the rectum.' The most important cause of these conditions is feebleness of the sphincter ani and an unduly lax condition of the rectal walls, especially of the submucous tissues ; sometimes there is also an unduly long meso- rectum. The result is that any straining may lead to protrusion of the bowel, which is increased by the tenesmus to which the prolapse gives rise. The condition occurs at all ages, but is most common in infancy and in old age. In young children it is generally caused by prolonged straining due to phimosis, constipation, the presence of worms, or the existence of a stone in the bladder, and it is frequently met with in marasmic children —probably as the result of simple weakness of the muscles. In old age it may also be caused by straining—generally due to stone in the bladder, stricture of the urethra, or enlargement of the prostate—but in these cases general weakness of the parts concerned also plays a very important part. The constant coughing and straining that occurs in feeble old people suffering from chronic bronchitis may also lead to prolapse. In this condition there is a frequent desire to empty the bowel, and the act is accompanied by the passage of mucus and the protrusion of a red, fleshy mass from the anus ; this mass usually returns spontaneously when defaecation is accomplished, but it may remain outside and require reduction. The prolapsed mass differs from that formed by piles in that it does not bleed readily, and is marked transversely with the rectal folds, the orifice of the bowel forming the apex of the swelling ; there are no projecting masses, such as are seen in the case of piles. Prolapse of the rectum can be distinguished from an intussusception that has travelled down sufficiently far to protrude through the anus,