AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 372 relieve the symptoms; the earUer the diagnosis is made the greater will be the chance of removing a growth. Resection of a stricture.—The incision will vary with the situation of the disease. If a tumour is felt in the region of the caecum, the ascending or the descending colon, or the sigmoid flexure, an incision over the seat of the disease will no doubt give most convenient access ; on the other hand, when the situation of the disease is unknown or can only be guessed at from the symptoms, the abdomen should be opened in the middle line. Except in the case of the ascending and descending colon, most tumours of the intestine can be removed through a median incision. With regard to the excision of the stricture there is little to add to what has been said on p. 324. End-to-end anastomosis is best performed by simple suture, but most surgeons prefer to close the ends of the bowel and perform a lateral anastomosis ; this is especially the case in the large intestine. In removing a tumour from the small intestine a wedge must be taken out of the mesentery, and this should enclose all the enlarged glands, if possible ; if this is not done, the glands and fat must be removed, taking care not to interfere with the blood-supph' of the bowel. It is an open question whether the surgeon should excise a local growth in the intestine, even though it is readily removable, when it is accompanied by a glandular infection that negatives any hope of eradi- cating the disease. In our opinion this should be done, for the following reasons: In the first place, the patient, if not actually suffering from complete obstruction, must inevitablj^ do so before long, and will need an operation for the relief of that, notwithstanding the existence of secondary growths ; therefore an operation which restores the lumen of the canal while the patient's condition is good is the best thing that can be done, quite apart from the question of whether the disease is eradicated or not. In the second place, the secondary growths in the glands and the liver usually progress much more slowly than does the disease in the bowel, and, apart from the comfort and prolongation of life afforded by relief of the obstruction, life may be further prolonged by removing the rapidly growing intestinal disease. The details of the operations will vary with the seat of the disease. In the case of a simple stricture of the small intestine or a freely movable malignant growth there is little difficulty. As there is often a marked difference in the calibre of the bowel above and below the obstruction lateral anastomosis is, as a rule, the most satisfactory method of uniting the divided ends. The chief difficulty in excising malignant tumours of the bowel occurs when they affect the more fixed parts of the intestine, parts not completely surrounded by peritoneum, or parts such as the hepatic and splenic flexures of the colon, which are difficult to get at. In the case of