AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS 602 operation, and the usual measures are taken against shock (see Vol. 1. p. ii8). The bowels should be kept confined as long as possible by the use of opium—preferably in the form of laudanum—so that the healing of the wound may be fairly advanced when the first action occurs. Before this happens, all deep stitches should be removed so as to avoid infection along the stitch tracks ; if no septic infection has occurred, the drainage tube should also be removed. After the bowels have acted, the dressings must be changed frequently, any faecal matter being washed away by an irrigator. Should primary union occur, the patient wiU be well in three or four weeks ; if any large amount of the wound has to heal by granula- tion six weeks or more may elapse before he can get about. When he begins to get up he should wear a pad fastened on with a T-bandage, but when the parts are quite sound he may be provided with a suitable apparatus. After an operation done in this manner the patient is usually comfortable if the bowels are not relaxed. An hour or so each morning must be devoted to ensuring a complete evacuation and thorough cleansing of the parts, and the patient may then go through the rest of the day without inconvenience ; after the lapse of a con- siderable period he may even regain a certain amount of control, as the circular fibres of the bowel may assume a certain amount of sphincteric action. 2. Excision by the sacral route. — When the disease is situated high up the rectum, it cannot be removed satisfactorily by the operations already described, and for these cases Kraske introduced the method of removing portions of the lower end of the sacrum in order to get better access to the parts. Various modifications of his original operation have been introduced, but in all of them the removal of the sacrum does not go higher than the third sacral foramina so as not to injure impor- tant nerves, especially those which supply the bladder. The great dis- advantage of Kraske's operation is that the glands are often imperfectly removed, and also a sufficient length of bowel cannot be taken away when the disease is high up. The result is that permanent recovery only takes place in a comparatively small number of cases. Another disadvantage is that the opening in the sacral region is difficult to manage unless the patient has some one to attend upon him. This operation was at one time largely employed, but is now being replaced by the combined abdominal and perineal operation, by which the disease can be more thoroughly removed and the chances of permanent recovery proportionately increased ; in addition, the situation of the new anus is more convenient. The mortality is, however, still con- siderably greater than that after Kraske's operation. Kraske's operation is performed as follows :—■ The patient is turned over almost on to the face with the left side of the pelvis a little elevated. A good plan is to place a large sand-bag over one end of the table and then to turn the patient over on his face