GASTRIC ULCER 261 of strangulation, there is a risk of interfering with the vascular supply in the meso-colon. The posterior operation, especially by the ' no-loop ' method, has the advantage that the communication is more direct and kinking is less likely to occur than in the anterior, that the junction takes place at the commencement of the jejunum, and that there is no interference with the colon or risk of internal hernia. The objections are that there is more disturbance of the parts than in the anterior, that great care must be exercised as regards the direction of the loop, and should regurgitant vomiting occur in the case of the ' no-loop ' method, an anastomosis between the limbs is very difficult, and the union between the stomach and bowel may have to be undone. On the whole we advise the posterior operation whenever it can be done, as it can be in the great majority of cases. The best results, by either method, are obtained when there is some stricture of the pylorus ; when this is not present, the results are unsatisfactory, as the food still goes on by the pyloric route and a certain amount of regurgitant vomiting is not uncommon. Hence if no narrowing of the pylorus is present, either the operation should not be done, or if it is considered necessary, sero-muscular stitches must be applied around the pvlorus so as to narrow its lumen. The chief points to avoid in perfoniiijig the operation of gastro-jeju- nostoinv are the occurrence of sepsis, the development of regurgitant vomiting {'vicious circle'), and the subsequent contraction of the anastomotic opening. Great care must be taken to pack off the held of operation from the general peritoneal cavity and to prevent the escape of the contents of the stomach or intestine and soiling of the peritoneum ; at one time a considerable part of the mortality after this operation was due to sepsis. The chief trouble after the operation and the ordinary cause of a fatal result is regurgitant vomiting or the occurrence of a ' vicious circle.' In bad cases the patient may die within a fortnight, but sometimes the obstruction is only partial and the patient lives, but frequent vomiting occurs along with dyspeptic symptoms and his health suffers greatly. The occurrence of a ' vicious circle ' may be suspected if the patient begins to vomit persistent!}^ on the third or fourth day after the operation ; vomiting occurring earlier may be due to the anaesthetic. In this condition the contents of the stomach, instead of passing directly down the efferent limb of the intestine, as is intended, pass in whole or in part into the upper or afferent limb whicii becomes greatly distended, and discharges its contents (stomach contents, bile, and pancreatic juice) back into the stomach either through the jiylorus or through the anastomotic opening. Causes of' vicious circle.'—This condition is due to various causes. It is not infrequently met with when the operation has been performed in cases in whicli there is no contraction of tJie pyloric orifice of the stomach,