AFFECTIONS OF THE INTESTINES 470 hernia, and too much weight must not be laid on the patient's age. The size of the hernia must influence the question to some extent, and it may be safer for a very old subject, with a very large scrotal or umbilical hernia, or with grave constitutional disease, to wear a suitable bag truss than to undergo an operation for radical cure ; in the great majority of cases, however, operation is the proper treatment. Obstructed and inflamed herniae are very important, because, if the condition persists, it is very apt to end in strangulation. Operative treatment.—Unless there is a definite reason to the contrary, these conditions should be regarded as necessitating an immediate radical cure. The obstruction or inflammation may subside under treatment [vide infra), but these herniae are usually irreducible, and a truss is there- fore ineflicient; moreover, the attack of inflammation is likely to give rise to increased adhesions in the sac, while it is impossible to be sure that strangulation may not supervene under unfavourable circumstances. There is no objection -to operating on an obstructed or even an inflamed hernia, and the patient will probably submit at once if the state of matters is explained to him. Palliative treatment.—Should the patient refuse operation or should it be considered inadvisable, he must be kept in bed on his back with the knees flexed over a pillow so as to relax the abdominal muscles as much as possible. Cold should be applied to the hernia, whether it be inflamed or simply obstructed, by means of Leiter's tubes or an ice bag. The diet should be fluid. Repeated enemata, which may contain from one to four drams of turpentine, should be given. Aperients should be avoided, but belladonna and strychnine may be given by the mouth so as to increase peristalsis. When there is no marked inflammation, very gentle and careful taxis may be applied from time to time, and in the intervals the hernia should be supported and compressed by a suitable elastic lace-up truss. The return of the hernia may be expedited by raising the foot of the bed on blocks. Opium should be avoided. Should signs of strangulation appear, immediate operation must be undertaken. After the condition of obstruction or inflammation has passed off, the patient should again be urged to submit to a radical cure unless some serious contra-indication is present. TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. It is absolutely essential that the strangulation should be relieved and the bowel returned into the abdominal cavity with the least possible delay quite irrespective of the age or constitutional condition of the patient ; there are only two methods of doing this—namely, by taxis or by opera- tion. Unless the strangulation is relieved, the patient will almost certainly die ; the number of cases which recover after the spontaneous