GASTRIC ULCER 279 peritoneum and the duodenum sufficiently to enable the anastomosis to be done outside the abdomen by the usual double row of sutures. Whatever advantage this method may eventually prove to have in cicatricial stricture of the pylorus, it seems hardly suitable in malignant disease or where there are extensive adhesions, as in these cases it will obviously be difficult to bring the parts into apposition so as to effect the anastomosis without undue tension. While one or other of the above operations will be feasible in anv case of gastric ulcer of the type described on p. 252, the size and situation of the ulcer may tempt the surgeon to excise it. The following are the main points in performing this operation. Excision of a gastric ulcer.—The stomach is washed out before the ana;sthetic is administered, and the abdomen is opened by a vertical incision a little to the right of the middle line, as already described. If the ulcer is situated on the anterior wall of the stomach, the operation is easy, as the ulcer can be felt through the wall and its presence and size are evident to the eye by the thickening of the peritoneal coat over it. The stomach is drawn well out of the wound and packed off with abdominal cloths, and the ulcer is excised by enclosing its base in an ellij^tical incision, which, if possible, should have its long axis at right angles to that of the stomach. An incision in this direction will divide fewer vessels and will not diminish the transverse diameter of the organ when sewn up. The ulcer should be cut away rapidly with sharp curved scissors, the edges of the incision being seized in catch-forceps meanwhile and held well up so as to prevent the escape of any gastric contents not removed by the preliminary lavage. As a rule the bleeding following excision is not severe ; it is greatest when the ulcer lies near either of the curvatures, as one of the larger vessels may then be cut across. It is easy to seize and tie any spurting vessel, and the bleeding may always be stopped temporarily by compressing the edge of the incision with forceps or between the finger and thumb. Any oozing that remains is checked by sewing up the stomach precisely as in the operation for rupture of that organ (see p. 243). Should the area of the stomach excised be considerable, there may be some tension on the edges of the wound, and under these circumstances mattress sutures (see Fig. 87) should be used for the deep layer, these being buried by a superficial continuous Lembert suture. In an easily accessible organ like the stomach, the sutures are readily inserted by using a straight round needle which requires no needle-holder. It is important to see that there is no constriction of the lumen of the organ as a result of the operation. If a considerable portion of the wall of the stomach is removed and the wound is sewn up in a longitudinal direc- tion, there may be marked contraction of the lumen of the organ and a con- dition of' hour-glass contraction ' may even be produced. This is avoided by suturing the wound so as to make the scar vertical (see Fig. 103) ;