403 APPENDICITIS in the tube of the appendix and ultimately destroys the wall and escapes into the peritoneal cavity. This perforation may be facilitated by the presence of concretions, which, by their pressure against the swollen walls of the tube may lead to limited gangrene and still more rapid per- foration. While tliese processes are going on inside the tube, peritonitis, which is at first plastic, takes place outside, and this may cause the neighbouring intestines or omentum to be glued together and to the parietal peritoneum, so that when perforation occurs, the pus is shut off from the general peritoneal cavity and a localised abscess may form instead of a generalised peritonitis. This localisation is often helped by adhesions resulting from previous attacks. In a good many cases, however, the localisation is very imperfect, and general peritonitis follows the per- foration. The severest cases of all, sometimes spoken of as ' fulminating appendicitis.' are those in which there is an acute gangrenous inflamuuition from the first, probably on account of the extreme virulence of the organisms, no doubt helped by the presence of strictures, kinks, or concretions. Here the gangrene begins in the nuicous membrane, which may become a greyish or black mass within twelve hours of the commence- ment of the symptoms. The gangrene rapidly extends to the other coats until the slough reaches the peritoneal cavity and foul virulent exudation escapes into it. Here there may be no attempt at shutting off the appendix from the peritoneal cavity unless adhesions resulting from previous attacks are present, and the patient may die in from twenty- four to forty-eight hours. On the other hand, however, a considerable numl)er of the less severe gangrenous cases become localised and an abscess forms. Abscess.—The situation of the pus in appendicitis varies according to the position of the appendix and the part involved. Perhaps it occurs most commonly towards the outer side of the right iliac fossa. Sometimes it develops in the true pelvis—presumablj^, in connection with suppuration near the end of a long appendix hanging down over the pelvic brim ; in these cases a large abscess may form in Douglas's pouch leading to a matting together of the various pelvic organs, and if the pus is not evacu- ated, it extends to the left side of the abdomen and may reach the left iliac fossa. In other cases the appendix and the abscess may lie behind the colon, in which case suppuration occurs in the loin, and the pus travels up along the colon and may accumulate between the liver and the diaphragm, forming a subphrenic abscess, or it may make its way through the diaphragm into the pleural cavity and form an emp^^ema, or perforate into the lungs. If left alone, the abscess gradually increases in size, although there is some evidence that occasionally the pus dries up and disappears. When the pus is shut off by adhesions, it is comparatively rarely that rupture of the abscess occurs into the abdominal cavity, but when there have been injudicious manipulations, or when the bowels have been D D 2