FISTULA IN ANO 557 bleeding points are then secured and the lining wall of the sinuses is seized in catch forceps and completely dissected out. The dense fibrous wall usually strips up easily from the loose cellular tissue in tlie ischio- rectal fossa. Great care must be taken not to leave any portions of the fistulous track beliind, and the mucous membrane at the internal orifice must be trimmed so as to leave a firm surface for union. The raw surfaces are now brought together in the hope of securing primary union. In- terrupted catgut sutures are first introduced by means of fully curved needles through the divided edges of the rectal mucous membrane so as to invert the mucous membrane towards the lumen of the bowel (see Fig. i86). Buried catgut sutures should then be passed between corresponding points in the deeper parts of the wound so as to bring them together ; at the anus, care must be taken to bring the divided edges of the sphincter accurately together. The approximation of the deeper surfaces of the wound is completed by passing two or three stout silkworm-gut sutures deeply through the ischio-rectal fossa by means of a large curved perineal needle ; these threads may be either tied in the usual manner or fixed in the form of a quill or button suture. The skin incision is united by interrupted silkworm-gut or horse-hair sutures, a half-grain morplu'ne suppository is introduced into the rectum, and aseptic gauze dressings are applied externally. After the operation the bowels should be confined for four days, after which laxatives may be given daily. The sutures in the mucous membrane become absorbed or fall into the bowel and do not require removal. If there is redness around the track of any of the cutaneous sutures the suture in question should be removed, and, if any portion of the external wound fails to unite, the aperture left should be lightly stuffed with gauze. This operation, if carefully done, gives a very satisfactory result. If the raw surfaces are accurately sutured, primary union frequently occurs throughout and the patient is well in two or three weeks' time. Even when failure of union occurs in parts, it is usual for the sphincter to unite, leaving only a small gap to heal by granulation. This method is really the only alternative to paUiative treatment, and should replace the old method of free division of the sphincter, followed by healing by granulation from the bottom, as incontinence of faeces is almost certain to follow such treatment. An operation of this kind is also applicable to fistulas forming above a simple stricture of the rectum, but when the fistula complicates a malignant stricture, nothing can be done beyond seeing that the external opening is kept free so as to avoid the accumulation of infective material along its track. When the fistula passes through the levator ani, but is not connected with the rectum, the only treatment—so far as the fistulous track itself is con- cerned—is to lay it freely open, enlarge the opening thi-ough the levator