129 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS and oedema of the soft palate. When the disease has lasted for three or four days or the swelling is increasing, the presence of pus may be assumed, and even should none be present, the incision will act usefully in draining the parts. Local anaesthesia is all that is necessary, a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine being swabbed over the proposed seat of incision with a small pledget of wool on forceps ; this is a better plan than employing a spray, as the patient does not swallow the drug. An incision is made through the mucous membrane of the soft palate just external to and above the centre of the swelling. A narrow-bladed knife similar to that used for paring the edges of a cleft palate should be employed ; a narrow-bladed bistoury, guarded up to within half an inch of its point by wrapping it in strapping so as to avoid injuring the tongue, may be used when the other is not at hand. The blade should be introduced with its edge inwards and turned with its edge downwards when it reaches the soft palate. The point of the knife should be directed inwards. The incision should be about a half to one inch in length, large enough to allow the pus to escape freely. Some surgeons recommend that the knife should only be used to incise the mucous membrane, and the operation completed by pushing a pair of forceps (see Fig. 42) into the soft palate in a line parallel to the last molar teeth, taking great care to avoid pushing the points outwards into the neck. When the abscess cavity is entered, pus appears, and the blades are separated widely so as to insure the free escape of the pus without any need for subsequent drainage ; the head should be depressed so as to allow the pus to run out of the mouth and not down into the throat. The pus may be at some little distance beneath the surface of the mucous membrane, and it is therefore advisable to feel for the softest spot, either by means of the finger or the forceps, before making the incision. The mouth should be washed out immediately aftei^wards with boric lotion. When the abscess is situated in the substance of the tonsil it may be incised by a bistoury {vide supra) thrust into it in a line with the last molar teeth. If the knife does not strike the abscess at once, the incision should be enlarged by pushing sinus forceps into it. When the pus is reached, it is evacuated by forcibly opening up the abscess cavity with the forceps. After-treatment.—These cases usually recover rapidly after the abscess has been opened, and little in the way of after-treatment is required. IV. K Fig. 4 2.—Sr. Clair Thomson's Forclps for opening a Peri-tonsillar Abscess.