TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 201 or its mesentery will be evident at once. The duodenum and stomach should also be looked at, and the colon examined from the Ccccum downwards ; if all these structures are found intact the abdomen may be closed. PENETRATING ABDOMINAL WOUNDS. When the instrument that produces the injury penetrates the ab- dominal cavity, it may or may not inflict injury upon the abdominal contents. If the abdominal viscera are injured, the symptoms will be very similar to those of similar injuries produced by contusions of the abdomen (see p. 197), but there will not be the same degree of shock. It is of the highest importance to ascertain at the earliest possible moment whether such damage has occurred or not, and therefore the wound should be enlarged at once and the abdominal contents examined in the manner described above. The symptoms are similar to those of non-penetrating wounds, and the treatment (in so far as concerns the examination necessary to determine whether the abdominal contents are damaged or not) will be the same ; when there is no damage, the abdominal wound should be treated in the manner described on p. ig6. If tlie abdominal parietes are carefully sutured, there will not be much likelihood of a subsequent ventral hernia. Prolapse of portions of the viscera through the abdominal wound.—Apart from injury to the abdominal contents, serious trouble may result from immediate prolapse of portions of the viscera through the opening. When the wound is large, extensive prolapse of the contents of the abdomen may occur through the opening in the skin- When the opening is small and the patient is very fat, the bowel may prolapse through the rent in the peritoneum and remain lodged in the sub-peritoneal tissues, giving rise to an interstitial hernia. The abdominal contents that prolapse are omentum—which usually prolapses first— intestine, or stomach. This condition adds very much to the gravity of the case. There is considerable risk of infection of the peritoneum from soiling of the pro- truded mass, the occurrence of the protrusion itself adds to the shock, and strangulation may ensue whether the protrusion be external or inter- stitial, more especially if the bowel itself protrudes. The possibility of an interstitial hernia is a strong reason for opening up these abdominal wounds at once, for it is important not only to ascertain whether the wound is a penetrating one or not, and to sew up the abdominal wall so that no subsequent protrusion is likely to occur, but also to see that no protrusion has taken place into the sub-peritoneal tissues ; such an occurrence may escape notice until too late unless the wound is opened up. It is obvious that the prognosis and treatment must vary according as the prolapse is seen immediately after its occurrence or as a considerable