i8i CARCINOMA from which the patient suffers. The patency of the oesophagus is of great importance for the comfort of the patient, as it enables him to swallow not only food, but also saliva. The inability to swallow saliva is one of the most distressing features of cancer of the pharynx and oesophagus. The saliva and mucus are secreted in excessive quantities and accumulate at the back of the throat so that the glottis is constantly being irritated, and there is incessant cough and attempts to get rid of the accumulation. This particular trouble is most marked when the stricture is high up ; when low down, there is greater space for the saliva to accumulate in, and it is not brought up so frequently. This symptom is extremely difficult to treat by any means except by Symonds's tubes [videinfra) ; but it is just in the cases where the affection is most troublesome that these are the least useful—namely, when the disease is about the commencement of the oesophagus. The salivary secretion may be, to some extent, diminished by the administration of belladonna or atropine, and the mucus may be made less tenacious and more easily got rid of by gargling with alkaline solutions. Bougies.—In order to maintain the patency of the oesophagus, bougies are sometimes passed. This is not, however, to be recommended as a method of treatment in malignant stricture, although it is most efficacious in the non-malignant type. Temporary benefit may sometimes result from it, but as a rule its only effect is to irritate the growth, to make it grow more rapidly, and to hasten ulceration with all its evil consequences. Intubation of the stricture.—A method which may help the patient considerably is the introduction of a tube through the stricture and its maintenance permanently in position. This permanent intubation of the stricture may be effected either by a long tube or by the short one introduced by Mr. Charters Symonds. The long tube.—This method consists in introducing a long india- rubber tube and leaving it permanently in siiii. One end of the tube projects through the mouth and the other is passed through the stricture into the stomach. The passage of the tube is facilitated by using a whale- bone or soft metal guide over which the tube is threaded. Once it has been got into position it should only be removed occasionally. The best tube for this purpose is that introduced by Dr. William Hill (see Fig. 65). It is obvious that a long tube passed through the stricture into the stomach must be not only unsightly but inconvenient for many reasons. The saliva does not pass easily along it, and the food cannot be tasted. The advantage is that it saves the patient from starvation, as proper nutriment can be passed through it in any quantity, and that when in position it need only be removed occasionally, since it cannot suffer from any blocking that simple syringing down the tube will not relieve. Symonds's short tubes.—These tubes are of great value in many cases, especially when the stricture is situated in the lower part of the oesophagus. The tube (see Fig. 64) is 4 to 6 inches long, of a gauge