244 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH coats on each side and commencing about a sixth of an inch external to the deeper one and extending a good half inch beyond it at each extremity. When the rent in the stomach wall has been repaired, the surgeon turns his attention to the important task of dealing with the extravasated gastric contents. In all cases the edges of the abdominal incision are retracted as widely as possibly—which may be done most easily by some form of dilating retractor, such as that shown in Fig. 90, and the necessary steps are taken with the least possible interference with or movement of the intestinal coils. This is of great importance, as disturbance of the coils is a sure way of disseminating the extravasated material more widely. The treatment of the abdominal cavity is a matter of the greatest moment, as the recovery of the patient depends almost entirely upon whether it is efficient. From the point of view of operative inter- ference, it is well to divide the cases into three groups : namely—(i) those Fig. 90.—Pozzi's Abdominal Retractor. The e.\tra blade is specially useful when a special area of the abdomen has to be isolated, as in gall-bladder or uterine operations. The retractor is self-retaining, and is made so that its blades open very widely. It is very useful when the surgeon is short-handed. The handles are directed dow'nwards towards the pubes. In which the extravasation is small and limited to the area of the injury in the stomach ; (2) those in which the extravasation is spread over a wide area of the abdomen, but is fluid in character ; and (3) those in which the fluid is not only extensively diffused, but contains many coarse particles—such as portions of meat or vegetables. (i) Should the escape of gastric contents he quite small, so that only the immediate neighbourhood of the rent is soiled—as is frequently the case when the opening is small and the stomach empty—the extravasated material should be mopped up systematicaUy and thoroughly with swabs or fine sponges. This should be done extremely carefully, and no rough handling is permissible ; unduly vigorous manipulation defeats its own ends, as it damages the epithelial lining of the peritoneum, and may actually rub infective material into it. The surface should be lightly touched rather than roughly sponged. All recesses should be gently opened up in order to facilitate this cleansing, but nothing like wide- spread separation of coils of intestine should be practised, nor should