60 ence of twenty years—it is^ of course^ assumed tliat tlie process of congelation is properly executed—that its principle is applied efficiently. It was one of the purposes of the foregoing publication to remove certain misapprehensions respecting the mode of producing it which I had originally proposed; and it is the similar purpose of this appendix to notice another mode since introduced^ which^ though very convenient and useful in some small operations^ is so defec- tive as respects others,, in which it ought not to have been employed, as to have discredited, in no slight degree, the principle of local anesthesia. This affords some explana- tion of the continued announcements, from time to time, of death from chloroform, administered for operations that may always be rendered painless by congelation produced by ap- propriate measures. After ascertaining the innocuousness and medical value of congelation, I had little difficulty in devising adequate means of applying it. Of the two well known modes of producing intense cold artificially—namely, the rapid solu- tion of ice and certain salts, and the rapid evaporation of ether and other fluids—the first appeared by far the most eligible; and when I visited the hospitals in Paris in 1849, for the purpose of introducing congelation, it was produced only by freezing mixtures. Some time afterwards (1854), the other plan was adopted in one of these hospitals, and rendered more efficient by adapting to it M. Sales Giron's mode of converting fluids into spray. This plan was intro- duced into England about five years ago, in an improved form, by Dr. Richardson, who, by modifying the apparatus for converting ether into spray, gave it, probably, all the perfection of which its principle is capable. Ether is valuable as a local ansesthetic under the same circumstances that it has long been deemed valuable as a refrigerant in strangulated hernia and other diseases—when ice, or a frigorific mixture made without ice, cannot be pro- cured, it will often form a substitute for them. Certain