61 small operations have^ on sucli occasions^ been rendered painless by ether-spray, for wMch, without it, chloroform must have been employed. But of the great number of operations to which local anaesthesia is applicable, and in which the danger from chloroform ought not to be incurred, there are few in which that very handy proceeding will answer. Its principal defects, compared with a freezing mixture, are the difficulty, when an extensive and rapid in- cision is required, of thus freezing a large surface simul- taneously and uniformly; and the difficulty of combining pressure with it, in order that, by thus promoting congela- tion, the intense, and sometimes injurious, degree of cold produced and required by ether-spray alone may be rendered unnecessary. In certain localities, moreover, ether will not act on account of its evaporation being obstructed, and in others its application is painful. Several writers in the Practitioner (vol. ii) speak of the intense suffering then produced by ether, and contrast it in this respect with ice. Limited as the use of ether-spray is in operations, it is more so when employed as a remedy. It is said, never- theless, to have been used with advantage in rheumatic and neuralgic affections, in head and spinal diseases, in strangulated hernia, and as a palliative in cancer. For these purposes, however, and when it is employed as a counter- irritant, a simultaneous and uniform freezing, not only of a large surface, but extending to considerable depth, and of several minutes' duration, is generally required, which is impracticable with the spray. To ensure success, a large quantity of freezing mixture must be applied, that the re- quired degree of cold may be copiously and continuously generated, and that its weight may facilitate congelation by compressing the blood-vessels. These imperfections, added to the difficulty of keeping the spray-producing instrument in good working order, have caused so many failures and disappointments in its use, as not only to bring this particular way of congealing