MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 39 with our experience of the simplicity displayed in all the operations of nature. The only way in which it would appear possible for the rugse to be formed through the instrumentality of the discs, is by assuming a partial contraction on alternate sides of the fasciculus, the concavity of the bend having the closest set striae; but a force thus expended must act at immense disadvantage, and it will not explain the zigzags, which often include many smaller rugse within them.* Independently of this objection, these flexuosities have been shown by the observations of Professor Owen, to be characteristic, in nlarise, of the relaxed state of the fasciculi, under the circumstances which bring their two attached extremities nearer each other.t Moreover, in examining the abdominal muscles of the Frog, I have found that, after their irritability has ceased, the zigzag plicse may be very readily produced at pleasure by approximating mechanically the extremities of the fasciculi; and it cannot surely be thought extraordinary, that under such circumstances the zigzags should often be of nearly uniform size, or that the passage of vessels or nerves among the fasciculi should have the effect of determining the flexures to take place at this or that particular point. I have likewise observed the same thing in various muscles examined under the microscope. Hence it is highly probable, that flexures are always the natural position into which fasciculi are thrown, if, on elongation following contraction, they are not at once stretched by antagonist muscles. •But how is it that, in living muscles undergoing contraction, zigzag plicse have been seen to occur ? The independent power of action of the individual fasciculi has been already shown; and what is more probable than that, in a contracting muscle, these are not all acting at once, but that some contract while others are relaxed? I laid bare the muscle of a living Eabbit, and took hold of a portion of it with a pair of forceps in such a manner as to maintain a steady moderate pressure on the part. The effect of this was not a continuous contraction of the whole part irritated, but a very rapid succession of jerking contractions, implicating its different fasciculi one after the other, by which a continuous approximation of the ends of all the fasciculi irritated was produced. Now here there were straight and zigzag fasciculi; and it is plain that the straight were the shorter, or the contracted, the zigzag the longer, or relaxed. Indeed, if in any muscle in action, zigzags be observed which are not universal, the fasciculi in which they occur must be in a relaxed state, compared to those having a rectilinear direction, and the phenomena of contraction cannot therefore be legitimately referred to them. If zigzags be requisite for contraction, there ought to be no straight fasciculi interspersed among them, but observation teaches us that there are. Besides, when the abdominal muscle of the Prog is laid on glass for observation, and made to undergo contraction, which, when excited by galvanism, is a momentary act, and * In detached fasciculi, indeed, I have sometimes seen this (fig. 81), but consider it the result of irregular contraction. t Hunter's Works by Palmer, vol. iv., p. 261.