EPITHELIUM. 194 improved modern instruments, is that of Henle, proving not only that this structure is present throughout the mucous system, but that in most situations it is so abundant as to constitute nearly the whole material of the tissue. This fact, as yet so novel, coupled with the discovery announced at the same time of the occurrence of a lining of analogous character on ali internal cavities, makes the study of this structure under its varied forms peculiarly interesting and important. It will readily be conceived how wide a field is here opened to view, and how premature it would yet be to attempt to offer a general history of such a structure. The numerous questions presenting themselves on every side render this impossible ; and if it were not so, the scope of the present article would oblige me to confine the description to those forms of epithelium met with in the mucous system. In acknowledging the great obligations I am under to Henle's admirable paper on this subject, I may state that the following account has been written as much as possible from my own observations. By the term epithelium is now meant a layer of particles or modified cells, furnished with nuclei and nucleoli, lining an internal surface of an organised body, and by their apposition and union constituting a kind of pavement. A similar investment to an external surface is styled epidermis. Both these, in their ordinary forms, will be embraced by the following description. Epithelium is an organised structure endowed with vitality. This is shown by its form, the process of its growth, and the living properties it displays. Of these the most eminent is that of ciliary motion, which in all the higher animals is performed by cilia clothing the free surface of epithelial particles. But in very many situations, if not in all, the processes of nutrition carried on in the epithelial layer of the mucous system differ materially from those of other organic tissues; the old elements, which in other cases are reconveyed into the blood, being here shed on the free surface of the membrane, and thus becoming at once eliminated from the system. The epithelial particles preserve a greater resemblance to the form of the development cell than most other tissues. In many parts they continue to be truly cells throughout their existence, and in no instance is the nucleus, from which they have proceeded, absorbed. In connection with a wide and varied range of function, these particles present numerous modifications of form, bulk, and texture, the leading features of which have been portrayed by Henle. The following arrangement, however, differs in several respects from that proposed by him/' and is more in accordance with that I have myself observed. Founding it on the anatomical condition of the particles and on their office, I distinguish these varieties,—the lamelliform or scaly, the prismatic, and the spheroidal. These all run together by imperceptible gradations. The particles may be also divided into non-ciliated and ciliated, the scaly being always bald, the prismatic and spheroidal in some situations furnished with cilia. * He divides it into pavement epithelium (or the scaly), cylinder epithelium (or the prismatic), and ciliated epithelium. See Muller's ' Archiv.' 1838