254 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. diffusion of this tissue, in small quantities, throughout its areolar structure. The excretory ducts of all the larger glands appear to possess a covering of fibre belonging to this variety. Such is the case with the ductus choledochus in Birds, and probably in Mammals, and in the ureters and vasa deferentia. The bronchial tubes may be mentioned under this head as the best marked example of this arrangement. The trachealis muscle consists evidently and entirely of the unstriped fibres, and the same may be traced down the bronchial ramifications as far as the air-cells themselves, though not into them. The distinctive characters of this form of muscle may here be unequivocally discerned, and if anatomists had been better acquainted with them, there would not have been room for those disputes regarding the muscularity of the bronchial tubes which have so long attracted the interest of practical physicians. Recently, indeed, there has been added to the satisfactory evidence of anatomy the well proved fact that these fibres may be excited to contraction by the galvanic stimulus.* In the case of other glands it is still unknown how far the muscular coat invests the ramifications of the duct; it is most likely that it gradually ceases a short way within the organ, and at least it seems clear that no portion of the secreting membrane itself is ever invested by it. e. Of the Distribution of the Striped and Unstriped Fibres in the Animal Kingdom. The striped fibres have been found in all vertebrated animals, and in Insects, Crustacea, Cirropods, and Arachnida. Future researches will probably discover them even more extensively diffused. But in the lower animals, especially when they are of small size, we find, as formerly mentioned, that the distinctive characters of the two varieties begin to merge into one another and be lost. The transverse stripes grow irregular, not parallel, interrupted; a fibre at one part will possess them, at another part will be without them; and even the peculiarities of the unstriped fibres are sometimes no longer to be met with in parts which are undoubtedly muscular, as the alimentary canal of small Insects. It is evident that here the elementary fibres, if of their usual bulk, would be greatly disproportioned to the requirements of the case, and consequently even the minute ultimate fibre seems to be reduced within limits which remove from it those anatomical characters by which alone we can positively aver its existence. Considering, however, the circumstances which have been already adverted to in this article, as determining the size of the elementary fibre in all animals, we should not be justified in denying the same muscular tissue to exist here which in the higher and larger forms of life assumes the figure and bulk of the elementary fibre; and by the same mode of reasoning it may be concluded, that a tissue having the same properties as the striped fibre, and indeed essentially * Dr. Williams, on ' Diseases of the Chest,' last edition, Appendix.