23 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. to see their bulge at the extreme edge of the fasciculus, a circumstance which may depend on the existence of this sheath. It may also be frequently seen encircling the areas of fasciculi in the transverse sections of dried muscle (fig, 7 a), but the readiest and most satisfactory manner of demonstrating it, is to take the fresh muscle of a fish or reptile, and by seizing single fasciculi by one of their extremities, to pull them from the mass. In this operation they undergo considerable stretching, and often break entirely across. But such fractures will vary in extent, and so display the sarcolemma. for this is more extensile than the fibriilas inclosed in it, and therefore, where these have given way, it often remains entire, investing both fragments, and connecting them together. In such a case the severed extremities of the fibrilke have been pulled asunder within the sheath, and a tubular portion of it, containing a little of the water in which the specimen is placed, extends from one to the other (figs. 32 to 36), The sides of this, as might be anticipated, are not in focus at the same time, but they have a tendency to fall together, and do so more or less according to their length, and the amount of extension continued to be applied to the fasciculus. The extremities of the tube always pass to the margins of the fasciculus at its broken part, and embrace it, becoming continuous with its transparent edges, already spoken of. If one of the fragments be turned or twisted, the parietes of the tube are twisted likewise, and thrown into wrinkles, which are most readily visible under the microscope, and evince the wonderful tenuity as well as firmness of the tissue. It not unfrequently happens that the fasciculus has given way at several points, and yet its sheath escaped untorn; the consequence of which is that the broken fragments, more or less deranged according to their size, lie in disorder and turned in various directions within the sheath, which still serves to keep them together, and maybe discerned stretching from piece to piece,inclosing and embracing them all (fig. 36). These tubular bridges are sometimes more than six times longer than the diameter of the fasciculus, a circumstance which abundantly evidences the strength and tenacity of this extremely delicate membrane. But other fractures will be much more partial, scarcely extending through more than a quarter or a half of the fasciculus ; in the gap thus formed, the untorn sheath will be evident by its margin, which has the appearance of being suspended from point to point, and can be traced along the border of the fasciculus. If only two contiguous stride be separated by the traction, the same thing is observable. These appearances are represented in figs. 29, 30. In fig. 31 is a fasciculus partially withdrawn from its sheath. It has been already shown that the mutual adhesion of the fibrillge is liable to vary in amount, sometimes to be almost wanting, and generally to be capable of being diminished by maceration. This circumstance affords a condition to prove the existence of the sarcolemma; for as long as that is entire the fibrillar are kept together, though but very loosely united, and merely fall asunder at the broken extremity, where alone thsy have space to do so. Thus the brush or tassel is formed, which is described and delineated by more than one writer, and which by showing the stria: of