119 MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. Thus it would appear that in active contraction there is a disturbance of the state of equilibrium, or rest, by the application of a special stimulus to certain portions only of each fibre; by which first these portions, then others in succession, are made to contract strongly, and to pull on the extremities of the fibre through the medium of the parts not so contracted. The contractions undulate along the fibre from the point stimulated, and there is always a considerable part of each fibre uncontracted. This will account for the remarkable fact that detached fragments of the voluntary fibre will contract by two-thirds of their length, though an entire muscle, in its natural situation, cannot shorten by more than one-third. This great capacity of contraction in the tissue would be without a purpose if it were not that it only admits of momentary exertion, and therefore requires that in the organ successive parts should take up the act, and by so doing, render it, as a whole, continuous. In an active fibre the contracting parts are continually dragging on those in which the contractile force has just subsided, and which intervene between them and the extremities of the fibre. These are thereby instantly stretched, and come to serve the temporary purpose of a tendon ; but one which resists extension more by its passive contractility than by its mere tenacity. It is these parts which in tetanic spasm suffer laceration ; which happens in consequence of the contraction excited by the vis nervosa being then too powerful to be resisted by the passive contractility. The preceding account of the minute changes occurring during contraction rests on data furnished by the striped form of muscular fibre; but there is nothing contained in it which seems at variance with the little that is positively known regarding the contractions of the other form. The differences between the contractions of the two varieties are almost certainly confined to the manner of exercise, and do not extend to the essential nature of the act. Though the unstriped fibre has not been studied by the microscope, during its active state, with the same success as the other, yet the similarity of the gross changes observed in it by the naked eye, to those seen in voluntary muscle, forbid us to doubt the identity of the phenomenon in all that is essential to it as an act of contraction. From the knowledge we possess, we are perhaps entitled to hazard some further conjectures respecting the differences in the mode of exercise of the contractile power in different cases. In whatever that mysterious power may consist, it would appear that the structural modifications of the two kinds of fibres are intimately connected with the manner in which it is capable of being exerted. Wherever the striated structure occurs, we witness an aptitude for quick, energetic, and rapidly repeated movements; while, where it is deficient, they are sluggish, progressive, and more sustained. The varieties in the character of contractions performed by striated muscles are very striking, especially that of the heart, as compared with the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles. In both, there is an alternate momentary action and repose of every contractile particle : but in the heart the contraction is universal at one