ULTIMATE STRUCTURE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 188 the place of areolar tissue. Hence in these viscera, the simple mucous element allows of being isolated with remarkable facility. In the liver, its isolation is almost imprac- ticable, owing to its lying in the interstices of a capillary plexus that may be termed solid, from its being extended uniformly in every direction. The intricacy of the interlacement of the mucous and vascular elements in this organ is sufficient to explain the total ignorance that prevails concerning the mode of termination of the biliary ducts, and concerning their size, shape, and connections in the lobules of the gland. In many other true glands, the mucous tissue may be submitted to examina- tion without much difficulty ; examples of which may be seen in the pancreas and salivary glands, with those allied to them, such as the duodenal glands of Beunnek, the buccal, palatal, arytenoid, tracheal, &c.; and in the sudorific glands of the skin. In the compound membranes also, as that of the alimentary canal below the cardia, and the more highly developed parts of the skin, the mucous element may be generally distinguished from the tissues in connection with it in a satisfactory manner. But in the plane expansions of the simple membrane which line the bony cavities of the nose and ear, its isolation and the demonstration of its structure are far more difficult, for reasons which will be afterwards explained, and our knowledge of it here still rests partially on the ground of analogy. In the mucous tissue there are two structures that require to be separately described, viz., the basement membrane and the epithelium. The basement membrane is a simple homogeneous expansion, transparent, colourless, and of extreme tenuity, situated on its parenchymal surface, and giving it shape and strength. Tlf.a serves as a foundation on which the epithelium rests. The epithelium is a pavement composed . of nucleated particles adhering together, and of various size, form, and number. The following general observations on these elementary parts will receive illustration as we advance. Neither the one nor the other is peculiar to the mucous tissue in the sense either of being invariably present in it, or of not being found elsewhere. There are certain situations of the mucous system where no basement membrane can be detected, and others from which the epithelium is absent. Both, however, are never absent together. Again, a structure apparently identical with the basement membrane is met with in numerous textures besides the mucous,' and all internal cavities, whether serous, synovial, or vascular, or of anomalous kind, (as those of the thymus, and thyroid body), are lined by an epithelium. In the ensuing description these circumstances will be enlarged upon, and the exceptions and local peculiarities pointed out, as far as I have been able to ascertain them. At present, I would say that these two elements are generally present. The most interesting questions in animal physiology are involved in the determination of the nature and offices of these two elementary parts of the mucous tissue. The discovery of them is, however, too recent, and our knowledge of their history as yet too incomplete, to allow of any certain conclusions on the subject. Both present