MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 30 may be regarded as an indication of a deposit and absorption of successive crops of corpuscles. These bodies are usually numerous in proportion to the size of the fasciculus, so that as a general rule equal masses have about equal numbers; but this is liable to some exceptions, as the same fasciculus may sometimes have them crowded in one part, and more scanty in another. Where the fasciculus is small, as in Birds and Mammalia, they lie at or near its surface, but in contact with the fibrilla3, within the sarcolemma. This is clearly shown by bringing into focus different portions of the fasciculus in succession, under high powers, as well as by a corpuscle occasionally adhering to the sarcolemma when separated by fluid from the surface of the nbrillse. But in proportion as the fasciculi assume a greater bulk, the corpuscles are found to be diffused more uniformly through their substance, and may be everywhere traced by a moving focus. This is especially the case in Eeptiles and Fish, in which I first met with them, and where they are at all times the most convenient for observation.* In the Insects that could be most readily obtained, and which have been submitted to examination, they are usually disposed with more symmetry, either singly or in pairs, along the central axis of the fasciculus (figs. 53, 54, 70, 73), an arrangement occasionally observable in Eeptiles (fig. 46), and which affords an important insight into their essential nature. In one instance (in the Chrysalis of the Tiger Moth, fig. 55) a number of corpuscles similar to these were observed on the exterior of a fasciculus, but their relations are doubtful. These corpuscles have manifestly some adhesion to the nbrillse with which they are in contact, since they are influenced by their movements (figs. 39, 47, 85), and generally retain their connexion with them, when these are torn asunder from one another (fig. 49). Seme, however, often become detached, and float in the fluid by which the object is surrounded, thereby evincing their existence as independent parts. They lie among the fibrillar, but so attenuated is their form, that they do not derange the striae. Sometimes, indeed, a dark longitudinal streak may be observed, extending on either hand from the position of one of them; and nothing is more probable than that where such an appearance is not due to violence in manipulation, it may have led to the error of supposing the fasciculi to be compounded of smaller bundles of fibrilke, as Muys regarded it, or of strands, or flattened sets of them, according to the views of a later writer.f It is owing to their extreme tenuity, and the interfering presence of the transverse strife, that in the ordinary state, the corpuscles are concealed, and it is by the augmented transparency of the fasciculi, and the more or less complete removal of the striae, that they are so easily brought into view by acids. And yet there is in this some other principle at work; for brine and the alkalies weaken the striae and remove the opacity of the fasciculi, sometimes without materially serving to display the corpuscles. * Tbeir dispersion among the mass of fibrilhe is well seen in a transverse section from the Skaie (fig. 3), bnt iu general they are not thus visible. t Skey, 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 374.