282 THE PACINIAN BODIES. imbedded, than to these organs themselves. The capsules are united together by the wall of the channel of the stalk. They are also joined here and there by partial membranous septa passing directly or obliquely across the intercapsular spaces, and which seem to be of the same nature as the capsules themselves. Pacini describes farther a union of the capsules at the distal end in the axis of the corpuscle, which is denied by Henle and Kolliker to exist. I have had, however, unequivocal evidence of its existence, especially between the inner capsules, when they have been artificially distended by water, although it often appears to cease towards the surface. When the end of the capsules is bent on itself, the line of this intercapsular union is less easy to trace. The small artery supplying the corpuscle subdivides in the channel of the stalk into its three, four, or more capillaries, which pierce the wall and enter the intercapsular spaces. After advancing in these for a variable distance they form loops, and return by a similar route to the small corresponding vein. In the larger corpuscles I have seen a little bunch of vessels formed near the further end by SJ FIG. 484.—ONE OF THE NERVES OP THE PALM WITH THE CORPUSCLES APPENDED, AND OF NATURAL SIZE. AFTER HENLE AND KOLLIKER. some of these capillaries. In most cases a single capillary accompanies the nerve-tube as far as the central capsule, and then passes for some way upon its wall, sometimes in a spiral direction. If a perfectly fresh corpuscle from the mesentery of a Cat be examined before the blood has drained off, the addition of a little water will occasionally induce a rapid movement of the contents of these minute vessels under the eye of the observer, by gaining entrance to their interior; and few objects are more beautiful than the miniature circulation thus artificially brought about for a brief period. The capillaries have their proper walls, furnished with nuclei. The central cavity, in size, and particularly in shape, is liable to much variety. It has.been already stated to be not unfrequently bent upon itself towards the further end; sometimes it is bifurcated, or, more correctly, branched, the offset then passing in a recurrent course either from the commencement or the middle part of its length. In this case the branch is surrounded by the same series of