BASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 189 various modifications in different situations, the study of which is of great importance with reference to their function. It will now be our business to descend to a particular account of each. Of the Basement Membrane. The basement membrane of the mucous tissue, as displayed in the kidney, is an extremely thin, transparent, and homogeneous lamina, simple and entire, without any aperture or appearance of structure (lig. 273, c). It forms the parenchymal wall of At a, the basement membrane and epithelium are both seen in a natural state. At b, the basement membrane has been separated, and the epithelium is somewhat swollen, and its outline " woolly." At c, the epithelium has been detached and the basement mem- brane is seen somewhat wrinkled : d, a detached epithelial par- ticle seen in face ; its minutely mottled texture is not represented in the woodcut. A PORTfON OF A TUIH7LE OP THE HUMAN KIDNEY, MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. the uriniferous tubules ; gives them their size, shape, and stability; is in relation, on the one hand, with the vascular system of the organ, and on the other with the epithelial lining. It is simply in contact with the capillary plexus, which is fixed chiefly by their mutual interlacement; but the epithelium adheres to it by an organic a a, basement membrane; «', corpuscle in its substance; b b, epithelium in situ, consisting of particles of differ- ent dimensions, with minute granules in their inter- stices ; c, cavity of the tubule full of detached epithelium particles, of various size and appearance, and mingled with numerous seminal animalcules; d, one of these seminal animalcules. FIG. 274.—A PORTION OF A TUBULE OF THE TESTIS (GUINEA PfG, COBAYA), MAGNIFIED 300 TIMES. union. When detached from the vascular rete which it traverses, and deprived of its epithelium, it readily wrinkles (fig. 273, c) ; and such is its tenuity, that it is sometimes only by the folds thus occasioned that it becomes visible at all. The epithelium readily separates from it after a slight maceration, and also in many diseased states of the organ, such as inflammation and Bright's disease. Though this basement tissue is