NERVES OF MUSCLE. 251 Of the Nerves of Muscle. The distribution of the nerves through muscular structures has always been a subject of great interest with those who looked to this line of inquiry for some clue to the explanation, either of that wonderful active connection subsisting between them, or of the nature of the contractile act itself. But though the anatomical results accruing from this inquiry are of a highly satisfactory kind, considered in themselves alone, yet they cannot be said to have hitherto contributed, in any great degree, to the elucidation of these mysterious questions. The best mode of inspecting the arrangement of the ultimate nervous twigs, is to select a very thin muscle (as one of the abdominal muscles of any small animal, or one of the muscles of the eye of a small bird), to steep it in weak acetic acid, and then thin it out under the compressorium. The primitive tubules of the nerve may then be readily distinguished FIG. 300.—LOOP-LIKE TERMINATION OF THE NERVES IN VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. AFTER BURDACH. with a power' of 100 to 200 linear. They separate from one another, at first in sets, afterwards in twos, threes, or fours, and if these be followed they will be found ultimately separating from one another, forming arches, and returning either to the same bundle from which they set out or to some neighbouring one. (See fig. 300.) In this loop-like course they accompany to some extent the minute bloodvessels, but do not accurately follow them in their last windings, since their distribution is in a different figure. They pass among the fibres of the muscle, and touch the sarcolemma as they pass; but as far as present researches have informed us, they are entirely precluded by this structure from all contact with the contractile material, and from all immediate intercourse with it. How then shall we explain the transmission of the nervous influence to a material thus enclosed ? If it were wise or safe to go a single step in advance of pure observation on so abstruse a question, we might suggest, resting on the seemingly sure ground of exact anatomy, that this influence must be of a nature capable of emanating beyond the limits of the organ