185 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. From the ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and PhysiologyVol. III. This term has been usually and properly restricted to those large expansions of membrane, in the interior of the body, which are continuous with the external tegument; but it is impossible, in the present state of knowledge, to treat of these apart from the true glands and the skin, which form with them a great system, to which the generic term mucous will be applied in this article. Many anatomists since the time of BoNNf have treated of the mucous membranes and skin under the common title of tegumentary membranes ; and the opinion has been gradually gaining ground, that all the glands furnished with excretory ducts have a very close relation to the former, in which their ducts for the most part open. Still, it does not appear that the proofs of this alliance have been hitherto, by any author, deemed sufficient to induce him to blend these several parts under a description common to them all. Even Muller, in whose philosophical work on the glands is contained so much new and important evidence of this relation, continues thus to sever them in the late edition of his Physiology. But, indeed, although much weight is to be granted to the arguments drawn from continuity and occasional convertibility of structure, course of development, rough analogies of composition or of function, and sympathies under disease, it must be allowed that hitherto that most important of all proofs has been all but wanting, which, as I shall endeavour to show, is capable of being derived from minute anatomical analysis. The researches which I have hitherto been able to make on this subject are still so incomplete, that I should have gladly delayed their publication for some time longer, had the progress of this work admitted of it. As it is, I shall state the conclusions to which I have been led, and the grounds they rest upon (pointing out, * The original numbering of the figures in these Articles is retained for convenience of reference. t Bonn, ' Specimen Anatomico-Medicum Inaug.,' &c, de continuationibus membranarum, &c, in ' Sandiforti Tbesauro,' torn, ii., p. 265. Roterod. 1769. 2 c 2