Ill LOCAL STIMULATION. thing is frequently to be observed under a different form. A particle of foreign matter, as a hair or a piece of dust, may be included by design or accident in the field of the microscope, so as to touch the side of a fibre at a single point. When this happens, the fibre will often exhibit a contraction, so plainly limited to the point touched, as to give unequivocal proof of its being the result of the irritation of pressure. Chemical substances may be seen to act similarly, if they be not so powerful as to destroy the texture of the part; and it is probable that electricity has a like agency. These interesting phenomena may be observed more or less satis- factorily in all animals whose fibres retain their contractility for a sufficient length of time after removal from the body ; and the Crab and Lobster will be found very favourably adapted for the purpose. In many reptiles, and fish also, the steps occur slowly enough to be adequately scrutinised. The facts in question can admit only of one explanation, if it be conceded that the muscular tissue has been here separated from the nervous ; and certainly that separation has been effected, unless the nervous tubules send off from their terminal loops a set of fibrils which penetrate the sarcolemma, and diffuse themselves through the contractile material within ; a supposition for which there exists, at present, no foundation in the observations of the most diligent investigators of this subject. They will, therefore, probably, be regarded as conclusive proof that contractility is a pro- perty inherent in the very structure of muscle, and capable of being excited to action independently of the instrumentality of nerves. [See ante, p. 39, lines 11 and 12, W.B.] An interesting phenomenon has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes, which, when illustrated by the foregoing observations, we may safely consider as an example of contraction in the living body in answer to a physical stimulus. In various cases of phthisis, and, indeed, in all cases attended with emaciation, a sharp tap with the fingers on any muscular part is instantly followed by a contraction, and by the rise of a defined firm swelling, at the point struck, enduring several seconds before it gradually subsides. This is often so prominent as to throw a shadow along the skin, and for the moment it might almost be mistaken for a solid tumour. That it is limited to the point struck is full proof of its being a direct effect of the irritation, and not produced through the medium of nerves ; for a contraction excited in the latter mode would be diffused over the parts to which the nervous twigs irritated were supplied, and would therefore frequently occur in parts at some distance. Having premised these words respecting the stimuli of muscle, we proceed to consider what is known of the phenomena which attend the act of contraction. It is evident that the subject we are now approaching is one of primary importance, because on the positive information regarding it must chiefly depend our means of judging of the conflicting hypotheses as to the nature and laws of action of the contractile force. A muscle, when contracted, is firmer than before; but this rigidity is propor- tioned rather to the intensity of the contractile force exerted than to the amount of