240 CORPUSCLES OF THE ELEMENTARY FIBRE. whether double or single, however distorted by accident or violence, it is impossible to conceive. That these transverse lines may sometimes become oblique by irregular traction, such as is almost necessarily applied in preparing the object, is most easy to understand, if we bear in mind, that the substance in the different spaces which they circumscribe is one united mass. 2. The transverse cleavage of the elementary fibre, which I first showed to be occasionally so complete as to separate it into discs cannot be reconciled with Dr. Barry's statement. For the surfaces of such discs present, as in fig. 288, a fine granular aspect, and no ends of doubly spiral threads. And the definite and beautiful appearance presented by a transverse section of the fibre in all FIG. 292.—ELEMENTARY FIBRE FROM THE LARVA OF THE LIB ELLULA, IN AN EARLY STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT, SHOWING THE CENTRAL ROW OF CORPUSCLES. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. animals, but especially in birds (fig. 290), is totally at variance with his views : for the particles there displayed are highly refracting, rounds and not aggregated in pairs. The condition represented in fig. 289 is not less opposed to them. Other proofs might be adduced, but they would lead to greater detail than is compatible with the form of the present publication ; and perhaps they will be allowed to be unnecessary. 6. Of the Corpuscles of the Elementary Fibre.—The elementary fibres always contain, among their primitive particles, a number of corpuscles, which either are, or are analogous to, the nuclei of the cells of development, of which this and other structures have originally consisted. These corpuscles are visible in the early stages a, a, Line of termination of the fibre, along which the tendon (b) is attached to it. c, Central series of corpuscles. Along the margin the sarcolemmais elevated by water (which has been absorbed), and is thereby shown to be adherent to the margin of the disc. FIG. 293.—ELEMENTARY FIBRE FROM THE LEG OF THE LARGE MEAT-FLY (MTJSCA VOMITORIa). of growth (fig. 291), but disappear towards the close of foetal life, as the lines resulting from the deposit of the contractile particles grow dark. The addition of a little acid, however, swells the fibre, obliterates the cross lines, and brings the corpuscles into view, not only at this early period, but at every subsequent one, even to old age. In insects, the nuclei in the earliest stage are a single or double series in the axis of the fibre, and in the perfect fibre they hold the same position. (See figs. 292 and 293, c.) In the Vertebrate classes they have a like correspondence, being scattered equally throughout the mass, in both foetal and adult states. Where the fibre is small, however, they usually abound more towards the surface. They are oval and flat, and of so little substance, that though many times larger than the primitive particles, and lying