274 LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION. made on the fibre and fibrillas by vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue, which he erroneously imagined to penetrate the interior of the fibre. Prochaska injected muscle with great success,'" and found the vessels so numerous that he was induced to believe contraction to depend on distension of the vessels, throwing the fibrilhe into zigzags. FoNTANA,t a few years afterwards, gave a much more accurate account of the fibre than had previously appeared, and one remarkable for its simplicity. According to him the elementary fibre consists of fibrillas, marked at equal distances by dark lines, which by their lateral apposition occasion the appearance of cross strise. Hence he styled the fibre a primitive fasciculus. By this term, which has been generally adopted, undue importance is attributed to the longitudinal cleavage, for the elementary fibre may as justly be called a pile as a bundle. It is not, however, in strictness, either one or the other. In the period that has elapsed since Fontana's description was published, up to the last few years, no real addition has been made to our knowledge, and so discredited or forgotten, at least in this country, were the labours of the authors already enumerated, that the anatomy of the muscular fibre was taken up as a new inquiry in 1818 by Sir Everard Home and Mr. Bauer.J The latter very excellent observer must have been deceived by the imperfection of his glasses, which do not seem to have been adapted to so minute a structure, for his results, as published by Sir E. Home, have had the effect of retarding rather than of advancing our knowledge, by raising doubts as to the credibility of any conclusions founded on microscopical research. In 1832, Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Lister§ re-discovered the transverse markings on the elementary fibre of voluntary muscle and of the heart, and pointed out, as Muys and Fontana had done, that their presence was a character by which this could be distinguished from the fibre of the uterus, bladder, &c, which latter they consequently denied to be muscular. Since then, many inquirers, both in this country and abroad, have taken up the subject with improved instruments. Among those who have arrived at conclusions similar to those of Fontana may be mentioned the names of Lauth, Muller, Schwann, and Henle. Others, however, have entertained very opposite and, as I believe, erroneous views of the composition of the fibre. Mandl|| conceives the cross markings to be produced by a spiral thread of areolar tissue investing the fibre, and Mr. Skey^[ describes them as an external * Some of these preparations were lately shown me by Baron Larrey, to whom they were presented by Prochaska himself, during tbe occupation of Vienna by the French, t ' Sur le Venin de la Vipere,' &c, 1781. + ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1818 and 1826. § ' Appendix to Translation of Dr. Edwards's work, ' De l'lnfluence des Agens physiques sur la Vie.' || ' Traite pratique du Microscope,' pp. 74 and 75, Paris, 1839. % 1 Philosophical Transactions,' 1837.