xiv PREFATORY MEMOIR. desirable to publish. Yet, in looking over one of them, shortly before his death, he remarked to a member of his family that he was surprised to find how much he then knew, and how he could hardly have expressed himself better with his maturer knowledge. The only fragment that remains of this date are some cases in ' Eyland's Diseases of the Larynx,' to which work he contributed four coloured plates. The drawings reproduced in these volumes are well executed, and would prove creditable to any book on the subject published in the present day. At this time he appears to have made a series of measurements of the several orifices of the heart at the instigation of Dr. Blakiston, who, to show his appreciation of this and some of his later work, subsequently presented him with a fine microscope, by Powell, which remains in beautiful order, and is preserved with religious care to the present day. He came to London in 1837, and in October of that year joined the medical department of King's College as an advanced student from Birmingham, working under John Simon, who was then beginning his own fifth year of studentship and had just been made Prosector to Todd for the physiological lectures. In the following year, 1838, Simon became Demonstrator of Anatomy conjointly with, and second to, F. T. Macdougall, whose after career as Bishop of Labuan was so distinguished, and Bowman succeeded Simon in the physiological Prosectorship, and thus commenced the intimate association with Todd which had so great an influence on his subsequent life. In the course of this year he visited the hospitals of Holland, Germany, Vienna, and Paris. In October, 1839, Macdougall having left King's College for Oxford, Simon became Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy, and Bowman was appointed Junior, being made at the same time Curator of the Museum. In 1840 he passed his examination at the Eoyal College of Surgeons, and in 1844 was elected Fellow. At this period King's College Hospital had just been founded, and a brief notice appears in the " Lancet," of Feb. 29th, 1840, stating that Dr. Budd, of