PREFATORY MEMOIR. xix till 1889. It will be long before the world will see three such men, all pos- sessing unusual ability and exceptional attainments, all intensely earnest in their work, and all glowing with the interest that is excited by the discovery of a new and unexplored country, meet together in such amity and brotherly love. The discovery by von Graefe that iridectomy was an effective remedy for acute glaucoma was published in the course of the year 1857, and materially modified the treatment of that obscure disease. The method was tried by Bowman, with his accustomed earnestness. He found it effective, and immediately and strongly advocated it. He translated the article " On Glaucoma and the Results of Iridectomy," written by A. von Graefe, in the eighth volume of the ' Archiv. fur Ophthalmologic' and appended notes, in one of which he particularly discusses the occurrence of sympathetic ophthalmia as the result of iridectomy performed on one eye, and in another advocates what is now the almost universal practice of making the section upwards on the ground of preserving the natural appear- ance of the eye for optical reasons, and as aiding in the prevention of cystoid cicatrices the formation of which he carefully describes. The operation has been the means of saving vision in many eyes that would have been otherwise lost, and the translation appeared in the 'Reports of the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital.' In 1864 he gave in the ' Moorfields Reports ' the results of his observations continued for more than a year on needle operations in cases of detached retina, his object being to open a permanent communication between the effused fluid in the subretinal space and the vitreous, thus preventing its further spread between the retina and choroid. He states himself that he was not more surprised than delighted when a positive and sometimes a considerable amelioration of sight took place even in those parts of the field corresponding unequivocally to detached portions of the retina. In the following year, 1865, the method of removing cataract by means of a spoon attracted the attention both of Bowman and of Critchett, both of whom contributed papers on the subject to the ' Reports.' That of Bowman is long, and