71 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. renders its course obscure. This lining of the tubules with a pavement of epithelium occasions a striking appearance in perfectly fresh specimens, when filled with double injection. This penetrating material insinuates itself into the interstices of the epithelial particles, and thus marks them out as a kind of pattern on the wall of the tube. When extravasation does not take place in the Malpighian bodies, more or less of the network surrounding the tubes is not unfrequently injected. The most perfect specimens of injected Malpighian tufts are then obtained ; but the veins themselves are seldom well filled through the arteries, for not only is the way to them circuitous, and broken up into a thousand separate avenues (the Malpighian tufts), but it is usually loaded with blood. When injection is driven into any one branch of the renal artery, the several states now detailed are seen only in the parts to which that branch is distributed. There is no anastomosis between the branches in the interior of the gland. It sometimes happens that in injections by the artery, extravasation is found to take place into the interstices of the tubes, with or without escape into the Malpighian capsules and tubes. This may arise from rupture either of the arterial tree, before reaching the Malpighian bodies (which is uncommon, where great force is not employed), or of the efferent vessels of those bodies, or of the network of the tubes, injected through them. It may also occur from rupture of a tube, which has been itself filled by the rupture of a Malpighian tuft. By the Veins, the Capillaries surrounding the tubes may be injected, but neither the Malpighian bodies, nor the arteries, nor, without extravasation, the tubes. The capillaries of the uriniferous tubes are of great aggregate capacity, and commonly contain much blood. When injection is pushed into the vein the whole organ instantly swells; so rapidly do these dilatable and freely inosculating channels receive the fluid impelled into them. By the numerous communications of the capillaries with the veins, it is at once dispersed in every direction, and enters the capillaries by innumerable avenues. But towards the Malpighian bodies, there is no opening from this capillary network at all corresponding in magnitude or freedom to that on the side of the veins. In fact, the only points by which it can discharge itself are the efferent vessels. of the Malpighian bodies, which are comparatively few in number, only capillary in size, and quite disconnected with one another, except through the plexus itself. Add to this, that the Malpighian tuft to which they lead is a great obstacle to the passage of fluid, from the tortuosity of its minute vessels, and by their all having but one point to discharge themselves of the blood they already contain, viz., their afferent vessel. Thus to fluid driven through the kidney in a retrograde course, there is not only the general impediment offered by the aggregate capacity of the arteries being greatly inferior to that of the veins, but a