MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 45 Fig. 43. Another extruded worm, coiled. Figs. 44 and 45. Granular mass, likewise extruded ; 45. Has the appearance of a transparent investment PLATE XVIII. Fig. 46. Portion of a primitive fasciculus treated with citric acid. The corpuscles are evident, and some are disposed in a central row. The sarcolemma is completely burst, but fragments of it remain, and evince their attachment to the fibrillas by preventing these from freely expanding. From the land Lizard (Lacerta agilis). Fig. 47. Another specimen from the same. Here the fibrilke in protruding from the extremity of the sarcolemma have curled back its rim into a circular roll a, a, tightly constricting the mass, and preventing the escape of fluid, which at b is collected between the fasciculus and its sheath. The resistance of the sarcolemma is shown by the expansion of the mass c, which has escaped from it. In the protruded part, the corpuscles have resumed their oval figure, though somewhat broken. Fig. 48. Part of a primitive fasciculus preserved in alcohol, showing the corpuscles unaltered in shape. The transparent sheath is seen at the margin. From the Frog. Fig. 49. Another from the same specimen, showing the adhesion between the corpuscles and fibrillse. Fig. 50. Portion of a human primitive fasciculus treated with phosphoric acid, and showing the corpuscles. A filament of cellular tissue indents the surface of the fasciculus, and distorts the strige. Fig. 51. Primitive fasciculus from the rectus oculi of the Horse. Tartaric acid. Shows the corpuscles. Some are detached at a and possess nucleoli. Fig. 52. Primitive fasciculus from the Pig. Tartaric acid. Shows the corpuscles. Fig. 53. Primitive fasciculus from the larva of the Libellula, in an early stage of development, showing a row of central corpuscles. Fig. 54. Adult primitive fasciculus from the "Harry Longlegs " (Tipula). Citric acid. Shows the row of central corpuscles. Fig. 55. Primitive fasciculus from the chrysalis of the Tiger Moth, surrounded by nucleated cells. Fig. 56. Primitive fasciculi, in a very early stage of development, bulged at intervals by the contained corpuscles, and presenting a remarkable similarity to adult fibres of the muscle of organic life, as in fig. 66. From the leg of a Chicken, tenth day of incubation.