STRIPED MUSCLE. 231 examinations of specimens from various sources are requisite for the acquirement of a correct idea of their organization and properties, but that this simple method of procedure is the one most likely to lead to a true insight and conclusion regarding the anatomy, not only of this but of all elementary structures, becomes every day more evident. Various subsidiary means may doubtless be employed with advantage, such as injections and physical and chemical agencies ; but the method which of all others is the least liable to admit of erroneous interpretations by the admixture of artificial elements in which the mind of the inquirer has had a share, is that of employing a power capable of reaching the utmost limits of organization, on examples the most nearly approaching to their natural state during life. There is perhaps no one line of, inquiry in the whole range of minute anatomy so beset with difficulties and sources of error, and therefore so much demanding a cautious study and sagacious discrimination between conflicting appearances, as this of the structure of the striped fibre. The following description is substantially the same as that published by me in the 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, and which all my subsequent observations have tended to confirm. To that paper I would venture to refer those who may desire to enter at greater length upon the grounds of the view here summarily given. L. Length.—This varies exceedingly in different muscles. The sartorius, the longest in the body, often surpasses two feet in length, and the individual fibres are as long, extending in parallel bundles from end to end. In many others they do not exceed a quarter of an inch; thus their greatest variety is presented in their length. 2. Thickness.—This should be examined in the uncontracted state of the fibre, which for this purpose should be removed from the body after all contractility has departed. I have elsewhere* given a table of numerous comparative measurements in various animals, and subjoin the following abstract:— Diameter of the Elementary Fibres of Striped Muscle in fractions of an English Inch. TT „ f average of males Human from ^ to < ,, females Other Mammalia .. ,, ttVo >? t^t Birrk i -J— ,, 1500 " 350 Reptiles ,, totto » tjto Fish „ „ V IllSeCts ••••• ~T!\~Z 11 o^nTT 4 5 4 _i_ 5 6 1 __1_ 8 0 7 1 4 8 4 1_ 2 2 2 1 4 19 I believe that the average diameter of the fibres in the human female is upwards of a fourth less than in the male, and that the average of both together is greater than that of other Mammalia; but a more extensive examination is requisite to * See page 7.