THE OLFACTORY REGION. 173 re-unite in a plexiform manner, as they descend. They form a considerable part of the entire thickness of the membrane, and differ widely from the ordinary cerebral nerves in structure. They contain no white substance of Schwann, are not divisible into elementary fibrillse, are nucleated, and finely granular in texture, and are invested with a sheath of homogeneous membrane, much resembling the sarcolemma, or, more strictly, that neurilemma which we figured from the nerves of insects in the former volume, fig. 64. These facts we have repeatedly ascertained, and they appear to be of great importance to the general question of the function of the several ultimate elements of the nervous structure, especially when viewed in connexion with what will be said on the anatomy of the retina. We are aware that some anatomists deny the existence of the white substance of Schwann as a natural element of the nerve-fibre in any case, pretending that it is formed by artificial modes of preparation; we hold it to be a true structure; but, however that may be, these nerves never exhibit it, however prepared. They rather correspond with the gelatinous fibres. Now there is no kind of doubt that they are a direct continuation from the vesicular matter of the olfactory bulb. The arrangement of the capillaries in well-injected specimens is a convincing proof of this, as these vessels gradually become elongated on the nerve assuming a fibrous character as it quits the surface of the bulb; and further, no tubular fibres can ever be discovered in the pulp often left upon the orifices of the cribriform plate after detachment of the bulb. It must be remembered, that a few tubular fibres from the nasal nerve of the fifth here and there accompany the true olfactory filaments, but these only serve to make the difference more evident by contrast. Although these nucleated olfactory filaments lie in great abundance under the mucous membrane of the olfactory region, we have been quite foiled in our attempts to trace their ultimate distribution in the membrane, and the difficulty is attributable to their want of the characteristic white substance. Their elongated nuclei render the larger branches unmistakable; but if these become resolved at last into fibrous elements, the nuclei cease to be distinct from those of the numerous nucleated tissues which they traverse. In this respect they correspond, in all probability, with the nerves of some of the papillse of the tongue (see ante fig. 95); and, considering the similarity between the two senses, an argument may be hence deduced for the limitation of the sense of taste to those elementary nerve-fibres going to the tongue which are without the white substance of Schwann. If this be so, the looped tubular fibres are confined to the impressions of touch in that organ. We are averse from speculating prematurely on the meaning of anatomical facts, but as some hypothesis will intrude itself, we would venture to hint that this amalgamation of the elements of the peripheral part of the olfactory nervous apparatus in the larger branches, and probably in the most remote distribution, as well as the nucleated character indicative of an essential continuity of tissue with the vesicular matter of the lobe, are in accordance with the oneness of the sensation 2 a 2