4 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND and figured them as bundles of fibrils, held together by a spiral coil of filamentous tissue. A more common opinion is, that these threads are bundles of beaded fibrillae, whose beads being placed side by side, cause the appearance of transverse lines, a view which was first entertained by Fontana,, though his claims to it have been often overlooked. More lately Dr. Schwann and M. Lauth have advocated the same doctrine, especially the former, who has adduced additional arguments in its support. My design in the present paper is, first, to vindicate, under certain modifications, the general correctness of this opinion, and to render more exact and ample the knowledge of its details; secondly, to point out the existence and properties of new parts which, as far as I can ascertain, have not yet been described; and thirdly, to elucidate the proximate cause of voluntary motion, by describing shortly the mechanism of certain movements performed by the elementary constituents of muscles. In speaking of the threads already mentioned, it becomes necessary to attach to them a term of definite meaning. The words fibre, fibrilla, and filament, have been so much abused by indiscriminate application, that it would be confusing the subject to employ them in this sense; and though the term primitive fasciculus, adopted by Font an a and some subsequent writers, will be shown in the sequel to be liable to considerable objections, as implying a composition by smaller fibrils, which can never be said to be a correct expression of the actual condition, yet I shall prefer its use to that of a new designation. The small component fibrils, into which the primitive fasciculus may usuafly be split up, will be styled primitive fibrillar, or simply fibrillar. As even the configuration and bulk of the primitive fasciculi have not hitherto been fully ascertained, these points demand attention. Their shape may be briefly described as polygonal in all animals, though in some examples they approach very nearly to a cylindrical form. The examination may be conducted by obtaining either a longitudinal or transverse view of the parts ; but the former, without precaution, is apt to lead to error. It is usual to place the recent fasciculi, moistened with water, between glasses, previous to inspection, whereby they become swollen from absorption of the fluid, and more or less altered towards a cylindrical figure. If this mode of examination be desired, it is requisite, therefore, either nut to wet the object, or to moisten it with a fluid which is not absorbed, such as thick syrup. It will then be seen that the cross markings, called transverse strise, with which every anatomist is familiar, as visible on the fasciculus, have not uniformly a straight direction across it, but are frequently all bent at an obtuse angle, along a certain line parallel to the margin, showing a sudden change in the aspect of the surface on which the strife are seen. This appearance was not unobserved by Fontana*, who in a figure of four * Fontana, Traite sur le Venin de la Vipere, Tab. vi. Figs. 6, 7.