102 THE SARCOLEMMA. to remark, that these measurements are taken from uncontracted specimens, since daring contraction the relative diameters of the particles are changed. Of the Sarcolemma. The striped fibre is enclosed in a tubular sheath or snrcolemma, adapted to its surface, and adhering to it. This consists of a transparent, very delicate, but tough and elastic membrane, which isolates the fibre from all other tissues. In general, it has no appearance of any kind of structure ; but in the case of bulky fibres, where it is strong in proportion, faint indications may be detected of a complex interweaving of filaments far too minute to be individually recognized. It occasionally has small corpuscles, the remains of cell-nuclei, in contact with it. This membrane may be sometimes seen forming a transparent border to the fibre beyond the limit of the cross stripes ; or it may be seen stretching between the separated fragments of a fibre which has been broken within it, for its toughness will often resist a force before which its brittle contents give way. If the fibre be immersed in acid, it swells, often so suddenly as to burst the sheath at numerous places, and protrude in the form of small hernia?. These herniee are very peculiar and illustrate the account already given of the internal composition of the fibre; for the particles of the protruded mass are necessarily deranged, and their lateral parallelism destroyed. Now, the result of this is the production of the most beautiful and varied curves, intersecting one another, very similar to those already spoken of on the injured fibre, and wearing a very plausible aspect of spirals. (See Plate XVII, fig. 39.) Again, the sarcolemma may be seen raised in the form of vesicles from the surface of the fibre, in certain states of contraction in water, which will be reverted to. By one or more of these modes of demonstration, we know that this isolator of the sarcous tissue invests the striped elementary fibre of voluntary muscle in all animals. Its existence is as yet doubtful in the heart. Every fibre is attached by its extremities to fibrous tissue, or to some tissue analogous to it; but an accurate examination of this difficult subject lends no countenance to the ordinarily received opinion, that this tissue is prolonged over the whole fibre from end to end, as its cellular sheath ; nor is this view reconcilable with the physical requirements of the case. It is extremely difficult to isolate a muscular fibre, with the tendinous fibrillas pertaining to it, either in mammalia or birds ; but this may be occasionally accomplished in fishes, and in certain muscles of insects. (See Plate XVIII, figs. 68,69 and 70). In these examples, the minute detachment of the fibrous tissue may be seen to pass, and to become attached to the truncated extremity of the fibre. The fibre ends by a perfect disc, and with the whole surface of this disc the tendon is connected and continuous. The sarcolemma ceases