99 DOUBLE CLEAVAGE. primitive fasciculus, first given to it by him and adopted by Muller : but this view of the subject is imperfect. The fibre always presents, upon and within it, longitudinal dark lines, along which it will generally split up into fibrilke; but it is by a fracture alone that such fibrillar are obtained. They do not exist as such in the fibre. And, further, it occasionally happens that no disposition whatever is shown to this longi- tudinal cleavage ; but that, on the contrary, violence causes a separation along the transverse dark lines, which always intersect the fibre in a plane perpendicular to its axis. By such a cleavage, discs, and not fibriUse, are obtained; and this cleavage is just as natural, though less frequent than the former. Hence it is as proper to say that the fibre is a pile of discs, as that it is a bundle of fibrillar: but, in fact, it is neither the one nor the other, but a mass in whose structure there is an intimation of rf r- ,„ Fragments of striped elementary fibres, showing a cleavage in opposite directions; magnified 300 diameters:—A, Longitudinal cleavage ; the longi- tudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end : this results from partial separation of the nbrillas. c, Fibrilla?, separated from one another by vio- lence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre, c', c", Represent two appearances commonly presented by the separated single fibrillar (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c", the borders are scalloped, the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. b, Transverse cleavage; the longitudinal lines are scarcely visible, a, Incomplete fracture following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the inteiwal and retains the two fragments in connexion; the edge and surface of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached, b', Detached disc more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. the existence of both, and a tendency to cleave in the two directions. If there were a general disintegration • along all the lines in both directions, there would result a series of particles, which may be termed primitive particles or sarcous elements, the union of which constitutes the mass of the fibre. These elementary particles are arranged and united together in the two directions. All the resulting discs as well as fibrilla are equal to one another in size, and contain an equal number of particles, The same particles compose both. To detach an entire fibrilla is to abstract a particle of every disc, and vice versd. The width of the fibre is therefore uniform, and is equal to the diameter of any one of the discs. Its length is the length of any one of its fibrillas, and is liable to the greatest variety. Muller, Schwann, Lauth, and others, consider, with us, that the cross stripes of p FIG. 37.