206 GASTRO-PULMONARY AND GENITO-URINARY TRACTS. Topographical View of the Mucous System in Man. Eeferring the reader to the article ' Skin' for a detailed description of that part of the mucous system, and its immediate dependencies, I shall now proceed to point out some of the more remarkable varieties of the internal tracts. These tracts have been usually comprehended under two general divisions, the gastro-pulmonary, and the genito-urinary. The former is continuous with the skin at six points, the two eyelids, the two nostrils, the mouth, and the anus; the latter at a single one, the orifice of the urethra in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female. Besides these, there are two smaller tracts, the mammary, each of which is subdivided into several, which open separately on the skin. The description of the gastro-pulmonary tract may be commenced at the lips. It covers their inner surface, the cheeks, gums, tongue, and palate, and extends into the labial, buccal, and larger salivary glands, of which it constitutes the chief mass. It passes over the arches of the palate (where its involutions form the tonsils), and lines the pharynx, Eustachian tubes, and the cavities of the tympana. Penetrating into the nose by the posterior nares, it lines all the passages and chambers of that organ, and advances along the nasal duct to the lachrymal sac. Thence it may be traced along the canaliculi to the front of the eye, where it takes the name of tunica conjunctiva; covers the posterier surface of the eyelids, a certain portion of the sclerotic, and the cornea, and forms the caruncula, the Meibomian and lachrymal glands. In these complicated portions of its course, the membrane shares more or less in the construction of the five organs of special sense, and is the essential seat of two of them, taste and smell. From the pharynx it spreads in two directions ; first, into the larynx, trachea, tracheal glands, and bronchial ramifications, until it terminates by forming the air-cells of the lungs; secondly, into the alimentary canal. Here it lines the oesophagus, stomach, and intestinal tube, as far as the anus, and it penetrates along the excreting ducts of the liver and pancreas, into the inmost recesses of those glands, to form their secreting surface. The genito-urinary tract may be traced along the urethra into the bladder, ureters, and pelvis of the kidneys ; and thence into the substance of those organs as far as the Malpighian bodies, the extremities of the uriniferous tubules. In connection with the urethra, processes pass to the glands of Cowper; and, in the male, into the interior of the prostate, the vesiculas seminales, vasa deferentia, and tubules of the testes. In the female, the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes receive a lining from it, which, at the fimbriated extremity of those canals, becomes continuous with the serous membrane of the abdomen.* * This remarkable exception to a general fact has long attracted attention. As a mere anatomical difficulty, it has lately received curious illustration from Henle's discovery of the existence of an epithelium on serous and other allied surfaces. But its true explanation can probably only be attained by a study of its morphology, joined with that of its final cause.