129 ON FIBROUS AND VESICULAR NERVOUS TISSUE. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter VIII, pp. 208 to 215. Published April, 1845. Of the Fibrous Nervous Matter. Of the two kinds of nervous matter, the fibrous is that which is most extensively diffused throughout the body. It not only forms a large portion of the nervous centres, either alone or mixed with vesicular matter, but it is the principal constituent of the infinite multitude of nerves which connect the centres with the various tissues and organs. The structure of the fibrous matter should be examined in a Diece of nerve, and in a thin section from the white part of a nervous centre, as the brain or spinal cord. These should be torn with needles, so as to separate and isolate as much as possible the elementary parts, and to remove,, as far as may be practicable, extraneous tissues. The fibrous nervous matter, wherever it is found, consists of fibres which have a definite arrangement. Two kinds of primitive fibre are present in the nervous system, and these we shall distinguish as the tubular fibre, or the nerve-tube, and the gelatinous fibre. The former are infinitely the more numerous ; the latter being found chiefly in the sympathetic system. 1. Of the Tubular Fibre.—When a nerve-tube is perfectly recent, and unaffected by reagents, it presents, if viewed by reflected light, a beautiful pearly lustre, and appears to be quite homogeneous. But if viewed by transmitted light, and with a sufficient magnifying power, a more complicated structure becomes visible in all the largest and best marked specimens. (See fig. 52, a, b, and fig. 53, a.) Most externally is the tubular membrane (a, d d), an homogeneous and probably elastic tissue of extreme delicacy, analogous to the sarcolemma of striped muscle (pp. 23 and 102), and, according to our observation, not presenting any such distinct, longitudinal, or oblique fibres in its composition as have been described by some writers. Within the edge of the tubular membrane, on each side, are seen two thicker and darker