17 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. fasciculi was lying in a curved form along the field, and presented on its convex border transverse series of beaded segments two or three deep, which, by the curve given to the part, had lost their longitudinal, but retained their lateral, adhesion. They therefore stood out in relief, in the manner represented in the drawing (fig. 16). Many segments of these outermost fibrillas are completely detached. From what has now been advanced, it is clear that the idea of the composition of the fasciculi by fibriUae requires considerable qualification. They split up, indeed, in general, into fibrillas, but in other cases their natural cleavage is into discs, and in all instances these discs exist quite as unequivocally as the fibrillas themselves. In fact, the primitive fasciculus seems to consist of primitive component segments or particles, arranged so as to form, in one sense, fibrillas, and in another sense, discs ; and which of these two may happen to present themselves to the observer, will depend on the amount of adhesion, endways or sideways, existing between the segments. Generally, in a recent fasciculus, there are transverse strias, showing divisions into discs, and longitudinal strife, marking its composition by fibrillas. The reason why the transverse strias are ordinarily so much more decided, is that the fibrillas are more close together than the discs, and their shaded interspaces consequently narrower. The adhesion of the segments one to another is, in neither direction, fixed and rigid, but of a kind admitting, as will be afterwards seen, of those minute changes of position, which occur during the active state of the organ. The diversity now observed between the longitudinal and transverse union of the segments, may bear reference to the difference in the range of these motions in the two' directions, that in the longitudinal being the more extensive.* Having endeavoured to prove the nature of the transverse strias, and the general construction of the fasciculi, I next proceed to inquire more particularly into the nature and form of the minute segments of the fasciculus already spoken of. In doing this, it will be the most convenient to consider them as they appear when united into fibrillas, this being the form under which they commonly present themselves, and under which it has been customary to regard them. Many attempts have been made to ascertain their nature, but, as it appears to me, without sufficiently attending to the following circumstance: That, in consequence of the original and close union between contiguous fibrillas, not one can be separated from the mass without suffering an unnatural mutilation of some parts of its surface ; a * Since writing the above, I have met with the following remarkable passage in a recently published Croonian Lecture by John Hunter, which I give without comment :— " I do suppose that a muscular fibre is not one uniform body from end to end, but is made up of parts which maybe called the component parts of a muscular fibre; and I am apt to suppose that a change takes place in the position of those parts during contraction, and this alteration diminishes the extent of those parts in one direction, while it is increasing them in another, although from the experiments it appears not to be in the same proportion ; but what that attraction is, I shall not pretend to determine."—Croonian Lecture on Muscular Motion, No. V., year 1781. Hunter's Works, Palmer's Edition, vol. iv., p. 261. D