170 LINGERING OF IMPRESSIONS, SUBJECTIVE PHENOMENA. After-Tastes. Impressions of taste remain longer than those of the other senses, because the fluids exciting them must of necessity continue for some time in contact with the nerves after having saturated the intervening papillary investment. For the same reason it is difficult to say how much of the taste that lingers, after the substance has apparently left the mouth, is due to the excitation of the nerves by particles still remaining in the papillee, and how much to that state of the nerves, which, in all the senses, prolongs the perception, after the original excitation has ceased. The taste left in the mouth by many substances is, however, very different from that which they produce in the first instance. Horn has remarked that this after-taste is usually bitter; while, with one of the most bitter substances known, viz., tannin, it is sweet. This circumstance appears to show something in taste corresponding to the complementary colours in vision, and seems dependent on a state of the nerves which, for want of a better word, may be termed one of exhaustion, consequent on their previous stimulation. It will illustrate the cause of many familiar phenomena of taste; such as the effect some flavours have in exalting, modifying, or destroying our appreciation of others. Eepeated over-stimulation of the nerves by the same substance exhausts their excitability by that or similar substances for some time afterwards. There also appear to be relations between certain varieties of taste, which, though not classified or described by philosophers, are instinctively perceived, and constitute the foundation of the art of cookery. Attention and study given to the perceptions of this sense greatly enhance their delicacy. Little is known of the subjective phenomena of taste, or those dependent on excitation of the nervous apparatus of the sense by internal causes. The various tastes which are experienced in disease are probably occasioned by depraved secretions in the mouth acting as foreign substances on the papillse. The epithelium of the tongue, it is well known, is very prone to accumulate in the form of sordes, loaded with unnatural materials, on the removal of which, the natural taste is, in a great measure, restored. Magendie observed that dogs, after the injection of milk into their veins, licked their lips, and gave other signs of tasting. Such phenomena, if uniformly present, might be occasioned by the transudation of the fluid from the vessels to the nerves of the papillae.* * On the subject of taste we refer to the general treatises already cited; to Magendie's 'Physiology;' Rudolphi's ' Physiology;' Horn, 'iiber den Geschmackssinn des Menschen, Heidelberg,' 1825; Panizza, 'Richerche Sperimentali sopra i Nervi,' 1834, given by Dr. G. Burrowes in 'Med. Gaz.,' vol. xvi.; Dr. Alcock, 'Med. Gaz.,' Nov. 1836; Dr. Jno. Reid, 'Brit, and For. Med. Rev.,' vol. v., p. 309; Valentin, 'de funct, nerv.,' p. 116.