80 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF use of the aqueous element of the urine, and on the nature of secretion in general, I have been endeavouring to illustrate a doubtful hypothesis by speculations more doubtful still, obscurum per obscurius. But I rest my view of the function of the Malpighian bodies principally on anatomical grounds, and the other considerations have been introduced in connection with it, rather in consequence of the interest they appear to me to add to it, than because I am fully satisfied of their validity. Undoubtedly both questions are worthy of being separately handled, and require a much wider and more elaborate investigation than seems yet to have been given them. Meanwhile they may in turn receive some elucidation from the researches detailed in this paj)er. Parallel lines of inquiry into the anatomical varieties of the Malpighian bodies and uriniferous tubes, and into the chemistry of their secretion, in the different tribes of animals and in various stages of their development, could scarcely fail either to confirm or to confute what has now been advanced. I shall conclude with three remarks founded on the foregoing facts and speculations. 1. The bile and the urine have been ever classed together as the most important excretions. The former is secreted from venous blood; the latter it has been thought from arterial blood, except in some inferior animals, in which the blood from the lower part of the body circulates through the kidneys. But it is a most striking fact, that the proximate principles of the urine, like those of the bile, are secreted in all animals from blood which has already passed through one system of capillaries, in a word, from portal blood; although it does not appear to what extent its qualities are changed by traversing the Malpighian system. The analogy is at least remarkable, and may throw some light on the mysterious meaning of the portal circulation. 2. Diuretic medicines appear to act specially on the Malpighian bodies; and various foreign substances, particularly salts, which, when introduced into the blood, pass off by the urine with great freedom, exude in all probability through this bare system of capillaries. The structure of the Malpighian bodies indicates this, and also, as far as they are known, the laws regulating the transmission of fluids through organized tissues, modified in their affinities by vitality. 3. The escape, also, of certain morbid products, occasionally found in the urine, seems to be from the Malpighian tufts. I allude especially to sugar, albumen, and the red particles of the blood: the two first of which would transude, while the last would escape only by rupture of the vessels."" 3, Norfolk Street, Strand, February Uth, 1842. * See Note, p. 72.