CONTRACTION ULTIMATELY MOLECULAR. 113 nified before they can be even seen at all, the anatomist is provided with the means of detecting movements, which, without this circumstance, must have remained concealed. When a piece, retaining its contractility, is torn up into its elementary fibres, the fragments of these, when placed in water, are seen to undergo a slow movement at certain points, especially where they have suffered violence, as at their broken extremities. This movement consists of a shortening and thickening of the material composing the fibre, as is shown by the general outline of the part, but especially by the appearances visible in its interior. The transverse stripes, both light and dark, become longer and thinner: in other words, the discs expand in circumference, flatten, and approximate to one another; or, to use another form of expression, the fibrillee become shorter and thicker, both in the particles composing them and the material connecting those particles. (Fig. 49, p 115.) These changes are always local, or partial; and it is most evident, from the characters they constantly present, that they are not limited to any determinate regions, points, or segments, but occur indifferently wherever the exciting cause may chance to be exerted. Neither discs nor fibriilse appear to have the smallest share, as aggregations of particles bearing those particular forms, in producing the phenomena of contraction. A contraction is never bounded to a particular number of discs or fibrillas, and is never accurately limited by the interval between two discs. It constantly happens, that, at the edge of the contracted part, several discs are only partially engaged in it. A contraction generally, when commencing at the broken end of a fibre, occupies its whole width there; but, when it commences at the border of the fibre, it may be confined to a portion of many discs: and, further, the contractile force is never exerted along the whole length of a fibre or fibrilla at once. A contraction excited in an elementary fibre by the contact of a hair extends into the mass equally in all directions, as we might suppose it would do, if the mass were homogeneous. An attentive study of these interesting phenomena will lead to the conviction, that, in the bare fact of contraction, the build of the fibre is an item of no importance whatever: the exquisite symmetry displayed in the apposition of its component particles is, as it were, disregarded and overlooked; while the whole process is to be referred to the material itself, the ultimate tissue, whose property is contractility. This property appears to reside both in the particles and the substance connecting them. The ultimate movements, therefore, on which contraction depends, whatever they may consist in, are molecular, and far beyond the reach of sense. It will be perceived that this view of the subject is the only one which can harmonise the fact of contraction in voluntary muscle with the same phenomenon in structures which have no complicated internal arrangement of particles, as, for example, in the unstriped fibre; and the contractility manifested by fibrine..