248 AREOLAR TISSUE OP MUSCLES. One result of the varied arrangement of the tendinous fibres with regard to the muscular, is the production of symmetry and beauty of form ; a second is convenient package ; a third is the -adaptation of the particular muscle to the kind and amount of exercise which is required of it. Where a great mass of fibrous tissue runs into a muscle, the number of fibres and their obliquity is very much increased, while the length of each is diminished ; and, as a general result, the power of such a muscle is augmented, while the extent of its contractions is limited. The same mass of contractile material may be arranged as a few long fibres (as in the sartorius), or as many short ones (as in the masseter). In the former case its contractions would be characterised by their extent, in the latter by their power; for, cceteris paribus, the extent is as the length, the power as the thickness. The terms origin and insertion are employed with great convenience in ordinary anatomical language to denote the more fixed and the more movable attachments of muscles. In human anatomy general consent has sanctioned their use, and even, with few exceptions, their particular application to each muscle in the body, although this assignment is in many cases arbitrary, in consequence of its being impossible to determine which attachment is the more frequently the fixed one. The arrangement of the fibres in the heart has been already fully treated of in this work. In the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, of the bladder, and uterus, the unstriped fibres are disposed, as in the heart, so as to enclose a cavity, but without having, as in that organ, any point at which they can be said to commence or terminate. In the alimentary tube they are arranged in two lamina?, the respective fibres of which take a course at right angles to each other. In the bladder the arrangement is reticulate. The elementary fibres form sets of variable thickness, which at numerous points send off detachments to join neighbouring bundles, whence has sprung the notion that the fibres are branched. It is manifestly, however, the sets of them only that are branched, the unstriped like the striped fibres being invariably simple from end to end. In the uterus the disposition of the fibres is essentially similar, calculated to allow of great variety in the capacity of the cavity they encircle. c. Of the Areolar Tissue of Muscles. This tissue is much more abundant in the voluntary than in the involuntary muscles. In the former it forms an external investment, which sends septa into the intervals between the larger and smaller packets of fibres, and thus enables them to move in some degree independently of one another. The density of these general and partial sheaths is proportioned to the amount of pressure to which the organ may be subject, as is exemplified in the superficial muscles of the back, and in those