167 CONDITIONS OF TASTE. Evidence from Disease. In some cases loss of common sensation consequent on disease of the fifth nerve has been reported as being attended with loss of taste ;* in others, taste appears to have been preserved ;t on the other hand, taste has been sometimes lost while common sensation in the tongue remained ,\ "We would interpret the apparently contradictory evidence of these cases by one which we have ourselves lately witnessed, and which will be found to accord remarkably with the foregoing views. A middle-aged man suffered for eight years from complete loss of sensation in all parts supplied by the fifth nerve on the left side, with the exception of the forehead. The left eye was lost by destructive inflammation: the tongue was quite without feeling on the left side. On experimenting on his sense of taste, it was found to be clearly absent in the anterior and middle part of the affected side ; but to be present behind, in the region supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal. He tasted acutely enough on the other side in front. Blumenbach and others relate cases of congenital deficiency of the tongue, in which taste existed. These would show that taste resides in other parts of the mouth besides the tongue, if it were not very probable that a portion of the base of the organ with its gustatory papillse, supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, existed in these individuals. Without accurate dissections of the parts, such instances throw little light on the question. The tongue, as an organ of mastication, is provided with the sense of touch; the anterior portion, and especially the sides and tip, possessing this sense in an eminent degree. Division of the lingual branches of the fifth nerves in animals is attended with evidence of severe pain, and is immediately followed by loss of sensation in the front part of the organ; while cases of disease of the fifth nerve in the human subject are marked by loss of sensation in the tongue, in common with the other parts which the nerve supplies. The experiments of Alcock and Eeid further show that mechanical irritation of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve in animals is accompanied with manifest pain. Hence there can be no doubt that the lingual branches of the fifth pair are the chief nerves of touch to the tongue, while the glosso-pharyngeal nerves furnish the feeble common sensation existing in its hinder part. Conditions of Taste. Taste may be produced by a mechanical or chemical excitation of its nerves. Dr. Baly has observed that a smart tap with the fingers on the tip of the tongue causes * Bishop, 'Med. Gaz.,' 1833; Romberg, 'Miiller's Archiv.,' 1838, Heft iii. t Noble, 'Med. Gaz.,' vol. xv., p. 120; Vogt, 'Miiller's Archiv.,' 1840, p. 72. X Noble, ' Med. Gaz.,' vol. xvi.