STRIPED MUSCLE. 230 imperfection of the arrangement, does not appear to be sufficiently warranted, either on anatomical or physiological grounds. If subjection or non-subjection to the influence of the will be made the basis of classification, all muscles should be accounted voluntary on which this can exercise a direct influence either in causing or controlling contraction, even though such influence be but momentary, and capable of being exerted only while the stimulus excitive of involuntary action is in abeyance. The voluntary muscles are generally solid organs, while the involuntary are hollow ; and, on recurring to the minute structure of their respective elementary libres, we detect very striking differences between them, those of the former being striped crosswise with very delicate and close parallel lines, which, with some exceptions, are altogether absent from the latter. But these exceptions are of so important a kind as to demonstrate beyond doubt that there is no necessary connexion between the minute conformation of the fibres and their relation to the influence of the will. The muscular coat of the oesophagus often displays the striped structure as far down as the stomach, though the will has no power whatever over its movements ; and the heart itself is composed of striped fibres. As the structural differences between these two kinds of fibre are constant, well-marked, and therefore easily ascertained, and as the}' seem, moreover, to be related to varieties in the activity and mode of exercise of their contractile power, they will be employed as the ground of division in the present article. I shall first describe the minute anatomy of these two kinds of elementary fibre, and the steps of their development; and, secondly, I shall advert to their mode of aggregation and to the arrangement of the tissues found in connection with them. a. Of the Striped Elementary Fibres. These have received the name of Primitive Fasciculi on the erroneous supposition of their being bundles of finer filaments. They may be separated from the tissues associated with them in the compound organ by a variety of means, but as they always constitute the principal mass of the organ, they may be examined without any attempt at such separation. It' was a favourite plan with the older anatomists to obtain the fibres apart by submitting them to a long boiling, which destroys the texture of the vessels and filamentary tissue, but at the same time considerably modifies the size, shape, and structure of the fibres. It is in general only requisite to take a small portion of a muscle, as fresh as possible (but after its contractility has departed), and to tear it, under water, into fine shreds, with needles. By these means the elementary fibres will be separated from one another, and being in parts irregularly broken, and torn, can be submitted to inspection under a high power of the microscope, in such a condition as to exhibit most of the important points in their structure. Many sedulous