217 FUNCTIONS OP THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. The problem which physiologists have now to resolve, is how far these organic forms, which are more or less altered epithelial particles, are necessarily concerned in the performance of the function, for epithelium is all but universal in the mucous system. It would be foreign to the province of this article to enter at length on the general question of secretion, and I shall confine myself to a few remarks tending to show in what direction recent researches point.* When the secretion of a sebaceous follicle of the skin is minutely examined, it is found to consist entirely of epithelial particles containing the sebaceous matter, and more or less broken and compressed. These are similar to the particles lining the follicle, and are manifestly the same structures, detached and matted together. The secretion found in the tubules of the testis is chiefly composed of epithelial particles resembling those attached to the basement membrane of the tubules. Some of these are very perfect, others have undergone changes. It has been already stated that the seminal animalcules are most probably a development of some of these particles, not altogether different in its nature from that of the cilia found upon them in other situations. The secretion of an ordinary mucous follicle is likewise made up of epithelial particles resembling those still attached to the membrane. The thick, semi-fluid mucus found in the stomach has been shown by WASMANNf to consist of rounded nucleated particles, which both in size and shape correspond with those of the stomach tubules. This mucus may be even seen projecting from the cells into which these tubules discharge themselves, and no doubt can exist that the proper secretion of this organ is chiefly composed of the bulky epithelium thrown off by the tubules; a view corroborated by the fact.| that this mucous membrane, consisting almost solely of epithelium, when mixed with certain acids naturally existing in the gastric juice, evinces the same powers of dissolving alimentary substances as that wonderful menstruum itself. The same thing may be observed in the intestinal canal, where the adhesive mucus is little else than the aggregated epithelial caps of the villi, together with that which has escaped from the vertical tubes of the membrane. These facts may be always verified in a healthy animal just killed, and may thus be shown to be independent of any morbid action. The legitimate conclusion from them seems to be this: that the peculiar principles of these respective secretions are lodged in the epithelial particles; having been deposited there from the blood, in the natural course of development. In other words, the process of secretion in these cases consists in an assimilation of the material from the blood by an organized tissue, which, when fully developed, i« loosened and shed. This view, so captivating by its simplicity, has certainly much satisfactory * Ptjkkinje, ' Isis,' 1838, No. 7. Schwann, ' Froriep'snotiz.,' Feb., 1838. Henle, ' Miiller's Archiv,' 1838, pp. 104-8, 1839, p. 45 ; also ' Miiller's Pbys.,' by Balt, 2nd edit., vol. I, pp. 503-4. f ' De digestione nonimlla,' Berol., 1839. J ' Miiller's Arcliiv.,' 1836, p. 90. Schwann, ' iiber das Wesen des Verdauungsprozesses.' 2 g2