MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF resulting from these subdivisions are capillary in size, and consist of a simple, homogeneous, and transparent membrane. They dip into its interior at different points, and, after further twisting, reunite into a single small vessel, which varies in its size, being generally smaller, but in some situations larger, than the terminal twig of the artery. This vessel emerges between two of the primary divisions of the terminal twig of the artery, perforating the capsule close to that vessel, and, like it, adhering to this membrane as it passes through. It then enters the capillary plexus which surrounds the tortuous uriniferous tubes.* The tuft of vessels, thus formed, is a compact ball, the several parts of which are held together solely by their mutual interlacement, for there is no other tissue admitted into the capsule besides blood-vessels. It is subdivided into as many lobes as there are primary branches of the terminal twig or afferent vessel, and these lobes do not communicate, except at the root of the tuft. There are, therefore, deep clefts between them., which open when the lobes are not greatly distended with injection or blood. The surface of the tuft is everywhere unattached and free, and continuous with the opposed surfaces of the lobes. The whole circumference of every vessel composing the tuft, is also free, and lies loose in the cavity of the capsule. These circumstances cannot be seen in specimens gorged with injection, but only by careful examination of recent specimens with a power of 200 or 300 diameters. The vessels are so perfectly bare, that in no other situation in the body do the capillaries admit of being so satisfactorily studied. It is only where the tuft is large, as in Man and in the Horse, that its lobulated character can be always discerned. When the number of primary subdivisions of the afferent vessel is smaller, the detection of lobes is less easy. They may often be seen, however, in the Frog. In Birds and Eeptiles the afferent vessel seldom divides, but dilates, instead, into a pouch-like cavity, which, after taking two or three coils, contracts again, and becomes the efferent vessel. Here of course there are no lobes; but the surface of the whole dilated part is free. The basement membrane of the uriniferous tube, expanded over the Malpighian tuft to form its capsule, is a simple, homogeneous, and perfectly transparent membrane, in which no structure can be discovered. It is perforated, as before stated, by the afferent and efferent vessels, and is certainly not reflected over them. They are united to it at their point of transit, but in what precise manner I have not been able to determine. Opposite to this point is the orifice of the tube, the cavity of which is continuous with that of the capsule, generally by a constricted neck. I have specimens prepared with the double injection showing this continuity in Mammalia, Birds, Reptiles and Fish; and, in Mammalia and Eeptiles, I have obtained the still more * " Cseterum glomeruli ulterior conformatio in praastantissimis quamvis injectionibus non facile extricari potest. Videor tamen observasse arteriolam, quas glomerulo accedit, cirri adinstar dividi, unde tortuosa vascula oriuntur, quae ansis secum arete connectuntur et recurrunt. Sed hoc certum est, glomerulos libere in vesiculis contineri, nee ullibi, nisi uno in puncto, cum vesiculis cohasrere."—Muller, loc. cit., p. 101.