209 PECULIARITIES OP MUCOUS MEMBRANE. towards the folds of the eyelids,* where they gradually become prismatic, and along the tarsal borders clothed with cilia, so small as to be only recognisable a short time after death. The conjunctiva of the lower lid is very minutely villous. At the pharyngeal orifice of the glottis, the epithelium becomes ciliated and continues so along the trachea and bronchial ramifications as far as the air-cells, but, according to my own observations, the cilia there cease, and the epithelium changes its character to a remarkable variety of the glandular form. In the air-passages, as formerly described, the submucous areolar tissue presents a remarkable modification, and is closely joined to the perichondrium of the inner surface of the cartilages. It is worthy of remark that the glands with which the tracheal portion of the membrane is furnished, are not placed, like the buccal, duodenal, and other similar glands,-immediately subjacent to the mucous membrane, but on the posterior surface of the trachealis muscle, which is pierced by their ducts. This peculiar arrangement would seem to be accounted for by the deviation from the ordinary form which the submucous areolar tissue here presents, and which renders it ill adapted to give to these irregular-shaped bodies that loose investment which they everywhere possess, and which therefore appears necessary to them. The mucous lining of the whole alimentary canal below the cardia is the largest and best marked example of what I have termed the compound mucous membrane, being composed of vertical tubes which are truly glands, opening on the general surface. That of the small intestine presents villi also. This entire membrane is very soft and easily torn, because its chief mass consists of an epithelium, the particles of which adhere but slightly either to one another or to the basement membrane, and are everywhere disposed in a single layer. There is moreover scarcely any areolar tissue between its involutions, which have, therefore, little besides the vascular web to sustain them. The submucous areolar tissue is in considerable abundance between the mucous and the muscular coats. The lining membrane of the hepatic and pancreatic ducts is simple, and its epithelium of the prismatic variety. In the genito-urinary tract, the epithelium presents every variety. The fossa navicularis* is clothed with small, flat, or roundish scales, the rest of the urethra with a single series of prismatic particles. The cells of the prostate are lined with spheroidal epithelium, the vasa deferentia with prisms. In the vesiculse seminales there is a pavement of somewhat flattened granules, and also in Cowper's glands. In the bladder, ureters, and pelves of the kidneys, the epithelium is in the form of longish cells intermediate between the spheroidal and the prismatic varieties. The nymphse, clitoris, hymen, and vagina are covered with scaly epithelium, and this has been noticed by Henle in cases where the hymen has been entire. Within the neck of the uterus the epithelium becomes prismatic and clothed with cilia, and so continues over the surface of the uterus and Fallopian tubes, and even for some distance over the outer surface of their fimbriated extremities, Beyond this it merges gradually into the compressed * HliNLK, loc, fit.