THE SEBACEOUS AND CERUMINOUS GLANDS. 155 subdermoid tissue, according to their size. They are usually associated with the hairs, in the manner represented in fig. 92. They consist of a more or less capacious duct, generally branched, and terminating in blind, pouch-like extremities. The basement membrane of these glands is thicker than that of the sweat-glands, and is lined by an epithelium, in the particles of which are included granules of sebaceous matter. The terminal vesicles and the ducts are filled with an accumulation of this epithelium, which, having been detached from the walls, constitutes the secretion. On the deep or parenchymal surface of the basement membrane a web of capillar}' vessels is spread out. While speaking of the sebaceous glands, we must say a few words of a parasite so generally found in their ducts in many parts of the body, that it may almost be regarded as a denizen. This was recently discovered by Dr. Simon of Berlin,"1' and has been further described by Mr. WiLSON,t who speaks of two principal varieties of the Entozoa from the sebaceous follicles:— a, Two seen in their ordinary position in the orifice of one of the sebaceous follicles of the scalp, b, Short variety. c, Long variety. fig. 93. adult animal, chiefly distinguished by their length ; the one measuring from y-^oth to ^g-th, the other from xoo^1 *0 x^gth of an inch. He details several interesting parti- culars concerning their structure and development, for which we must refer to the original memoir. These singular animals " are found in almost every individual, and especially in those possessing a torpid skin, and they multiply in sickness. In living and healthy persons from one to three or four may be found in each follicle." We have represented them as we have found them in a sebaceous follicle of the scalp. (See fig. 93.) The ceruminous glands of the ear resemble in their structure those just described. They exist in great abundance in the skin of the cartilaginous part of the external meatus, and provide an adhesive secretion calculated to entangle particles of dust and small insects, and to prevent their access to the delicate membrane of the tympanum.^ * ' Miiller's Archiv.,' June, 1842. t 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1844. X In the sharks and rays there is a remarkable system of mucous tubes opening on the skin. These tubes are nearly as large as crow-quills, and of great length. They end by a blind extremity, to which a small nerve of the fifth pair is attached. y