72 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF vascular arrangement equivalent to a double valve. The capillaries of the tubes form a first great cul-de-sac, those of the Malpighian tufts a second, for these may both be described as great reservoirs, easily entered from the side of the arteries, but discharging themselves with great difficulty back again, or towards the arterial tree. If it be now considered that the network of the tubes, or the former and far the greater of these reservoirs, almost always retains much blood after death, and that the Malpighian reservoir is never without a considerable quantity, it will not be difficult to comprehend, why injection thrown into the veins reaches not to the Malpighian bodies, however well it may seem to load the capillaries of the tubes; for all the blood must first pass through the difficult channels that have been spoken of, and this it never can do completely. I suppose that this view of the subject, which is nothing more than a statement of facts, will be deemed a sufficient explanation, and that it will not be regarded as necessary to imagine the existence of real valves, in any part of the course of these small blood-vessels. I have never met with any appearance that could lend credibility to such a supposition, which, if true, would present an unique structure in the vascular system. Extravasation from the veins will sometimes reach the tubes, in consequence of a structure which will presently be explained. By the Tubes, the Malpighian bodies cannot be injected, nor, without extravasation, either the plexus surrounding the tubes, or the veins. Many anatomists have taken extreme pains to inject the tubes from the [pelvis of the kidney, by means of the air-pump, but never has a single Malpighian body been thus filled. This, it has been said, is a conclusive proof that the Malpighian bodies are not placed at the extremities of the tubes. But I think that if the real structure and relation of these parts be duly considered, this constant result will be allowed to be in the strictest accordance with the account I have delivered, and even a necessary effect of the anatomical disposition of the parts. To those who are acquainted with the practical difficulties of the injection of the ducts of glands in general, and especially of those which are very tortuous, the following considerations on this subject will probably appear conclusive. Even of the testis (where the tubes are far thicker and stronger in their coats, and much more capacious than in the kidney), there are not ten specimens than can be pronounced at all full, in the museums of Europe; and there is no evidence that, even in the best of these, the injected material has reached the very extremities of the tubes. In the kidney, the tubes are exceedingly tortuous after leaving the Malpighian bodies, and only become straight, in most animals, in proceeding towards the excretory channel to discharge themselves. The way towards their orifices is so free, in a