MR. BOWMAN" ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF 68 in the lobules of the liver, invests the terminal portions of the bile-ducts. Both these plexuses are supplied with blood by a portal vein, derived chiefly from the capillaries of distant organs, but in part from those of the artery of the respective organs themselves. The only difference seems to be, that, while, in the liver, the branches of the artery are entirely given to the larger blood-vessels, ducts, &c, in the kidney, a few only are so distributed, the greater number going through the Malpighian bodies, to perform an important and peculiar function. In both glands, however, all the blood of the artery eventually joins that of the portal vein. The emulgent vein of the kidney answers to the hepatic vein of the liver. The comparison between the hepatic and renal portal circulation may be thus drawn in more general terms. The portal system of the liver has a double source, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself: so, the portal system of the kidney, in the lower tribes, has a two-fold origin, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself. In both cases the extraneous source is the principal one, and the artery furnishing the internal source is very small. But in the kidney of the higher tribes, the portal system has only an internal source, and the artery supplying it is proportionally large. The above account appears to me to comprise whatever is most important in the anatomy of the blood-vessels and ducts of the kidney. My object in it has been to convey an idea of the physiological anatomy of the gland, and I have therefore omitted to mention (except where it suited my purpose) those rougher characters of the kidne}^ in the various classes, that result from varieties in the mode of aggregation of its several constituent parts. The principal of these are well known, and it would have diverted attention too much to delineate others, especially as such peculiarities are of trifling moment. The accompanying illustrations I have endeavoured to execute with scrupulous fidelity after nature. The injected specimens from which several of them are taken, are, with numerous others, in my possession, and those that can be examined only in a recent state, may usually be prepared with facility. I shall now state the results of my injections of the kidney of Man and the higher animals by the arteries, veins, and ducts, in order to show their accordance with the view I have given of the nature of the Malpighian bodies, and of the vascular apparatus of the organ. This may be also desirable for purposes of comparison with the statements of other anatomists (which, to avoid prolixity, I have not referred to in detail); and it will, besides, give a full opportunity of testing the correctness of my statements, to those inquirers who may be disposed to do so.* * It is worthy of notice, as showing both the difficulty of the subject and the uncertain state of our knowledge up to the present time, that Berres, the distinguished Professor of Vienna, in his recently published work on microscopical anatomy, maintains the existence of a direct inosculation of the uriniferous tubes with the capillary plexus surrounding them. After the description already given, I need hardly say, that this view seems to me, for many reasons, altogether untenable.