MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 21 Perhaps the most interesting conclusion deducible from the above Table, is the uniformity of the mean number of striae in a given space in the six divisions included in it. The next remarkable fact is, that in each division a great variety is observable in their number, not only in an average of all the examples examined, but in single specimens. And I may add, that this variety has been observed continually, both on contiguous fasciculi, and on the same fasciculus in different parts. I have not considered it requisite to detail the particulars of each observation. Of the Sarcolemma, or Tunic of the Primitive Fasciculus. I now proceed to give some account of a structure entering into the composition of all voluntary muscle, and which, though some imperfect notices of its existence are to be found in two or three authors, is not generally known, and has certainly never been demonstrated in that complete and definite manner which its importance seems to demand. I allude to a tubular membranaceous sheath of the most exquisite delicacy, investing every fasciculus from end to end, and isolating its fibrillse from all the surrounding structures. It is true that numerous writers have described a sheath to the primitive fasciculus; but that by this term is merely intended a production of that general sheath of filamentous tissue which invests the whole muscle and its lacerti, might be shown by a crowd of quotations/" Other sheaths are indeed mentioned, such as that of MANDL,t said to contain the strise, and to be composed of a coil of filamentous tissue ; but such a structure is entirely imaginary. Mr. Skey also speaks of the " tube of the fibre," but without any reference to the true sheath.J Muller alludes to it, however, in the following terms: " Each primitive fasciculus has a very delicate sheath, which can often be perceived, forming a transparent border to the fasciculus."ยง And I have lately met with a passage from an unpublished letter by M. Turpin, quoted by MandlIF, in which the author describes it as " a membranous aponeurotic tube, of extreme thinness, white, transparent, and finely puckered or folded crosswise, these folds being rigorously comparable to those, likewise transverse, which exist on the surface of the skin of leeches, when contracted." These folds are afterwards said to be removed by immersion for some days in water, as those of a piece of finely plaited linen would be. From which it seems probable that the author considers this sheath to be concerned in the production of the transverse striae. The illustrative sketch * For example, Leeuwenhoek, passim. Prochaska, De Caime Musculari, sect. i. cnp. in., Hi[/DEBrandt, Anatomie des Menschen von E. H. Weber, Band L, p. 388. Blainville, Cours de Physiologie, vol. ii., 1833, p. 311-14. Cruveilhier, Anat. Descriptive, torn, ii., p. 14. 'Mayo, Physiology,' 3rd edit., p. 31. f ' Traite Pratique du Microscope,' p. 75. I ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 377. ยง 'Physiology,' translated by Balt, p. 882. IF Read before the Academy of Sciences, December 12, 1831.