TUBULAR NERVE FIBRES. 131 The tubular membrane presents the same general characters wherever it is met with. But the white substance of Schwann exhibits much variety as regards its thickness in different parts of the nervous system. In the nerves it is more developed than in the centres; but even in the former it differs a good deal as to thickness. We find it most developed in the ordinary spinal nerves ; in those of pure sense it exists in small quantity. Both these elements of the tubular fibre evidently afford mechanical protection to the substance which forms its axis ; but doubtless one or both of them may have a further physiological office, in insulating the axis, and keeping it distinct from any interference with constituents of neighbouring fibres. The chemical composition of the white substance, being obviously different from that of the axis, sufficiently denotes a difference of function in these two portions of the nerve-tube. The axis cylinder of the nerve-tube, though in general soft and pulpy, is in some instances of firm texture, and when broken projects beyond the white substance. (Fig. 56, c.) It then occasionally exhibits a well-marked fibrous character, and may even split into filaments. Nerve-tubes of the common eel:—a, in water; the delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubular membrane; the dark, double-edged inner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b, the same in ether; several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube; the white substance has in part disappeared. Magnified 300 diameters. fig. 53. When the tubes are quite fresh, and have been but little disturbed by manipulation, their form is that of a perfect cylinder. Pressure, or separation, is apt to alter their shape by disturbing the position of the contained pulp, pushing more than is natural into some parts of the tube, and consequently diminishing the bulk of the contents in the adjacent parts; so that the latter collapse, whilst the former become distended, enlarged, and even varicose. (Fig- 52, b.) Nerve-tubes, that have been thus affected, sometimes present merely a slight waviness of one or both margins, but more frequently a series of distinct swellings or varicosities separated by con- stricted portions. These swellings are found at very irregular distances from each other, and vary extremely in shape and size. They are much more apt to form upon some nerve-tubes than upon others; and this is apparently owing to a feebleness of the tubular membrane, and perhaps, also, to a less degree of consistence of the contained nervous pulp. In the nerves of special sensation the tubes are very delicate in structure, and very apt to exhibit this change ; and in the fibres of the T