164 ON THE PRECISE SEAT OF TASTE. The simple papillae on the base of the tongue, and those clothing the circumvallate and fungiform papillae, do not appear to differ from one another in any important structural condition, notwithstanding their variety of outward form and arrangement in the compound organs: their epithelium, though of the scaly kind, is very thin, and would easily permit the transudation of sapid substances dissolved in the mucus of the mouth. The softer and perhaps cellulated interior of these papillae may have a further influence on the act of sensation. With regard to the use of the singular configuration of the circumvallate and fungiform papillae, it may be conjectured that the fissures and recesses about their base are designed to arrest on their passage small portions of the fluids in which the sapid materials are dissolved, and thus to detain them in contact with the most sensitive parts of the gustatory membrane. We may here allude to a certain gradation that is apparent from the papillae of touch, through those of taste, to the absorbing villi of the small intestines. Touch shades into taste, and at a lower point sensibility is lost. In the tactile papillae, the excitant of the nerves merely comes into contact with the exterior of a thick epidermic covering: in those of taste, the epithelium is permeated by the special excitant of the nerves; while the intestinal villi are still more elaborately and exclusively organised for absorption. Another class of papillae might be here spoken of in conjunction with those of taste, as will be seen at a future page. On the Precise Seat of Taste. Authors differ considerably on this subject: some limit it to the hinder part of the tongue, about the root and sides; some extend it more or less over the whole dorsal aspect and to the tip ; others describe it as existing also on the soft palate; while Magendie is of opinion that the pharynx, gums, and teeth, are likewise possessed of it. This contrariety, while it shows the difficulty of the subject, may be in some measure explained by the indefiniteness of tastes when faintly perceived by small portions of the surface, by the influence on taste of the commonly associated senses of touch and smell, by some diversities really existing in different individuals, and by the ambiguity necessarily attending experiments on special sensation among the lower animals. As the subject is interesting in its bearing on the question of the nerves of taste, we shall here briefly consider it. Touch, as it exists in the tongue and other highly endowed parts, discovers to us not merely the presence and physical properties of bodies, but their actual position: we recognise the situation of the impression in reference to the whole organ, by virtue of a power common in a greater or less degree to all sensitive nerves. Every one who has attended to the effect of sapid substances applied to small separate parts of the tongue must feel that a similar capacity of assigning the position of flavour