138 ABEOLAR FRAMEWORK OF THE SKIN. principally concerned in the changes the skin undergoes during the process of tanning. The varieties in the qualities of different skins for this purpose might be explained by a reference to these two varying elements of their fibrous framework. In the museum of King's College is a specimen of excellent leather tanned from the skin of Bishop, one of the murderers of the Italian boy, who fell a victim to the infamous system of " Burking " many years since. Some anatomists have thought that the contractility of the skin, manifested under the influence of cold, and even under certain emotions, is due to the existence of peculiar fibres; and Geeber has very recently figured what he considers to be such fibres. He describes them as begirting the hair-bulbs. There is good reason for believing that these fibres, if they exist, do not essentially differ from those of unstriped muscle ; for in the dartos we have found the latter intermingled with an abundant and lax areolar tissue; and the close resemblance between the contraction of the scrotal membrane and that of the skin has been generally recognised. In fact, the dartos seems to be nothing more than a modifi- Tellow fibrous element of the cutis of the axilla. Magnified 320 diameters. FIG. 77. cation of the dermoid and subdermoid tissue, of which the principal peculiarities are the excess of this form of muscle, the laxity of the meshes, and the absence of fat. It is probable, also, that the phenomenon of " erection" of the nipple is due to the contraction of similar fibres.* The thickness and strength of the cutis, or areolar framework of the skin, differ greatly in different parts, according to the amount of resistance required against internal or external pressure. On the hinder surface of the body it is denser than in front, and on the outer than on the inner surfaces of the limbs. It is usually thin over the flexures of the joints. It is particularly delicate on the eyelids, and proportionally so in some other situations, where great mobility is demanded. In regions which are most subject to external pressure, as the soles of the feet, it is" firmly united by very dense laminae to the subcutaneous fascia; and the intervals between these are provided with pellets of fat, forming a cushion, as an additional means of protection to the delicate organs it encloses and covers. Among the lower animals we may notice numberless examples of an analogous * ' Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.,' vol. iii., p. 518, Art. " Muscle." Vide infra.