88 NOTE BY SIR WILLIAM BOWMAN", 1891. Preface.—The work, which is now brought to a conclusion, was commenced in the year 1843, having been designed as a text-book for the lectures on General Anatomy and Physiology given in King's College, London. In its title, we adopted the term Physiological Anatomy, in preference to the older one of General, or the later one of Histological, as being more comprehensive than either, and as denoting precisely that kind of Anatomy, a knowledge of which is especially required for the investigation of those subjects which ought to come under consideration in a Physiological course. We proposed to ourselves to give such a view of the main facts and doctrines of Anatomy and Physiology, particularly of those bearing on practical Medicine and Surgery, as might suffice for the wants of the student and practitioner. Following that great master, Hallee, we were desirous of giving to Anatomy a greater degree of prominence than had been usual in Physiological works, under the conviction that a thorough training in its several branches, descriptive, physiological, and comparative, is necessary to the formation of those habits of mind which best fit their possessor for the successful investigation and the correct appreciation of physiological science. And we aimed at resting our anatomical descriptions, at least as regards the more important points, upon our own investigations, and at repeating former experiments, or devising new ones, whenever questions of sufficient interest presented themselves. While we must humbly confess how small have been the advances attributable to our own labours, the immense extension given to the Sciences of Anatomy and Physiology during the last fifteen years, may be admitted as some explanation of the delay that has occurred in the publication of our work, a delay that has been a constant source of regret to us, since we began to discover how impossible it would be for us to complete it within the term originally contemplated. That, in spite of repeated procrastination, it should have been so favourably received, both at home and abroad, has been the greatest encouragement to us, and demands our most thankful acknowledgments. If, indeed, our pursuits had tended to no other end than the cultivation of science, this book might have been finished long ago ; but the increasing interruptions incident to a professional life, and the large demands made on us by studies of a practical kind, began at an early period to impede our progress. These hindrances did not diminish as time wore on, nor were they lessened by the fact of the authorship being in the hands of two persons, however cordially united by common views and the ties of friendship, or by the necessity for frequent and prolonged conferences which that double authorship entailed. Such is the apology we have to offer for the tardy completion of our work. It will, we doubt not, be fully appreciated by candid men who know by experience how multifarious are the calls made upon those who not only are candidates for professional employment in London, but hold also the responsible position of public teachers in a large School and Hospital.* Were it not indeed for the kind and valuable co-operation of Dr. Beale, who is now the sole occupant of the Physiological Chair in King's College, we should not even yet have been released from our difficulties. Dr. Beale, knowing all our views, and having worked with us on many points, has given us very important assistance in drawing up the concluding chapters of our work. Our warmest thanks are due to our friend and colleague for the patient industry and admirable judgment with which, stepping out of his proper path of independent investigation, he has carried out our intentions, and enabled us, although at the eleventh hour, to fulfil our engagement to our pupils and the public. To our friend, Dr. H. Hyde Salter we are indebted for several excellent drawings, as well as for other valuable assistance. We desire also to express our thanks to Mr. Vaset for the skill and ability with which he has executed his portion of the task, that of engraving the drawings on wood. London, W. B.—E. B. T. December 1st, 1856. Dedication (1856).—To Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart., D.C.L., F.B.S., &c, &c, Corresponding Member of the Institute of France, Serjeant-Surgeon to the Queen, whose mind, early trained in Physiological Researches, has been devoted through a long life of eminent usefulness to the Practice and Improvement of the Healing Art, this work is dedicated by The Authors. W. B.] * [This will be explained by the title pages of the two volumes of 1845 and 1856. In 1845 Dr. Todd was "Physician to King's College Hospital" (of which he bad been a chief founder), and " Professor of Physiology in King's College London" : I was "Assistant Surgeon to King's College Hospital" (from its foundation in 1839) "and Demonstrator of Anatomy in King's College, London." In 185G Dr. Todd is seen to have relinquished his chair (after having parted witb one-half of its duties to myself during five years), retaining only his Physicianship to the Hospital, while I had become " Surgeon to King's College Hospital and the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital," and both of us (owing to the engrossing calls of practice) had become " late Professors of Physiology and General and Morbid Anatomy in King's College, London."]