94 COLOURING BONE BY MADDER. Haversian canals, so that the earlier systems of laminse are covered over by the more recent ones. This has been best proved by the experiments with madder. It was ascertained accidentally by Belchier that the rubia tinctorum, or madder, mixed with the food of pigs, imparted its red colour to their bones; and this circumstance has been ingeniously taken advantage of by several physiologists in the prosecution of researches on the growth of bone."" Duhamel, Hunter, and many others, have performed multiplied experiments of this kind. In the Museum of King's College are some good preparations of bones so acted upon. It is found that, in very young animals, a single day suffices to colour the entire skeleton, apparently in an uniform manner: in these there is no osseous material far from the vascular surface. But, if we make a transverse section of one of the long bones so treated, we observe the deepest, or even the only colour, to be really on the vascular surface; the Haversian canals are each encircled by a crimson ring. This beautiful illustration is due, as far as we know, to Mr. Tomes, who has long possessed some very elegant specimens prepared in this way. In full-grown animals the bones are very slowly tinged, because the great mass of the bone is not in contact with bloodvessels; each Haversian system, for example, has only its small innermost lamella in contact with them; and, besides, the osseous matter is altogether more consolidated and less permeable by fluids than at a very early period of life. In the bones of half-grown animals a part of the bone is nearly in the perfect condition, while a part is new and easily coloured. Hence, it is easy in them to distinguish the new from the old by means of madder. Now, madder given to half-grown animals colours the long bones most deeply in the interval between the shaft and extremities, and on the surface of the shaft. When madder is given at intervals, the tints in the bone are interrupted; the layers in course of formation during its administration are coloured, while those formed during the intervening periods are colourless. The long period during which bones retain the madder tinge, shows that the colouring matter is not readily resumed by the blood, from its combination with the phosphate of lime; and it seems also to indicate a sluggishness of the nutrient process in bone. Perhaps few questions have more divided the minds of physiologists than that regarding the share taken by the periosteum in the growth and regeneration of bone; for these last are essentially the same process. We now see that bone does not grow * The colouring of bone by madder results from an affinity of the colouring principle for the phosphate of lime. This opinion was distinctly broached by Haller ('El. Phys.,' t. viii., p. 329), and it was subsequently proved by Rutherford, who showed it experimentally. To an infusion of madder in distilled water add muriate of lime: no change takes place. Then add phosphate of soda in solution. By double elective affinity, phosphate of lime and muriate of soda are formed. The phosphate is insoluble, and subsides in union with the colouring matter as a crimson lake. When madder is given as food, its colouring principle is absorbed, and circulates with the blood; and it colours first that part of the bone which is in course of formation from that fluid, or which has been last formed, i.e., which ia nearest the vascular surface.