FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 219 to pronounce them very decidedly deceptive, I may state that hitherto my observations induce me to agree with Dr. Baly'* in his rejection of the interpretation put upon them by the German anatomists. A thin slice of a mass of the many-lobed terminal vesicles of one of these glands, especially if compressed, very readily assumes the aspect of a congeries of cells, each entirely surrounded by an envelope of basement membrane. But I have several times, in favourable sections, observed this membrane passing off into a neck, and becoming continuous with that of the duct. Such observations seem to me in a great measure conclusive on this subject; and I am strengthened in this view by the fact that the capsules of the Malpighian bodies of the kidney are now universally considered to be perfectly closed vesicles, whereas they are in reality the expanded wall of the duct, as I have lately shown by several kinds of proof.t But whatever may be the real fact in the matter under dispute, it is admitted by all that the epithelium is formed in enormous quantities, and is being continually thrown off; which is the circumstance chiefly intended to be insisted on at present. In the healthy bile also, in the urine, and in various other secretions, Dr. Henle has met with particles of epithelium detached from the excretory passages, and in different stages of decay. Turning to those two great emunctories, the liver and kidneys, in the secretions of which no trace of the epithelium of the secreting part of the organs can be detected, we might be disposed, on a slight consideration, to conclude the evidence they furnish to be unfavourable to the general position here advanced. We must, indeed, be content for the present to acknowledge that it is less plain and direct, and shrouded in our great ignorance concerning the play of chemical affinities in living bodies; but still it is too interesting and important to be passed over in silence. Though the epithelium of these organs be not detached entire, as in many other cases, there is much, in each instance, to explain the discrepancy consistently with the theory in question. I have described the lobules of the liver as consisting of a solid plexus of capillary bloodvessels, in the meshes of which is a congeries of epithelial particles. We possess no accurate account of the mode of termination of the biliary ducts ; but it seems clear, from the small meshes of the vascular plexus being completely filled by the epithelium, that no true ducts, i.e., tubes, penetrate the substance of the lobules ■ the tubular ducts probably commence on the surface of the lobules. The epithelium of the lobules is doubtless continuous with that of the ducts, but the cavity of the ducts and their basement membrane terminate at the surface of each lobule. Though the cavity of the ducts be not continued within the lobule, yet it is very possible that injection urged along the ducts might insinuate itself by the side of the epithelium into the interstices of the vascular plexus, and thus, like the epithelium itself, form a * Translation of' Miiller's Physiology,' p. 504. t ' Phil. Trans.,' 1842, Part I., p. 59.