EPITHELIUM. 193 which is quite distinct from the cuticle, and the great mass of that complicated structure to which the terms " cutis " and " dermis " are applied. A very strong reason for believing this membrane to be present in the skin, is the fact of its existence in those minute organs, so profusely scattered under the cutaneous surface, the sebaceous and sudoriferous glands. In fig. 277 I have represented it in a portion of one of the latter, taken from the axilla, where they are very large. These glands are nothing more than involutions of the external tegument, and correspond closely with the labial and allied glands connected with the ordinary mucous membranes. It is impossible to suppose that a structure attaining so marked a development in those parts, should be wanting in the general superficies with which they are, at numberless points, directly continuous. In other situations, where a simple expanse of mucous membrane is spread out upon a surface of the body, as in the oesophagus, pharynx, mouth, nose, and its A, transverse section ; B, side view of the interior, obtained by bringing the axis of the tubule into focus ; a a a, basement membrane; b b b, epithelium; c c, cavity of the tubule ; d, superficial epithelial particles ; e, deep epithelial particles; /, a detached superficial particle, showing the nucleus and pigmentary granules; g, its detached nucleus, with a nucleolus. FIG. 277.—PART OF THE TUBULE OF A SUDORIFEROUS GLAND FROM THE HUMAN AXILLA, MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. sinuses, vagina, bladder, &c. (from all of which, however, there are numerous prolonga- tions called follicles and glands, which show this structure well), a basement tissue such as that described has not been shown to exist. Its existence rests at present principally on analogy, and it is difficult to say whether it be not more or less modified. Certain of the peculiarities presented by these several parts depend on a modified form and greatly augmented mass of the epithelial element, but many also on varieties in the areolar and vascular tissues underlying the mucous tissue, and, properly speaking, forming no part of it. These will be treated of under the topographical description of the membrane. Of the Epithelium. A very brief period has elapsed since it was universally held that most mucous membranes wanted epithelium, and their analogy with the skin was only maintained in this particular by a fancied resemblance drawn between epidermis and mucus. One of the principal results of microscopic observation, conducted with the 2 d 2