31 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Figs. 48, 49, are taken from a specimen which has been kept some time in spirit, and which when first immersed did not display a single corpuscle. This fluid has not only rendered them more opaque, but has imparted to them a brown colour. In general, however, muscle that has been kept long in alcohol, shows no corpuscles. It is now well known through the researches of Valentin and Schwann, that the fasciculi of voluntary muscle, in the earliest stage of their development, consist of a series of nucleated cells, and that the nuclei continue visible during the period of foetal growth, while those changes are in progress, that terminate in the formation of the transverse striae. They have been supposed to be then absorbed, and it is certain that they do disappear, but I have found that they are only obscured by the growing striae that surround them, and that they are capable of being rendered evident by the same means which have been already shown to discover the corpuscles in the adult. These nuclei of the sarcogenic cells present the identical characters of the corpuscles of adult muscle, and that they are both the same structure, may be regarded as proved by their being met with at every intervening period without any intermission. In confirmation of this view, it is worthy of remark, that the arrangement of the corpuscles in the adult corresponds with their particular variety of disposition in the developing muscle of the same animal. In the larvae of several insects, in which both perfect and imperfect fasciculi may be examined at the same time, the row of central corpuscles is equally well marked in both when properly prepared. In an early stage of their development, the primitive fasciculi are often narrow flattened bands, and present bulgings at irregular distances, which depend on the existence of these bodies. It is interesting to notice how closely, in this state, they resemble in form, size, and structure, the adult condition of the muscle of organic life, which has for the first time been correctly represented and described, though in brief terms, by Dr. Baly, the able translator of Muller's Physiology. This is a fact which may hereafter prove important in the history of organic development. The similitude may be seen by a reference to figs. 56, 60, 66, where both kinds of fibre are delineated. The corpuscles of organic muscle are brought much more completely into view by treatment with acid (figs, 65, 67). . In conclusion, it may be observed, that in the course of my investigations into the minute structure of organs, I have noticed corpuscles of a similar character in the sarcolemma itself, in the coats of capillary blood-vessels, in the sheath of nerve, and in the substance of tendon, all of which I believe to be analogous, both in their origin and nature, with those now described; that is, they are the nuclei of cells from which these several structures have been originally developed. It is, however, not impossible, that in all these cases, there may be during development, and subsequently, a further and successive deposit of corpuscles, from which both growth and nutrition may take their source. In the case of muscle, indeed, this may be regarded as certain, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, relatively to the bulk of the fasciculi at these two epochs, remains nearly the same.