COLOUR OF THE HAIR. 150 circumference of these, and that beyond this series comes the cuticular lining of the follicle; so that the hair is neither covered nor underlaid by cuticle, but it is in fact the modified cuticle of the bottom of the follicle. A thin layer of papillary tissue probably coats the bottom of the follicle in most cases; and where the hairs are large, and especially where they serve principally as tactile organs, there may be a projection of a true papilla, furnished with nerves and capillaries, into the bulb of the hair, as is very conspicuous in the whiskers of some animals and in the quills of the porcupine. An approach to this papillary projection may be frequently seen in the hairs of man; but its real size appears to have been much o^er-rated, from the basement membrane having been overlooked. Where a papilla exists, the basement membrane is of course continued over it, and separates it from the true hair, which is never penetrated by either vessels or nerves. The sebaceous glands of. the skin very generally open into the hair follicles at a short distance from the surface. The hair follicle is fixed more or less firmly in its place, according to the size and stiffness of the hair, by the dermoid and subdermoid tissues uniting intimately with it on its deep or convex surface, where also are spread out the capillary vessels which furnish the materials of growth. These latter are adapted in number to the dimensions of the follicle. Thus the hairs, like the cuticle, are beautifully organised, and maintain a vital, though not a vascular, connexion with the body. Some evidence of their retaining a degree of vitality is found in the fact, first pointed out by Mandl, and verified in some instances by ourselves, that hairs have a tendency to become pointed after having been cut short off. The process is very slow, and seems to consist in a further condensation and elongation of the elementary cells at the new extremity. Well-authenticated instances have occurred, in which the hair has grown white in a single night, from the sudden influence of some depressing passion ; and some have held this circumstance a proof that fluids circulate through them. It seems most probable that this phenomenon results from the secretion, at the bulb, of some fluid— perhaps an acid, as Vauquelin supposes—which percolates the tissue of the hair, and chemically destroys the colouring matter. The ordinary grey hairs of age resemtle other hairs in every respect but colour, and the process of change from dark to grey seems to take place rapidly in each individual hair. According to Vauquelin, the colour of hair depends on the presence of a peculiar oil, which is of a sepia tint in dark hair, blood-red in red hair, and yellowish in fair hair. When extracted, as it may be by alcohol or ether, the hair is left of a greyish yellow. The colour is destroyed by chlorine, and probably otherwise resembles closely that of the cuticle in the dark races. The substance of hairs is similar in chemical composition to that of horn. After being softened by maceration in cold nitric acid, it is soluble in boiling water, and the solution after evaporation becomes a gelatinous mass on cooling. The horny matter is said to be distinguishable from coagulated