168 INTERACTION OF TOUCH, TASTE AND SMELL. a taste sometimes acid, sometimes saline, which lasts several seconds; and galvanism acts in a similar way. Any tasteless substance pressed upon the base of the tongue occasions a bitter sensation, and, if prolonged, a feeling of nausea. These phenomena show that the sensation of taste follows excitation of its nerves, however produced: and analogous ones have been observed in connexion with the other sensitive nerves. But sapid substances cause taste only when dissolved and made to permeate the tissue of the papillae, so as to come into contact with their nerves. This is proved by the fact that no insoluble substance admits of being tasted, and constitutes a broad distinction between taste and touch ; which in some respects approach each other very nearly, particularly in regard to the effects of strong chemical agents on their respective nerves, producing a harsh, pungent, burning taste or feel. Taste, like touch, is much influenced by the extent of surface acted on ; and it is also heightened by the motion and moderate pressure of the substance upon the gustatory membrane. By the latter movements, the mucus and outer layers of the epithelium are removed, and the sapid material is brought into closer contact with the papillge. The act of swallowing seems further necessary to the perfect appreciation of flavours. This is partly explained by considering how much the concurrent exercise of smell exalts the sense of taste. Most sapid substances, though in different degrees, affect the nose through the throat on being swallowed; and we are thus led to attribute to taste much of what is in reality due to smell. The nurse's device of holding the nose of the child in giving it disagreeable medicine, though commonly said to deaden taste, seems rather serviceable by excluding smell. Thus tested, taste is a less acute and definite sensation than most persons imagine. Nevertheless the difficulty of discriminating between the two senses indicates a real, though obscure, alliance between them, rendered closer by habit and association. The impression of cold air deadens the sense of taste, and has, we believe, been the source of some of the discordance in the recorded results of experiments. Cold acts similarly on touch. Do Taste and Touch Co-exist in any of the Papillai ? A papillary structure is, essentially, an arrangement for increasing the surface by which a membrane may have contact with external substances; and, while the analogy with the skin leaves no doubt that this structure in the tongue is concerned in the exquisite touch enjoyed by the organ, it is almost as certain that it is also concerned in taste. The question then arises whether touch and taste reside in the same papillae or in distinct ones. Now it is possible, as far as we know, that nerve-fibres of different endowments may be associated in the same papillae, and therefore that one and the same papilla