MARKINGS OF THE PALM. 139 kind. One of the most striking is that of the great whales, which, being liable to enormous pressure on the surface of their bodies, from the medium in which they live, are provided with a cutis of extraordinary toughness and density, as well as with a growth of subcutaneous fat, called blubber, of prodigious thickness. Fat occurs very generally in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, serving as a soft bed on which the skin may rest, and giving roundness and symmetry to the outline of the body. It is on the exterior surface of the cutis that the tactile papilla; are developed ; and it is here to be remarked that there is no necessary relation between the degree of their development, and of that either of the dermoid framework which supports, or the cuticle which covers them. It is true that in the palm and sole all these attain a large size, but, in the back, the tactile organ is well-nigh absent, though the cutis is dense ; and in the tongue, on the contrary, this organ is highly developed, while the areolar framework is nothing more than a very thin expansion; and the investment of cuticle Surface of the skin of the palm, showing the ridges, furrows, cross grooves, and orifices of the sweat- ducts. The scaly texture of the cuticle is indicated by the irregular lines on the surface. Magnified 20 diameters. fig. 78. is so thin that the papillae form separate projections from the surface. On the buccal surface of the lips and cheeks, too, the cuticle is comparatively thin. In all parts of the cutaneous surface, as well as in some portions of the internal mucous tracts, common sensation exists, attended with a feeble discriminating power, which must be regarded as the lowest condition of the sense of touch ; but the organ peculiarly fitted for receiving tactile impressions is concentrated in a very remarkable manner in certain portions of the integument, which in other respects, whether from the precise and varied movements they can perform, or from their peculiar position, are the best adapted to be inlets of this kind of sensation. The palmar surface of the hand and fingers, or the sole of the foot, may be selected for description, as presenting the most highly developed form of the organ of touch. The integument in these regions is finely and regularly furrowed by grooves, separated from one another by corresponding ridges. The direction of these grooves and ridges is various; they run in sweeping curves, frequently branch to adapt them- u