158 EPITHELIUM OF THE TONGUE. The epithelium of the tongue is of the scaty variety, and in this respect resembles the cuticle. Like the cuticle also, it undergoes certain modifications in its mode of aggregation in different localities. In general it is much thinner than in the skin, so that the intervals between the large papillae are not filled up by it, but each has a separate investment, from root to summit. The continuity of the epithelium over the whole organ admits of easy demonstration by maceration, or boiling, by which it is detached entire, bearing the print of the surface below, on which it has been moulded. The deeper epithelial particles may sometimes be detached as a separate sheet, corresponding to the so-called rete mucosum; but these particles never contain colouring matter. In animals which have the epithelium of the tongue much thicker than in Man, it admits of being separated with care into a great many layers, at the 1 ^. ^ -111 ,"%■,,) Tongue soon on its upper surface :—a, One of the Vjj circumvallate papilhe. b, One of the fungiform ' papillae. Numbers of the conical papillae are i . ' v-';r';^ seen about d and elsewhere, e, Glottis, epi- : . . . . , glottis, and glosso-epiglottideau folds of mucous ,7 ' ■ membrane.—From Scemmering. n FIG. 94. will of the anatomist. The density of the epithelium is evidently a provision to defend the invested structures from the bad effects of the pressure and friction to which they are exposed during mastication, and hence it is greatest about the middle of the upper surface of the organ. It is here that the " fur" usually accumulates most in disease, being, in fact, no other than a depraved and overabundant formation of the epithelium. Three principal varieties of papilla? are visible with the naked eye on the dorsal aspect of the tongue. These are (1) the circumvallate or calyciform, eight or ten in number, situated in a V-shaped line at the base of the organ (fig. 94, a); the fungiform, scattered over the surface, especially in front of the circumvallate, and about the sides and apex, b; and the conical or filiform, much the most numerous,