120 ZIGZAG HYPOTHESIS. instant, and the repose equally universal at the next; while, in the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles, contractions of certain parts of each fibre always co-exist with repose of other parts."" The contractions of voluntary muscles differ greatly from one another in duration, energy, and extent. Dr. Wollaston was of opinion that the phenomenon of the muscular sound affords a proof that the duration of a muscle's contraction depends on the application to it of a succession of distinct impulses; and this idea, according- very nearly, as it does, with the later evidence of observation, appears, on the whole, the most satisfactory that has been advanced on this abstruse subject. He also thought that the intensity of a contraction corresponds with the rapidity with which these impulses are transmitted to it • and this likewise may be, in part, true. But there is, in addition to this, in all probability, a difference in the intensity of the stimulus itself in different cases, producing a difference in the size of each wave, a difference in the amount of contractile energy exerted in each, and a difference in the rapidity with which the waves oscillate along the fibre. The extent of the contraction (the duration and intensity being the same) will manifestly depend on the amount of the length of the fibre which is contracted at once; but we are ignorant whether this variation in amount is effected by a variety in the number of waves, or in the extent of the fibre engaged by each of them. In describing the white fibrous tissue, we remarked the facility with which its fibres are thrown into a wavy or zigzag course when their ends are brought near together. The same thing occurs in the nerves, and may be observed in almost any flexible non-elastic cord. The muscular fibre easily assumes this zigzag course, when its ends are approximated by any other force than its own contractility. It may thus be at any time thrown into zigzags, long after it is quite dead, and has lost all its contractility ; and, in general, such zigzags occur at pretty regular intervals, deter- mined by the force employed and the flexibility of the tissue ; and, when several fibres are lying in contact, their zigzags usually correspond. Now, such zigzags have been frequently observed in the living fibre, of course accompanied with an approximation of its extremities; and some physiologists, mistaking the effect for the cause, have concluded the zigzags to have occasioned the shortening. Dr. Hales, and, long after him, Peevost and Dumas, examined this appearance in the flat abdominal muscle of a Frog, laid on glass, and made to contract by a galvanic shock; and, noticing that the angles of the zigzags corresponded in many places with the transit of nerves across the fibres, they concluded that an electrical current, passing from one to the other, occasioned the flexion of the fibres at the points of contact. This hypothesis, when first proposed, attracted great regard, from its appearance * By tlie expression " universal at one instant," we do not mean ahsolutely so; for observation, and the presence of the muscular sound both declare that the contraction, even of the heart, though so apparently momentary, is progressive.