18 MB. BDW.VIAN ON" THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND mutilation which may have an influence on the form it may seem to possess. This source of ambiguity is such as to dispose me to receive with considerable hesitation the representations of primitive fibrilla? furnished by authors ; and the few observations which here follow on this subject are offered with great diffidence. Muller describes the fibrilla? as presenting " a regular succession of bead-like enlargements, which are somewhat darker than the very short constrictions which intervene between them."'* Dr. Schwann, as quoted by the same eminent physiologist, gives a similar account, while Mr. Skey considers the " light to be the elevated stria?, and the dark intervening lines the depressions ;" but with respect to the relative width of the dark and light spaces and stria?, it seems to be agreed that the dark are the narrower. In my examina- tion of the several parts, I have been led to imagine a fallacy to lie in supposing any absolute diversity in their colour. They appear to be rather an effect of a difference in form, or probably sometimes in density alone, between the alternate points of the fibriHa?. There does not seem to be anything in their appearance at variance with such a supposition, since if a rod of glass formed out of beads be held to the light, the beads are distinguished by dark circumferences, and by broad dark bands between them, which will vary with the inclination of their surfaces and the length of the intervening spaces, and would besides be much assisted if the connecting portions were of a less refractive material. Moreover, if two such rods be placed in contact, bead to bead, one behind the other, and then regarded between the observer and the light, the dark circumferences of the beads, at the margin of the rod, will be found to have vanished, the intervening bands being reduced to transverse lines or septa, or, in a word, the elements of stria?. I have had an instrument of this sort constructed, which may be regarded as a very imperfect model of a primitive fasciculus, and which is evidence of an interesting kind that the fibriilse are beaded, and the stria? formed in the manner here above contended font The light and dark points of the fibrilke are capable of being reversed by varying the focus, which shows that they are an appearance occasioned by refraction, the phenomena being precisely those presented by the beaded vibrio, which they often nearly resemble in form as well as size. On tie whole, little doubt remains on my mind that the fibrilla? consist of a succession of solid segments or beads, connected by intervals generally narrower, and I believe the beads to be the light, the intervals the dark, spaces, when the fibril is in exact focus. Considerable variety is to be met with in the relative size of these two parts, but generally they are nearly alike. When there is a difference, it is commonly in favour of the light. In the accompanying sketches of various specimens of fibrillse, it will be .seen that the segments are by no means all of one form. In the new-born Eabbit they present the oval figure, the long diameter of each being in some examples parallel to the fibrillse, in others oblique. The stria? formed by these last are also seen (fig. 10). In the Chameleon the same thing is observed (fig. 14). In the ocular muscle of a fish, there is an appearance of the beads overlapping, and of a lozenge shape (fig. 11). In * ' Physiology,' translated by Bat.y, p. 879. t [These glass rods I still possess.—W.B.]