MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 24 the same size as the beads of the fibrillse, and here and there passing gradually into them, convinced Fontana,* and afterwards Schwann,^ of their true composition. Sometimes, by accidental violence, a recent fasciculus may be reduced to a pulpy mass, in which fragments retaining their striae are strewn in confusion, while the sheath may remain uninjured, and preserve all these parts from falling asunder (figs. 37, 38). But there is another method by which the existence and some of the properties of the sarcolemma may be demonstrated. This depends on the fact that its contents swell considerably when subjected to the action of several fluids, especially acids and alkalies. Phosphoric, tartaric, and citric acids, and potash, are what I have employed most commonly. The sheath dilates at first, but soon grows tense; the effect of which on the fibrilla3 is, that they emerge at its open extremity, where the fasciculus has been broken off, and there swell in diameter ; or if their union is but slight, expand in all directions into a roundish mass or button. Occasionally, in thus emerging, they curl back upon itself the rim of the sarcolemma, which then is seen to grasp them still more tightly (see fig. 47 a a). But if this vent be insufficient, and especially if the fragment be long, so that its ends cannot be reached soon enough, the over-distended membrane gives way, bursting at detached points, and allowing the escape of the contents. The hernias thus formed (figs. 39, 40) admit of easy and close scrutiny by the microscope. They are very peculiar, and curiously illustrate the account I have given of the internal structure of the fasciculus. The fibriilas are not broken, but protrude sideways in loops more or less decided. ISTor is the adhesion by which they are mutually held together dissolved ; although, as all are not alike distorted from their true position, it is so far disturbed, that the striae no longer possess their usual characteristics. The segments of the protruded fibrillse ceasing to form transverse lines, are yet deranged with so much regularity of gradation, that other series of lines are produced, of very beautiful curvatures, not unlike, in general characters, the appearance of engine-turned chasing, though less uniform, and undergoing the most varied changes with every alteration of the focus. These elegant curves are seen all through the protruding mass, and clearly demonstrate the manner in which the true striae are composed. The mode in which the sarcolemma gives way is worthy of particular attention. The rupture having taken place, does not extend in any one direction more readily than in another, but only enlarges so much as to give a bare passage to such fibrillse as force their escape, and generally remains so small as considerably to constrict the base of the hernia. The hernias are usually, therefore, several in number, each consisting only of a few fibrillae, and the opening in the sheath assumes a round or oval figure. From this circumstance, no small degree of toughness may be attributed to the sarcolemma. So extreme is the thinness and transparency of this membrane, that it is difficult to form any decided opinion as to its structure ; but it would seem not improbably to consist of a very close and intricate interweaving of threads, far too minute for separate recognition. * 1 Sur le Yenin de la Vipere,' p. 229. f ' Miiller's Physiology,' by Baly, p. 880.