267 PASSIVE AND ACTIVE CONTRACTION". that passive contraction is attended by a movement absolutely uniform throughout the whole mass of an elementary fibre or of a muscle. In Active Contraction.—The case is far otherwise in active contraction, as may now be considered proved by a considerable body of evidence. It might be argued, prior to direct proof, that active contraction, being the answer to a stimulus, must be partial, at least at its commencement, since no stimulus can be applied at the same instant to every particle of a muscle. Certain features of the contractions witnessed in fragments removed from the body, and examined in water under the microscope, have a close bearing on the present question. It has been already said that such contractions are uniformly partial; but they present two further varieties, either remaining in the part where they first occur, or leaving it as they engage others in the neighbourhood. The accidental circumstances under which the fragments are placed explain these varieties. In the former case the fragments are free to move; their ends approach in proportion to the amount of contraction, and as there is no force to extend them again when the contractile force ceases to be manifested in them, and advances to fresh parts, the contraction has the appearance of being permanent. In the latter case, certain parts of the fibre (as its broken extremities) are fixed more or less firmly, so as to offer a resistance to the contraction that takes place, this resistance enabling the contractile force advancing to new parts to obliterate the traces of contraction in the parts in which it is subsiding, by stretching them. The ends usually become fixed in con- sequence of their being the first to thicken from contraction and from their thus receiving the pressure of the lamina of mica or glass with which it is requisite to cover the object, and they are the first to contract, because irritated both by being broken and also by the water, which is absorbed soonest where the sheath is deficient. This fixing of the ends brings the fibres in question nearly into the condition under which they exist in the living body, where it has already been explained that there is always a resistance to be overcome in active contraction. This particular variety of the phenomenon, therefore, deserves special study. Those animals whose muscles are most tenacious of their contractility are the best suited for examination, and among these the young Crab or Lobster may be most easily obtained. In an elementary fibre from the claw, laid out on glass, and then covered with a wet lamina of mica, the following phenomena are always to be observed. Th*e ends become first contracted and fixed. Then contractions commence at isolated spots along the margin of the fibre, which they cause to bulge. At first they only engage a very limited amount of the mass, spreading into its interior equally in all directions, and being marked by a close approximation of the transverse stripes. These contractions pull upon the remainder of the fibre only in the direction of its length, so that along its edge the transverse stripes in the intervals are very much widened and distorted. These contractions are never stationary, but oscillate from end to end, relinquishing on the one hand what they gain on the other. When they are numerous along the same