144 THE EPIDERMIS. experiments afterwards to be detailed, that the individual nervous tubules are wider asunder, and occupy each a more extensive surface than in parts thickly set with papillse. The cuticle, or epidermis (fig. 83, a), like the cutis, varies greatly in its thickness. As its chief use is that of affording protection, it attains most density on parts most exposed to pressure and friction, as the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands. In the same parts, too, it varies with the amount of pressure to which it is subjected at different times ; whence the hard hands of the artisan, compared with those of persons who have spent their time in gentler occupations. This increase in thickness probably results from the mechanical stimulus applied to the capillaries of the part. But, in whatever manner it may admit of explanation, there is scarcely a more striking instance of that inherent power which the body possesses of adapting itself to varied external circumstances, than this one presented by the human cuticle. a, Section of the skin of the heel, treated with weak solution of potass:—a, Basement membrane of papilla, b, Layer of nucleated cells resting on the basement membrane, c, Several succeeding layers, partially dissolved and their nuclei gone. d, Higher layers, not affected by the menstruum. e, Elastic fibrous tissue of the papilla, v, Its capillary vessel. B, A similar specimen, treated with strong solution of potass :—a, e, and v, as in A. The layer i is wanting, having been dissolved, c, Converted into a gelatinous mass with striae, d, Unaffected. The more external layers of the epidermic scales are not represented in these figures. Magnified 150 diameters. pig. 84. This investment is not permeated by either vessels or nerves, but consists solely of a congeries of nucleated particles, arranged in numerous superimposed laminaa, and united together by an intervening substance in very small quantity. Those particles that lie deepest, and rest immediately on the cutis, are little more than small granules, scattered in a homogeneous matrix, which serves to unite them together. Those of the next layers are rounded cells, consisting of a transparent membrane, in which similar granules, but somewhat larger in size, are visible. In the succeeding layers these cells are more and more compressed as they are nearer to the surface; and on the surface they are so flattened, that their opposite surfaces are in contact, and adhere, forming mere scales, in which the nucleus remains. The diameter of the deep particles is about 3-0Votn inch, and of the superficial ones eiTo^1 inch. We know that the superficial scales are being continually shed in small lamelli-