AREOLAR TISSUE OF GLANDS. 205 extremities; and they are much longer and slenderer than the prismatic epithelium. With their nature and use I am at present quite unacquainted. The lungs seem mainly to owe their extraordinary elasticity to the yellow fibrous element of their submucous areolar tissue. This is spread in great abundance under the whole surface, and much predominates over the white. In the trachea and bronchia it is besides largely developed in longitudinal bands visible through the mucous membrane. In the whole of this region its fibrils take a general longitudinal direction, but branch and inosculate at very frequent intervals, enclosing areolas of small dimensions. But this element does not cease with the tubes ; it is prolonged in the form of branching, arching bands over the basement membrane of the air-cells which it renders elastic and firmly supports. Where mucous membranes are not destined to move on the parts they cover, the areolar tissue beneatli them is very scanty. This is the case in the nasal cavities, even in the portions furnished with a great substratum of bloodvessels. But where much motion is required, as where a muscular lamina underlies the mucous, and the enclosed cavity is liable to vary in its dimensions, the areolar tissue is copious, and very similar in its elements and in the size of its interstices to the ordinary forms. Examples of this are seen in the whole alimentary tract. But it is under the cutaneous part of the mucous system that this tissue assumes its highest development. Elsewhere its object is to promote freedom of movement, or to confer elasticity. Here it answers both these purposes, and in addition gives a great capacity of resistance against external pressure and violence. The former end is attained by the structure called subcutaneous fascia, which is a large quantity of this tissue in its ordinary form. The two latter are effected by that more condensed part to which the term of cutis has been given. This last is the structure to which the submucous areolar tissue of the intestinal canal mainly corresponds, as may be shown by an examination of the submucous tissue of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus, which holds an intermediate place. To describe its modifications in different situations would be to encroach too much on the province of another article, and a few general remarks must here suffice. The framework of the cutis may be said to consist entirely of a modified form of the areolar tissue. Both elements are enormously developed, but especially the yellow fibrous one. The fibriUse of this are thicker than elsewhere, and branch and inosculate with great freedom, enclosing interstices open on all sides, and giving passage to the wavy bands of the white fibrous element as well as to vessels, nerves, the ducts of the sweat-glands, the sebaceous glands, and the roots of the hairs. These interstices are in general very close, but they vary with the size of the parts which occupy them. On the deep surface of the cutis the yellow fibrous element changes gradually into that of the subcutaneous fascia, or that of ordinary areolar tissue. It cannot be doubted that the skin chiefly owes its elasticity and toughness to this remarkable development of the yellow fibrous element.