74 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF the surface, but undue or ill-regulated pressure almost inevitably occasions it. Having once entered a small vein, through however small an opening, it soon diffuses itself through the veins, and the capillaries surrounding the tubes, rather than along the tubes, for the reasons above stated ; and, if the organ be then cut to pieces and examined, these vessels seemed filled, without extravasation; the tubes are also more or less filled with the same colour; and the two structures are so intricately interlaced as to wear the aspect, especially if dried, of one continuous network. The point of extravasation escapes observation, and hence the fallacy of imagining a continuity between the veins or their capillaries, and the tubes. Some distinguished anatomists have held that the tubes end in a plexiform manner, and have stated themselves to have unequivocally seen this arrangement in injected specimens. I am induced to believe this opinion to be founded on deceptive appearances; either such as that above mentioned, or that occasioned by the over- lapping of injected tubes. Others have considered the tubes to terminate in free blind extremities unconnected with the Malpighian bodies, and have likewise rested their opinion on the appearances of injected specimens, as well as on those of recent ones. 1 As the injection always stops short of the real extremities of the tubes (the Malpighian bodies), it must necessarily show apparent free extremities—and others may be produced by the section requisite for the examination of the part. As for the false appearances presented by recent specimens, they are obviously referable to the sudden bending down of a tube behind the part turned to the observer. In a mass composed of convolutions, many such must continually occur ; and their real nature may be easily determined by the use of a high power and varying focus. Other anatomists, aware of this last fallacy, and failing to find either a free inosculation of the tubes in the form of a plexus, or a termination of them in the Malpighian bodies, have rested in the conclusion that the curves of the convoluted part are the looped junctions of different tubes. It is obvious that this conclusion is a deduction drawn from the apparent absence of any other mode of termination, and must be relinquished now that the tubes are shown to end in the Malpighian bodies. The foregoing account has been drawn principally from my observations on the kidneys of Mammalia, but it is intended to embrace the chief points in the anatomy of the Malpighian bodies in all the Vertebrate tribes. In all these I have ascertained the Malpighian body to consist of the dilated extremity of the uriniferous tube, with a small mass of blood-vessels inserted into it. But in the several orders of animals there are various modifications that merit notice. The most considerable of these regard the size of the Malpighian bodies, in connection with which are others in the mode of division of the arterial twig. The following Table exhibits this variety in their size, in a few species, and subjoined to each measurement, is that of the tube soon after its emergence. It will be Been that the tubes differ far less than the Malpighian bodies.