202 LACTEAL AND LYMPHATIC VESSELS. that clothing the tubes that open at their base. In this latter I have observed the diameter to be as small as that of the capillaries of the salivary glands, which do not exceed the width of a blood globule. This disparity is another confirmation of the opinion that the villi are chiefly absorbing, and the tubes secreting organs. Many other varieties might be enumerated, but these are among the most remarkable. Under most of the compound mucous membranes bloodvessels are spread out in great profusion, and especially in certain localities. The arteries and veins respectively form plane plexuses, more or less close, more or less intricate, from which emerge branches that pass between the foldings of the simple membrane and communicate with its capillaries, already described. There may even be a series of these arterial and venous plexuses situated one over another, and successively springing out of one another. The effect of this arrangement of an arterial network on one side of the capillaries, and a venous network on the other side, is that the blood, besides being delayed in their neighbourhood, is most freely and equably distributed in the capillaries themselves : a condition which could scarcely be otherwise accomplished, since, in the case of a villous membrane at least, the capillaries form a series of isolated systems, of which one belongs to each villus. The arrangement now spoken of exists in the sub- mucous aerolar tissue of the stomach and intestinal canal, and in most parts of the skin. In the solid glands, where the capillaries form one continuous system, such arterial and venous networks are not found. At least such inosculations, when they exist, are few and rare. In the stomach of many fishes there is a plexus of great thickness under the mucous membrane. In the nose also, chiefly on the spongy bones and septum, there is a plexus of very large veins well known to anatomists, and also a less capacious arterial plexus; smaller ones are met with in other parts, as the cheeks and lips, the palate and pharynx. The use of these, especially that of the nose, may be to serve as a diverticulum for the blood in cerebral congestions. These are the vessels that give way in ordinary epistaxis. Of the Lacteal and Lymphatic Vessels. The lacteals have their sole origin from a plexus underlying the simple mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, and it is probable that in every part of the skin a close network exists, such as has bepn described by several anatomists. Considering the means hitherto at command for ascertaining the precise position of this network, it is not wonderful that disputes should have arisen as to whether it lies in the rete Malpighii, or within the surface of the dermis. I would hazard the opinion that the real situation of this plexus is underneath the basement membrane which is everywhere present in the skin.