243 THE SARCOLEMMA. and, thirdly, that from its apparent similarity in structure to the membrane of the nervous tubules, which run among the fibres, and between which and the proper contractile tissue it seems certainly to intervene, as well as from its extensive contact and union with the surface of the contractile tissue, it may be the conducting medium of that influence, whose mode of propagation the late discovery of the loop-like 9 a, Ovum, b, Worms in slow motion. FIG. 296. TRICHINAE WITHIN THE SARCOLEMMA, FROM WHICH ALL THE CONTRACTILE MATERIAL HAD DISAPPEARED. FROM AN EEL. termination of the nerves in muscle has hitherto only seemed to render more inexplicable than ever. 8. Of the Extremities of the Elementary Fibres, and their Attachment to other Structures.—Every fibre is fixed to fibrous tissue, or to something analogous to it; but an accurate examination of this difficult subject gives no countenance to the ordinarily received opinion that this tissue is prolonged over the whole fibre from end to end, as its cellular sheath; nor is this view reconcilable with the physical requirements of the case. After many trials I have never succeeded in isolating a muscular fibre with FIG. 297.—EXTREMITY OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE, FROM THE SKATE (RAIA BATt's), SHOWING ITS ATTACHMENT TO TENDON. the tendinous fibrillse pertaining to it, in either Mammalia or Birds ; but this may be occasionally accomplished in Fishes, and in certain muscles of Insects. In these examples the minute detachment of the fibrous tissue may be seen to pass and become attached to the truncated extremity of the fibre. The fibre ends by a perfect disc, and with the whole surface of this disc the tendon is connected and continuous. (See fig. 297.) The sarcolemma ceases abruptly at the circumference of the terminal disc, and here some small part of the tendinous material appears to be joined to it. The same disposition may be well seen in the legs of certain Insects. (See fig. 293.) In _other cases, where the muscle is fixed obliquely to a membranous surface, each fibre