FUNCTIONS OP THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 218 evidence in its favour, and it may, at least, be regarded as sufficiently established to constitute a strong presumption in favour of the general position, that all secretion is primarily assimilation. That the epithelial particles, when their growth is completed, should detach themselves in a more or less entire state, in all cases, from the membrane to which they have adhered, cannot be supposed essential to this general position, and even the total absence of any vestiges of these particles from any particular secretion would scarcely form a valid argument against it. For at present we know of no reason why the assimilated material should not be gradually given up by a slow disintegration or deliquescence of the particles, or even by a continual separation of it without a concomitant destruction of the particles themselves. But in numerous instances besides those that have been mentioned, there is more or less direct evidence of an actual shedding and continual renovation of the epithelium. The scaly variety of this tissue, whether on skin or mucous membranes, is a wide-spread example of this: the particles may be observed to augment in size by the intus-susception of new material from the blood, afterwards to undergo a slow loss of substance, and, finally, to lose their connection with the body altogether. They retain their position till nothing but the nucleus and cell- membrane remain, till they are reduced, as it were, to a mere skeleton. How the material thus separated from the body is to be distinguished from a secretion, it would not be easy to decide. In the saliva of the mouth, are present, not only detached scales, but globular nucleated particles, of a very delicate aspect and regular character, which seem manifestly to come from the salivary glands. They differ in some respects from the epithelium of these organs, but appear most probably to be particles of it altered by endosmose of the water of the secretion through the cell- membrane ; for the ultimate vesicles and ducts of these glands are not merely lined, but filled, with epithelial particles, which, being thrown off from the basement membrane, must in due time escape to make room for the advancing series: and yet none of them in an unaltered state are found in the saliva. I may in this place refer to an opinion recently entertained in Germany, that the secreting membrane of certain glands is arranged in the form of closed vesicles filled with nucleated particles, which, from time to time, are discharged, as the secretion, by the bursting of the cell in which they are contained. Henle* conceives that this arrangement exists in the mammary, salivary, and lachrymal glands, as well as in almost every mucous membrane, however apparently plain and simple. WASMANNf has described a similar structure in the middle part of the stomach of the pig. This view of the existence of closed vesicles is obviously at variance with the general view before given of the universal continuity of the simple membrane of the mucous system. I am familiar with many of the appearances on which it is founded, and without presuming * ' Muller's Archiv.,' 1839, p. xlv. f ' De digestione nonnulla,' Berol, 1839.