204 AREOLAR TISSUE OF GLANDS. examined in water, but their discrimination is made easy by a trifling artifice. This consists in adding a drop of acetic acid, which instantly swells the white bands, and makes them transparent, but produces no change in the yellow fibrils. These effects of the acid may be watched, if the agent be made to spread gradually over the specimen ; and there can scarcely be conceived a more beautiful example of the aid chemistry will afford anatomy than that presented in the course of this interesting process.* The change produced in the white bands is such as to show very clearly that they are not truly fasciculi, or aggregations of fibrillse. The action of the acid on these two elements is identical with that produced on the two tissues to which I have shown them to be anatomically allied. To these two elements of areolar tissue are to be attributed physical properties similar to those of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and these will vary greatly in different situations, according to the proportion and mode of arrangement under which the two elements co-exist. Of the Areolar Tissue of Glands. There appears to be a very prevalent misconception with regard to the quantity of this tissue found in the interior of the large glands, as the liver and kidney. It is imagined that it penetrates into every interstice, mingles with the capillary rete, and envelopes the ultimate secreting tubules. It is, however, impossible in the most recent specimen of these organs to discover anything answering to this description. All that can usually be detected is a small quantity accompanying the larger vessels in their course within the organ, and forming septa between its coarse subdivisions. And it would be difficult to suppose a purpose which a more abundant supply could subserve. The capillary network and the secreting tubules by their mutual and intricate interlacement sufficiently sustain one another; no freedom of motion is required between them ; there is no force tending to separate them. I am far from saying, however, that the ultimate substance of these glands consists only of simple mucous membrane and bloodvessels. In the interstices of these there are probably nerves and lymphatics, of the mode of termination of which we know nothing, but which seem much fewer than is commonly supposed. There is also more or less of an interstitial amorphous substance, hereafter to be described. In these glands, and in the substance of many compound mucous membranes, there are to be seen here and there small bodies not unlike cellular tissue in an early stage of its development. They have a bulging nucleus from which they taper to the * In the case of the dai'tos, this procedure detects not only what has just been described, but a third element, bitherto in this situation quite confounded with areolar tissue. This is nan-striated muscle, at once known by its being loaded with corpuscles, or persistent cell-nuclei. See ' Muscle.'