140 UNDER SURFACE OF CUTICLE. selves to the inequalities of the general surface, and differ somewhat in width and distinctness. These lines indicate the arrangement and development of the tactile organ below. Each ridge is produced by a single or double row of elongated conical processes, termed papillse, projecting from the surface of the cutis into the epidermis. The grooves are occasioned by the epidermis sinking in to occupy the intervals between the rows of papillae. The papillse in each row are usually arranged in pairs, the intervals between which are indicated on the outer surface by corresponding minute and very shallow grooves, crossing the tops of the ridges more or less at right angles. Each pair of papillse thus occupies a little division of the ridge. In the centre of each cross line, between the pairs of papillse is observed the orifice of a sweat-duct (shortly to be noticed), which often is so large as to destroy the linear character of the Under - surface of the cuticle, de- tached by maceration from the palm ; showing the double rows of depressions in which the papillse have been lodged, with the hard epithelium lining the sudoriferous ducts in their course through the cutis. Some of these are contorted at the end, where they have entered the sweat- gland. Magnified 30 diameters. fig. 79. cross groove. In a square inch of the palm we may generally count rather more than forty rows of papillse, and in each row rather more than sixty pairs of them. In the natural state the papillse are intimately united at all points of their surface to the epidermis which invests them. By a slight maceration this union may be so loosened that the two structures may be readily separated from one another. In gradually tearing off the epidermis, the foregoing account of the arrangement of the papillse may be fully verified with the aid of a pocket lens. They are seen to form a close pile on the surface of the chorion, each one being lodged in a separate cavity in the deep surface of the cuticle. The papillse are not equal in size, but frequently a small one is joined with a large one: and the clefts left between them, by the-removal of the epidermis, are unequal likewise; those between the rows being deepest, and those between the individuals of a pair being commonly shallower than those between the pairs. This subordination corresponds (though not accurately in degree) with that