95 REPARATION OF BONE. on its exterior from the periosteum being there ; and that the only part this membrane takes in the deposit of new bone is by the vascular network mingled with its fibrous tissue, and which does not differ from that on other portions of the osseous surface. The limited expansibility of the bone already formed is the remote cause to which the growth by new deposit on the exterior is to be referred; and, in this respect, the superficial growth is strictly analogous to the exogenous mode of growth in vegetable structures. A third mode in which increase of size is provided for, appears to be by the dilatation of the primary cancelli and Haversian canals in the central parts of the bone. In early life the cancelli are small, and there is no medullary cavity. Gradually the cancelli enlarge, and those within the shaft blend more and more with one another, by the removal to a greater or less extent of the intervening osseous walls, until at length a medullary canal is formed, around which the cancelli are very open, large, and irregular. This augmentation of the vascular cavities of bone is attended with a development of adipose vesicles and their capillaries in the new space, while the proper vessels of the osseous tissue remain pretty much as before. The fat contained in the medullary canal gradually accumulates so much, that a special artery becomes enlarged to supply it, assuming the very inappropriate title of " the nutrient artery of the bone." Duhamel placed a ring of silver round a bone of a young Pigeon, without injuring the periosteum. After some time, during which the bone had increased in diameter, he found the ring within the medullary canal, which had acquired a capacity equal to the previous diameter of the whole shaft. This enlargement of the diameter of a long bone by the dilatation of its interior, is attended by two consequences, equally important. The shell of compact tissue is thus adapted to offer greater resistance to injurious mechanical forces, while the disadvantage of a corresponding increase of weight is obviated. Reparation of Bone. The great importance of this subject to the surgeon has led to many very interest- ing researches from the time of Duhamel to the present day, and by these the several steps of the process by which new bone is deposited have been ably elucidated in all that relates to their more obvious characters. When a fracture occurs, blood is, of course, effused into the wound, both from the ruptured vessels of the bone itself, and from those of the surrounding structures participating in the injury. At a short period subsequently, a semi-transparent lymph is found mingled with the coagulum, and covering the surfaces of the hard and soft parts exposed. This lymph in all probability is the same as that by which the adhesive process in other wounds is effected. In the second and third weeks a gradual condensation of this takes place,