213 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. particles. The basement membrane is very delicate. The capillary vessels encircle the vesicles, and are comparatively few in number, whence the pale colour of these glands. The areolar tissue forms capsules for those aggregations of vesicles, termed lobules, but does not penetrate between the individual vesicles. The mammary glands derive their extreme denseness and toughness, as well as their white colour, principally from the areolar tissue, in which the proper glandular membrane is enclosed. This tissue penetrates more abundantly between the minuter subdivisions of the gland than is observed in any other instance. It thus affords support, at the same time that it permits and facilitates movement of one part of the organ on another. It is also of such a nature as to readily allow of distension during lactation. General outline of the functions of the Mucous System. By its external anatomical position, this system is subservient to four great functions: the reception of impressions from without, the defence of the body from external injurious influences, the absorption of foreign particles, and the separation of such as are for any reason to be eliminated. It may almost be said to be the peculiar seat of these functions, which, however, are distributed in a very unequal manner over its different regions. Reception of external impressions. The skin and mucous membranes appear everywhere fitted by their nervous supply to receive impressions, which, being conveyed to the nervous centre, may there excite a reflexion of stimulus along motor nerves, without the intervention of consciousness. Common sensation, or that which in its most exalted form becomes touch, exists in all parts of the cutaneous surface, within the mouth, for some distance within the nostrils, and (with the exception of the pharynx and oesophagus) in general wherever the epithelium is of the true scaly variety. Where the sense of touch is most perfect, the simple membrane is observed to be involuted into the form of papilla? for the purpose of crowding a larger number of nervous loops into a given space. Taste and smell, which are nearly allied to touch, are the other special senses of which the mucous system is the seat. The sensations of hunger and thirst seem also referrible to this tissue.