xxii PREFATORY MEMOIR. the " lightest and yet the most enquiring" of all those under whose care he had placed himself. Another who knew him well said of him that one of his most striking characteristics was the power he possessed of concentrating his thoughts for the time on the one subject he was investigating. When iridectomy and tension of the eye engaged his attention, he thought of nothing else, and so with conical cornea and detachment of the retina. He never had more than one subject in his mind at one time, but he worked that one thoroughly out; and so with his patients. Though delicate and fragile both in form and feature, an appearance well rendered in the portraits affixed to these volumes, he was able to endure much work, and rarely suffered from any disturbance of health with the exception of occasional headaches, and in later years slight attacks of sciatica. Without being an ascetic, he was abstemious in his habits, eating little and drinking less. He was an early riser and a non-smoker. He had a clear idea of the relative value of the different branches of know- ledge associated with medicine, and recognised the futility of any endeavour on the part of the student to make himself a profound chemist, botanist, or physiologist, believing that such an attempt necessarily leads to the neglect of the practical subjects which are the occasion for which these foundation sciences are studied. No one knew better than he that " ex libris nemo evasit artifex," the scene of the labours of the student, was, in his opinion, at the bedside of the patient. He strongly recommended the cultivation of the habit of thinking, and carried into practice what he taught. From the beginning to the end of his life he held his profession in high esteem, and believed that to excel in it was worthy of enduring effort. He was an excellent man of business, and made a good chairman, possessing great weight, and a quite exceptional power of swaying the opinions of men to his own way of thinking. His support was, therefore, of great importance to those who were candi- dates for any office, and in effecting changes in the organisation of the institutions to which he belonged. One of his last, if not his last, written utterance is to be found in the graceful