60 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF injected from the arteries, is true, though in a different sense from that in which they understood it. Schumlansky,* some years afterwards, entertained more complete views of the connection between these bodies and the uriniferous tubes, and he has even given an ideal diagram of this connection, which shows that he had a very clear con- ception of the fact. From a considerable error, however, in the proportion of these bodies to the tubes (represented in his figure), it has been suggested that his descrip- tion could not have been drawn from nature; a censure that seems to have been little merited. HuscHKEf and MulleeJ are the only modern anatomists who have entered at length into this question, and they both deny that there is any connection between the Malpighian bodies and the uriniferous ducts. The assertions of Muller, in par- ticular, are so positive, and are reiterated in so pointed a manner, that nothing but the most clear demonstration of their erroneous nature would have induced me to uphold an opposite opinion.^ I was led to the examination of these bodies in the course of an inquiry into the , ultimate structure of the true glands, in which I have been engaged for the last two years.|| I had frequently injected them from the arter}^ but had never inspected them under high powers of the microscope, until they arrested my atten- tion while examining the structure of the uriniferous tubes. These tubes consist of an external tunic of transparent homogeneous tissue (which I have termed the basement membrane), lined by epithelium. The Malpighian bodies I saw to be a rounded mass of minute vessels invested by a cyst or capsule^" of precisely similar appearance to the basement membrane of the tubes. Seeing these similar tissues in such close proximity, it was not easy to resist the conviction that the capsule was the basement membrane of the tubes expanded over the vessels, but, after many trials, I could not at that time succeed in gaining an unequivocal view of their continuity. All that I could accomplish was to perceive here and * SCHUMLANSKY, 0J3. cit. t Hcjschke Ueber die Textur der Nieren. Isis, 1828, p. 561. X Joh. Muller, de Glandularum secementium structura, penitiori. Lipsias, 1830, lib. x. § Huschke says (quoted by Muller), "These corpuscles (Malpighian bodies) are without any connection with the uriniferous ducts. For these most distinctly terminate by free blind extremities, while the Malpighian bodies, everywhere scattered in the interstices of the tortuous uriniferous ducts, are only connected with the blood-vessels."-—Muller, loc. cit., p. 87. Muller says, "Attamen certissimum est, ex vasis sanguiferis, ductus uriniferos plane nunquam usquam repleri, massamque injectam ne quidem laceratione in tubulos uriniferos prorumpere," op. cit., p. 98. " Fines ductuum uriniferorum in corpora Malpighiana desinere, certissime falsa assertio est," p. 95. "Falsissiina est opinio de connexu ullo quopiam inter corpora Malpighiana sanguifera, et ductuum uriniferorum fines," p. 95. And other passages equally strong might be quoted. || Art. "Mucous Membrane," 'Cyc. Anat.'—W.B. •([ First particularly pointed out by Muller, who conceives it to be perfectly closed, except at one point where perforated by the vessels.