151 THE HAIRS HYGROMETRIC. albumen or fibrine by its being readily soluble in caustic fixed alkalies, but not in caustic ammonia. The ashes of hair amount, according to Yauquelin, to one and a half per cent, of its weight, and contain oxide of iron, a trace of oxide of manganese, of sulphate, phosphate, and carbonate of lime, and of silica. Black hair contains most iron, and light hair least.* Hairs, when dry and warm, are easily rendered electrical. They readily attract moisture from the atmosphere, and no doubt from the body also, yielding it again by evaporation, if the air be dry. When moist, they elongate considerably ; a property which Saussuee took advantage of in the construction of his hygrometer, in which a human hair, by its elongation and shortening in moisture and dryness, is made to turn a delicate index. The shape of the hairs in different situations offers some variety. In general, they taper towards their free end. Those of the head are often not cylindrical, but com- pressed on one or both sides, so that their transverse section is reniform or oval. The eyebrows and eyelashes taper towards both exlremities. Hairs also vary in being lank or woolly, permanent or deciduous. The frizzled hair of the negro is one of his Vertical section of the skin and sweat-glands of the axilla:—a, Layer of glands with their ducts transversing b, the cutis and cuticle, c, Small hair. d, d, Portions of larger hairs. Magnified one and a balf diameters. fig. 89. most remarkable characteristics, but has all the essential structural characters of the hairs of the other races. The diseased condition called plica Polonica is a matting together of the hairs, from the effusion of a glutinous matter, probably from the cutaneous glands. It is said that hairs so affected bleed, if cut close to the skin. This, if true, may result from a morbid elongation of the vascular papillae at their roots. In the whiskers of large animals these papillse are so long, that they are cut and bled if the whiskers are shaved off. In some regions of the skin it appears certain that a lymphatic network exists immediately under the surface of the cutis, probably under its basement membrane. Mercury injected into this network through a puncture in the cuticle passes readily into the neighbouring lymphatic trunks, and removal of the cuticle does not injure its meshes. These circumstances may be observed in the penis, scrotum, and nipple : but it is probable that the network sometimes exhibited by this procedure in other parts of the skin, is a fallacious appearance due to the. mercury having insinuated itself between the cutis and cuticle, in the furrows at the base of the papillary structure; * Bali's ' Muller,' pp. 421—5, quoted from Beuzulius.