BASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE 190 so delicate, its presence or absence in any fragment of a separate tubule may always be ascertained by the aspect of the marginal outline ; if this be linear and well-defined, the basement membrane is present, but if irregular and broken, the epithelium only. (Fig. 273, a b.) It sometimes happens that when the epithelium may seem to be altogether detached, the basement membrane retains, scattered evenly over its surface and at some distance apart, a number of roundish marks, of the size and aspect of the nuclei of epithelium particles. These are most probably the early condition of the new or advancing series of these particles. Its thickness in the kidney certainly does not exceed the ^oooo^h °f an English inch. I have discovered that in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney, which are the dilated extremities of the uriniferous ducts, with an enclosed tuft of arterial capillaries, the basement membrane is often, to some extent, naturally bare, i.e., without a covering of epithelium. This is the only situation of the body in which such an arrangement is known. In the testis, the same membrane may be shown without difficulty to be that which gives to its secreting tubules their peculiar strength; and here, as might be The basement membrane is seen at a a a, where the epithelium has been a little detached. FIG. 275.—TERMINAL VESICLES OF THE PANCREAS OF THE DOG, MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. expected, it is somewhat modified. The difference is principally as regards its thickness, which here reaches to o~o otn °f an English inch, and in some animals even exceeds that amount, its essential characters, however, remaining the same. In the larger tubes, emerging from the gland, this tunic becomes gradually invested by a delicate fibrous layer, by which the vascular network is attached to it, and which at first sight may appear to form an integrant part of the wall of the canal. In the salivary and all the allied glands, the basement membrane admits of being easily demonstrated. A very thin slice of the fresh organ should be torn by needles, gently washed, and inspected under a high power. The terminal vesicles of the duct will then be brought into view and their outline seen to be perfectly sharp and linear. (Fig. 275, a a a). In parts where the epithelium which they contain has been loosened, the basement membrane will be left in relief. It is of extreme delicacy ; and, as in all other situations, its capillary plexus (when well filled with coloured material) may be seen ramifying, not in its substance (for its tenuity renders such a disposition impossible), but on its parenchymal surface. I have sought in vain for the basement membrane in the lobules of the liver, and