93 GROWTH OF BONE. be completely ossified, its particles are in constant course of change, during which the most important and extensive alterations of size and figure take place in a slow and gradual manner. Thus the layers first deposited on the inner surface of the early cancelli are pushed out by the succeeding ones, and also acquire a concomitant augmentation of mass; and as, in general terms, the number of lacunas in bone is proportioned to its amount [mass], the early layers most likely increase by a growth and ossification of cells in their own substance, even for long after they have been pushed away from the vascular surface, and supplanted by the more recent ones. Thus, though bone grows chiefly by layers formed in succession on its vascular surface, yet it also grows in an interstitial manner after being originally deposited. It is in this way only that we can explain the great expansion which the primary intercellular osseous network must undergo, to form that which intervenes between the Haversian systems. Bone when first formed, then, is disposed as an expanded surface, variously and complexly involuted, and which soon becomes covered with vessels. This is the foundation for its subsequent vascularity, and is the source also of that active power of internal growth, which has been long a theme of admiration with physiologists. But the expansion of bone once deposited is limited. We before observed that no part of the osseous tissue was at more than a certain minute distance from the vascular surface; and that, if it were so, its nutrition could not be suitably carried on. Now, if more than a certain number of lamina? of new bone were laid down the earlier ones would be pushed too far from the supply of blood; and hence the limitation we have spoken of. But it is necessary for bone to grow much more between the commencement of ossification and the adult age than this limitation appears to allow of; and here we come upon an admirable provision to meet this apparent difficulty. In the first place, a most important process of growth is continually going on in the cartilage, especially near the ossifying surface, by the multiplication of the cells; and, in the latter situation, by the increase in their dimensions, occasioning that separation of their nuclei, already described (p. 89, and fig. 30, c). In the long bones this takes place chiefly in the longitudinal direction, which is that in which growth is most active; and it continues till adult age. This fact has been long ascertained, though its real purpose appears to have been overlooked. Hales and Hunter both inserted metallic substances along the shaft of a growing bone, in a young animal, at a certain distance apart; and found, after an interval of time, that the distance between them remained the same, or nearly so, while the extremities of the bone were much further apart: thus proving that the principal growth had taken place near the extremities. Secondly, bones increase in dimension by an accession of new osseous substance on their exterior; this new substance consisting not merely of new laminse, but of new systems of laminae, and of new involutions of the vascular surface to form new o 2