RECTILINEAR CROSS MARKINGS. 101 see the semblance of spirals in almost infinite number and variety. The former of these appearances is most seen in large fibres, and where great care has been used not to drag the tissue ; the latter under the reverse circumstances. The former seems on a prima facie view an unmutilated, the latter a deranged, condition; and they may be proved to be so by a further examination. For this purpose we should make choice of a fresh fibre which is prone to separate into its individual fibrillge, and which exhibits their outline in the greatest distinctness and beauty.*5" If fibrillge entirely isolated be now inspected, they will be found to present alternate light and dark points, when the part is a little out of focus. The light points are the centres of highly refracting particles, acting as lenses; the dark points, the intervals between them (fig. 37, c"). If now the focus be carefully adjusted, and the achromatic condenser be employed for the purpose of defining the outline with the utmost precision, each dark interspace between the refracting points will be found to be reduced to two very slender straight lines, crossing the fibrilla in a perfectly transverse direction, and giving the light spaces, as now seen, a rectangular figure (fig. 37, c). Now, it is absolutely certain that no spiral arrangement could produce, or even co-exist with, these unequivocal appearances; but it is not difficult to comprehend how a derangement of the lateral parallelism of these refracting particles should produce an appearance of spirals in the fibre, or how two fibrillge running together, but with their particles slightly deranged, should wear the same very deceptive aspect. In Plate XVI, fig. 16, is represented the border of some fibres, from which several of the sarcous elements have been removed accidentally by maceration in weak spirit. The remaining ones project in lateral series, evincing their adhesion to one another in that direction, and the non-existence of any spiral arrangement. The size of the particles composing the fibre may be measured in one direction by the transverse stripes formed by their union. The following average, deduced from numerous observations, shows great uni- formity in this respect. No. of English Inch. Observations. In tlie Human subject Woo 27 „ Mammalia generally Toioo J-5 „ Birds xoioo 7 „ Reptiles rTi^ 7 Fish i 20 „ Insects 8 In the opposite direction, or that marked by the distance between the longi- tudinal dark lines of the fibre, their diameter is less, often by one half. It is important * The fibres of fishes will generally prove better than those of mammalia, because they usually cleave into fibrillse having very sharp and clear outlines; and those of the salmon, for example, will seldom fail to do so. p 2