INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 233 same animal, but generally the pectoral muscles are very dark. The most deeply coloured muscle .1 have seen was the great pectoral muscle of the Teal (Querquedula crecca), killed after migration. In Mammalia the colour is ordinarily red, being deeper in the Carnivora than in the vegetable feeders. Among the domestic animals many varieties exist, which need not be specially enumerated. A considerable part of the colouring matter is extracted by repeated washing of a muscle, which then becomes pale, but not quite colourless; some part of the loss of colour here sustained is doubtless owing to the solution of the heematosine of the blood contained in it. A muscle, if hypertrophied, grows redder, and vice versa; and probably the practice of bleeding calves some days before they are killed, makes their flesh more pale and tender, by causing the absorption of a portion of the proper colouring matter of the fibres, as well as by abstracting the blood circulating among them. 5. Internal Structure.—Though the elementary fibres of all animals are visible to the naked eye, and in some animals, as the Skate (Raia batis), are often as thick as a small pin, nothing of their internal organization can be distinguished without the aid of a powerful lens. There is indeed, in certain lights, a splendid pearly iridescence, resulting from the arrangement of their structure, and quite characteristic among the soft tissues; but this is not explained till a high power of the microscope is brought to bear upon the fibres. They are then seen, when viewed on the side, to be marked by innumerable alternate dark and light lines, whose delicacy and regularity nothing can surpass, and which take a parallel direction across them; and if the focus be altered so as to penetrate the fibre, they are found to be present within it just as on its surface, thus differing from those on the tracheae of insects, which exist only at the surface. At the extreme border of the fibre the light lines are sometimes seen to project a trifling degree more than the dark ones, thus giving a slight scallop, or regular indentation, to the edge. It often happens, in tearing the fibres roughly with needles before examination, that they crack across, or give way entirely, along one or several of these dark lines, the line of fracture or cleavage running more or less completely through the fibre in a plane at right angles with its axis; and occasionally two or more of such complete cleavages will occur close together, the result of which is the separation of so many plates or discs (fig. 287, b), of which the light lines at the surface are the edges, and the corresponding light lines seen within are what may be termed the focal sections. Thus it is evident that there is a tendency in the mass of the fibre to separate, when torn or pulled after death, along the transverse planes, of which the dark transverse stripes are the edges. When such a separation takes place, a series of discs result, but to say that the fibre is a mere pile of discs is incorrect, for the discs are only formed by its disintegration. Nevertheless they are marked out, and their number and form are imprinted, in the very structure of the fibre, in its perfect state. {See figs. 287 and 288.) But again, it always happens that longitudinal lines, more or less continuous and parallel, according to the integrity of the fibre and the strength and distinctness of the 2 i 2