285 THE PACINIAN BODIES. out in a network with five or six-sided meshes, the sides of which are everywhere formed by a single tubule with double contour of the same diameter and structure as the tubules of the trunk of the nerve. If this network is supplied from several different tubules, these tubules must be described as inosculating to form it; if from a single tubule, this must be regarded as again and again branching dichotomously, and the branches repeatedly anastomosing. Whichever be correct, the existence of a true network of ultimate nerve-tubes with double contour is certainly a fact of much importance, and hitherto unique; and it appears to be satisfactorily established by the repeated accurate observations of Savi. The series of superposed membranes in the prisms of the electrical organs may have an analogy with the concentric capsules of the Pacinian bodies. Their separation by intervening fluid is another point of resemblance. But in their relation to the nerves they are quite unlike. In the one, each membrane has a plane network of nervous tubules in its substance; in the other a single nerve-fibre is placed in the axis of a series of concentric membranes. The condition of the nerves is also different. In the one the white substance of Schwann everywhere invests the nerve; in the other it is suddenly lost on entering the central capsule. The branching of the nerve-tubes in the electrical organ has a correspondence with the frequent tendency of the pale fibre of the Pacinian corpuscle to divide into two or more parts. On the whole, perhaps, the comparison may suffice to raise the question, whether the Pacinian corpuscles may not be organs designed to generate some kind of force, which the nervous communication with the centres may serve to connect either with volition or some emotional impulse or feeling.'" There is another set of organs, however, in the electric Torj)edo, the discovery of which we owe to Savi, and which bear a closer resemblance to the Pacinian corpuscles than the electric organs themselves. These are what he terms the follicular nervous apparatus, and which I shall briefly describe nearly in his own words.t " This apparatus is found bordering the anterior part of the mouth and nostrils, and extends over the surface of the anterior part of the electrical organs, and over the front half of their outer edge, where it rests upon the cartilage and aponeurotic coverings of the fin. Some parts of the apparatus are found on the back, but the greater portion on the ventral surface of the animal. It consists of extensive linear series of follicles, or closed membranous cells with double walls filled with a gelatinous fluid, and enclosing a small amorphous granular mass, which nearly resembles the amorphous grey matter of the cerebral hemispheres. A nervous branch gives some fibres to this granular mass, while other similar fibres united into bundles pass out of the follicle, penetrate the grey mass of the adjoining follicle, and mingle with its nerve. * Henle and K5lliker endeavoured to elicit evidence of an electric discharge from the Pacinian bodies of the Cat's abdomen, bat without success, t Op. tit;, p. 332.