247 MODE OF AGGREGATION OF ELEMENTARY FIBRES. fact, to the condition of a perfect muscle, which is itself included in an envelope of areolar tissue. Their angles are thus rounded in consequence of the greater quantity of areolar tissue, and of the larger size of the vessels and nerves that occupy their intervals. For the same reason the elementary fibres themselves are less sharply angular, when very small, as in birds, because the vessels accompanying them are proportionally more abundant, and occupy more space in their intervals. The arrangement of the elementary fibres into these packets has received more attention than its importance deserves, and anatomists have endeavoured to affix definite names (fasciculi, lacerti, &c.) to certain sizes of them. But no division of this kind is to be found in nature. It may be safely said that packets of every possible bulk exist from the simple set of two or three fibres, to those of many thousands, these last being subdivided with the greatest irregularity. And it is only in muscles possessed of some thickness that any such package in sets is to be met with. The abdominal plane muscles, which contain such an arrangement in the larger animals, are, in the smallest, composed of a single unbroken layer of elementary fibres. A similar diversity exists between muscles of different size and shape in the same animal. In the gluteus maximus, which is liable to pressure and change of position from its peculiar situation, the fibres are made up into lacerti, about one-quarter of an inch thick, surrounded with a dense areolar sheath, and attached loosely to one another; while the glutei situated underneath are, like the psoas, unprovided with such dense septa of areolar tissue, and seem more uniform throughout. From these and many other considerations which might be adduced, it may be clearly seen that the mere aggregation of the elementary fibres in a muscle into larger or smaller sets, is determined solely by its own peculiar circumstances and exigencies, and is not of a nature to demand particular description in so general an account as the present. The direction of the elementary fibres of voluntary muscles is usually straight, between their points of attachment, which are always some form of the fibrous tissue. This tissue may be so arranged as that the sets of muscular fibres passing from it, may be either parallel or oblique to one another, but the fibres forming any one set are generally placed in a parallel series. If the fibrous tissue form a laminar expansion on the surface of a muscle, the muscular fibres pass off from it obliquely, either to a similar expansion on the opposite surface or to a tendon. If they arise from an extensive surface of bone (i.e. of periosteum) they conduct themselves in a similar fashion, and also if they pass from a line of tendon or of bone. In all these cases the muscle may be styled penniforn. If a thread or sheet of fibrous tissue dip into the interior of a muscle, it gives origin to the muscular fibres on both sides, and they diverge from it obliquely: such a muscle is styled doubly penniform. When several such sheets enter the muscle at both extremities, and give attachment to the fibres obliquely placed in the intervals, the muscle is styled compound penniform, as the deltoid. 2 L