MOVEMENTS OP VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 13 being the faintest, are only here and there apparent.* The fibrillar, however, are in general readily spread abroad at the extremity of a fasciculus, and there uniformly, when not too much injured or obliquely overlapping each other, present the markings well defined. Indeed, some of the most beautifully marked fibrillae that I have seen have been such as I now speak of, hanging out from the end of a fasciculus taken from one of these fishes. In these also, as in other animals, I have frequently by accident obtained a view of the interior of a fasciculus, and observed every fibrilla to be marked. By maceration it is not difficult to obtain the fibrillae entirely detached, and in these the correctness of Mr. Skey's remark may seem at first sight to be partially borne out, for in many of them it is impossible to detect any appearance of a marked structure. In many others, on the contrary, this structure is evident enough • and by attention to the mode and degree of illumination, I have frequently succeeded in discerning the regular markings, though very faint, on fibrils which appeared before to be decidedly cylindrical. The fact seems to be, that in these fishes the distinction between the light and dark points is not so clear as in most other cases; and their colour being at the same time very light, the extreme tenuity of the ultimate fibrillar does not always allow of their showing individually the markings, which are visible enough when in juxtaposition with one another. It may, therefore, be concluded that they form no exception to the general fact, that all the fibrillae of voluntary muscle possess the markings which we are now considering. Secondly, the fasciculi are not tubular, but consist of a true bundle of fibrillar. In the preceding observations a certain amount of proof has been offered in illustration of this point; it having been shown that accidental wounds frequently display the interior of the more bulky fasciculi, and demonstrate their composition by fibrillse j but as many persons are apt to be sceptical as to the credibility of the results of researches of this naiure, with whatever uniformity obtained, it is necessary as well as interesting to corroborate every observation by others, in which the same structure is brought into view under a variety of aspects. In a subsequent part of this paper some circumstances will be mentioned, relating to the effects produced on the fasciculi by the presence of chemical agents, which are only explicable on the present supposition, but as it would be premature to introduce them here, the same thing may now be proved in another way. It is easy for any one to satisfy himself that the fasciculi are not tubes, by the most decisive of all methods, the making a transverse section; and it is strange that an operation so simple, which was practised both by Leeuwenhoek and PrtocHASKAt should have escaped the attention of some later inquirers. Such a section never presents the slightest appearance of any central cavity. I had made several * These appearances, though in a less degree, are not uncommonly seen in disturbed fasciculi of the muscles of other animals, and they are undoubtedly very deceptive. t Prochaska gives a figure of a transverse section of fasciculi in which the extremities of the fibrillae are seen.