28 MR. BOWMAN ON" THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND but, owing to want of time, a strict search, was not made. Having previously examined minutely several recent examples of the Trichina spiralis, the well-known microscopic entozoon of voluntary muscle, the analogy in form, size, and situation, between that and the one now described, at once struck me ; but the following points of difference will be immediately perceived. The Trichina spiralis lies in the cellular membrane among the fasciculi, always external to the sarcolemma, occupying a cell formed around it by the vital actions of the creature which it infests. Moreover, it is always solitary. On the other hand, this internal Trichina being within the sarcolemma, is entirely unconnected with vascular or cellular parts, is not confined by a cyst, but by the unaltered sheath, and it is gregarious. No artificial method of preparation could more convincingly have proved the toughness and comparative indestructibility of the sarcolemma, than this remarkable morbid condition, accidentally met with. I have ascertained the existence of the sarcolemma in Insects, Crustacea, Fish, Eeptiles, Birds, and Mammalia, and have so seldom failed to demonstrate it at pleasure in any of these classes, that I assume it to be an essential part of the composition of the fasciculi in all animals belonging to them. In some, it is more readily made apparent than in others, and by different methods of procedure, but by one or all of the modes of demonstration above enumerated, there is abundant evidence of its existence in all. The elevation of it by water, pressed out during contraction, may be witnessed in all these classes without exception. In the human subject the sarcolemma is formed as early as the period of birth (fig. 30). The striae are then strongly marked, and the fasciculi are in such a state of development as to be capable of performing motions of considerable extent. Prom this early epoch I have traced this structure at various ages, and in both sexes, to old age, when the atrophy of the muscles has often seemed to render it more easy of detection. It also remains in muscles wasted by disease or inactivity at other periods of life, and no difference has appeared to occur in it, whether the specimens examined were flaccid or firm, pale or dark-coloured. In Birds an exceedingly delicate sarcolemma may be occasionally seen connecting the broken ends of a fasciculus, but it is rare to discern any contraction under the microscope in fasciculi inspected even instantly after death, so quickly does their irritability cease; and where vesicles are discovered they are small and transparent, and would be apt to pass unnoticed unless specially sought for. What may be connected with this circumstance is that the fibrillse show a great proneness to fall asunder in this class, their adhesion to one another being but slight; the transverse striee are often much deranged by dark irregular longitudinal streaks, and in a transverse section, as already seen, the fibrillas are shown more isolated and distinct than in any other examples. In Insects I have repeatedly seen the sarcolemma raised from the surface of the fibrillse, where they were undergoing contraction (figs. 71 to 74). With regard to the use which this remarkable structure may be intended to serve