132 GELATINOUS NERVE FIBRE. brain and spinal cord the same tendency is observable. It was formerly supposed by Eheenberg, that these varicosities were natural, and existed during life ; and that they afforded a valuable morphological character of the nerves of pure sense, and of the cerebro-spinal centre. Many circumstances, however, oppose this view : thus, the irregularities in the shape, size, and number of the varicosities appear very unlike a natural disposition: in a piece of the brain or spinal cord, which has not been much pressed or torn, the nerve-tubes often exhibit a cylindrical figure, and even in the manipulated specimen the varicose tubes form only a portion. In some nerves, such as those of muscles, the tubes, although not prone to become varicose may be made so by firm pressure and violence in manipulation; and in the nerve-tubes of young animals, the tissues of which are more tender, and contain more abundant water, this change is particularly apt to take place. The nerve-tubes, for the most part, lie parallel to each other, always without branching, and, if we except their terminal looping in other textures, without any inosculation. This very interesting and important feature in the anatomy of the nerve- e ^sgsa -^erve "vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion of the human subject :—a, A globular one with defined border; b, its nucleus; c, its nucleolus. d, Caudate vesicle, e, Elongated vesicle, with two groups of pigment particles. /, Vesicle sur- rounded by its sheath, or capsule, of nucleated I'j - ,f i particles, <y, The same, the sheath only being in ' ^- <j —^ '- ^ focus. Magnified 300 diameters. FIG. 54. tubes was recognised long ago by Fontana, and has been confirmed by nearly every subsequent observer. It may be seen in the nervous centres, as well as in the nerves themselves. In the latter it may be well demonstrated by examining a piece of nerve on a dark ground as an opaque object. The primitive fibres, viewed in this way, appear as so many transparent tubes, containing an exquisitely delicate, soft, pearly- white material. The tubular fibres vary in diameter from i-6Votn to even Toooota °f an inch ; but their average width is from awoth to ^troth of an inch. 2. Of the Gelatinous Nerve-fibre,—This term is applied by Henle to certain fibres found principally in the sympathetic nerve. They are flattened, soft, and homo- geneous in appearance; containing numerous cell-nuclei, some of which are round, others oval; some situated in the centre of the fibre, others adhering to either edge; their longest diameter being generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the nerve. These nuclei are arranged at nearly equal distances, and frequently exhibit distinct nucleoli. (See fig. 52, c.) Sometimes these fibres show a disposition to split into very delicate fibriike. Acetic acid dissolves the fibre, leaving the nuclei unchanged. These fibres, containing nothing analogous to the white substance of Schwann, are