MR, BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 46 Fig. 57. Primitive fasciculus, with a corpuscle projecting on its surface. The transverse striae already developed, and as broad as in adult fasciculi. From the pectoralis major of a Kitten at birth. Fig. 58. Mass of primitive fasciculi from the same, treated with tartaric acid, showing the corpuscles. Fig. 59. Loose cell seen floating near the same specimen, containing a nucleus and nucleolus. Fig. 60. Primitive fasciculi from the pectoralis major of a foetal Calf about two months after conception, showing the corpuscles. Fig. 61. Primitive fasciculi from the pectoralis major of a human nine months foetus, showing the corpuscles here and there, but obscured by the strong trans- verse striae. Fig. 62. Mass of primitive fasciculi from the same, treated with tartaric acid, showing numerous corpuscles, turned in various directions, some presenting nucleoli. Fig. 63. Detached corpuscles from the same. Fig. 64. Detached corpuscles from the scalenus of a child two years old (made evident by citric acid). Fig. 65. Corpuscles in a mass of fibres from the adult human stomach, treated with tartaric acid. Fig. 66, Fibres from the adult human stomach, bulged at intervals by their corpuscles. Without acid. Fig. 67. Mass of fibres from the first stomach of a Sheep ; the corpuscles made evident by tartaric acid. Fig. 68. Attachment of tendon to a primitive fasciculus, from the Skate. On bringing deeper and deeper portions of the specimen into focus, along the line of union between the two structures, fresh tendinous wavy filaments and striated muscular parts came everywhere into view together. Fig. 69, Another specimen from the same, in which the tendon is more spread out. Fig. 70. Two examples of the attachment of tendon to primitive fasciculi from the leg of the large Meat Fly (Musca vomitoria). The centres of the fasciculi are in focus, and present their row of corpuscles. The scolloped margin at a is the sarcolemma raised by fluid. Its attachments are seen to be to the light striae, or the circumferences of the discs. The terminal disc is a perfect one. PLATE XIX. Fig. 71. Primitive fasciculus from the Water Beetle (Dytiscus marginalis), contracted in water, showing the sarcolemma raised in bullae, and a partial separation of the discs.