36 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND occur even when most regular, at special and determinate situations, but may often be seen to alter their position as contraction proceeds, probably in consequence of its irregularity. These inflexions or ruga?, however, are not peculiar to the contracted part, but are seen not unfrequently in fasciculi, which present no contractile movements, and no unusual proximity of the transverse strife. The contracted part of the fasciculus may be frequently recognised merely by its greater opacity, and its more evident longitudinal stria?.* It happens, as might be expected, that these several circumstances are seen under considerable varieties in different animals and modes of observation, but in the main they are very constant and easy of demonstration. In Mammalia, as the Mouse ; in several Reptiles, as the Frog, Newt, Adder; in Fish, as the Eel, Skate; and in Crustacea, as the Crab and Lobster; and in Insects, they have been repeatedly witnessed by many gentlemen to whom I have shown them (see Plate XIX.). In the three latter classes, however, they are best seen, and best of all in the Crab and Lobster, for the tardiness with which the irritability of these animals departs, prolongs the period of observation, and renders the stages of the phenomenon more distinguish- able from one another. The contraction, besides occurring at the ends of the fasciculi, often begins independently at one or more intermediate points, and can here be observed under peculiarly favourable circumstances, for the muscle is very transparent though the fasciculi are of extraordinary dimensions. The first appearance is a spot more opaque than the rest, caused by the approximation of a portion of a few of the discs towards each other ; that is, by the shortening and gathering together of a few segments of a limited number of fibrillge. By altering the focus, the phenomenon may be ascertained to extend as much in depth as in breadth, so that the contracted portion may be compared to a solid ball, lying in the midst of uncontracted and flaccid parts. If this ball be at the surface, the almost invariable concomitant is a collection of expressed water in bullae between the sarco- lemma and fibrillar. The contractile force seems to be exerted solely in the direction of the length of the fibrilla?, for in this direction only are the stria? beyond the spot distorted. The distortion consists of an extreme stretching and widening of them and their interspaces, which is greatest close to the ball, and gradually ceases at a distance of thirty, forty, or more stria?: thus the fibrillse not implicated in the contracted ball are undisturbed, while those so implicated have their segments drawn closely together in the one part, and stretched to a corresponding degree immediatel}r beyond. This first stage is represented in fig. 89. The nucleus of contraction slowly extends itself, by involving a greater length and a greater number of fibrillse, and while doing so, has generally an oscillation along the implicated fibrillse, effected by the alternate attraction and partial release of stria? * Owing to the polygonal, and sometimes flattened form of the fasciculi, they may present, if twisted, an appearance of unequal thickness at different points of their length, without there being, in fact, any contraction or approximation of the transverse strife.