PREFATORY MEMOIR. xvii superiority in microscopical detail may be appreciated by contrasting it with other similar treatises published about the same time, such, for example, as those of Bostock, Elliotson, and Caepenter. The work is well illustrated throughout, and whilst some of the woodcuts are copies from other works, a very large number are to be assigned to the authors, the greater part, both of the sections and of the woodcuts, being made by Bowman ; and so steady and true was his hand, that many of his drawings were made directly on the wood, without the intervention of an artist. The authors acknowledge in the preface to the second volume their indebtedness to Dr. Lionel Beale for drawing up the concluding chapters of the work, and to Dr. Hyde Salter for some of the illustrations. In 1840, he wrote the article "Surgery" in 'The Encyclopgedia Metropolitana,' a succinct but good account of the state of that subject at the time, dealing chiefly with the diseases and injuries of the bones and arteries, wounds, burns, hernia, and diseases of the eye. As the immediate result of his histological work on muscle, he was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society, being admitted in 1841 at the unusually early age of twenty-five; and, in the following year, in recognition of his merit in the same line of research on the kidney, he was awarded the Eoyal Medal of the Eoyal Society. The manner in which he fulfilled his duties as a teacher of anatomy and physiology appears to have been in all respects admirable. He was regular in his attendance, both in the dissecting rooms and in the lecture theatre. Thoroughly cognisant of the value of the microscope, he naturally endeavoured to induce the students in the College to cultivate it and familiarise themselves with its use. In those days the microscopes made in England by reliable opticians were very expensive, and to overcome this difficulty he brought over good and far cheaper instruments from Paris. His lectures were well attended. One of his pupils, in c 2