54 MR. BOWMAN'S ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE CONTRACTION OF contraction can leave its vestiges in any part; but in the latter, no such antagonizing power being exerted, the contractions remain wherever and to whatever degree they may have been present. This explanation involves and rests upon the above principle, and it follows, that whatever prevents a muscular fibre from being elongated, when its contractile energy subsides, must cause it to retain that arrangement of its parts which was assumed during contraction. Now, in the examples under consideration, the rupture prevented such an elongation, and the result is, that the organ has been, as it were, surprised in the very act of contraction, and retains in its structure the permanent impression of that act,—a view strongly corroborated by the uniformity of the distance between the transverse strise in those muscles, which had been likewise convulsed, but had escaped rupture. It may be further remarked, that the occurrence of ecchymoses entirely accords with the idea of partial contractions, while it is inconsistent with that of an universal one, for how could the vessels be torn in tetanic spasm if this were merely a strong and enduring, but uniform approximation of all the elements of the primitive fasciculi to one another ? They would be compressed indeed, but not dragged asunder; whereas, such would be the natural effect of excessive partial contractions, oscillating from place to place, and continually drawing in opposite directions, and in an irregular manner, the uncontracted portions; for the capillaries take a longitudinal course between the primitive fasciculi, and inosculate with one another by very frequent transverse branches, which complete the vascular web, and serve to attach its several parts to the primitive fasciculi which occupy its interstices. Lastly, all the specimens of bloodless tetanic muscle which 1 have seen, have presented this striking peculiarity:—that the pallor has not occupied the whole muscle, but patches of it, comprehending a portion of many primitive fasciculi, but not the entire length of any,—a fact tending to the same conclusion. What has now been advanced, seems to render it—as it appears to me—certain that the tetanic spasm has consisted in contractions engaging only parts of each primitive fasciculus at a time, and if so, of course changing their place, in order to bring every portion into use in its turn. Whether the primitive fasciculi alternate with one another in their contractions, is an obscure question, on which these observations shed no light. It may be urged, however, that, even granting this conclusion true, it is unsafe to argue concerning the healthy and moderate actions of an organ from the phenomena it presents when in a morbid state. But the weight of this objection is more apparent than real, for in a physiological point of view, the contractions of tetanus differ from those properly termed voluntary, only in being uncontrollable by the will and excessive in amount and duration. In violent tetanic spasm, I have myself ascertained that the peculiar sound of voluntary contraction is audible in the part, and identical with the