PREFATORY MEMOIR. xiii age of 10, and a report is still extant, written by Mr. Hill apparently for his own guidance, showing in a very exceptional manner the attainments and capabilities of the lad. Amongst other good plans and improvements in education, Mr. Hill adopted the system of monitors with the best effect on his pupils, and a magazine was started, the setting up of the type and the printing being entrusted to the boys. In the fifth volume many of the sheets and articles are signed by Bowman as printer, and his name, as well as that of Montague Villiers, subsequently Bishop of Carlisle, is mentioned as the recipient of several prizes. Even at this early period he was deft of finger, and there still exists in the library of a schoolfellow, now a well-known citizen of Birmingham, Mr. Osler, a card-board model of the school buildings made in their spare hours by the two boys. He seems to have inherited habits of accurate observation from both parents, for his mother was a good draughtswoman and painter of flowers, and could copy in woolwork a flower from nature, whilst his father was a botanist and geologist of more than ordinary attainments in the days when Kobert Brown and Smith were developing those subjects. He left Mr. Hill's school at about the age of sixteen, and was apprenticed to Mr. Joseph Hodgson, a member of the Society of Friends and a highly philosophical surgeon, whose skill was at that time well known in the midland counties. It is said that his desire to enter the medical profession was immediately due to the interest he took in the treatment of a wound of the hand he had accidentally inflicted on himself in the laboratory whilst experimenting with gunpowder. At this period only three years' study were required by the College of Surgeons, the first two of which were directed to be mainly spent in the study of anatomy and physiology. To these subjects he accordingly devoted himself with much earnestness, and the knowledge of them he then acquired stood him in good stead in after years. But even at this time he appears to have felt what he well expressed in an introductory lecture delivered twenty years after at King's College—that if a practical knowledge of anatomy is desirable for the student, the practical knowledge of disease and its treatment, which the wards of a hospital supply, are far more important, still more indispensably necessary to him. He worked unceasingly in the wards and in the post-mortem room, and, from his practice at school, undismayed at the act of placing his ideas upon paper and committing it to the printer, he wrote a monograph on influenza, as well as other papers, which, however, being necessarily crude and immature, he did not think it