MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF G6 it is similar. It intervenes between two capillary networks, the first of which answers to that in which the vena porta originates, and the second to that in which the vena porta terminates. The obvious difference lies in its several parts not uniting into a single trunk, to subdivide afterwards ; but this circumstance seems to admit of an easy explanation. A trunk is formed in the great portal circulation, for the convenience of transport, most of the capillaries which supply it lying at a distance from the liver. Some, however, viz., those drawn from the hepatic artery, either enter the portal-hepatic plexus directly (as Muller thinks, and as my preparations certainly show some of them to do), or else join the minuter twigs of the portal vein, according to the opinion of Kiernan. Now, in the kidney, the vessels issuing from the Malpighian tufts are disseminated pretty equally throughout the plexus surrounding the tubes (the one into which they have to discharge themselves), and they therefore enter it at all points at once, without uniting. In the medullary cones, however, where there is a capillary plexus to be supplied with blood, but no Malpighian bodies nearer than the base of the cones, the conditions which oblige the formation of a portal venous trunk begin to operate; the two capillary systems it serves to connect are at some distance apart. Here, consequently, the Malpighian bodies are generally larger, their efferent vessels more capacious, and branched after the manner of an artery. Each one of these efferent vessels is truly a portal vein in miniature. The capillary plexus surrounding the tubes differs, therefore, from that of other glands, and agrees with that of the liver, in its receiving blood that has previously traversed another system of capillary vessels. That other system is a peculiar one, as already pointed out, and cannot be likened closely to that which furnishes the portal vein of the liver. The preceding account of the existence of a true portal system in the kidney of the higher tribes of Vertebrata was already written, when an opportunity presented itself of inspecting the distribution of the vessels in one of those lower animals, in which, besides the renal artery, the kidney is furnished with a portal vein, derived from the hinder part of the body. The presence of such a vein, though denied by Meckel, was well established by Nicolai, whose statements have been confirmed by others; but I am not aware that any anatomist has explained its) remarkable distribution, and its connection with the other vessels.* I shall, therefore, introduce a summary account of my examination of the kidney of the Boa Constrictor (the animal in question), which may be regarded as a model of this variety; and I think it will be found not only to show the correctness of the analogy I have drawn between the efferent vessels of Malpighian bodies and a portal system, but to place in a * Hoschkk, who seems to have entered into the greatest detail on this subject, states that he was unable to ascertain in the Serpent's kidney, whether the twigs of the artery were distributed to the Malpighian bodies or not. In the Frog, however, he describes the Malpighian bodies as appended to the terminal twigs of the artery.—'Isis,' 1828, p. 566-7.