91 OSSIFICATION. direction of the lamellae to which they belong. (Fig. 32, d, g.) The curvilinear outline of their now ossified cells can often be partially discerned. (Fig. 32, e) Within the cancelli, only a few cells can be detected, these cavities being chiefly occupied by a quantity of new substance, consisting of granules, and resembling a formative blastema or basis, like that out of which all the tissues are evolved. (Fig. 32, /, and fig. 33, i.) The cells that are met with are in apposition with the wall; and sometimes (as in fig. 32, e) one of them seems half ossified, and its nucleus about to become a lacuna. The nuclei of these cells have now always the same direction as the neighbouring lacunae. In fig. 33, taken from a little deeper in the bone, we have portions of three cancelli, i, i, i, together with the osseous material, now of considerable thickness, that intervenes between them. In the centre of this last is seen a lamella, /, of a peculiar kind, containing no lacunae, and quite distinct from the layers h, h, between which it lies. These consist of nucleated cells, corresponding in size with those of the tem- porary cartilage, and having their nuclei disposed vertically, and of the same shape Vertical section from the same specimen as fig. 30, but deeper in the bone, showing the cancelli with blastema and a few cartilage- cells, and also the osseous laminae containing lacunae, similar to the nuclei of the cells:— d, Seen by a [low power; d', portion of d more highly magnified. /, Blastema around the cartilage-cells, e, Cartilage-cell apposed to the wall, and its nucleus ready to become similar to the other lacunce, as g, fig. 32. and dimensions as the lacunas of bone. They are still granular, however, and no pores can be seen emerging from them. The cells are united together, and the lines of their junction have for the most part disappeared. The curvilinear border of each can be still seen, however, at its union with the central lamina, /. In the cancelli, i, i, i, the granular blastema exists in great abundance. It hence appears that, after the ossification of the intercellular substance, the rows of cartilage-cells arrange themselves on the inner surface of the newly formed cancelli, and become ossified, with the exception of their nuclei, which remain granular, and subsequently form the lacunas of bone; and that a new substance, or blastema, appears within the cancelli, from which, probably, vessels are developed, and the future steps in the growth of the bone proceed. The cancelli when first formed are closed cavities. At a subsequent period they appear to communicate, and thus to form the cancelli and Haversian canals of perfect bone; a complete network of bloodvessels becoming developed within them at the same time. o