PECULIARITIES OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 208 which the epithelium was not of the scaly variety. On the other hand certain parts of the membranes usually termed mucous are nothing less than real glands arranged in a membranous form. The mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, the vagina and vaginal surface of the uterus, are the parts whose lining membrane most nearly resembles the skin. Their most remarkable feature is the thickness of their covering of epithelial scales, provided for their protection against foreign contact and pressure, and in connection with this the existence of numerous glands opening upon them for the lubrication of their surface. Many of these glands correspond with the sweat-glands of the skin in being similarly scattered under the surface. Such are the buccal and all the small glands allied to them, which, in particular, resemble the largely developed sweat-glands of the axilla. The only difference between them is in the mode of involution of the secreting membrane, which in the former is cellulated, in the latter tubular. These portions of the mucous membranes also approach the skin by the denseness of their submucous areolar tissue. In the pharynx it is only that part of the lining membrane below the posterior arches of the palate, or that exposed to friction during deglutition, that has the dermoid • characters now described : all above is more delicate, is clothed with ciliated epithelial prisms, and belongs physiologically to the nasal or respiratory tract, The lower or buccal surface of the soft palate diners in a similar way from the upper. The lining membrane of the Eustachian tubes and tympana is very delicate, none of the elementary tissues predominating. The epithelium is in a single layer of prisms clothed with cilia. The submucous areolar tissue is in very small quantity, and the vascular network consists of little more than a simple plane expansion. In the nose, the epithelium, according to Henle, is scaly on the septum, and on the alas for some way within the nostrils. Here also there are hairs—an advance towards the characters of the skin ; beyond this it is everywhere ciliated, even within the bony sinuses. The membrane covering these sinuses is of extreme tenuity, and presents the elementary tissues all in a simple form. That covering the pendulous parts of the spongy bones, on the contrary, has long been noted for its great thickness—a character due to neither of the elements of the mucous tissue itself, but to the extraordinary size of the submucous vessels. Both arteries and veins are large, but especially the latter, which here form a plexus immediately beneath the surface, and not separated from it by any considerable quantity of dense areolar tissue. Hence the facility with which these vessels give way externally when distended with blood. The lining of the nose has been sometimes called a fibro-mucous membrane, from its close connection with the periosteum. The periosteum in the sinuses is extremely delicate, in consequence of the tenuity of the bony laminas it invests; and it would perhaps be impossible to separate it there from the submucous areolar tissue. The globe and cornea are covered with scaly epithelium, of which the particles are smaller