40 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND difficult of inspection, the return to a straight line, on relaxation, is not brought about by an antagonist force; the ends remain approximated, but the fasciculi being actually elongated fall into zigzags. A phenomenon, the cause of which has frequently been speculated on, may serve yet further to elucidate this hitherto obscure question—I mean that of the sounds heard by applying the ear to a muscle in vigorous action. These sounds have been compared to an exceedingly rapid faint silvery vibration, and they seem to me to be explicable by supposing the several fasciculi to be in rapid and constant motion, one against the other, by varying amounts of contraction in different fasciculi and parts of fasciculi. It has been already shown that a part of a fasciculus may act independently of the rest; that a contraction may oscillate to and fro along a fasciculus, or travel from one end of it towards the other. These phenomena are not imaginary, but may be readily observed by any one in contracting fasciculi removed from the body; and though I do not mean to assert their occurrence in voluntary and healthy contraction, there would appear to be no difficulty in the present state of our knowledge, in concluding that such is actually the normal condition during life. The chief results of the above inquiry may be thus briefly recapitulated : 1. The primitive fasciculi of voluntary muscle consist of elongated polygonal masses of primitive component particles, or sarcous elements, arranged and united together endways and sideways, so as to constitute in these directions respectively, fibrillar and discs, either of which may, in certain cases, be detached as such, and both of which, in the unmutilated organ, always exist together. It is the assemblage of these particles, which may most properly be styled " Sarcous tissue." The dark longitudinal strias are shadows between fibrillse, the dark transverse strise, shadows between discs. 2. Every primitive fasciculus is invested by a highly delicate, transparent, and probably elastic membrane, the sarcolemma, which is adherent to its surface, and isolates the sarcous tissue from every other part. 3. Every primitive fasciculus contains upon or among its primitive particles, numbers of corpuscles, which either actually are, or are analogous to, the nuclei of the original cells of development; and it is certain that, daring growth, these corpuscles increase in number. 4. The extremities of the primitive fasciculi, in certain cases at least, are directly continuous with tendinous structure, and are' not taper, but obliquely or transversely truncated. This is at variance with the common opinion that the tendon embraces each fasciculus, and is continued along it from end to end, constituting its cellular sheath. 5. In contraction of the fasciculi, observed after death, the primitive particles are approximated and flattened in the direction of the length of the fasciculi, and expanded in their transverse direction.