MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 11 knew of a method of making succedaneous muscles, to give one man the strength of ten or twenty if required," had in view these marked fibrillge, which he thought a series of bladders. Prochaska* was so certain that the fibriHge were marked, or as he thought flexuous in the interior of the fasciculus, that he framed a false hypothesis to explain it, imagining that vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue penetrated within the fasciculi, and twining among the fibrillse, so impressed them. Fontana, as has been seen, believed the fibrillar to be all marked • and it will be difficult to find any one of the older anatomists who had seen detached fibriilge, and who noticed them to be cylindrical, except perhaps Muys,'^ who represents them in one of his figures. Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Lister make no mention of having seen primitive fibrillar, at any time separated from the fasciculus, nor do they offer any remark as to what they conceive their form to be, further than observing that no trace of globular structure can be detected. Mr. Skey, however, believes the primitive fibrillas to be " uninterrupted threads or cylinders," only " occasionally exhibiting on their surface the marks or indentations corresponding to the distance between the circular stria? on the whole fibre and he supports his opinion by several considerations which demand a distinct examination. He says, in proof that the fibriUas receive their marks from the striae, " I think the filament will present the more or less distinct appearance of a globular structure in proportion to the distinctness of the circular strise :" but it is clear this might be adduced with precisely equal force the opposite way. Mr. Skef argues for the cylindrical form of the fibrillse,' by denying the existence of the reputed globules of Sir E. Home and Mr. Bauer, and by proving the fibrillte to be three times finer than a blood-globule. Now, as to the globules of Sir E. Home, few who have examined the subject, and attentively perused his papers, can doubt that that physiologist was deceived on this subject, since the fibre which he a necklace of pearl in the microscope, might be filled with a very agile matter, which he thought most likely to be air, which being included in so thin skins, was easily wrought upon by heat, cold, or the acting properties of the liquor that pass between them, and so perform the lengthening and contracting of the muscles."—' Postliumus Works by Waller, 1707. Life,' p. 20. In a letter from Leedwenhoek to Oldenburg, August, 1682, he says, that the fibres of flesh are com- posed of globules or particles nearly approaching the globular figure, of which he supposes 1,000,000 would not equal a grain of sand. He afterwards explains, however, that he calls by the name of globules all the particles of which flesh, fat, bone, hairs, &c, are composed, which makes it probable he had then no clear conception of the beaded structure of muscle.—1 Experiments and Observations of Robert Hooke and other eminent virtuosos of his time,' by W. Derham, F.R.S., 1726. * Prochaska says of the blood-vessels, " Sic ergo ex vagina musculi communi per ejus septa intra musculi substantiam usque inter fila carnea conducuntur. In hoc decursu continuo crescit ramorum tenuitas ac numerus, ita ut fibrse musculares (prim, fasc.) non tantum, sed etiam fila carnea (prim, fibrillse), tota sua longitudine arteriolis circumdata et decussata sint." And of the nerves, " Suo decursu et ramificatione arterias propemodum imitantur."—' Ue Carne Musculari,' Sect, i., Cap. v. t Muts, Investigatio Fabricse, quas in partibus Musculos componentibus exstat.—'Lugd. Bat.,' 1741 4 Tab. 1. X 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1K37, p. 376. c 2