FIGURE AND COLOUR OF MUSCLE. 232 establish this. Fish have fibres nearly four times thicker than those of Birds, which have the smallest of all animals. Next to Fish come Insects, then Eeptiles, then Mammalia. In each of these different classes, however, an extensive range of bulk is observable, not only in the different genera, but in the same animal and the same muscle, some fibres being occasionally three, four, or more times the width of others. In general the fibres of the heart are smaller than those of other striped muscles. The varieties in the average bulk in different classes have a close connection with differences of nutrition and of their irritability, which will be reverted to. 3. Figure.—This is subject to some variety, depending on their number and manner of package. Sometimes, as in some parts of Insects, they are flattened; but when they are isolated, or loosely aggregated, they are more or less cylindrical. In all the cases, however, where many fibres are arranged side by side, as in the Vertebrata, the larger Insects, and Crustacea, they are irregularly polygonal, the contiguous sides being flattened, evidently from the effect of package. Yet some interspaces are always left for the passage of bloodvessels, nerves, and areolar tissue. among and between them. Their form may be most readily displayed by a transverse section of a muscle that has been dried en masse, as long ago shown by Leeuwenhoeck. 4. Colour.—The colour of muscle depends partly on the colour of its elementary fibres, partly on the blood contained in its vessels, and there is strong reason to believe that the colouring matter of both is the same, or nearly so. That the fibres have always a colour of their own is at once evident on inspection under the microscope. It is generally more or less of a reddish-brown, but varies much in different animals and in different muscles, and even in the same muscle according to its state of development and activity. In Eeptiles and Fish generally, and in Crustacea, the flesh is white, sometimes pinkish, but in some fishes, as the Gurnard, the gill-muscles are red. These varieties of colour are attended with none ot structure. In Birds the colour varies much, being often white and deep red in the a, a, Section of elementary fibres, showing their angular form and various size, h, b, Sections of the injected capillaries, showing the position they occupy These figures show the greater vascularity of the muscle with the narrower elementary fibres. FIG. 286.—TRANSVERSE SECTIONS OF STRIPED MUSCLE THAT HAS BEEN INJECTED AND DRIED. MAGNIFIED 70 DIAMETERS. (See fig. 286.)