GROWTH OF BONE. 92 The subsequent progress of ossification seems to consist essentially of a slow- repetition, on the entire vascular surface of the bone, of that process which has been now briefly described. It is probable that new cartilage-cells are developed on that surface, and become ossified in successive layers, their nuclei remaining to form the lacunas, the uniform dispersion of which through bone is thus explained. The cause of the lamination of bone, parallel to its vascular surface, is also thus illustrated. The first appearance of pores is in the form of irregularities in the margin of the lacunas. These increase with the consolidation of the tissue, and are converted into branching tubules which communicate with those adjacent. These pores must con- sequently be formed in the ossified substance of the cartilage-cells. In our account of the lacunas of perfect bone it was mentioned that, for the most part, those of con- tiguous Haversian systems do not communicate across the narrow interval that separates the Haversian rods ; this interval having, in fact, no pores. It results from what has just been said of the mode of deposition of new layers, that the primary " Another portion from the same specimen :—i, i, i, Portion of three cancelli, containing blastema, and having between them the wall of bone. The interior of this wall, I, is finely grannlar, and contains no lacunae, being the lamina first formed between the rows of cells in the cartilage. Coating this on both sides is a layer of bone in which the form of the cartilage-cells is still visible, as well as their nuclei, forming the lacunas. On the wall of the cancellus on the right are seen two nuclei, which appear to be forming there. This last is an appearance often seen. fig. 33. osseous network, formed in the intercellular substance of the temporary cartilage, must come to constitute the substance intervening between the Haversian rods, the non-porosity of which is thus satisfactorily accounted for, as well as the facility with which the rods themselves may be made to separate from one another. As for the lacunas, their originally granular interior seems to be gradually removed, so that they become vacuities adapted for the conveyance of the nutritious fluids through the compact material of the perfect bone. Growth of Bone. But it must not be imagined, that, when bone is once deposited in a certain form, it thenceforward permanently maintains its size and shape. Though a lamella