xii PREFATORY MEMOIR. be led to feel that there is always abundant material at hand which will well repay intelligently directed observation, whilst he may rest assured that nothing would have given their author greater pleasure than that his own work, retold, had led a younger generation to more profound and careful investigation of nature and to knowledge more precise and certain than that to which he had himself attained. From the numerous enquiries he recently made from his still surviving school- fellows and their relatives, and from the interest he took in preserving all reminiscences and memorials of his school life, it would appear that he intended to write an autobiography in his retired leisure, and it can only be a matter of regret that his intention was never fulfilled. The principal events of his life are here briefly given and naturally arrange themselves under the several periods of his school days, his association with King's College and its Hospital, when most of his early scientific work was accomplished, and lastly, with the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, where his opportunities for studying the diseases of the eye were practically unlimited, and where he obtained the knowledge and experience that supplied the materials for his valuable contributions to ophthalmic science. In accordance with this, his literary and scientific work can broadly be divided into early histological writings, his essays on general surgery, and finally, his papers and memoirs on ophthalmic subjects. William Bowman was the son of Mr. John Eddowes Bowman, a banker, and was born on July 20th, 1816, at Nantwich. He died on the 29th March, 1892, from pneumonia, at his country house, Joldwynds, near Dorking, in Surrey, at the age of 76, and lies in the northern slope of the pretty churchyard surrounding the church, built by Mr. Geoege Edmund Street in memory of his wife, at Holmbury St. Mary. Bowman, with two brothers, was educated at Hazelwood School, near Birmingham, which was at that time kept by Mr. Thomas Wright Hill and his four sons, one of whom still lives, whilst another was well known in after years as the principal agent in establishing the penny post—Sir Rowland Hell. Mr. Hill was a highly intelligent but eccentric man, and took great pains in instructing his pupils. Bowman joined the school at the