180 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. as far as possible, where farther examination is demanded), with the hope of thereby giving a clearer and more satisfactory view of the structure and relations of this important class of tissues than could be otherwise accomplished. I shall point out that the skin, mucous membranes, and secreting glands, consist of certain elements;, which the anatomist may detect and discriminate, some of which are essential to their tissue, others appended or superadded—and that the broad characteristic distinctions between these structures, appreciable to ordinary sense, as well as the innumerable gradations by which they everywhere blend insensibly with one another, are solely due to various degrees and kinds of modifications wrought in the form, quantity, and properties of these respective elementary parts. The skin is the outer tegument of the body; the mucous membranes form its internal investment, and are continuous with the skin. The ducts of all glands are continuous either with skin or mucous membrane, and their true secreting portion, as already described (see Gland), is merely a further prolongation of the same tissue. These offsets, like the great mucous tracts, are in the direction of the interior of the body; they form follicles and tubes of infinite variety, and, however complicated, may still be regarded, in a certain sense, as external to all other textures. Thus the mucous system may be described as a great and uninterrupted membrane, everywhere perfectly closed, in which the rest of the animal, or the parenchyma, is enclosed. This membrane has two surfaces, the one free, superficial or external, the other attached, deep, or parenchymal. It is on the parenchymal surface that the appended structures (viz., blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves, aud areolar tissue) are found in more or less profusion. The functions of the mucous system, numerous and diversified as they are, all bear a distinct reference to its really external anatomical position, and by this circumstance they are associated together; the principal are sensation, absorption, secretion, excretion, and defence of the parts lined by it against the contact of foreign bodies. A glance at the opinions that have prevailed concerning the structure and relations of the mucous membranes, will exemplify, more clearly perhaps than any other course, how imperfect have been the means employed, until a very recent period, in researches into minute or structural anatomy. The distribution of their bloodvessels had indeed been studied with brilliant success by Buysch, Lieberkuhn, and others, by the aid of injections, the admirable delicacy of which no modern art has surpassed; and somewhat of their extensive connections, general properties, and even of their texture, had been divined from rough dissection, maceration, and observations on the mode of their development and on their morbid states. But the ignorance that really prevailed, as to their intimate structure, is abundantly evinced by the number of disputed questions, the absence of precision of detail, and the substitution of loose and unwarranted analogies in its stead. Within the last five years discoveries have