MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. fasciculi, lias represented it more or less decidedly in all, and it lias been observed by others. It is often so slight as at first to escape notice, and it is by no means constant. It is best seen when by an accident a fasciculus slopes from the observer, who, as he alters the focus, so as to bring different portions of it successively before the eye, gains partially such a view as would be presented by a transverse section. Now supposing the fasciculi to be polygonal, the frequent slightness or absence of this appearance may still consist with a uniformity of the configuration which occasions it, since if the fasciculus lie flat, and the observer regard it perpendicularly, as is generally done, he would want that perspective view which could alone disclose it. But besides this, it is easy to notice, as the object is being brought into focus, which part of it is first seen, as being the most prominent, and this is not always the central part. Moreover, as the glass descends, the obliquity of the surfaces may be ascertained by the more or less rapid extension of the field of vision on either side; and if irregularities occur in this respect, they can depend on no other cause than a varying inclination of the surfaces, or, in other words, on angularities of the fasciculus, and this circumstance I have uniformly remarked. Although the cut extremities of recent fasciculi are usually bruised and distorted by the edge of the instrument employed, I have sometimes accidentally obtained one, which, from the sharpness of its outline, seemed fairly to represent the real figure of the fasciculus, and this figure has been polygonal. On one occasion also, when examining muscle that had been macerated in liquor ammonias, the section shown in Plate XVI., fig. 1, presented itself, which is the best of the kind I have met with in a wet specimen. On the whole, my examinations of recent specimens sanction the opinion that the fasciculi are in general far from being cylindrical, though occasionally approaching very nearly to that configuration. It may be said, that the appearances above described are referrible to violence done to the soft and delicate texture of the fasciculus by the act of detaching it from the mass, but their constancy has convinced me that such is not the case; and indeed the form contended for is well designed for package, and is probably determined by the mutual pressure of parts, which have been formed and have increased together. But the most conclusive evidence in favour of the polygonal form of the fasciculi is to be obtained by examining a transverse section of a dried muscle, after causing it to reassume its original bulk by wetting it.* In such examples the fasciculi are without any exceptions found to be not cylindrical, but more or less flattened on several of their aspects, where they are in contact with the neighbouring ones, and this so irregularly, that it would be in vain to attempt a particular description of their forms. An idea will be best conveyed by a reference to the illustrations (figs. 3 * This plan was long ago adopted by Lkbuwenhoek and Pbochaska, as-well as by others.