142 PAPILLAE OF THE PALM. depth of the colour imparted to a portion of skin by a good injection of its vessels. The vascularity of the integument is, therefore, in general terms, proportioned to its perfection as an organ of touch. Since the discovery of the papillee as the sentient organs, the existence of nerves within them has been usually taken for granted, or they have been loosely styled expansions of the nerves; and to the general truth of such statements we may readily assent. But we have reason to doubt the accuracy of some recent writers, who have professed to give minute details of the mode of termination of the nervous tubules in the papillse. The subject is difficult of investigation. According to Ernst Bcrdach* Papillae of the palm, the cuticle being detached. Mag- nified 35 diameters. FIG. 81. and others, the nerves are arranged in a plexiform manner under the skin of the Frog, and loops are formed by the union of tubules from neighbouring branches. On examination we find this description correct as far as it goes, but that it does not carry us to the papillary structure. The plexus in question is situated underneath an expansion of fibres crossing each other at right angles, which is itself placed beneath the true skin, and separable from it; and we have observed single tubules from the plexus penetrating this expansion in their course to the skin. They have then been lost to view. We have hardly been more fortunate in discovering the true, termination of the nerves in the nictitating membrane of the eye in the same animal, or in the papillary tissue so largely developed on the thumb at a certain season. Vessels of papillae, from the heel:—a, Terminal arterial twig, v, Commencing vein. Magnified 80 diameters. i-w. 82. In our attempts to follow the nerves for any distance under the papillary structure in the higher animals, the fibrous tissues (and especially the elastic variety), forming the cutis, have been found so much to impede the view, that no satisfactory conclusion has been arrived at. In regard to their presence in the papilla? themselves, we can affirm that we have distinctly traced solitary tubules ascending among the other tissues of the papilla? about half-way to their summits, but then becoming lost to sight, either by simply ending, or else by losing the white substance of Schwann, which alone * Beitrag zur Mikroskop. Anat. der Nerven,' Konigsb., 1837.