MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 19 the heart of the Turtle the long diameter of the beads is across the fibrillae (fig. 12). The psoas muscle of the Hare presented several fibrillae, in which the beads were further apart than usual, and of an oval form. In one state of the focus they were altogether light, and the intervals wholly dark; but in another, the beads were surrounded by a thick circumference of shadow, and a light streak appeared in the centre of the dark interval (fig. 15), an appearance precisely similar to that which I have observed to Like place in beaded rods of glass with elongated intervals.* In endeavouring to carry my investigations further into the intimate structure of these fibrillae, I have hitherto been completely baffled; nor does the subject encourage very sanguine hopes as to the event of such a search, at least without higher powers of the microscope than we at present possess. From the sections, however, already described, and especially those of the fasciculi of Birds, the fibrillae seem plainly to possess a circular transverse outline. From such varieties in the fibrillae it is not wonderful that corresponding ones in the striae should result, and some of the most remarkable met with since the commencement of my inquiry, are here selected for illustration. Most have their source in a mere derangement of the fibrillae, whereby the strife are more or less distorted, or broken. Gradations of these may be seen in fig. 38, and require no comment. They have been described by more than one author. The usual appear- ance of the strite in a dissected state, may be best illustrated by a specimen from the heart of an Ox, partially affected by maceration (fig. 17). The striae correspond in number with the beads, and the light and dark spaces of -the one form those of the other. But there may be a remarkable obliquity of the striae, as in the new-born Eabbit (fig. 10), and the Chameleon (fig. 14), and as may very often be seen in the boiled muscle of the Crab and Lobster. I have observed that in some atrophied muscles, the striae are very oblique and often bent at a very acute angle in their course, probably from shrinking of the fasciculi (fig. 28). It occasionally happens that in some fasciculi, or parts of fasciculi, of perfectly healthy muscle, the striae are precisely doubled or tripled for a certain space, or at the same spot in different states of the focus. The general appearance met with is represented in fig. 19, from the neck of the Duck. In other specimens, where the striae have been unusually broad, and also thus multiplied in particular parts, I have found it to depend on the segments being * It is not intended to be implied that the above varieties are peculiar to the several animals from which they are taken, or that in these animals similar appearances will uniformly be met with. On this subject (that of form), a much more extended inquiry is requisite, and I would again express my dissatisfaction with the above observations, as being made on detached, and therefore mutilated, parts. Indeed, it may be doubted whether, in the agglomerated state of the segments, their outline do definitely exist on all their aspects ; and whether it be not rather essentially incomplete, through their adhesion to one another. If, however, as appears evident from their refractive powers, the segments are more solid than the medium which connects them, and if they are rounded, and not rectangular, in form, which, after examination with the best instruments, i3 still confessedly uncertain, interstices must exist, capable, perhaps, of facilitating the motions occurring between these parts D 2