149 THE HUMAN HAIR, The human hair has a proper bark, or cortex,formed in the following way: a single layer of the cells immediately surrounding those about to form the fibrous tissue of the shaft are seen near the bottom of the follicle to assume an imbricated arrangement (fig. 87, c), and gradually to mount on the hair, becoming more compressed against it in their ascent, until they form upon its surface a thin transparent colourless film, in which the overlapping of the delicate cells is still exhibited by elegant and exceedingly fine sinuous cross lines. (Fig. 88, J, d'.) The fibrous interior and this peculiar cortex together compose the shaft of the hair. By the continual emergence of fresh portions of the shaft from the follicle, fragments of the cuticular lining of the latter are apt to be drawn up upon the hair, aided, probably, in this, by the imbrication of its surface, and are often found clinging around it for some way ; but they are not to be regarded as any part of the hair itself. In the larger hairs there is usually a double series of these imbricated cortical Transverse section of a hair of the head, showing the exterior cortex, the fibrous tissue with its scat- tered pigment, and a central space filled with pig- ment, b, A similar section of a hair, at a point where no aggregation of pigment in the axis exists. c, Longitudinal section, without a central cavity, showing the imbi'ication of the cortex, and the arrangement of the pigment in the fibrous part. d, Surface, showing the sinuous transverse lines formed by the edges of the cortical scales, d', A portion of the margin, showing their imbrication. Magnified 150 diameters. fig. 88. scales ; the outer having its teeth interlocked with those of the inner, but apparently but loosely adherent to them. This outer series seems to be intermediate between the true cortex and the cuticle of the follicle, and to belong rather to the latter, since it does not appear upon the extruded portion of the hair. The cortex is much denser than even the fibrous part of the hair, and is less acted upon by strong solution of potass. Erom the preceding description it will be evident that the fibrous part of the hair is a peculiar development of the cuticular cells resting on the bottom of the follicle, that the imbricated cortex is formed by a single series differently developed at the hairs are tubular. In others they present a central series of cells, round or compressed, with or without pigment, as in the cat and mouse. In others, again, their external surface is regularly marked by annular, and sometimes toothed, projections, as in the Indian bat: and numerous other varieties might be enumerated. The quills of the porcupine, and the feathers of birds, are modifications of the epidermic tissue, and, in their essential characters, are clossely allied to hairs. See Busk, in 'Microsc. Journal.'