83 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. Fig. 13. From the Parrot (Psittacus). Injected by the artery, a, a, a. Terminal branches of the artery. af, af, af. Terminal twigs of the artery, d. Dilatation of the terminal twig on entering the Malpighian capsule. m. This dilatation more completely filled, showing its convoluted form, and ef. the efferent vessel, c. The Malpighian capsule filled, by extravasation from the contained vessel, and the tube t likewise filled. c. The same, with the efferent vessel ef also filled. Magnified about eighty diameters. Fig. 14. From the Boa Constrictor. Injected by the artery, af, af. Terminal twigs of the artery, m, m. The convoluted dilated part within the Malpighian capsule. ef The efferent vessel. c. The capsule—visible, but not injected, t. The commencement of the tube. Magnified about seventy diameters. [All the preceding figures are viewed by reflected light.] Fig. 15. From the Frog; viewed by transmitted light. Shows the continuity of the Malpighian capsule with the tube, the change in the character of the epithelium, and the vascular tuft, bm, bm. Basement membrane of the tube, ep, ep. Epithelium of the tube. cav. Cavity of the tube, bm, bm. Basement membrane of the capsule, ep', ep'. Epithelium of the neck of the tube, and of the neighbouring part of the capsule: this epithelium is covered with cilia, which were seen in active motion eight hours after death, ep". Detached epithelial particle, more highly magnified, showing the relative length of the cilia, as they appeared in this specimen. cav'. Cavity of the capsule, in which the capillaries, m, lie bare, having entered the capsule near t, where the view is obscured by another tube. Magnified about 320 diameters. Fig. 16. Plan of the renal circulation in Mammalia. The relative proportions and the character of the several parts are accurately copied from preparations of the Human kidney. The artery a (coloured pink), is seen giving a terminal twig af, to a Malpighian tuft, m, from which emerges the efferent (or portal) vessel ef (coloured yellow). Other efferent vessels are seen, e, e, e. All these enter the plexus of capillaries p (coloured blue) surrounding the uriniferous tube t (coloured red). From this plexus the emulgent vein ev springs. Supposed to be magnified about forty diameters. Fig. 17. Plan of the renal circulation in animals furnished with a portal vein from an extraneous source. The colours correspond with those of fig. 16. The relative proportions and position are copied from the kidney of the Boa (p. 69), of which a vertical section of one-half of a lobe is supposed to be made. a. Arteiy. af. Terminal twig going to the Malpighian body. m 2