THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OP THE KIDNEY. Gl there an ambiguous approach to such an arrangement, sufficient to make it appear probable. I should perhaps have relinquished the idea thus presented to my mind, had not accident again drawn me to it. Having, during last summer, been made acquainted, through the kindness of Dr. Milne Edwards, with a new method of injection employed with great success by M. Doyere,"* of Paris, I injected some kidneys through the artery by this method, in order to notice the nature of the vascular ramifications in the Malpighian bodies. I not only found what I sought, but the clearest evidence that the capsule which invests them is, in truth, the basement membrane of the uriniferous tube expanded over the tuft of vessels. The injected material had, in many instances, burst through the tuft, and, being extravasated into the capsule, had passed off along the tube. I have since made numerous injections of the human kidney, and of that of many of the lower animals, and in all, without exception, have met with the same disposition. I have also repeated, with better success than before, the examination of thin slices of the recent organ with high powers of the microscope, and in this manner have fully corroborated the evidence furnished by injections. This mode of examination has likewise led to the interesting discovery of ciliary motion within the orifice of the tube. According to my own observations, the circulation through the kidney may be stated to be as follows :—All the blood of the renal artery (with the exception of a small quantity distributed to the capsule, surrounding fat, and the coats of the larger vessels) enters the capillary tufts of the Malpighian bodies ; thence it passes into the capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes, and it finally leaves the organ through the branches of the renal vein. Following it in this course, I shall now endeavour to describe the vascular apparatus, and the nature of its connection with the tubes. With the inconsiderable exceptions just mentioned, the terminal twigs of the artery correspond in number with the Malpighian bodies. Arrived here,t the twig perforates the capsule, and, dilating, suddenly breaks up into two, three, four, or even eight branches, which diverge in all directions like petals from the stalk of a flower, and usually run, in a more or less tortuous manner, subdividing again once or twice as they advance, over the surface of the ball they are about to form. The vessels * This consists of two fluids which mingle in the small vessels, and cause a precipitation there. The best fluids are saturated solutions of bichromate of potass and of acetate of lead. They are injected in succession through the same vessel, whence the method is termed that by double injection. Kbause published an account of it two years ago, but M. Doyere appears to have arrived at it after a laborious trial of numerous solutions. Both deserve the thanks of anatomists for so valuable an addition to the means of investigation. f As the mode of subdivision of this artery in the interior of the organ is well known, I have omitted to describe it. Its branches never anastomose. It almost invariably happens that the twigs ending in the Malpighian bodies are of considerable length, but occasionally (as in fig. 8) two bodies are sessile on very short twigs of a single branch.