LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION". 272 power the will possesses of regulating the amount of stimulus which it is able to give to the muscles, and that of transmitting it with uniformity during a given period. Dr. Wollaston * was of opinion that the phenomenon of the muscular sound affords a proof that the duration of a muscle's contraction depends on the application to it of a succession of distinct impulses; and this idea, according very nearly, as it does, with the later evidence of observation, appears, on the whole, the most satisfactory that has been advanced on this abstruse subject. He also thought that the intensity of a contraction corresponds with the rapidity with which these impulses are transmitted to it, and this likewise may be, in part, true. But there is, in addition to this, in all probability, a difference in the intensity of the stimulus itself in different cases, producing a difference in the size of each wave, a difference in the amount of contractile energy exerted in each, and a difference in the rapidity with which the waves oscillate along the fibre. The extent of the contraction (the duration and intensity being the same) will manifestly depend on the amount of the length of the fibre which is contracted at once. But we are ignorant whether this variation in amount is effected by a variety in the number of waves, or in the extent of the fibre engaged by each of them. The ancients appear to have been quite ignorant of the nature of muscles. Plato and Aristotle attributed to them so trivial an use, as to think that, like fat, or a kind of clothing, they kept out heat in summer and cold in winter.f The nerves and tendons were confounded with the muscles, as they commonly are at this day, by the vulgar. Boeelli, in his elaborate work, ' De Motu Animalium,' \ thinks it requisite (in 1734) to adduce arguments against the doctrine that muscle and flesh are different, the former composed of an aggregation of tendinous fibres, the latter a certain villous substance incrusted by the blood upon their exterior, a fact showing the extremely loose notions that prevailed on this subject even up to a comparatively recent period. The fibres so obviously composing the essential part of muscle have been the subject of the most extraordinary speculations, probably ever since it was discovered that they were endowed with contractility, the property which, on a superficial aspect, seemed the most closely associated with life. And it is by no means surprising, that when the microscope began to open a new world to view, it was applied with ardour to the investigation of this tissue. It is not easy to appreciate justly the accounts given of it by some of the earlier micrographers, in consequence of the indeterminate meaning of many of the terms they employed, and the imperfection of the means at their disposal for accurate definition and measurement of the objects they describe. Robert Hooke, however, had probably a correct general knowledge of the elementary fibres of voluntary muscle, and possibly even saw the fibrillee into which they often split; for we find him in 1678 speaking of the "fibres which seemed like a necklace * 1 Philosophical Transactions,' 1811. f ' Vesalius,' vol. i, p. 182. X Propos. ii.