126 RHYTHMICAL CONTRACTION. Peristaltic contraction is coincident in a large number of contiguous fibres; and its progressive character is more easily perceived in consequence of the arrangement of the fibres around a compressible cavity. The contraction appears more sluggish than other forms; but, as we are ignorant of the length of each unstriped fibre, we cannot say whether this slowness is an advance along each one, or merely from one to another. The contraction exhibited by the muscles in question is always of the peristaltic character, by whatever stimulus excited ; and its type is therefore probably derived from some peculiarity in the fibres themselves, as in their arrangement. But it is remarkable that the stimuli which usually excite it, are applied in succession to different parts, and are thus entirely suited to the production of the peristaltic contraction. We have a striking example of this in the oesophagus, which is simply a tube of transmission, and not intended to delay the food. The pellet, when thrust into it by the muscles of the pharynx, distends its fibres; which, then contracting upon it, propel it into a fresh portion ready to receive it. This in its turn contracts, and urges it along; and so on, until it is conducted to the stomach. In this instance, it is evident that the propelled substance is itself the stimulus to the succesive contractions. This it may be, either by distending the fibres, and so acting locally upon them; or else by impressing the nerves of the membrane touched, in such a way as to excite a nervous stimulus to the muscular coat at each particular part, at the proper moment. As the food is not propelled if the nerves are divided, there can be little doubt that the latter is the true explanation. The contraction of the bladder occurs after a gradual distension, and, though very temporary, is probably of the true peristaltic kind. The more protracted action of the uterus is undeniably so. In pregnant animals this may be as distinctly perceived as in the intestines, and it probably occurs during the gradual development of the muscular structure as pregnancy advances ; but at length a very powerful impulse occasions the expulsion of the young, and the uterus subsequently remains contracted, because no force distends its fibres. The after-pains mark the final efforts of active contraction, Atrophy of the tissue then occurs, as its development had done, in accordance with other laws. Rhythmical contractions are those which succeed one another after regular intervals of repose. The muscles of respiration and the heart exhibit them through life, which would cease if they were intermitted even for a brief period; for the oxygenation of the blood, and the dispersion of that fluid through the substance of the various organs^ must incessantly proceed. Hence neither is an act of the will required for their production, nor could it under any circumstances prevent them. The heart beats independently of our consciousness or control; but the respiratory actions may be hastened, or retarded, at will, though not stopped. This voluntary power is given because these muscles are required in various movements of the body, either alone, or in aid of others; they minister to other functions besides that of