220 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. solid plexus within the lobule. This appearance probably led Mr. Kiernan to describe the termination of the ducts as forming a plexus within the lobule, the lobular biliary plexus. And this description must be allowed to be essentially correct; for although the cavity of the duct cease at the surface, the epithelium of the lobule is, in respect of function, its real continuation. I have further observed, that although the epithelium of the lobule has, on the whole, a plexiform arrangement, yet its particles in some measure affect a radiating direction from the central axis towards the circumference, perhaps towards certain parts only; and when a lobule is broken up by violence, the resulting fragments of epithelium are apt to consist of a linear series of particles. Many of the particles, too, are smaller than the rest, and have all the appearance of having been recently formed and as yet incompletely developed. It is also remarkable that the particles should contain granules of oily matter in their interior; for although chemical analysis has detected differences between this substance and cholesterine,** yet as the chief peculiar principles of the bile are forms of hydro-carbon, the coincidence cannot be an - accidental one. It is not contended that the contents of these particles are the finished secretion, but rather that their chemical constitution undergoes some modifications during the disintegrating process. And it is worthy of notice that in many cases where the decarbonizing function of the lungs is slowly but greatly interfered with, as in phthisis pulmonalis, and where the liver is consequently called into increased activity as a compensating organ, these oily globules exist in such abundance and size as to gorge and swell the particles (and therefore the whole viscus) to nearly double their natural bulk.t But this is not all the evidence, that this epithelium is the source of the bile. I am informed by my friend, Dr. W. Budd, that Dr. Henle, in his recent edition of ' Soemmering,' of which I have not yet been able to obtain a copy, describes the epithelial particles as. appearing yellow or yellowish brown in direct light, and as probably containing bile. He also states that the presence of the fatty globules in the epithelium is inconstant, and corresponds with the varying fatty contents of the bile. He is unable at present to determine in what manner the contents of the particles find their way into the ducts. The foregoing facts, taken together, afford a very strong presumption that the epithelial particles of the lobules are the agent assimilating the secretion from the blood. It would be still more satisfactory if particles could be found under- going decay. Meanwhile it seems impossible to assign to them any other office, if it be granted that the sole function of the liver is to secrete bile. For in the case of other glands, the only other use that can with any degree of plausibility be attributed to the epithelium is that of its serving to defend the secreting membrane from the contact of the secretion, and to prevent the latter from re-entering the blood. And it cannot exist for that purpose in the liver, because it * Kuehn, ' Kastner's Arcliiv.,' xiii.'p. 337. \ Author in ' Lancet,' January, 1842.