107 ON MUSCULAR ACTION. From 'The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, Vol. I, Chapter VII, pp. 170 to 194. Published February, 1843. Of the Function of Muscles. The great property of muscular tissue is that of shortening in a particular direction, and this property is called contractility. It is not that mechanical power which elastic substances possess of shortening themselves on the removal of some force which has stretched them, but it is an endowment, responsive to appropriate stimuli, and diminishing or disappearing with the healthy state of the tissue. The distinction between the contractility, the elasticity, and the physical tenacity of a muscle may be illustrated by the following imaginary experiment: Suppose the leg of an animal so severed from the trunk as to hang by a single muscle, which, after retaining its contractility for some time, were gradually to lose it. The limb would at first be borne up by the contractile power; but, as that ceased, the muscle would elongate under the weight, and the limb would remain suspended simply by the tenacity of the part. If, now, the muscle, were stretched between the hands, we should find it to possess some slight elasticity. The elasticity and much of the tenacity of muscles are attributable to the sarcolemma, and to the capillary and areolar tissues. It does not appear that elasticity is in any degree a property of the sarcous elements, and their tenacity must be comparatively slight; but it is the sarcous tissue alone that possesses contractility. Although it is universally allowed that the muscular tissue is the contractile substance, yet the strange question has been raised, and is still warmly debated, whether it possesses this power in itself, and independently of all other tissues: some contending that nerve is necessary to confer contractility on muscle,—to charge it, as it were, with this property; others, that nerve is only necessary to call it into action; and others, that the property is the essential attribute of the tissue, and totally independent of all nerves. The time is past when the intricacies of this Q