73 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. natural state, that their fluid contents exert no distending force upon their walls. Accordingly their walls are exceedingly feeble; the basement membrane on which their strength mainly depends, is very delicate and easily torn. They are therefore incapable of offering much resistance to a fluid impelled into them from the pelvis but burst readily, if it be forcibly urged. But were the coats ten times as tough as they really are, injection could not penetrate far into their convoluted portion, unless pushed with much force ; and this for two reasons :—1st. The fluid which the tubes already contain has no means of escape before the injection, since these canals end by blind extremities in the Malpighian bodies; and though these bodies are dilatations of them, yet they are already filled almost completely by the tuft of capillaries, and offer no capacious receptable for the fluid from the tubes. 2nd. The layer of epithelium (which usually forms about two-thirds of the thickness of every tube, the calibre being about one-third'") is, immediately after death, very prone to separate from the basement membrane which it lines, and to fall into and block up its narrow channel. Even if the epithelium remains in its place, the calibre of the tube is but small, and if it becomes detached, it opposes an effectual bar to the progress of the injection. By removing the pressure of the atmosphere from the outer surface of the tubes, these obstacles are occasionally in part overcome, so that even the tortuosities of the tubes are filled for a certain distance. But even so limited a success is rare, and in face of mechanical obstacles, such as above mentioned, to the onward current of the injection in the tubes, the force employed invariably sooner or later bursts their coats, ere their extremities have been reached. Extravasation from the tubes, as might be expected, fills their interstices, and the fluid may then issue by a rent at the hilus of the kidney. But it is remarkable how readily it enters the veins and absorbents from the ducts. This is undoubtedly by extravasation, and does not prove any continuity between them. The veins may be filled when the fluid has not penetrated in the tubes beyond the medullary cones, showing that the rupture must occur in connection with those cones, either at their apices or in their substance. By a thin transverse section of one of these cones, the ducts and blood-vessels of which they principally consist, are seen to be imbedded in a sort of matrix, apparently homogeneous, but probably having a cellular structure. This matrix keeps the tubes and vessels open by being united to their outer coat, whence results the dark colour, usually attributed to congestion, which these cones commonly present, as compared with the cortical part, where this matrix is less abundant. This is the structural condition which seems to me most easily to explain the remarkable facility with which injection, urged along the tubes, enters the veins. The smallest rupture of the matrix will crack across the minute vessels accompanying the tubes, and expose their open extremities to the entrance of the injection. If the force employed be very moderate and equable, extravasation does not occur, and the tubes alone are injected, often to * These proportions vary considerably. The basement membrane is so thin that it may be left out of the estimate. L