195 LAMELLIFORM MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Of the Lamelliform or Scaly Variety. This consists of broad flattened particles (or scales, properly so called), having an angular outline (caused by their lateral apposition) and a nucleus, which is generally eccentric. These scales form layers of extremely variable thickness. They are generally, however, superimposed in great numbers over one another, as in the mouth, fauces, and oesophagus of the human subject, where they constitute the opaque defensive investment so visible to the eye in those parts. But the best-known example of this form is presented by the cuticle, which from its exposed position is thicker and denser than any internal epithelium. This variety, a, superficial laminae, consisting of true scales; b, c, particles in progress of flattening; d, deep layer of particles; a, V, c, d', separate particles in the several stages. FIG. 278.—VERTICAL SECTION OF THE EPITHELIUM OF THE MOUTH, SHOWING ITS LAMELLA AND THE CHANGES OF FORM WHICH THE PARTICLES SUCCESSIVELY UNDERGO. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. then, is the one which offers the most convincing proof of the homology of the mucous membranes with the skin. The term " scales " is only applicable to these particles in the last of the stages through which they pass. They first appear on the surface of the basement membrane as granular dots, each of which soon becomes invested with a cell membrane. Both nucleus and cell increase in size up to a certain point, the eell being then more or less globular, and containing a material that appears transparent FIG. 279.—A FEW SCALES DETACHED FROM THE SURFACE OF THE UVULA. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. and almost entirely fluid. By this circumstance, chiefly, it is distinguished from the spheroidal form of particle, presently to be noticed. The cell now begins to flatten, loses its fluid contents, and is at the same time the seat of certain changes by which its chemical properties are modified. At length its opposite surfaces unite, except where the nucleus intervenes, and a lamella of extreme tenuity results, which being now arrived at the surface is loosened and shed. It appears to be by the continual pressure arising from the growth of newly-formed particles that the peculiar characters of this variety result. Accordingly, the scales are only found constituting the superficial