70 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF injection running off along them may often wear the appearance of an irregular extravasated mass, and so its real nature escape observation"" (fig. 9). When size and vermilion are employed, this is very apt to occur,t and especially when the specimen injected is not fresh ; for the epithelium soon loses its adhesion to the basement tissue of the tube, and, falling into the cavity, mingles with the stream of injection, and * During the course of the researches detailed in this paper, I have embraced whatever opportunities presented themselves of studying the morbid conditions of the human kidney, and especially those usually known as the stages of Bright's disease. It would obviously have been little conducive to my present purpose to have entered here upon a general description of the results to which my enquiries on this interesting subject have led me, but I cannot forbear noticing one fact of considerable importance, which will both illustrate and be illustrated by the preceding account of the normal anatomy of the gland. It is well known that blood is often passed with the urine during the course of the disease, especially at the earlier periods of it, when many circumstances contribute to prove that the kidneys are in a state of sanguineous turgescence. How does this blood escape into the ducts of the gland ? The organ examined at this time presents on its surface and throughout its cortical substance, scattered red dpts, of somewhat irregular shape, not accurately rounded, and generally as large as pins' heads, that is, very many times larger than the Malpighian bodies. These spots are very visible on the surface, where, as I have before stated (p. 66), no Malpighian bodies exist. They have been nevertheless described by several recent writers (not without contention for the honour of the discovery) as Malpighian bodies enlarged from congestion. How a Malpighian tuft, such as I have described it, could attain so prodigious a bulk, prodigious compared with its natural size, it would not be easy to explain. It is true that, if examined with a lens, the blood forming these spots is found to be arranged in convoluted lines, but these convolutions are not the dilated vessels of the tuft. They are nothing less than the convolutions of a tube filled with blood, that has burst into it from the gorged Malpighian tuft at its extremity. This is at once evident to a person familiar with the appearance of the same tubes when filled with injection in a similar manner; and the figure, which I have taken frqm a healthy kidney so injected (fig. 11), might serve as an exact representation of one of these spots, as seen on the surface of the diseased organ. The more or less perfect plug, thus often formed in the tubes, is the occasion of those dilatations of the tubes and Malpighian capsules, which are to be met with in the more advanced stages of the disease. Thus is to be explained the somewhat loose statement, that the disease consists essentially in enlargement of the Malpighian bodies. Though I have examined with great care many kidneys at all stages of the complaint, I have never seen, in any one instance, a clearly dilated condition of the Malpighian tuft of vessels. On the contrary, my friend, Mr. Busk, an excellent observer, has specimens which undoubtedly prove these tufts not to be dilated in the first stage, and I possess injected specimens showing them at all stages, but never above their natural size. I am far from implying, however, that these bodies are unconcerned in the train of morbid phenomena. They unquestionably are so, and even necessarily must be so, from their anatomical structure, but in what manner I shall not at present attempt to show. f My friend, Mr. Qubkett, of the College of Surgeons, possesses many very excellent specimens of injected kidneys, in many of which he has been able to detect the tube passing from the Malpighian body, since his attention was directed to this arrangement. He also showed me a very beautiful injection of the Malpighian bodies in the Horse, sent over to the Microscopical Society of London by Prof. Hyetl of Prague. In one corner of this we found a similar extravasation, though the disposition in question seems to have eluded the attention of that excellent anatomist. I am indebted to Mr. Quekett for some finely injected specimens of a Boa's kidney, from one of which fig. 14 is taken.