199 NON-CILIATED AND CILIATED EPITHELIUM. is difficult to reject the belief that it is intimately concerned in the glandular function, and varies in correspondence with it. To the preceding summary account of these three principal kinds of epithelium much might be added respecting the intermediate forms. This, however, does not appear to be required in so general a description. The spheroidal and the prismatic are seen blended in the specimen I have figured from the human membrana tympani (fig. 281). Of the Non-Ciliated and Ciliated Epithelium. The true scaly variety appears never to be clothed with cilia. The prismatic epithelium is that which most commonly bears these vibratile organs. They are placed on the free extremities of the prisms in the respiratory tract and in the uterus and Fallopian tubes. The true glandular epithelium is always without cilia. This is a general fact, and one of great importance. But those varieties which seem intermediate between the spheroidal and the other two forms are often furnished with cilia; of which examples may be seen in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney, in the mucous membrane of the Frog's mouth, and in that of the human FIG. 284.—VARIOUS b, c, small particles that have not reached the surface. They appear to present three stages or periods, showing a subdivision of the nucleus and a formation of two cells out of one; d, three fully developed particles, with cilia on their free surface; e, /, g, other complete particles, showing cilia on that part only which has formed a portion of the general surface of the membrane. PARTICLES OP EPITHELIUM FROM THE FROG'S MOUTH, MAGNIFIED 400 DIAMETERS. tympanum (fig. 281). In all cases the cilia, when they exist, are developed only on that aspect of the particles which forms a portion of the general surface of the membrane. It is as yet entirely unknown by what process the cilia are produced and nourished; whether the particles, with their cilia, are shed from time to time, and are succeeded by others (as is most probable), or whether the same organs remain, and merely change their component elements. (On the subject of Cilia in general the reader is referred to Dr. Sharpey's excellent article.) 2 E