VOLUNTARY MUSCLE IN THE LIVING BODY. 53 superior to the tenacity of the uncontracted part, holding the ends of the fragment asunder. The same conditions apply in the healthy living subject, where it is impossible, in consequence of the admirable adaptation of mechanical arrangements to the extensibility of muscles, that any rupture can take place solely from the action of antagonists. For example, no force of the flexors of the knee can by itself rupture the extensors, because the structure of the joint prevents flexion being carried beyond a point which the extensors, if relaxed, readily allow. And yet antagonist muscles may and do play a conspicuous part in most muscular ruptures; but it is only by affording a resistance to the approximation of the ends of the ruptured muscle, greater than the tenacity of its uncontracted parts—such a resistance, in fact, as might be offered by any power mechanically adapted to produce the same effect. I say uncontracted parts, and the propriety of supposing them in the living subject appears from the examination of the tetanic muscle; for putting aside the impossibility of any rupture happening in a muscle of which no part was physically weaker than another, by a contraction consisting of an absolutely simultaneous and uniform approximation of all its elementary parts to one another, and supposing for a moment that though the contraction was everywhere present, yet some feebleness of structure, or trifling diminution of the contractile force at one part, determined a rupture to take place there, the resulting appearances would necessarily be altogether different from those that have been detailed. The rupture would be definite and abrupt, without extensive stretching and consequent disorganization, and the whole retracting fibre would bear traces of an uniform and universal contraction, instead of an unequal and partial one, very limited in extent, and similar in every essential character to that which I have delineated in dying muscle.* 2. There is no Repellent Force between the Contractile Elements of Muscular Fibre. When muscle is taken from the body after all irritability has subsided, and when no stimulant has been previously applied capable of disordering its action during the rigor mortis, the distance between the transverse strice will usually be found nearly uniform at every part; but, when partial contractions occur in a fragment that has been removed prior to the cessation of its irritability, the contracted parts remain permanently distinguished from the rest of the primitive fasciculus, by the closeness of their transverse strife. In the former case, every primitive fasciculus having its extremities held apart by its proper antagonists, the contractile efforts constituting the rigor mortis are uniformly and gradually expended, and no inordinate amount of * Loo. oit, Plate XIX., figs. 83, 88, No. 3, &c.