MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 14 transverse sections of dried fasciculi, however, before discovering in them any decided trace of the extremities of cut fibrillas, and concluded that in the process of drying, these had been so modified or united together, as to render them incapable of being individually distinguished; for the addition of a little citric acid would frequently expand the section and give its surface a minute mottling, such as I was willing to fancy might depend on the structure in question. These first observations were made on the flesh of Mammals, and I now attribute the indistinctness of the fibrillae to their close and intimate lateral union, whereby they seem in this class to be generally the most reduced to the condition of a solid mass. But continuing to examine specimens derived from various sources, I was gratified by meeting at length with several which afforded the most ample confirmation of the views here adopted. The cut extremities of the fasciculi presented themselves as areas of an angular shape, more or less densely filled with minute dots, which are manifestly the ends of the fibrillae. In Birds more especially, but also in Fish and Eeptiles, I have met with such appearances with great uniformity; and in figs. 3 to 8, are accurate representations from each of these classes. The dots seem to be the extremities of solid threads. They have no central area distinct from their circumference, and the shadow occasioned by the image of a part of the window frame in the field of the microscope, will throw one half of each of them into darkness. It is in this manner only that they can sometimes be brought into view at all. In Fish (figs. 3, 4) the sections of the fasciculi are very ample, and filled up by very fine and closely-set fibrillae, presenting their extremities to the observer. Some of these fibrillae are more distinct than the rest (fig. 4). In many fasciculi the fibrillae are not individually apparent, the whole surface being merely uniformly and finely mottled. In Eeptiles (figs. 5 and 6), the specimens exhibit more or less plainly the ends of the fibrillae composing the fasciculus. In Birds (fig. 7), the fasciculi are small, and more cylindrical, and the fibrillae appear larger and more distinct from one another than is generally the case in the other classes. Some of the areas are larger, more transparent, and less densely filled with dots than the others. In Mammalia, as already stated, the surface is generally nearly uniform, though often finely mottled; but I have occasionally met with specimens in which the extremities of the fibrillae were very visible. From the human subject, an example of this kind is selected (fig. 8). In specimens in which the fibrillae appear separated from one another, no connecting material having an evident structure has been observed. The addition of acid serves materially to increase the distinctness of the fibrillae, an effect apparently due to its widening the interstices between them. Having now shown that the existence of the striae, as an independent structure, would entail consequences not in accordance with my observations, I pass on to an important circumstance corroborative of the view of their nature herein adopted, merely pausing to remark, that no writer who has believed the separate existence