SCHWANN'S EXPELUMENTS. 121 of simplicity, and from its falling in with the then favourite notion of the identity of the nervous influence with some form of electricity; and without sufficient caution it was very generally adopted. The facts previously stated, however, completely over- throw it, and render an explanation of the causes of the error scarcely more than historically interesting. It would appear that the galvanic shock, when passed through a mass of fibres, affects them unequally, some only being contracted by it: but these, by their cellular and vascular union with others, draw towards each other the ends of the uncontracted ones, and, of course, throw them into zigzag ; and it is most natural that the passage of nerves or vessels across them should determine the flexures to take place at this or that particular point. When some fibres are straight and others zigzag, and yet the ends of all equidistant, it is clear that the straight ones are the short or contracted; the zigzag, the long or relaxed. So, also, when a living muscle is laid bare in situ, the air excites tremors and a zigzag appearance on its surface, by the different fibres taking on non-simultaneous contractions. Schwann* contrived an apparatus by which he could estimate the varying force of contraction which a muscle could evince under the same stimulus (an electric shock of a given power applied to the nerve), when its length was varied, by its passive contractility being balanced by different weights. He sought to discover whether the contractile force was increased as the contracting parts approached each other more nearly. If he had found it so augmented, there would have been some reason for connecting contractility with the other forces of attraction with which we are acquainted, the power of which increases with the nearness of the points attracted, in the ratio of the square of the distance. But the results of several ingenious experiments were quite opposed to this notion; proving that, within certain limits, the power of a muscle to contract under a stimulus is greater in proportion as it is less contracted, and that it diminishes as the amount of contraction increases. Considering, as we are perhaps entitled to do, that an equal mass of each fibre, say one-third, was in contraction at any one instant by each application of the stimulus, we may reduce the result of these experiments to an estimate of the passive contractile power under different amounts of stretching; for then the varying amount of aggregate shortening under the same stimulus would indicate the varying amount of resistance to elongation afforded by the intermediate two-thirds to the same amount of active contractile force in the one-third. It is clear, from that which precedes, that contractility is a property residing in the sarcous tissue by virtue of its chemical constitution, and that it is capable of being called into action by other stimuli besides the nervous. That it departs with life, is a proof that those actions of waste and nutrition, concomitant with the flux of life, are essential for its integrity. We know that contractility is exhausted both by disuse of a muscle, and by over-use consequent on over-stimulation; and in no other way can these opposite causes act than by their both interfering with * ' Miiller's Physiology,' by Baly, p. 905.