SOUND AND HEAT IN CONTRACTION: 118 presence is, therefore, the result of the rupture. They admit only of the following explanation : the contractile force has operated at the points found contracted, and, by its excess, the intermediate portions have been stretched to laceration. Having once given way, the contracted parts have become isolated, and can no longer have been extended after the subsidence of the contractile force ; they consequently retain the form and appearances they possessed, when surprised, as it were, by the rupture, they have themselves produced, of the intervening parts. Supposing, for a moment, that active contraction were an universal and equable act, and that, by the superior power of an antagonist, a weak muscle had been ruptured, the appearances resulting would manifestly be entirely different from those now detailed. The fibres beyond the ruptured point would have their transverse stripes uniformly approximated. It may be concluded from the preceding facts (1st) that active contraction never occurs in the entire mass of a muscle at once, nor in the whole of any one elementary fibre, but is always partial at any one instant of time ; (2nd) that no active contraction of a muscle, however apparently prolonged, is more than instantaneous in any one of its parts or particles ; and, therefore, (3rd) that the sustained active contraction of a muscle is an act compounded of an infinite number of partial and momentary contractions, incessantly changing their place, and engaging new parts in succession, for every portion of the tissue must take its due share in the act. Two phenomena yet remain to be mentioned, which, by admitting of a satisfactory explanation on this view of the subject, give strong testimony to its correctness. The first is the muscular sound, heard on applying the ear to a muscle in action. It resembles, according to the apt simile of Dr. Wollaston,"* the distant rumbling of carriage-wheels; or rather, perhaps, an exceedingly rapid and faint tremulous vibration, which, when well marked, has a metallic tone. It is the sound of friction, and appears to be occasioned by those movements of the neighbouring fibres upon one another, with which the partial contractions must be attended in their incessant oscillations. The other phenomenon is one whose existence has been recently ascertained by MM. Becquerel and Beeschet,f viz., that a muscle, during contraction, augments in temperature. They have found this increase to be usually more than 1° Fahr.; but sometimes, when the exertion has been continued for five minutes (as by the biceps of the arm, in sawing a piece of wood), it has been double that amount. This develop- ment of heat may be in a great measure attributable to, and even a necessary consequence of, the friction just alluded to. * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1811. t "Becherches sur la Chaleur Animale," ' Archiv. du Museum,' torn, i., p. 402. [" 28 May, Friday,.. Saw Bkeschbt's and Becquerel's experiments on heat of muscles and other parts, but the elevation of temperature during contraction was not shown, owing, as they said, to a defect of the instrument. I had the wire through my hiceps,—inserted by Bkeschet." " Paris Notes," 1841. W. B.]