145 RETB MALPIGHII. form masses, and it is evident that their loss is supplied from below ; hence new- particles must be constantly produced in the deepest layers, and must be in unin- terrupted advance, through a series of changes, till they are cast off from the surface.* These changes are not confined to their figure : the laminae they first form are moist, and comparatively soft, and rest like a cushion on the highly sensitive surface to which they are adapted, and whose vessels supply the materials for their development. The more external ones are hard, horny, and much drier. Schwann has also pointed out that their chemical properties become modified ; that at first they are soluble, but afterwards insoluble, in acetic acid; and this circumstance of a chemical change occurring in the stages of their development seems to us so important that we shall illustrate it by two views. (See fig. 84, a and b.) In the former the action of weak solution of potass is shown: the layer of cells immediately resting on the basement membrane together with the more superficial scales is but slightly or not at all dissolved; while several intermediate layers are swollen and rendered very transparent, having lost their nuclei. The abruptness of the change is remarkable, and continues after the whole specimen is saturated. In the latter figure a stronger solution has been employed; the deep layer is dissolved, but the superficial scales are still un- ^■^ggg^—ga^.^. ^ Vertical section of the cuticle, from the scrotum of a negro. a, Deep cells, loaded with pigment, b, Cells at a higher level, paler and more flattened, c, Cells at the surface, scaly and colourless as in the white races. Magnified 300 diameters. fig. 85. affected, while the intermediate part is reduced to a semi-fluid mass, in which scarcely any vestige of structure remains. It is very possible that other agents might disclose further varieties of chemical constitution in smaller subdivisions of the cuticular lamellae. These facts will go far to explain why it happens that the union between the particles composing the same layer is in general more intimate than that between different layers, so that it is not difficult to divide the cuticle into two, three, or more laminae ; and, in particular, why it is easy, at a certain stage of maceration, to separate the harder from the softer layers, and thus to isolate the structure termed " rete Malpighii." This is nothing more than the deepest, or most recently formed, part of the cuticle. When isolated, it presents depressions, or sometimes complete apertures, which have been occupied by the projecting papillae ; and hence the term rete. When apertures exist, the cuticle on the top of the papillae has been detached with the outer hard layer, and that in contact with and encircling their bases remains by itself. * The cuticle of Reptiles and Amphibia is periodically cast off in a more or less entire state, a new one being previously formed beneath it. In Amphibia the epidermis is tesselated; the scales adhering to one another by their edges, and being usually pentagonal. A similar ecdysis, or shedding, occurs in the larva state of Insects, and in the Arachnidans.