PRACTICAL ANATOMY 286 biisilic vein, though a few twigs pass superficially to it. The posterior branch runs downwards and backwards, gradually crossing deep to the basilic vein. The lesser internal cutaneous nerve [n. cutaneus brachii medialis] should be followed down from the axilla; it will be found to pierce the deep fascia above the middle of the arm and to supply its integument as low as the internal condyle. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, as has been noticed, pierces the deep fascia close to the outer side of the biceps tendon and divides into anterior and posterior branches. Like the internal cutaneous, it usually passes deep to its vein, the median cephalic. On the back of the arm the interTial cuta- neous branch of the musculo-spiral has already been found, and should be followed as far as possible Ln its distribution. The ,upper external cutaneous branch of the musculo- spiral appears near the lower part of the posterior border of the deltoid, between it and the triceps, and thenceforward accompanies the cephalic vein to supply the lower half of the outer surface of the arm. The lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo- spiral is a good deal larger than the last, and pierces the deep fascia an inch or two above and behind the external condyle ; it runs down behind this condyle, and is distributed to the forearm. Now divide and clear away the deep fascia of the arm within the limits of the skin incisions, and notice that externally and internally intermuscular septa run from it to the corresponding supra-condylar ridges. Find the brachial artery [a. profunda brachii] lying in the internal bicipital sulcus, and study its position and relations as well as those of its branches. Since all structures require blood, this proceeding will bring all the important structures of the arm under review. The brachial artery begins at the lower border of the teres major tendon and ends by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries about half an inch below the elbow joint, and