25 THE HEART though it is very difficult indeed to do so in any of the others. On the wall of the interauricular septum, which bounds the front of the auricle, is a faint indication of the fossa ovalis and to the left of this a depression something like the mark of a finger-nail. If this is carefully explored with a seeker, it may be found to communicate with the right auricle, as was noticed above. The openings of the pulmonary veins, which are usually two in number on either side, are unguarded by valves. From the left auricle the blood passes-by the left av/riculo- ventricular aperture into the left ventricle. This aperture is smaller than the one on the right side, and only admits two fingers. The Left Ventricle [Ventriculus sinister].—Take hold of the left ventricle between finger and thumb and transfix it with a long scalpel, entering close to the auriculo-ventricular groove immediately to the left of the interventricular groove. Cut downward parallel with the septum, so that the scalpel emerges just above the apex of the heart. The great thick- ness of the Avail of the left ventricle will be at once observed. The wall is three times as thick as that of the right ventricle. The interior has a similar appearance to that on the opposite side, except that the columnse carnese and musculi papillares are stronger. Hanging down from the margin of the left auriculo-ventricular aperture are two membranous folds, the cusps of the left au/riculo-ventricular valve, which, from its resemblance in shape to a bishop's mitre, has recaived the name mitral valve [valvula bicuspidalis]. The chordae tendinese are related to the cusps of this valve in an exactly similar manner to that in which they are related to the cusps of the tricuspid valve. The pars membranacea septi will be again seen at the upper and fore part of the septum. Its thinness, in sharp contrast to the surrounding thick- ness of the rest of the septum, is well made out by passing the index finger into one ventricle and the thumb into