350 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the extensor longus })ollicis and the extensor indicis u)uscles, but in doing so be very careful not to' injure the slender . continuation of the posterior interosseous nerve, which sinks to a deeper plane between the neighbouring edges of the extensor brevis and extensor longus pollicis, and so reaches the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane. After this the anterior interosseous artery and the posterior in- terosseous nerve may be traced down together until thfe posterior carpal arch [arcus carpeus dorsalis] is reached. This is a delicate arterial arch, lying on the dorsal surface of the distal row of carpal bones, and deep to all the tendons; it is formed by the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, and is usually joined, deep to the tendon of the extensor indicis, by what Httle there is left of the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery. From this posterior carpal arch small dorsal interosseous arteries [aa. metacarpeae dorsales] run towards the clefts of the fingers, sometimes in the three ulnar intermetacarpal spaces, sometimes only in the ulnar two; but they are re- inforced substantially by the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch already referred to. When the heads of the metacarpal bones are reached, these arteries divide for the adjacent sides of two fingers; but by the time the joints between the proximal and middle phalanges are reached, they usually anastomose with the arteries coming from the palmar sides of the digits. As these various arterial arches and their branches are easily confused, the accompanying diagram may prove useful {Fig. 327). Vow follow the posterior interosseous nerve to its ending, in a small gangliform enlargement on the dorsum of the carpus, deep to the tendon of the extensor indicis. The second part of the radial artery (or stage in the wrist) must now be dissected. The first part or stage in the forearm (see p. 300) was followed down to the outer side of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis on a level with