176 PRACTICAL ANATOMY should, if possible, be found, cleaned, and preserved. The left ascending lumbar vein should also be sought in cleaning the left crus, which it pierces on its way to the thorax. The upper portion of the inferior vena cava lies in front of the right crus, the forward and upward curve of which it follows to its aperture in the tendinous portion of the diaphragm. As most of the inferior vena cava has, however been removed (1) with the liver and (2) with the kidneys, the course of the upper portion of this large vein can only be demonstrated by replacing these viscera. This can be done now as well as at a later stage. Between the crura and to the right of the aorta hes the right ascending lumbar vein, a longitudinal trunk linking together the transversely coursing lumbar veins, which pass inwards from under cover of the fibrous arches of the psoas to open into the inferior vena cava. This ascending lumbar vein is the beginning of the vena azygos major, but the latter vessel always has a communication with the back of the vena cava as well. In many cases the ascending lumbar vein is hardly visible, and then the vena azygos rises entirely from the inferior vena cava. In the interval between the aorta and right ascending lumbar vein, but on a more posterior plane, opposite the twelfth thoracic, or first lumbar vertebra, the receptaculum chyli [cisterna chyli], or beginning of the thoracic duct, should be looked for. It is sometimes quite a definite dilatation, but very often nothing more is to be found than a number of swollen radicles uniting to form a common duct, and closely resembling a dahlia root. Of these radicles one comes from the mesentery, one each side ascending from the aortic nodes, and one each side descending from the lower part of the thoracic wall. The above-mentioned structures having been traced as far as possible in an upward and downward direction, the student should now turn his attention to the Diaphragm. Begm by tracing the right crus upwards, and note how its fibres sepa-