255 THE PECTORAL REGION origin of the pectoralis major close to the clavicle and turn it down. On lifting it a mass of loose cellular tissue containing fat in its meshes is seen attached closely to the muscle. As this is dissected off' it collapses into a sheet called the costo- comcoid membrane, a structure which is largely artificial, and has been much more elaborately described than it deserves. Occasionally this cellular tissue is thickened into a definite band, where it stretches from the first rib across to the cora- coid process, and to this thickening the name of costo-cora- coid ligament has been given. As the strip of muscle is gradually reflected to its insertion into the outer lip of the bicipital groove, the external anterior thoracic nerve, as well as some branches of the acromio- thoracic artery, will be seen to enter its deep surface. It will be seen, too, that the clavicular slip of the pectoralis major lies superficial (anterior) to the rest of the muscle at its insertion, and, although it is the highest part of the muscle at its origin, it is the lowest at its insertion. Cut through the rest of the pectoralis major a little distance from the edge of the sternum and turn it outwards, freeing it from the subjacent cellular tissue, and looking care- fully for further branches of the external anterior thoracic nerve as well as the internal anterior thoracic [nn. thoracales anteriores], both of which supply it. On reflecting what is left of the origin of the muscle, it will be seen to arise from its own half of the front of the sternum, from the cartilages of the upper six ribs and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. At the lower border of the muscle the fibres coming from the aponeurosis of the external oblique are seen to wrap round deep to those rising from the sternum, thus forming the thickened edge of the anterior fold of the axilla. Often this Avrapping is so distinct that at the insertion into the outer lip of the bicipital groove the whole muscle is distinctly trilaminar, the superficial layer being the clavicular fibres.