THE PALM 333 is viiriiible, but it very frequently crosses the arch obHquely so as to end nearer the fingers. It is the great motor nerve of the hand, and supplies all the muscles of the hypothenar eminence, the two inner lumbricals, all the interossei and the two adductors of the thumb. Perhaps a simpler way of stating the case is to remind the dissector that he has already seen the median nerve supplying the muscles of the thenar eminence and the two outer lumbricals, that he has traced a twig from the superficial branch of the ulnar into the palmaris brevis, and that every other muscle confined to the hand is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The Palmar Interosseous Muscles [mm. interossei volares] must next be examined. There are three of these, and their action is to draw the fingers towards the medius. Each rises from the shaft of one metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the proximal phalanx and dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon of the same digit; furthermore, they always He on that side of their respective fingers which is toward the middle finger. As there is no distinct palmar interosseous muscle in the first space, it follows that the first of them must be looked for on the ulnar side of the index metacarpal, the second on the radial side of the annularis metacarpal, and the third on the radial side of the minimus. When these muscles have been separated from their origins and turned downwards, the dorsal interossei are exposed from the palm. These muscles are four in number, and therefore one is found in each space. They differ from the palmar interossei m rismg from two adjacent metacarpal bones instead of one, and they draw the fingers away from a line passing down the centre of the middle finger. To do this the first is inserted mto the base of the proximal phalanx and dorsal expansion of the radial side of the index, the second into the radial side of the medius, the third into the ulnar side of the medius and the fourth into the ulnar side of the annularis.