THE SYMPATHETIC 65 The openings in the diaphragm for the oesophagus and for the descending thoracic aorta may also be now studied more easily in detail. Passing through the oesophageal aperture, in addition to that tube will be seen the vagi and fine branches of an artery with accompanying veins, offshoots from the coronary vessels of the abdomen. Through the aortic orifice pass the vena azygos major and the thoracic duct. A number of lymph nodes will also be seen in the loose areolar tissue around the structures lying in the pos- terior mediastinum. It is along this series of lymphatic vessels and nodes that certain diseases pass from the thorax to the abdomen or vice versa. A finger may now be passed along the line of reflexion of the parietal pleura and peri- cardium on to the diaphragm, and the relation of this line to the surface of the body carefully noted. The parietal pleura should next be stripped from the lower part of the posterior thoracic wall from the medias- tinum outward. A more perfect view will thus be obtained of the sympathetic cord and ganglia, and the course of the great splanchnic nerve should be traced to where it leaves the thorax by piercing the crus of the diaphragm. The small splanchnic nerve lies external to the great, and usually comes from the ninth and tenth ganglia, while occasionally a third splanchnic nerve from the lowest ganglion is found (see Fig. 206, p. 37). One or more intercostal spaces may now be selected, and the intercostal nerve and vessels within the posterior part of the space examined from within the thorax. The vessels and nerves both pass outwards behind the sympathetic cord to obtain the shelter of the subcostal groove of the rib. The vein and artery lie at a slightly higher level than the nerve. One or two small nerves, passing between the intercostal nerve and the adjacent sympathetic gan- ghon, should be looked for; they are known as the rami communicantes, and are classified into white and grey in accordance with the greater or smaller amount of meduUary VOL. II. E