17 THE HEART the right side of the heart is slightly lower than the left side. Further, the right portion is more anterior than the left por- tion, as though the heart had been rotated around its long axis to the left. The right auricle thus hes in front of the left auricle as well as to the right, and the anterior interven- tricular groove is nearer the left border than the right. The compartments of the heart should next be studied, while the viscus remains in situ. It is most convenient to study them in the order in which they are traversed by the main blood stream, beginning with the right auricle. The Right Auricle [Atrium dextrum]. — Pull the heart to the left, and so obtain a good view of the right side of the auricular portion of the heart. Identify the Superior and Inferior Vence Gavce. Immediately in front of these a crescentic line or sulcus will in many cases be seen extending the whole length of the right auricle; it is called the sulcus terminalis, and is of interest in that it is the remains of the original constriction between the sinus venosus and right auricle proper. The sinus venosus is represented in the human heart by that portion of the right auricle which hes behind the sulcus and receives the two large venae cavee. It will be seen later that there is a ridge called the crista terminalis, on the inner wall of the auricle, which corresponds to the sulcus on the outside. The right auricle is best opened, as in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 197), by one incision passing from the opening of the superior vena cava to the tip of the auricular appendage, and another from this latter point parallel to and just above the auriculo-ventricular sulcus; the flap may then be turned outwards, and does not obscure any other part of the heart. The crista terminalis can be readily distinguished running along the right side of the anterior reflected wall from in front of the opening of the superior vena cava to in front of the opening of the inferior. The clot in the right auricle should now be carefully removed, when, if the cavity is sponged out, a good view of the interior will be obtained. It