58 PRACTICAL ANATOMY vexity of the aortic arch immediately to the left of and a httle behind the innominate artery. It courses upwards and to the left to leave the thorax by passing behind the left sterno- clavicular articulation. In front lies the left innominate vem; behind, the trachea; and later the left subclavian artery with the nerves and vein crossing the arch of the aorta. Behind it, too, are the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and re- current laryngeal nerves. To the right will be found the innominate artery and then the trachea; to the left the left phrenic nerve and superior intercostal vein together with the left pleural sac (see Fig. 21G, L.C.A.). The left subclavian artery springs from the aortic arch some little distance to the left of and behind the origm of the left common carotid. It courses upwards and to the left, entering the neck a little to the outer side of the sterno- clavicular joint. In front of it are the left common carotid artery, the nerves and vein crossing the aortic arch and superficial to all the left innominate vein. Behind it are below, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the oesophagus, and thoracic duct; above, the left pleural sac and left lung, lo the riaht are the left common carotid artery, the four nerves already mentioned, the left superior intercostal vem and the trachea (see Fig. 217, L.S.A.). To the left are the left pleural sac and left lung. It is now necessary to examine the struc- tures in the concavity of the aortic arch. Begm by_ tracing the vnlmonary artery [A. pulmonahs] from its origin to its bifurcation, and note that, while the mam trunk hes within the pericardium, the right and left divisions are without. Close to the origin of the left pulmonary artery a hbious cord will be seen to leave that vessel and to pass upwards and backwards to be attached to the aortic arch on its leave side a little beyond the origin of the le t subckvian artery It is the obliterated ductus arteriosus to the lett ot which the left recurrent laryngeal nerve will be seen to hook If now the space between the arch of the aorta above and the diverging pulmonary arteries below be carefully