THE BACK OF THE FOKEARM 343 interossei may easily be thought out when once their arrange- ment, given on p. 333, is understood. The tendon is continued on from the apex of the arrow- head, and, as the middle phalanx is approached, splits into three bands. Of these the middle one is inserted into the dorsum of the base of the middle phalanx, and the two lateral ones join each other to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx (see Fig. 321). The extensor minimi digiti [m. extensor digiti quinti proprius] lies on the ulnar side of the extensor communis digitorum, and has the same origin. For all practical pur- poses it is a part of that muscle, save that it passes through a separate compartment of the posterior annular ligament, and lies in a oroove between the lower ends of the radius and ulna. Here it makes a slight bend inward, and, on the dorsum of the hand, always divides into two tendons (see Fig. 324), which, however, unite once more as the little finger is approached, and join the minimus tendon of the extensor communis just before the dorsal expansion is formed. In many cases there is no tendon from the extensor communis to the little finger, and then the vinculum accessorium from the ring finger tendon joins the extensor minimi digiti just before the dorsal expansion begins. The extensor carpi ulnaris is the innermost of the superficial muscles on the back of the forearm. It has the same origin as the other muscles from the external con- dyle, intermuscular septum, and deep fascia, but in addition it rises from the posterior subcutaneous border of the ulna in its middle third. This is easily demonstrable if an attempt is made to lift the muscle up from its bed. It plays over the inner half of the posterior surface of the ulna, but is not attached to it. At the wrist its tendon traverses the inner- most compartment of the posterior annular ligament, and lies in a groove on the back of the lower end of the ulna. Trace its insertion into the dorsum of the base of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger.