236 PRACTICAL ANATOMY a fan-shaped mass of fibres constituting the Lmnho-sacral ligannent, while passing ahnost directly outwards from the same bony point to the inner lip of the iliac crest, at its point of greatest inward convexity, are the fibres of the Ilio-lvmihar ligament. The Symphysis pubis is surrounded by fibres on all sides, forming the anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior liga- ments; the last, which is usually called the sub-pubic, extends on either side some distance along the pubic arch to end in a falciform edge. The Obturator membrane fills the whole of the obturator foramen, except its upper and inner corner, where a small aperture is left for the obturator vessels and. nerve. The membrane below is not attached to the margin of the obturator foramen, but to the inner surface o€ the pubic arch immediately below the margin. The Sacro-sciatic ligaments are attached to the sides and part of the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx; their ischiatic attachments have been already noticed (p. 99). The Anterior Sacro-coccygeal ligament is merely the downward continuation of the anterior common ligament; in cleaning it a few muscular slips may be met, the degenerate remains of a curvator coccygis muscle. The Fosterior Sacro-coccygeal ligament is more important, since it roofs over the lower part of the neural canal, and is pierced by the posterior primary divisions of the 4th and 5th sacral and coccygeal nerves as well as by the filum terminale. The sacro-iliac and symphysial joints should now be studied by sawing transverse sections through them. The synovial cavity of the former is a mere chink, and even that frequently more or less obliterated by the passage of fibres across.it. The articular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium show a good deal of reciprocal moulding, rounded eminences on the one fitting into concavities on the other. Farther, a very strong, distinct, and sharp ridge limits the articular surface of the ilium anteriorly, and is a strong factor in the prevention of