288 PRACTICAL ANATOMY Nerves.—Median in the middle of the arm. Glandular and other Structures.—Anteciibital lymphatics. The Biceps muscle rises by two heads, of which the long one is intracapsular for some distance, and will be examined when the shoulder joint is dissected. It appears as a roundish tendon lying in the bicipital groove. Replace the pectoralis major superficial to it, and notice that as soon as it is clear of the lower edge of this it swells out into a fusiform, fleshy belly. The short head rises from the tip of the coracoid process in common with the origin of the coraco- brachialis, but they may be distinguished easily, because the biceps is external and tendinous while the coraco-brachialis is internal and fleshy. The two bellies of the biceps fuse about the middle of the arm, and, lower down, converge into a flattened tapering tendon, the borders of which are at first lateral, and then antero-posterior; it is inserted into the back of the tubercle of the radius. Pronate the forearm so that the palm of the hand lies on the table, and then pull on the biceps. The first result will be that the forearm will untwist or supinate, and then the elbow joint will flex. As the muscle also passes in front of the shoulder joint, it will flex that as well. The bicipital or semilunar fascia [lacertus fibrosus] runs from the inner side of the biceps tendon downwards and inwards to the deep fascia of the forearm superficial to the origin of the superficial flexors of the forearm. The Median nerve was traced as far as the outer side oi the end of the axillary artery, and is therefore external to the beginning of the brachial, but about the middle of the arm the nerve crosses in front of (occasionally behind) the artery, and so becomes internal below. As a rule, no branches are given off in the arm. The antecuhital lymphatic nodes are one or two nodes which lie in the antecuhital fossa or triangular space in front of the elbow. They lie close to the artery, but require the most careful search.