11 THE THORAX tapping the pericardium. He enters the trocar and cannuhx an inch and a half from the lateral border of the sternum, in order to avoid the internal mammary vessels. Now slit open both pleural cavities, pass the hand behind the lung and explore the posterior portion of the sac, noting the marked contrast which exists between the sharp anterior border and the rounded posterior border of the lung. A similar sharp contrast obtains between the rounded conical apex of the lung and the broad excavated base. The apex is, moreover, free in the sense that the hand can be passed all round it, whereas the base is attached by the ligamentum latum pulmonis to that portion of the parietal pleura which covers the lateral surface of the pericardium. The base of the lung should now be lifted up, when the parietal pleura will be seen covering the dome of a large muscular partition, the dia2yhragm [diaphragma], which separates the thoracic and abdominal cavities, and passing down in the angular interval between the diaphragm and the lower costal arches. Two matters of considerable practical importance must now be mentioned. In various diseases fluid collects in the pleural cavity or under the diaphragm, and surgical measures have to be taken to evaciiate it. Tapping the pleural cavity or chest is usually performed by plunging a trocar and cannula through the 5th inter- space in or slightly in front of the mid-axillary line. The student may with advantage perform this operation, sub- stituting if need be his scalpel for the trocar and cannula. Although the site for tapping a sub-diaphragmatic abscess depends upon circumstances, a common situation is in the 8th and 9th spaces in the mid-axillary line. Resect a portion of the 8th or 9th rib in this line on the right side, thereby exposing the parietal pleura. Pass the forefinger down between the parietes proper and this parietal layer to the level of the 10th rib, when the diaphragm will be reached. The student can now understand how by incisino- the dia- phragm the surgeon can give exit to any fluid which has