106 PRACTICAL ANATOMY pliysis, on cither side of the dorsal vein, the dorsal artery and dorsal nerve of the penis pierce the ligament (Fig. 234, D.A. and D.N.), while laterally, quite close to the sub-pubic arch, the artery to the corpus cavernosum comes through very obliquely. The superficial layer of the triangular ligament should now be turned back after the following!' incisions have been made, one in the middle line, one just behind the transverse perineal ligament, and one along the pubic ramus. The compartment now exposed is termed the deep jjerineal com- imrtment. It is occupied by the membranous portion- of the uretha, three-quarters of an inch long and very narrow, sur- rounde(^ by the compressor urethrte muscle, and in close relation to Cowper's glands (see Fig. 234, C.U.M.). The compressor urethrce arises from the pubic ramus at its junction with the ischial, and is inserted with its fellow of the opposite side into a median raphe on the upper and lower surfaces of the membranous urethra. Cowper's glands, as a rule, are not easily found in dissect- ing-room subjects, since they atrophy after puberty. They are small pea-like glands situated behind the membranous urethra, covered by a few fibres of the compressor, and crossed superficially by the artery to the bulb. Their ducts enter the wall of the membranous urethra, running in the wall for some distance to open into the spongy urethra. The latter should now be sHt along on its upper surface, the orifices of Cowper's duct discovered, if possible, and a bristle passed through them. The floor of the deep perineal compartment is formed by the deep layer of the triangular ligament, which passes as a sheet between the pubic rami, and is continuous laterally with the fascia over the obturator internus. It is a slight condensation of the pelvic cellular tissue in adaptation to the support of the prostate; inciden- tally it fixes in position the urethra. A dry pelvis should be examined, and if the hand is passed within it from below and swept from tuber ischii to tuber ischii across the pubic arch,