PRACTICAL ANATOMY 146 from its posterior surfuco is such that the upper part of this surface is left bare. Further, it should be noticed that the longitudinal muscular fibres at the base of the appendix cease to be uniformly distributed round the gut, but are largely massed together to form the three tcenice coli; a close inspection, however, will show that between the ta^nia^ the long fibres are still present, though faint. In the case of the CiECum, as also in the cases of the ascending and descendingr colons, the best-marked ta3nia is anterior, the two others being postero-medial and postero-lateral respectively. It follows from this that any one of the three ta^nise will serve as a guide to finding the appendix. The blood vessels of the caecum should be now dissected, and any lymphatic nodes found in their course preserved. The arteries to the ca^ci^m are two main vessels, one lying in front of the viscus, the anterior ccecal; the other, the posterior ccecal, behind (see Fig. 250). They are derived froni the ileo-colic branch of the superior mestenteric, to which we have already traced the appendicular artery, and which will be now seen to break up into its various branches within the termination of the mesentery. Next carefully note the relations of the cciicum. They are as follows: Anteriorly, the anterior abdominal wall and frequently coils of ileum when the caecum is empty. Posteriorly, the iliac fossa, iliacus muscle, iliac fascia, the iliac divisions of the ilio-lumbar vessels, the external cutaneous nerve (see Fig. 251). Externally, the iliac fossa. Internally, coils of ileum, appendix, psoas muscle, anterior crural, and gcnito-crural nerves. When the caBcum becomes distended, the internal relations tend to become posterior. The ccecum reaches below to the outer half of Poupart's ligament; above, to the level of the intertubercular line, which lies 1 to 2 inches below the highest point of the iliac crest. It is useful to remember that the ileo-caecal junction corresponds to the outer border of the psoas as weU as to the mid-Poupart line, and lies about 1 inch external to the line of the sacro-iliac joint.