THE PERINEUM 99 of the coccyx and tnber ischii. In both places an elastic resistance will be met, due to the ano-coccygeal body and the great sacro-sciatic ligament respectively. Place a plug of tow in the rectum and sew up the orifice of the anus, after ivhich a transverse incision should be made through the skin an inch in front of the anus, and con- tinued as far as the subpubic ramus in front of the tuber ischii. If necessary, another transverse incision should be made at the level of the tip of the coccyx, though probably the skin will have been reflected here already in the dis- section of the gluteal region. Now carry an antero-posterior incision from the middle of the first one to the tip of the coccyx, taking it round each side of the anus. Reflect or remove the flaps and expose the bases of the iscbio-rectal fossse. The IscHio - RECTAL Foss^ are pyramidal spaces, one lying on either side of the anus, filled with loose cellular tissue containing much fat. Before any attempt is made to dissect them, an articulated bony pelvis should be at hand placed in exactly the same position as the pelvis which is being dissected. Notice where the spine of the ischium is in the dry pelvis and realise that this is the apex of the pyramidal space. Now clear away the fat along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, looking out very carefully for the inferior hcemor- rkoidal vessels and nerve, which run across the fossa from the ischial spine to the lower part of the rectum close to the anus. Feel very carefully for the ischial spine, remembering that, as the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament is attached to its tip, it will not be felt as a sharp projection. The outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa is formed by the obturator internus fascia and below by the falciform process of the great sacro- sciatic ligament [processus falciformis ligamenti sacro- tuberosi] attached to the inner side of the tuber ischii. At the spine of the ischium the interned pudic vessels [vascula pudenda interna] and the jmdic nerve [n. pudendus]