FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA 225 and firmly altaclied to the anterior wall of the vagina. Dis- sect away the loose cellular tissue from these organs, but leave any strong fibro-ligamentous cords which may be found. The Uterus will be seen to receive the two Fallopian tubes a little below its upper limit, the portion which lies above the level of the tubes being known as the fundus. Immediately below the tubes a fibrous cord, the round liga- ment, passes forwards from the anterior surface of the body of the uterus, while from the posterior surface, at the same level, a cord—the ligament of the ovary—passes outwards to the uterine pole of the ovary. At a still lower level, in the region of the cervix, but from the same posterior surface, there passes backwards on either side a similar fibrous cord, the utero-sacral ligament. It may be possible to distin- guish in both the round ligament and in the utero-sacral ligament the presence of muscular fibres derivable from the uterine musculature. Certain muscular fibres may also be seen passing from the lateral border of the uterus outwards into the broad ligament, in consequence of which the uterus is not sharply limited at the side. The anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus are, on the other hand, free, being merely covered by closely adherent peritoneum [peri- metrium]. It will be noticed that the whole of the posterior surface of the uterus is covered by peritoneum, but only the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface. By this difference, by the forward direction of the round ligaments, as well as by the fact that, whereas the posterior surface is convex the anterior is flat, it is possible to distinguish the surfaces of the isolated uterus. The lower portion or neck of the uterus [cervix uteri] is divided into two parts, supra-vaginel and intra-vaginal, of which only the former can be seen at present. It may be noted here that the axis of the body of the uterus is not in the same line as that of the cervix, but forms with it an angle open in front; in other words,' the body of the uterus is bent forward or anteflexed. Farther