THE PERITONEUM 115 Replace the transverse colon and great omentum in their original position, and, having pinched up the superficial layer of the omentum a little below the stomach, make a horizontal incision through it. If now the margins of the incision are lifted up and held apart, an excellent view of the lesser sac can usually be obtained through the aperture, and the cavity should be explored with the finger. Note that it passes upwards behind the stomach, the first part of the duodenum, and the liver, to the diaphragm; it passes downwards in front of the transverse colon; to the left it is closed by the gastro-splenic omentum, the spleen, and a fold passing from the spleen to the left kidney, the lieno-renal ligament; to the right it is closed below the duodenum by the meeting of the tAvo layers of the omentum, but above the duodenum it com- municates with the great sac through a vertical sht, which may be opened to the size of half-a-crown, the foramen of Winslow [f. epiploicum]. These relations having been made out, the following viscera should be palpated: the liver, stomach, duodenum, spleen, kidney, and pancreas; the last viscus stretches across the posterior abdominal wall just above the attachment of the transverse meso-colon. Draw the stomach forward, and note the right and left pancreatico- gastric folds running back from the pyloric and cardiac portions of the stomach respectively. Finally the dissector must realise that, below the transverse colon, the great omentum consists of four layers, of which the first aiid fourth belong to the greater sac, the second and third to the lesser. Above the transverse colon the third and fourth layers become the transverse meso-colon, and then the great omentum is only formed by the first and second layers. This will be clear on referring to Fio-. 238. The finger should now be withdrawn, and the foramen of Winslow found and penetrated from the great sac. To do this mark the gall bladder, pass the left index finger along it from the fundus to neck, when, by crooking the finger to the left, it will enter the foramen. The foramen which, it is well