194 PRACTICAL ANATOMY of the sacrum, the whole anterior surface of the coccyx and the ano-coccygeal body can be examined. If the finger, while still in the rectum, be moved a Uttle to the side of the middle hne, certain of the lower sacral nerves can be recognised. On withdrawing the finger, turn the palmar surface to the side, and note how the anal canal can bulge into the ischio-rectal fossa, or how an accumulation of pus in the fossa can press upon the canal. Now pass the finger along the canal with the palmar surface forward. In the female the posterior wall of the vagina, the cervix uteri and the body of the uterus can be felt; if necessary, pressure being made from above on the uterus. In the male IJ inch above the anus the apex of the prostate will be reached, IJ inch farther up, the base of the prostate. This is the method of examining the prostate in the living body, and the student should therefore make himself familiar with its position and nature. Im- mediately above the base of the prostate the bladder may be felt if the finger rigorously keeps to the middle line, while on either side of this portion of the bladder the vesiculse semi- nales and vasa deferentia can be identified particularly if pressure be also applied from above. In the female the vagina should be next explored. Pass the finger upwards, and identify first of all the cervix uteri. The interval between the cervix and the surrounding vagmal wall is divided into anterior, posterior, and right and left lateral fornices. If the student places one index finger in the anterior fornix and the other in the utero-vesical pouch, he will recognise that between the anterior vaginal wall and the peritoneal cavity a considerable amount of loose cellular tissue intervenes. If the fingers be now placed in the posterior fornix and the utero-rectal fossa, it will be found that no such cellular tissue there separates vagmal wall from peritoneum. Next explore the lateral fornices, m which it may be possible to feel the ureter as a round