285 THE ARM cation in front of the elbow, which, as has been seen, is liable to considerable variation. As a rule, the blood from the superficial parts of the forearm runs up in a median, a radial and two ulnar veins (anterior and posterior). These are quite apart from the vente comites of the radial and ulnar arteries. About the lower limit of the dissection the median vein receives a deep median piercing the fascia of the forearm and affording a communication between the deep and super- ficial veins. As soon as these two median vems have joined they bifurcate into the median basilic, Avhich runs upwards and inwards, and the median cephalic, running upwards and outwards. These in their turn are joined by the veins from the sides of the forearm, the median basilic by the anterior and pos- terior ulnar veins, and the median cephalic by the radial. The combined trunk formed by the junction of the median basilic and ulnar veins is continued up as the basilic, while that of the median cephalic and radial forms the cephalic vein already studied in the shoulder region. A little above the internal condyle in close relation to the ulnar veins are one or two small epicondylar lymph nodes, which receive the lymphatics draining the inner side of the hand and forearm. The median basilic is the vein from which patients used to be bled, though when it was small the median cephalic was used ; it lies in front of the brachial artery, only separated by the bicipital fascia. In spite of this fascia, clumsy operators frequently established a communication between the vein and the artery, which subsequently caused trouble. The basilic vein, if traced upwards, is seen to graduallv pierce the deep fascia about the middle of the arm. Some- times a definite semilunar opening (hiatus semilunaris) is described, but a good deal of artificial work is necessary to demonstrate it satisfactorily. Through it the internal cutaneous nerve [n. cutaneus antebrachii medialis] emerges and soon divides into anterior and posterior branches. Of these the anterior runs down, usually deep to the median