56 PRACTICAL ANATOMY and pleurte; (2) left plirenic; (3) left vagus; (4) cardiac branches to superficial cardiac plexus; (5) left superior intercostal vein; (6) remains of thymus gland. In order to see the posterior relations the aortic arch with the heart attached must be hooked over as far as possible to the left. There will then be seen from right to left: (1) the trachea; (2) deep cardiac plexus; (3) left re- current laryngeal nerve ; (4) oesophagus; (5) thoracic duct; (6) body of the fourth thoracic vertebra (Fig. 215). Above it is in relation to the three large vessels which spring from it and to the left innominate vein. Below, in its concavity, are situate the bifurcations of the trachea and of the pulmonary artery, while superficial to both lies the superficial cardiac plexus. Owing to the fact that the arch of the aorta is astride of the left bronchus, one of the symptoms of aortic aneurism is known as the " tracheal tuo-," which can be felt by holding the trachea between the finger and thumb in the neck. It is caused by the pulsa- tion of the distended aorta. On both sides of the median plane the arch has in front of it the corresponding pleural sac. From these relations it will be readily understood that any enlargement of the arch, such as occurs in aneurism, will necessarily cause pressure upon the trachea, (esophagus, and recurrent laryngeal nerve, with consequent loss of voice and difficulty in breathing and swallowing. ' The innominate artery [A. anonyma] is the first and largest branch of the aortic arch. Arising near the mid line it passes upwards and to the right to end behmd the sterno-clavicular articulation by dividing into the right sub- clavian and right common carotid. In its course it hes first in front of the trachea and right vagus, then of the right pleural sac and the apical part of the right lung. It is crossed near its origin by the left innominate vem, while, as already stated, its termination is behind the sterno-clavicular ioint To its right is the right innominate vein and the upper part of the superior vena cava, which intervene to