PRACTICAL ANATOMY 130 it will be seen to pass upward and slightly outward to the under surface of the liver, where, turning to the left, it forms the hepatic flexure, and is continued across the abdominal cavity as the transverse colon to the region of the spleen. Here it bends a second time, forming the splenic flexure, and is thence continued downwards and slightly inwards as the descending colon. Where it crosses the left iliac fossa it becomes the iliac colon, and, at the inner border of the psoas, it passes into the pelvis as the pelvic colon. The latter portion of the large intestine, like the transverse colon, is movable, being suspended from the posterior abdominal wall by a fold of peritoneum, the pelvic meso-colon. Run the measuring-tape along the large intestine from the csecum to the rectum and notice its length. In the post-mortem-room it generally measures something over five feet, but in a dissecting-room where formalin is used it may be much less. Notice that there are three points by which a piece of large intestine may be distinguished from small when it is drawn out of an abdominal incision. First and by far the most useful is the presence of the fatty tags or appendices epiploicce, which are present in the whole of the large intestine except the csecum and end of the rectum. Secondly, the longitudinal muscle is collected into three bands {tcenice); and thirdly, the walls show sacculations {haustce). The two latter points are often not well marked until the gut has been inflated and dried. Turn the transverse colon upwards and remove the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon, exposing thereby the middle colic vessels, lymphatics, and nerves which supply the transverse colon. These should be traced to their origm from the superior mesenteric. The vessels will be found to branch in a manner similar to that in which the vessels to the small intestine branch. Near the hepatic and splenic flexure the vessels enter into anastomoses with branches of the right and left colic respectively. Next remove the trans- verse colon after carefully ligaturing the ends which are left.