256 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the intermediate those coming from the sternum, while the deepest is the abdominal part. Instead of cutting the nerves which enter it, a small mass of the muscle may be cut out and left attached to them. Now identify the j^Gctoralis minor, vising from the bony parts of the second, third, fourth, and perhaps the fifth ribs, and converging to a small tendon which is inserted into the anterior border of the coracoid process, and also blends with the origin of the coraco-brachialis. This muscle lies embedded in the cellular tissue of the axilla, and the internal anterior thoracic nerve should be looked for piercing its fleshy fibres. Now dissect away the cellular tissue between the upper border of the pectoralis minor and the clavicle. This is the orthodox costo-coracoid membrane,- though membrane is not a happy term to describe it in the undissected state. Three structures pierce this cellular tissue and must be preserved; they are (1) the acromio-thoracic artery [A. thoraco-acromialis], which gives off thoracic, acromial, clavicular, and humeral twigs; (2j the cephalic vein, dipping in from the groove between the pector- alis major and deltoid, and accompanying the humeral branch of the last-named artery. This usually receives the veins accompanying the branches of the acromio-thoracic artery ; (3) the external anterior thoracic nerve. Follow the cephalic vein carefully, and it will lead to the axillary vein, into which it opens. Follow the acromio-thoracic artery, and it will lead to the first part of the axillary artery, which is here to the outer side of and behind the axillary vein. Follow the nerve and it will lead to the outer cord of the brachial plexus, which lies on the outer side of the axillary artery. In dissecting these three structures keep a sharp look-out for lymphatic nodes, a group of which hes close to the opening of the cephalic vein, and is known as the infra- clavicular group. Just below the clavicle the suhclavius muscle nmst be