JOINTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 357 fibro-cartilage which deepens the glenoid cavity, and is also intra-capsular. On the anterior wall of the capsule, when looked at fifom behind, one, two, or three delicate ridges of synovial mem- brane may be seen; these are the gleno-humeral ligaments, but, although of a good deal of morphological interest, they are of no practical importance (see Fig. 329). The Elbow Joint [articulatio cubiti].—In this joint the upper ends of the radius and ulna are attached to the lower end of the humerus by a capsule, the upper attachment of which may be marked out on a dry humerus by drawing a line from the lower part of the internal condyle, round the front of the bone just above the coronoid and radial depres- sions, to the lower part of the external condyle. Then round the back of the bone above the olecranon depression to the starting-point. Below, the line of its attachment is to the upper surface of the olecranon, a little behind its free anterior border, to the inner side of this process, and then, by means of a bridge-like band, to the inner side of the coronoid process ; it then passes round the front of the coronoid, a little below the free anterior border, to the front of the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is not directly attached to the radius, but to the orbicular ligament [lig. annulare radii], which forms a strap round the disc- shaped head of that bone, and with the lesser sigmoid cavity forms a circular socket in which the head of the radius can rotate. Strictly speaking, this orbicular ligament does not belong to the elbow joint, but to the superior radio-ulnar articu- lation [articulatio radio-ulnaris proximalis]; but, since the cavities of the two joints are continuous, they must be examined together. It is usual to describe anterior and posterior as well as internal and external lateral ligaments to the elbow, but they are all parts of one capsule. Before opening the joint, notice its movements ; these are practically only flexion and exten-