112 PRACTICAL ANATOMY area posteriorly, e.g. the small intestine ; in other cases a broad and irregular area is left uncovered posteriorly, e.g. the liver. The relatively simple arrangement of the peritoneum so far implied is complicated by the following tendencies:— (a) The change in position of the viscus and the con- sequent drag on its peritoneal covering; {b) the union of two opposed layers of peritoneum ; (c) the absorption of the peritoneum from that surface of a viscus which has become pressed against the wall of the cavity; {d) the overgrowth of the peritoneum; (e) the adaptive strengthening in certain regions to form suspensory ligaments; (/) the presence of underlying vessels producing vascular folds; {g) the forma- tion of pouches. Illustrations of these tendencies will be noted as they occur in the description. The 'student should fix by means of pins a series of strings along the transpyloric, subcostal, intertubercular and mid-PowpaH lines (noticed on p. 79), in this way dividing the abdomen into compartments, each containing viscera the position of which is usually stated in terms of these compartments. The Hver will be found to lie chiefly in the right hypochondriac and epigastric compartments, but to pass slightly into the left hypochondrium and right lumbar region. The stomach lies almost equally in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. The gall-bladder hes at the extreme right of the epigastric zone. The csBcum lies in the right iliac compartment; the ascending colon may be partly seen ascending through the right lumbar region into the right hypochondriac, the descending colon descenduig through the same regions on the left side. The left ihac fossa is partially occupied by the iliac colon. In the hypo- gastric zone will be seen the pelvic viscera. Cods of small btestine occupy the space enclosed by the horse-shoe-shaped loop of large intestine, but are largely concealed by the fold of peritoneum which descends from the great curvature of the stomach and is known as the great omentum. The Great Omentum.—fold of peritoneum should be