243 THE BACK been cleo,rly enough defined to uUovv a finger to be pushed up deep to the muscle for some little way. As the upper part of the vertebral border of the scapula is approached, keep a look-out for the spinal accessory nerve [n. accessorius] on the deep aspect of the muscle; this has either already received communicating branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves or is joining and forming a plexus with them. Some branches of tlie superficial cervical artery accompany the nerves. The latissimus dorsi must next be defined; its origin from the lower six thoracic spines and supraspinous liga- ments is evident now that the trapezius is reflected; below this it rises from a gHstening aponeurosis known as the lumbar fascia [f. lumbo-dorsalis], which transmits its pull to the lumbar and sacral spines. Beyond the outer limit of the lumbar fascia, the latissimus dorsi rises for about an inch from the outer hp of the iliac crest a little behind its middle. This origin is continued up as the outer and lower margin of the muscle, and, close to the iliac crest, forms the inner boundary of Petit's triangle [trigonum lumbale], which, Hke the lumbar fascia, interests the dissectors of the abdomen more than those of the upper extremity. The upper edo-e of the muscle needs defining very carefully, and in doing°this it will be noticed that it lies superficial to the lower ano-le of the scapula, sometimes gaining a slip of origin from''that place. External to the scapula the latissimus dorsi lies behind (superficial to) part of the teres major, a muscle which IS easily distinguished lying just above the latissimus dorsi, and rising from the lower angle of the scapula, but as the axilla is approached the latissimus narrows rapidly and becomes gradually wrapped round the lower border of the teres major. Cut the muscle across a little external to the angle of the scapula, and turn back the broad end; it will then be seen to take origin from the last three ribs by fleshy bundles interdigitating with the origin of the external oblique muscle.