142 PRACTICAL ANATOMY by the broad groove for the inferior vena cava, and on the left by the groove for the ductus venosus. Above it passes imperceptibly into the surrounding Uver substance, below it ends to the left in a free, rounded swelling—the tuher papillare—while to the right it passes by a narrow connec- tion—the caudate lobe—into the right lobe of the liver. The posterior surface of this Spigelian lobe is covered by peritoneum of the lesser sac, which separates it from the diaphragm, behind which again is the thoracic aorta. It usually corresponds in level to the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae. To the right of the groove for the inferior vena cava the posterior surface is uncovered by peritoneum and lies against the diaphragm, and at its lower medial angle against the right suprarenal. On the back of the left 'lobe is a groove for the oesophagus, to the left of which the posterior surface narrows to a rounded border which lies over the fundus of the stomach. This portion of the posterior surface is covered by peritoneum, except along a narrow strip, from the margins of which the peritoneum is reflected on to the diaphragm and continued on the left into the left lateral ligament, just as the meeting of the two layers of the coronary hgament to the right form the right lateral ligament. The structures at the hilum or transverse fissure of the liver should be now examined. They are the portal vein, dividing into a short right and a long left branch; the hepatic artery, dividing into its two terminal branches, from the right one of which arises the cystic artery, which supplies the gall bladder, the cystic vein running to the portal vein; the common bile duct [ductus choledochus], formed b}^. the junction of the cystic duct with the hepatic duct. Also at the hilum a careful search should be made for the hepatic plexus of nerves and for the various lymphatic nodes, all of which should be kept. An important relation to observe is that the caudate lobe alone intervenes between the portal vein and the inferior vena cava. All these structures are