THE DUODENUM 161 artery, common bile duct and the hccad of the pancreas forward to the mid line, being careful of the structures lying behind. If possible leave the portal vein and its constituents in the abdomen in order to study them later; to do this divide the splenic vein near the spleen before the inferior mesenteric vein has joined it. The superior mesenteric vein may be cut as it is passing through its notch in the head of the pancreas. Turn in a similar manner the spleen, the body of the pancreas, the splenic vessels and the duodeno-jejunal flexure forward to the mid line, when, after division of the splenic, hepatic and superior mesenteric arteries, the whole of the associated structures may be removed from the body, and can be readily cleaned in front and behind. The common bile duct may be followed to its opening into the second part of the duodenum, and the pancreatic duct found piercing the duodenal coats near the same spot. This duct should be traced into the pancreas, where it can be readily recognised by the whiteness of its walls. Opening into the duodenum an inch nearer the pylorus, an accessory duct (of Santorini) is sometimes to be found. The wall of the duodenum opposite the opening of the ducts should be incised, and a search made for the common orifice of the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct. The orifice is situated on a small papilla under cover of a hood-like valvula connivens. A bristle should now be passed from the duodenum into each of the ducts, which will show that, although they have a comlnon orifice, the ducts pierce the outer coats of the duo- denum separately, uniting within the thickness of the wall. Continue the incision to the pyloric end of the gut, and notice that the valvute conniventes begin about an inch from the pylorus. Now turn the specimen over to notice the absence of peritoneum behind the duodenum and pancreas, and, having done this, dissect away the muscular from the mucous coat of the pyloric end of the stomach and first part of the duodenum, as in Fig. 260. This will show the presence of Brunner's Glands [Gl. duodenales] in the duodenum as VOL. n. T