PRACTICAL ANATOMY 258 found ; it is surrounded by condensed cellular tissue, and so requires careful cleaning. Its tendon of origin from'the inner end of the first rib is continued along the lower border of the muscle, where it is in contact with the axillary vein, so that the vein is not compressed by the swelling up of the muscle during contraction. The insertion of the muscle into the middle third of the lower surface of the clavicle, as well as its nerve supply, cannot be seen very well at present. Notice that in many positions of the shoulder the sub- clavius and pectoralis minor are in contact, except where the vessels and nerves pass forward between them. In cleaning the upper border of the pectoralis minor look for an artery running along it toward the thorax. This is the sv/perior thoracic [A. thoracalis suprema], a branch either of the axillary or of the acromio-thoracic. Along the lower border of the pectoralis minor a larger artery, the long thoracic [a. thoracalis lateralis], will be found; it is a branch of the axillary, and is specially important, because a group of lymphatic nodes is placed along its course, and these drain a large part of the breast in the female. They are, therefore, of great importance to the surgeon, and must always be re- moved after amputation of the breast for cancer. Cut the pectoralis minor through at about its middle and reflect the two parts, when the axilla wUl be completely exposed from in front. Some idea may now be gained of the shape and dimensions of the space. It is a four-sided pyramid with the apex cut off, the base being formed by the skin of the armpit. Its anterior wall, as has been seen, is formed by the two pectoral muscles. Posteriorly it is bounded from above down by the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles Internally is the thoracic wall, with the serratus magnus rising from it; while externally the humerus and coraco-brachialis muscle form its wall. At its apex it com- municates with the posterior triangle of the neck through a triangular space bounded in front by the clavicle, behind by