THE SHOULDER. 275 Lif/amevts.—(3) Coraco-clavicular; (4) coraco-acromial. Muscles.—Insertions of (5) Subscapularis; (6) supra- spinatus; (7) infra-spinatus; and (8) teres minor. Origins of (9) coraco-brachialis; and (10) short liead of biceps. Vessels.—(11) Anterior circumflex; (12) posterior cir- cumflex; and (13) acromial branch of acromio-thoracic. Nerves.—(14) Circumflex. Bursce.—(15) Subacromial bursa. The subacromial hursa should be examined at once before it is damaged. It is a large sac, with glistening walls lining the upper part of the deep surface of the deltoid, the deep surfaces of the acromial process and coraco-acromial liga- ments, and the superficial surface of the tendons of insertion of the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles. Its interior should be explored with a probe or seeker, and in some cases it will be found to be multilocular from septa and strands passing across it. These septa when present are worth noticing, because they indicate the gradual transition from ordinary cellular to bursal tissue. The joints and ligaments may be studied as they are reached, or the whole of them may be left till all the other soft parts have been dealt with. On the whole, we think the latter preferable, because the different kinds of joints may then be so much more readily compared. The risk of their drying up is very shght, now that tanks are usually provided for storing the extremities. The subscapularis muscle will be seen to rise from the ventral surface of the scapula, though it does not reach the vertebral border, because of the insertion of the serratus magnus. Its insertion is into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Cut it right through from above downwards, just internal to the position of the shoulder joint, and turn the origin aside; it will then be seen that the muscle does not rise from, but only plays over, that part of the subscapular fossa which is near the joint, and that bursal tissue mtervcnes between them. Another vertical incision, nearer the origin