173 THE LUMBAR NERVES where it enters the abdomen behind the inner extremity of the internal arcuate ligament and downwards to where it passes behind the common iliac artery into the pelvis. Upon the cord are developed four or five ganglia, from which pass, as already mentioned, fine communicating branches to the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves. It passes through the sheath of the psoas at its upper and inner angle. The last thoracic nerve with the accompanying subcostal vessels will be found piercing the fascia over the quadratus lumborum just below the last rib, having entered the abdomen behind the external arcuate ligament (see Fig. 263, 12 0). At the outer border of the psoas, and an inch or so below the last thoracic (subcostal) nerve, two nerves may be found crossing the quadratus lumborum muscle obliquely in a downward and outward direction. These are the ilio-hypo- gastric and ilio-inguioial branches of the 1st lumbar nerve (see Fig. 263, I.H.N., I.I.N.). It is not uncommon for these nerves to make their appearance from under cover of the outer border of the psoas as a single trunk which divides later. The nerves pierce the fascia covering the psoas at the outer border of the muscle, pass outAvards in front of the quadratus lumborum and its fascia, and pierce the trans- versalis muscle an inch or two beyond the outer border of the quadratus lumborum to gain the interval between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. Running nearly parallel to the two nerves mentioned above, but rather more obliquely downwards, is the external cutaneous nerve [n. cutaneus femoris lateralis] (see Fig. 263, E.C.N,). It leaves the outer border of the psoas a little above the level of the iliac crest, crosses the iliacus muscle and passes into the thigh under Poupart's ligament, close to the anterior superior iliac spine. Lying close to the outer border of the psoas, in its lower part will be found the large anterior crural nerve [n. femoralis] (see Fig. 263, A.C.N.), while opposite to it, on the inner side of the psoas, is the obturator nerve (see Fig.