THE IMEDIASTINA 63 the following order—pulmonary artery, ascending aorta, superior vena cava, inferior cava, pulmonary veins. The fact that the veins are only covered anteriorly and laterally by the serous pericardium makes it difficult to isolate them, and so divide them cleanly. On removing the heart a good view will be obtained of the way in which the serous peri- cardium is reflected around the vessels and of the boundaries of the transverse and oblique sinuses. If it was not possible to open and explore the left auricle of the heart before, it should be done now (see p. 23). The pericardium should be altogether removed now. Since the arch of the aorta and the roots of the lungs are divided, there is nothing except cellular tissue and its attach- ment to the diaphragm to keep it in position. It is advisable to cut round that part which is firmly attached to the diaphragm, and so leave it, removing the rest. The pericardium having been removed, the continuity of the structures passing between the superior and posterior mediastina should be noticed, the whole intrathoracic course of the oesophagus and thoracic duct being specially im- portant. In the case of the oesophagus, notice that it is at or very near the mid line of the body opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra, but above and below that point it lies to the left. The point at which the tube passes behind the left bronchus is an important one, because here it is often somewhat con- stricted, and it is said that a little extra pressure in passing an oesophageal bougie may be needed here. It should be noticed too that, whereas the trachea is only in contact with the right lung and pleura, the oesophagus touches both the right and left. This is easily explained on looking at the section (Fig. 216), which shows how much narrower the superior mediastinum is behind than in front. The change of position which the thoracic duct undergoes with regard to the oesophagus, about the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra, should be carefully noted. Below that