137 THE LIVER verse fissure of the liver; the vein is of practical importance, because it links together the portal and systemic circulations, and is frequently enlarged in cases of obstruction of the portal vein. In the unopened abdomen this falciform ligament hes flat against the anterior abdominal wall, its hepatic attach- ment TDeing well to the right of the mid hne. The superior surface of the liver is in relation to the diaphragm, which separates it from the two pleural sacs and the pericardium. Near the middle line the superior surface is slightly concave, in consequence of the depression of the diaphragm caused by the pericardium. On either side of this middle portion the superior surface is convex in correspon- dence to the right and left domes of the diaphragm. ^ The base or right surface of the liver hes against the diaphragm, which, it should be observed, here separates the hver from the right pleural sac, right lung, and the 7th to the 11th costal arches—the 12th rib does not reach sufiiciently far forward to come into relation with this sur- face of the hver. The base is convex, in conformity with the concavity of the diaphragm into which it fits. The student should therefore reahse that a punctured wound may injure the pleura, lung, diaphragm, peritoneum, and hver if inflicted on the lower part of the right side of the thorax. The apex of the hver hes to the left, against the dia- phragm, above the fundus of the stomach, and just behind the 6th left costal arch. The anterior surface of the hver is of considerable im- portance, for it is the surface which admits most readily of examination in the hving. It passes above, below, and to the right into the superior, inferior, and basal surfaces. It is limited above by a line which, in the medial plane, corre- sponds with the junction of the gladiolus and ensiform cartilage and passes almost horizontally outwards on the left side, but outwards and upwards on the right side, describing a gentle curve which reaches in the mammary line as high as the 5th