114 PKACTICAL ANATOMY straightened out and carefully followed from right to left. At its right border it will be found to gradually shorten and disappear; its left border passes upwards over the colon and below the spleen to be attached to the diaphragm; the portion which passes between the colon and diaphragm is loiown as the phrenico-colic ligament. If the great omentum be now traced upwards, it will be found to be attached to the great curvature of the stomach and to pass up between the fundus and spleen as the gastTO-sple,nic omentum [hg. gastro-henale]. Between the great curvature of the stomach and the free border of the great omentum, the transverse colon will be seen in most cases passing from right to left in the substance of the omentum. On examming the structure of the great omentum carefully, it will be noticed that it is not a uniform sheet, but is perforated hke a piece of dehcate lace or like the tracery of a decayed leaf. Note carefully how low the great omentum reaches—this varies a good deal in different bodies; it is sometimes long enough to cover the external genitals when drawn down, whik at other times it is greatly contracted, and not infrc- quently adherent to certain of the viscera over which it hes. If with the forceps the superficial layer of the omentum be pinched up, the deep layer will be found to fall away, disclos- ing a cavity between the two layers. This is the cavity o the lesser sac [bursa omentalis]. The great omentum should now be turned up over the thorax. The transverse colon wi be carried up with it, and an excellent view of this viscus will be obtained. The fold of peritoneum, which reaches from the transverse colon to the posterior abdominal wall, which it reaches just below the pancreas, is called the tran^ver^e meso-colon. Make a small vertical incision through the transverse meso-colon, which will then be seen to consist o two layers of peritoneum, enclosing .between them blood vessels and a variable amount of fat. Pass a finger through the incision into the lesser sac. and feel the posterior surface of the stomach.