THE MALE PELVIS 197 attention to the blood vessels, all of which should be care- fully saved for future review (see p. 203). By this procedure the viscera of the pelvis will be more or less isolated in the middle of the cavity, and their re- lations can be easily studied. The portions of the alimentary canal within the pelvis are the pelvic colon, the rectum, and the anal canal. The Pelvic Colon has been studied already (p. 190); it is distinguished from the rectum by the possession of a meso-colon. Its posterior relations are the pelvic brim, the lower part of the sacro-iliac joint, the ala of the sacrum, the first three sacral vertebrae, the internal iliac vessels with their branches and tributaries, the obturator nerve, the lumbo-sacral cord and the upper two or three sacral nerves, the pyriformis muscle, and ureter—all of the left side. In immediate contact with the gut, posteriorly, are the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels. In the front of it lies the base of the bladder, when the latter viscus is distended. The pelvic colon is, as a rule, so disposed that a coil of it lies within the recto-vesical pouch in such a way that the upper portion of the coil is an anterior relation to the lower. At the sides the pelvic colon is related to the cellular tissue of the pelvis enclosing the internal iliac vessels and the ureter, the parietal peritoneum, of course, intervening. The Kectum, beginning at the 3rd sacral vertebra, extends downwards in a sigmoid rather than in the straight manner implied by its name, to an inch in front of the tip of the coccyx, at which point it passes through the opening in the levator ani muscle and becomes continuous with the anal canal, which has been studied already in the perineum. There is seldom any meso-rectum, although the peritoneum does not at once leave the tube, but covers it anteriorly, and to some extent laterally, as low as the 5th sacral vertebra. The relations of the rectum will be seen to be as follows:— Posteriorly, the last two sacral vertebrae, coccyx, the