54 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the nerve behind and below the aortic arch accounts for the chnical fact that sometimes the earhest sign of an aortic aneurism or dilatation of the arch is loss of voice from paralysis of the laryngeal muscles which this nerve supplies. While the front of the arch is being dissected a close look-out should be kept for two minute nerves passing to the superficial cardiac plexus, which lies in the concavity of the aorta. They lie between the vagus and phrenic, and are the left superior cervical cardiac of the sympathetic, nearer the vagus, and the left inferior cervical cardiac of the vagus, nearer the phrenic. A good deal of skill is required ii) order to find them. Behind the nerves the great arteries occupy the superior mediastinum. They are the arch of the aorta with its three great branches. Before beginning their dissection study the accompanying diagram of a horizontal section through the superior mediastinum, or, if an actual section is at hand, study that (Figs. 215, 216). The arch of the aorta begins at the top of the pericardium, where it is continuous with the ascending aorta behind the second right costal cartilage. Here it most nearly ap- proaches the anterior wall of the chest, and consequently the sounds of the aortic valve are best heard here with the stethoscope. From its origin it inclines obliquely backwards and to the left to end at the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra. In the concavity of its arch lies the root of the left lung. If these two structures be separated, a fibrous cord covered by pleura may be seen passing between them; it is the obliterated ductus arteriosus, and will be studied more fully later (see Fig. 209, D.A.). Arising from the con- vexity of the arch are, from right to left, the innominate [A. anonyma], the left common carotid [A. carotis], and the left subclavian arteries [A. subclavia]. The first comes into relation with the right pleura, and for some distance hes directly in front of the trachea; the other two arterial trunlis