60 PRACTICAL ANATOMY examined, a fine nerve plexus, the superficial cardiac plexus [p. cardiacus], will be seen. The easiest way to expose the plexus is to follow down the two small nerves which cross the arch of the aorta between the phrenic and vagus nerves. In following the various nerve filaments forming the plexus a view will be obtained high up in the concavity of the arch of the bifurcation of the trachea. An attempt should now be made to expose the deej) cardiac plexus [p. cardiacus profundus]. Divide the arch of the aorta just before the innominate artery is given oiF. The arch may now be turned upwards and to the left, but great care must be exercised in this procedure in order to save the fine nerve filaments which form the plexus on the anterior surface of the trachea immediately above its bifurcation and behind the aortic arch. From this plexus it may be possible to trace branches to the heart and also to the anterior pulmonary plexuses. The Trachea.—In the previous dissection the student can- not have failed to notice the trachea, which, situated in the median line, lies in front of the bodies of the first four thoracic vertebra. It is readily distinguished by the trans- verse bars of cartilage and by its characteristic resilience to the touch. That portion of the trachea within the thorax alone concerns the dissector at this stage. It extends from the upper aperture of the thorax to the lower border of the 4th thoracic vertebra, at which level it divides into the right and left bronchi. The right bronchus has slightly the larger calibre and is more in a line with the trachea than is the left, since the trachea deviates a little to the right before it divides. For these two reasons a foreign body which has entered the trachea is more prone to travel along the right bronchus than along the left. In front of the trachea are the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses, the arch of the aorta, the innominate and left common carotid arteries, the left innominate vein, and the inferior thyroid veins, Avhicli latter descend from the thyroid body to open into the left