ASCENDING COLON AND HEPATIC FLEXURE 149 nerve, quadratus lumborum, anterior lamella of lumbar fascia, the last lumbar vessels, ilio-ingumal and ilio-hypo- .^astric nerves and transversalis muscle. The liver and kidney exclude it from coming into direct relation with the diaphragm. The ascending colon is in relation an- teriorly to the anterior abdominal wall, coils of small in- testine, liver, and beginning of transverse colon. To the right hes the abdominal wall; to the left coils of small intestine, transverse colon, and kidney (see Fig. 251). The hepatic flexure is the broad bend which the large intestine forms at the junction of the ascending and trans- verse colon. It lies in front of the kidney and under cover of the liver and gall bladder. After these relations of the large gut have been noted, the peritoneal covering and the blood vessels should be examined. In the vast majority of cases the peritoneum only covers the ascending colon an- teriorly and laterally, the posterior surface being left bare. The chief artery to this portion of the colon is the right colic, a branch of the superior mesenteric, which anastomoses below with the colic branch of the ileo-colic, and above with the right branch of the middle colic. The right colic artery when present runs horizontally outwards from the line of the mesentery, its upper branch passing in front of the lower pole of the kidney. The artery should be traced, its dis- tribution, and its single tier of arches and anastomoses fully exhibited. Its terminal branches reach the gut along its bare area, and run circumferentially round it. It is by no means uncommon to find this right colic artery absent, and its work done by the ileo-colic and middle colic. The Splenic Flexure and Descending Colon If attention is now turned to the splenic flexure it will be noticed that, compared with the hepatic flexure, it forms a much sharper bend; further, in consequence of the absence of the liver from the left upper region of the abdomen, the