THE LIVER 139 vein common bile duct, and accompanying nerves and lym- phatics. The artery lies to the left, the duct to the right, and the vein behind and between. These structures should now be traced upward to the transverse fissure of the hver, where the relationship will be found to be duct artery vein from before backward. ^ t.7 7 7 A good view will now be obtained of the Gall Bladder [vesica^ fellea], a pyriform sac with its fundus anterior and its apex continued into the cystic duct, which joins the hepatic duct by turning sharply to the left near the transverse fissure. This continuity should be now demonstrated, and in doing so carefully preserve any lymphatic nodes which may be found in the course of the duct. A large node usuaUy occupies the angle formed by the sharp bend between the neck of the gall bladder and the cystic duct. The lymphatic nodes at the transverse fissure should be left for the present. Now trace the common bile duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein doAvnwards to the upper border of the first part of the duodenum, noting again how the duodenum in a horse-shoe curve surrounds the pancreas. The close relationship of the gall bladder to the duodenum is very important to notice (see Fig. 248). Ligature the duct and vessels each in two places midway between the transverse fissure and the duodenum, and divide them. If they are next turned aside the posterior wall of the abdo- men will be exposed, and lying upon it in this situation is the inferior vena cava, which should be cleaned as far . upward and downward as possible, ligatured in two places, and divided.^ The liver should now be allowed to fall back into its original position. If it be further pressed down and the diaphragm pressed up, the anterior layer of the coronary ligament is made tense, and if an incision be made through it, parallel with and just above the right lobe of the liver, a compartment containing loose cellular tissue 1 In a formalin body it is not so important that the vein should be ligatured.