8 PRACTICAL ANATOMY poricardiurn and diaphragm, and usually has in connection with it subserous accumulations of fat, the so-called plicce adiposce (see Fig. 192, F.Pl.). The two latter are narrow recesses, only partially occupied in the dead body by the thin anterior and inferior margins of the lungs respectively. They lie, the one between the pericardium and sternum, the other between the diaphragm and the lower lateral part of the thoracic wall. As they are unoccupied by the lung in normal respira- tion, the two layers of parietal pleura are in immediate contact iri these situations. The right pleural sac corresponds in every way with that of the left side, except that it reaches the middle hne of the sternum as low as the 6th costal cartilage instead of leaving it at the 4th. To obtain a clearer view of the extent and position of the pleural sacs the folloAving dissection should be made. Make two transverse saw-cuts through the sternum, one just below the level of the 1st costal carti- lages, the other just below the level of the 6th. Next divide the sternum longitudinally with the saw in the middle line joining the two transverse cuts. With a pair of bone forceps divide on both sides, the 2nd to the 6th ribs inclusive, near their angles, but be careful not to sever the intervening intercostal muscles, or to incise the parietal pleura. As a result of this procedure it will now be possible to turn a large part of the thoracic parietes outward, or, in other words, open the thorax as a book is opened. It is of the greatest service in studying the important subject of cardiac topography to be able to so open or close the whole or the half of the thorax. at will. On separating the two halves of - the longitudinally-divided sternum a view will be obtained of the outside of the pleural sacs. Pass a forefinger up and down between the parietal pleura and the wall of the thorax proper, in this way stripping oft' the parietal pleura as a thin membrane. In many cases this procedure is not practicable owing to inflammatory adhesions, but it should