THE BACK OF THE FOREARM 345 external lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and through that from the external condyle, from the intermuscular septa between it and the more superficial muscles now reflected, from the orbicular ligament surrounding the head of the radius, and from the posterior part of the triangular fossa below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. From this origin its fibres are wrapped round the outer side of the upper part of the radius from behind forward, so that the more the radius is pronated the tighter they are twisted round it. Their action, therefore, is to untwist them- selves and by so doing to supinate the radius (see Fig. 322). Find the posterior interosseous nerve as it is entering the muscle, and put it on the stretch. It obviously passes between a superficial and a deep layer. Divide the former along the course of the nerve, and notice that it is inserted along the oblique line of the radius in front and just above the insertion of the pronator radii teres externally. When the superficial layer of the supinator brevis is re- flected, the deeper layer will be found inserted into the front of the neck of the radius all round except at its postero-internal part; it also extends on to the shaft for about 1| inch. The greater part of the posterior interosseous nerve is now exposed, and may be followed from its beginning, in front of the external condyle, round the outer side of the radius, be- tween the two layers of the supinator brevis, to the lower border of that muscle. Here it is near the mid line of the back of the forearm, and divides into a brush of branches. It will be remembered or noticed once more that twigs are given off for the extensor carpi radialis brevier and supinator brevis before the nerve passes through the latter muscle. After it comes out branches are given to all the other muscles of the back of the forearm, except the anconeus, brachio-radialis, and extensor carpi radialis longior, which are supplied directly from the musculo-spiral. The various twigs lie between the superficial and deep layers of muscles,