191 THE PELVIS C, with its convexity to the right. This variation in length is of practical importance, since, after excision of the rectum, it is sometimes possible to bring the pelvic colon down to the anus, while at other times this is impossible owing to the shortness of the gut. If the arterial supply of the pelvic colon is carefully traced it will be seen that the sign}oid branches of the inferior mesenteric artery which run to it anastomose quite freely with the branches of the left colic, but not at all freely with the superior hsemorrhoidal artery, which sroes to the rectum and is the terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery (see Fig. 271). Look for the bladder behind the symphysis. It can often be more readily recognised by grasping it between the fingers and thumb than by sight. Between the rectum and bladder will be seen in the female the antero-posteriorly flattened body of the uterus. Extending from the lateral margin of the uterus on either side to the Avail of the pelvis a fold of peritoneum Avill be seen—the broad ligament of the uterus [L. latum uteri]. In the upper edge of this liga- ment the Fallopian tube [tuba uterina] can be felt passing to its fimbriated extremity, so called from a number of fringe- like processes which surround its' orifice. Attached to the posterior surface of the broad ligament is the ovary. The fossa between the rectum and uterus is known as the recto- uterine pouch or pouch of Douglas [excavatio-recto-uterina], while that between the uterus and bladder is the tttero- vesical pouch [excavatio-vesico-uterina]. In the male a large fossa lies between the rectum and bladder—the recto-vesical pouch [excavatio-recto-vesicalis]. Where the peritoneum passes from the floor of this fossa on to the posterior surface of the bladder a small structure may be felt on either side of the middle line. It is the upper end of the vesicula seminalis. Its exact position can be also determined by following the vas deferens, which is to be seen through the peritoneum, passing from