THE STOMACH 133 area above and to the left. A curved hne from the 9th _ left costal cartilage to the lower border of the liver, one mch to the right of the middle hne, will give the lower border. Now raise the stomach and study its posterior relations ; in other words, the stomach bed. It should be realised, how- ever from the outset that the removal of the transverse colon and meso-colon, and the underlying coils of intestine, have o-reatly changed the original conditions. The trans- verse colon and meso-colon may be said to have formed a more or less horizontal shelf which projected forwards from the posterior abdominal wall; the anterior edge of the shelf was formed by the transverse colon, while the shelf itself was supported from below by the coils of small intestine. By this device the strain to which the stomach is put by the actual weight of the food within it is lessened. On the other hand, any dropping of the small intestines is necessarily followed by a dropping of the transverse colon and meso-colon, and a consequent loss of support to the stomach (Fig. 246). The remainder of the stomach bed will be seen to be formed by the anterior surface of the pancreas, anterior surface of the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, the gastric surface of the spleen, and the diaphragm. The posterior sur- face of the stomach is, however, separated from all these structures by the lesser sac. The relations of the viscera here enumerated to the posterior surface of the stomach are of great importance, for the implication of adjoining viscera in pathological conditions of the stomach is not infrequent. In ulceration or perforation of the stomach, for example, inflammation of the pancreas or the cellular tissue around the kidney and under the diaphragm are often associated. The stomach should now be replaced and its blood vessels and nerves dissected. If the anterior layer of peritoneum along the small curvature be carefully removed, two arteries, with accompanying veins and lymphatics, will be exposed. The artery running from left^ta^ight is the coronary [a. gastrica sinistra]. The arte^4-um:^<i^4n the reverse direction