27 THE HEART The other contents of the pericardium should now be examined, the pulmonary artery and the ascending aorta. The former vessel begins where the infundibulum ends at the back of the third costal cartilage on the left side. ^ It passes upwards and to the left for a httle over an inch, lying betAveen the right auricular appendix and the ascending aorta on the right side and the left auricular appendix on the left side. Behind, it is in relation to the left auricle, while in front it is in contact with the anterior wall of the pericardial sac. The ascending aorta begins, as will be seen later, a little below and to the medial side of the pulmonary artery. It passes upwards and to the right, lying in front of the two auricles, with the appendix of the right auricle and the superior vena cava to the right and the pulmonary artery to the left. The infundibulum of the right ventricle is an anterior relation beloAV. Pass the finger from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery, and note the position of the semilunar cusps of the pulmonary valve which mark the point at which the artery begins. With a pair of scissors cut from the ventricle into the artery, so disposing the incision that, if possible, it shall pass between two cusps. On laying open the artery a good view will be obtained of the pulmonary valve. The cusps are three in number, two anterior and one posterior. They resemble small pockets which are semilunar along their attached margin, while their free border forms two crescents (lunulce) separated by an intermediate rounded projection containing a certain amount of condensed fibrous tissue known as the corpus Arantii [nodulus valvulfe semilunaris]. When the pul- monary artery is closed by the approximation of these valves, the three corpora Arantii meet in the centre of the lumen. It will be readily seen that the way in which the artery is closed is by the back flow of blood from the pulmonary artery to the right ventricle distending the semilunar pockets.