347 THE BACK OF THE FOREARM forearm as well as irom the interosseous mouibrane. It is the next muscle below the supinator brevis, and winds round the outer side of the radius on its way down to the groove just above the styloid process of that bone. If a living forearm be looked at and the thumb abducted, the belly of this nnisclo will at once swell up ; even when at rest it forms a slight bulging deep to the skin on the outer side of the lower third of the back of the forearm. Trace the tendon to the outer side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and look out for a slip to the abductor pollicis or to the tra- pezium, both of which are quite common. The extensor pollicis brevis rises from the posterior surface of the radius just below the last, and passes with it through the same groove on the outer side of the lower end of the radius. It is, however, continued on as a delicate tendon to the dorsum of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. In a small number of cases this muscle is absent. The extensor pollicis longus rises from the posterior surface of the ulna just below the origin of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and, running downwards, its tendon passes through the third compartment of the posterior annular ligament in the narrow, deep groove on the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius. Notice that here it turns rather sharply outwards, using the outer lip of the groove as a pulley, on its way to the dorsum of the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. As it is passing the proximal phalanx it receives some fibres from the abductor pollicis on its outer side and from the adductor obliquus on its inner. The space between the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor longus pollicis is often spoken of as the " anatomical snuff-box." It is very easily seen in the living hand, and the surface markings of the tendons bound- ing it should be carefully noted. With a little practice the tendon of the extensor brevis pollicis may be made to stand out on the ulnar side of that of the extensor ossis metacarpi.