278 PRACTICAL ANATOMY tendinous arch of the rhomboideus major and terminal twigs of the dorsaUs scapulee branch of the subscapular artery passing between the teres minor and the axillary border of the scapula. When the axillary artery is liga- tured above the origin of the subscapular, this anastomosis will enlarge and form a collateral channel for the blood to pass between the thyroid axis of the subclavian and the lower part of the axillary via the subscapular artery. The teres minor is the small muscle which rises from the middle third of the dorsal aspect of the axillary border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lowest of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Both it and the infra- spinatus pass behind the shoulder joint, and so must be external rotators. Do not cut it at present. The teres major muscle rises from the dorsum of the scapula near the lower third of the axillary border, and passes outward in front of the surgical neck of the humerus to be inserted into the inner lip of the bicipital groove. It has a short tendon just before its insertion. It must clearly be an internal rotator, because it passes in front of the humerus, while, if the position of its origin be looked at with regard to its insertion, it must just as clearly adduct and slightly extend the humerus. Its nerve supply from the lower subscapular nerve has been seen already. The Insertion of the Latissimus Dorsi.—The greater part of this muscle has been examined while the body was lying on its face (see p. 243). It was left where it was wrapping round the lower border of the teres major, and this is where it should now be picked up. It very soon becomes quite anterior to the teres major, and then contracts into a flat, riband-like tendon, which, once seen, should never be mis- taken, since it is like no other tendon in the arm. The tendon is inserted into the floor of the bicipital groove on a little higher level than the insertion of the teres major, the two being connected a httle distance from their insertion, though separated by a bursa at their actual attachments.