33 PLEURAL SACS AND LUNGS the bronchus. No bronchial veins are likely to be found, and it is probable that most, if not all, of the blood carried by the bronchial arteries for the nourishment of the lungs returns through the pulmonary veins. A number of lym- phatic nodes Avill also be seen interspersed among the other constituents of the root of the lung; they are coal black, since one of their functions is to strain off carbon deposited in the lungs from the atmosphere. They are more numerous on the right side than on the left. The right lung may now be allowed to fall back, but it is of advantage to remove the left lung, cutting through the root close to the surface of the organ in such a way as to leave the posterior pulmonary plexus in the thorax. A good view will now be obtained of the arch of the aorta, which will be investigated later, and of the descending thoracic aorta, its continuation, while the relation of these parts to the root of the lung is fully exposed. The oesophagus will also be seen and felt, lying first to the right, then in front, and lastly a little to the left of the descending thoracic aorta. On the walls of the oesophagus may be seen a well-marked nerve plexus—the plexus gulce [plexus cesophagei]—formed by the splitting up of the vagi as they descend from the posterior pulmonary plexus. If now the root of the left lung be turned well forward, the thoracic sympathetic cord [truncus sympathicus] will be seen through the pleura, though in order to see it the cavity should be well sponged. Look for the cord in front of the heads of the ribs, and notice that at or near each rib is a ganglionic swelling. In the lower half of the thorax a large nerve, the great splanchnic [N. splanchnicus major], will be found on the inner side of the sympathetic cord; it usually rises from the sixth to the ninth ganglia, though it is very variable in this respect. Turn forward the right lung once more and notice the right sympathetic cord and great splanchnic nerve as well as VOL. II. „