ARTICULATIONS OF THE THOEAX 69 of as condylarthroses. lb should be further noted that the heads of most of the ribs articulate with adjacent parts of two vertebrai and the disc between, while the synovial cavity of the joint is divided by an intra-articular ligament passing from the disc to a ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib. It might be noted that, if we use the size of the facets as our criterion, a rib articulates chiefly with the vertebra corresponding to it in number, but shghtly with the vertebra immediately above it in the series. Now turn to the part previously set aside for the study of the costal cartilages and sternum. Traced forwards it will be seen that the ribs are directly continuous with the costal cartilages, which, except in the case of the last two, in their turn articulate with the sternum or with each other. Each of these articulations must be examined in turn. The first costal cartilage is directly attached to the manubrium sterni without any synovial cavity intervening. It usually ossifies during middle life. The costal cartilages, from the 2nd to the 7th inclusive, have distinct synovial cavities at their articu- lation with the sternum, while in the 2nd the synovial cavity is double, being divided by an intra-articular ligament proceeding from the cartilage to the sternum. The synovial cavity is surrounded in each case by a more or less well- defined capsule. The 8th, 9th, and 10th costal cartilages are continuous anteriorly with each other and with the lower border of the 7th. Between certain costal cartilages, usually from the 5th or 6th to the 9th, small interchond/ral articula- tions are formed, each possessing a small, slit-like synovial cavity. The 11th and 12th costal cartilages end free anteriorly. The sternum in adult age consists of three pieces, a manubrium articulating with the 1st and the upper part of the 2nd costal cartilages, a gladiolus [corpus sternij articu- lating with the lower part of the 2nd, the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, and upper part of the 7th costal cartilages, and an ensiform