THE POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL 175 apart the psoas and the common iliac artery. A large branch from the anterior crural nerve to the iliacus muscle should be sought in the iliac fossa. A small nerve can sometimes be found descending along the inner border of the psoas superficio.1 to the obturator nerve; it is the accessory obturator, and is readily distinguished below by passing over the upper ramus of the pubis, whereas the obturator itself passes under the ramus. One nerve more should be found, the genito-crural [n. genito-femoralis]; it appears on the anterior surface of the psoas, and descends vertically, lying between the psoas and its sheath, until it divides into its genital and crural branches, the former entering the internal abdominal ring, the latter lying in close relation to the outer side of the femoral artery. The genito-crural is readily told by its being the only nerve which makes its appearance on the anterior surface of the psoas (see Fig. 265, G.C.N.). With the last thoracic nerve will be found the subcostal vessels, while crossing the quadratus lumborum transversely, immediately above the iliac crest, are the last lumbar vessels. Finally, on the iliacus muscle certain branches of the ilio-lumbar vessels are frequently seen anastomosing with branches of the deep circumflex iliac vessels. These vessels and nerves should be traced in an upward and downward direction. Nest clean the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, and, in doing so, it will be noticed that the fascia which covers them is of a cellular texture and is different only in its greater density from the fascia which covers all muscles except above, where it thickens to form the internal and external arcuate ligaments, from which the diaphragm arises, and below where it binds down the iliacus and psoas muscles to the margins of the iliac fossa, and where, in front of the origin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, it is thickened to form the ilio-lumbar ligament. The crura ol the diaphragm should now be carefully cleaned, the splanchnic nerves which pierce them and have been necessarily divided in the removal of the solar plexus