PRACTICAL ANATOMY 272 traced to its origin, because it comes very largely from C. 5, which is higher than might be expected. It is in this way, combined with pathological and physiological observation, that the distribution of each spinal nerve to skin and muscles has been plotted out. The great vessels and brachial plexus should now be tied together on a level with the first rib, and divided above the ligature. Draw the arm away from the trunk, and notice that the only things now holding it in posi- tion are the subclavius, serratus magnus, and omo-hyoid muscles, unless the dissectors of the head and neck have already divided the latter muscle and the supra-scapular nerve and artery. As the extremity will soon be removed, it will be a neigh- bourly, act to give the dissectors of the head and neck a warning in order that they may verify any points about the base of the posterior triangle. Cut the subclavius and look for the nerve entering its deep surface, if the dissectors of the neck have been fortunate enough to find it. Identify the suprascapular nerve and artery, accompanying the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle to the supra- scapular notch, and notice that the muscle is attached to the ventral surface of the bone just internal to the notch. Cut these three structures some distance from the bone in order to find them again easily. Put the serratus magnus on the stretch, and notice that it is inserted into the whole length of the vertebral border of the scapula on its ventral or anterior surface. The upper serration, from the first and second ribs, will be found inserted near the upper angle of the scapula. The next two serrations, from the second and third ribs, spread out into a fan, and are inserted into the whole length of the vertebral border, while the rest of the serrations, from the fourth to the eighth ribs, converge to an insertion into the ventral surface of the scapula, close to the lower angle. The muscle is therefore in three parts, the uppermost being rectangular, the