328 PRACTICAL ANATOMY accumulates, will be subject to a great deal of pressure, thus causing much pain. This occurs in " whitlow," and a deep, bold incision is necessary to relieve the tension. When the fibrous theca has been studied it should be slit up, and its deep surface will be found lined by shining syno- vial membrane, which forms the parietal layer of the digital synovial sheath. This sheath does not join the synovial sheath of the palm, except in the case of the thumb and occa- sionally the little finger. Now hft up the flexor sublimis digitorum tendon gently, and notice that opposite the proximal phalanx it splits, and that each half of it wraps round one side of the tendon of the tiexor profundus in such a way that the surface which was dorsal becomes ventral, and vice versa. When the two slips have reached the deep surface of the fiexor profundus they join, but soon separate again, to be in- serted into the sides of the shaft of the middle phalanx. The glistening appearance of these tendons shows that they are closely invested with synovial membrane, and at certain places this is reflected on to the parietal layer lining the theca from the deep surface of the tendon. In this way two sets of delicate synovial bands are formed, known as the vincida vasculosa, since they carry minute vessels to the tendons in the same way that the mesentery does to the in- testines. One of these is called the vinculum breve, and is close to the insertion of the flexor sublimis, while the other is farther away from the insertion, and is often double; the two are then known as the vincula longa. Eeflect the flexor sublimis digitorum, and follow two of the tendons of the flexor profundus to their insei-tions. These tendons lie deep to the former, and pass through the splitting which has been noticed in order to reach the palmar aspect of the- bases of the terminal phalanges. They also have vin- cula reflected from their deep surface, but the vinculum longum is single, and often runs only from the profundus to the sublimis tendon.