331 THE PALM The two adductors of the thumb are supplied by tue deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and are therefore clearly a separate group from the muscles of the ball of the thumb which are supplied by the median. In spite of this, however, the flexor brevis, opponens and adductor obliquus are often closely united, and a good deal of attention to their insertions is necessary in order to separate them, though even then the assistance of the demonstrator's experience may be needed. In the foregoing description nothing has been said about a deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis, since the name has been used by different writers for three distinct muscular slips. On account of the confusion connected with it, the student is strongly advised not to use the name at all. The Deep Palmar Arch [arcus volaris profundus] is now partly exposed, but in order to see the whole of it the adductor pollicis obliquus muscle should be cut across and reflected. The radial artery will then be seen entering the palm between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and index finger, and in doing so it pierces the origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first it lies deep to the adductor obliquus and superficial to the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, but as soon as it reaches the base of the medius metacarpal it passes between the adjacent edges of the oblique and transverse adductors, and then crosses the palm just superficial to the bases of the other metacarpal bones to anastomose with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, which has been seen already. It is this part of its course which is called the deep palmar arch. Its position in the living palm may be found by drawino- a transverse line half an inch nearer the wrist than that ol" the superficial arch. Before it comes out between the two adductors of the thumb, and while it is still lying deep to the adductor obliquus, it gives off the following branches: Arteria Princeps Pollicis, which divides and forms a loop on the " pad " of the thumb.