POSTERIOR RELATIONS OF KIDNEYS 177 rate to surround tlie cBsophagus; the fibres of the left crus take, as a rule, no part in the bounding of the oesophageal aperture. From the right crus to the right of the oesophagus a band of muscular tissue should be looked for; it passes downwards close to the cceliac axis, sometimes dividing to enclose this artery, to reach the root of the mesentery, into which it passes; it is called the suspensory ligament of the duodenum. It was of necessity cut in removing the duo- denum and jejunum. The portions of the diaphragm which arise from the internal and external arcuate ligaments, from the internal surfaces of the lower six costal arches, inter- digitating with the transversalis muscle, and from the posterior surface of the ensiform cartilage should all be carefully cleaned by removing peritoneum and areolar tissue. It will then be seen that from all these origins muscular fibres converge to be inserted into the large central tendon, which is cres- centic and somewhat trefoil, the lobes being right, anterior, and left, in the order of their size. In the right lobe the orifice of the inferior vena cava has been seen already. It is sometimes possible to pick up on the walls of the inferior vena cava, just as it is leaving the abdomen, a few fine nerve filaments—branches from the right phrenic nerve. In cleaning the left dome of the diaphragm the stomach will be doubtless in the way, but it is better for the present to keep it attached to the oesophagus, turning it from side to side when necessary. PosTERioE Relations of Kidneys It will now be instructive to replace the three specimens removed and cleaned, in order that the relations of the various organs may be revised. Begin by placing the speci- men of suprarenals, kidneys, inferior vena cava, and aorta in its original position, and note the following cardinal features : that each kidney lies in front of the crus, psoas, quadratus lumborum, and transversalis muscles, the last thoracic, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves, and the VOL. II. M