PRACTICAL ANATOMY 102 The pyramidal fossa is now clean, and on revising its boundaries it will be seen that the base is at the surface of the perineum, the apex at the ischial spine, the outer wall formed by the obturator internus fascia and the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the inner wall by the levator ani and external sphincter ani, and the posterior wall by the gluteus maximus and great sacro-sciatic ligament. Further notice that all the contents of the space enter at the apex by winding round the spine of *fche ischium. The large amount of fat in the fossa allows the lower portion of the alimentary canal to undergo considerable dilatation in the act of defsecation. The fat occasionally becomes infected from th^ anal canal or other adjoining parts or from the blood, and an ischio-rectal abscess forms. Should this abscess burst, the condition known as fistula in ano may result. The Anterior Part of the Perineum or Urethral Triangle is the part bounded in front by the symphysis pubis, laterally by the subpubic rami, and behind by an imaginary transverse line running through the central point of the perineum an inch in front of the anus. As this differs in the two sexes the arrangement in the male will be described first. Make a medial skin incision along the perineal ridge or raphe from the back of the scrotum, which has been hooked forwards, to the central point of the perineum. A transverse skin incision at the back of the scrotum will allow the two flaps to be turned outwards. At the back of the scrotum notice that the dartos tissue (see Fig. 234, D.) loses its muscular fibres and divides into two layers, the more superficial of which (Fig. 234, S.F.) is the ordinary, fat-containing, superficial fascia in which the long scrotal nerves may be traced forwards. The deeper layer contains httle "fat and is. known as Colles' fascia (Fig. 234, C.F.). Put the nozzle of a syringe into the back of the scrotum deep to the dartos; let it point back- wards and inflate the space deep to Colics' fascia. The