143 THE LIVER embedded in a mass of rather dense cellular tissue, knoAvn as Glisson'8 capsule [capsula fibrosa], which is merely a specialised part of the general sub-peritoneal tissue. Pro- longations of it are continued into the liver with the vessels. The gall bladder, cystic duct and common bile duct, so far as it''is left attached to the liver, should be slit up by scissors. In doing this notice the S-shaped curve of the cystic duct. The inside of the gall bladder will be found to be lined by a mucous membrane, the surface of which is honeycombed. The cystic duct has its mucous membrane raised to form a valve, which passes spirally along the whole length of the duct [valvula spirahs]. The mucous mem- brane of the hepatic and common bile ducts is, on the con- trary, perfectly smooth. The two hepatic ducts should be traced right into the hver. The longitudinal fissure should now be examined for two fibrous cords; that in the anterior portion is the ligamentum teres or obhterated umbihcal vein; it passes from the um- bilicus in the free edge of the falciform ligament to the left branch of the portal vein; that in the posterior portion is the obliterated ductus venosus, which passes from the same branch of the portal vein to the left hepatic vein, and so to the uiferior vena cava. In the foetus both these structures are patent and continuous with each other; they convey the pure blood derived from the mother directly from the umbilicus to the inferior vena cava. The liver should now be laid aside; sections will be later made through it, but it is advisable not to do so at present, since it will be a convenience in studying the relations of adjoining viscera to replace the liver from time to time in its bed. Having removed the transverse colon, note that its meso- colon is attached across the posterior abdominal wall between the two flexures at the level of the first lumbar vertebra. Immediately above its attachment the whole length of the body of the pancreas can be palpated. Further, the line of the meso-colon passes just above the highest point of the