118 PRACTICAL ANATOMY intimate and direct anterior relation to the inferior veria cava. The Gastro-liepatic or Small Omentum [hg. hepato- gastricum] (see Fig. 239, L.O.).—This distinct fold of perito- neum should now be examined. It is attached above to the liver and diaphragm, below to the stomach and first part of the duodenum. At the left it sphts on reaching the oesophagus and fundus of the stomach, its superficial layer passing in front of these viscera to become continuous Avith the gastro- splenic omentum; its deep layer, after covering the right side of the oesophagus, becomes continuous with the parietal layer of the peritoneum on the posterior abdominal wall, so that small portions of the posterior surfaces of the oesophagus and stonfiach are left uncovered by the peritoneum ; it is here, where the two layers of peritoneum forming the gastro- hepatic omentum separate, that the coronary vessels gain an entrance into the fold. To expose them draw the oeso- phagus and stomach down, and make an incision through the peritoneum immediately above the left portion of the small curvature of the stomach. The vessels lie in a Httle loose cellular tissue occupying the space between the two layers of peritoneum. It will be understood that a perforation of the stomach over this bare area is Hable to lead to acute hemorrhage and to an extra-peritoneal form of subphrenic abscess. Ligaments of the iwer.—Passing from the anterior abdominal wall above the umbihcus to the hver is the sickle-shaped fold of peritoneum, already referred to as the falciform ligament. In the free lower border of this lies a rounded cord, the Ligamentum teres or obliterated um- bihcal vein. Trace this cord backward, when it will be found to enter the anterior part of the longitudinal fissure of the hver; its further extension will be studied later. The coronary ligament consists of two layers of peritoneum separated by a broad, UTCgular, bare area on the posterior surface of the Hver. These layers can be demonstrated best