360 PRACTICAL ANATOMY insertion of one big flexor of the I'orearui (brachialis anticus) to below the insertion of the other (biceps). - When two bones are attached by fibrous tissue, as these are, in such a way as to leave plenty of movement between them, the free fibrous union is spoken of as a syndesmosis. The Inferior Radio-ulnar Joint [articulatio radio- ulnaris distalis] lies between the sigmoid cavity of the radius and the margin of the lower end of the ulna. The bones are bound together by anterior and posterior ligaments as well as by a triangular fibro-cartilage which cannot be seen at present. Now study the movements of the three radio-ulnar ARTICULATIONS. Imagine a long steel rod passed through the centre of the disc-shaped head of the radius, down through the neck and out of the bone just below the tubercle, then obliquely through the lower end of the ulna to emerge just external to the root of the styloid process. This would re- present the axis round which the radius moves. Place the forearm in the anatomical or supine position with the palm forwards, then twist it round till the palm looks backwards. This is pronation, and in it the ulna does not move at all, but the head of the radius twists round its centre in the circle formed by the orbicular ligament and lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The lower end of the radius, on the other hand, describes a semicircle round the lower end of the ulna, the centre of which is the base of the styloid process of the ulna. Supination is exactly the reverse action to pronation. In the living body it is true the palm can be made to describe a complete circle, but half of this occurs at the shoulder joint. A joint which acts round only one axis is a hmge or ginglyinus, and when the axis is vertical the term lateral \jinglymus or trochoid joint is applied to it; consequently both the superior and inferior radio-ulnar articulations are trochoid joints, though in the former the radius twists round its own axis, while in the latter it uses the lower end of the ulna as its pivot or axis. It will be seen that in its pronation