THE MEDIASTINA 49 of the head and neck time to deal with the structures at the root of the neck. They will probably by now have advanced so far that the first rib and manubrium sterni are no longer of importance to them, and the upper part of the manubrium, which has hitherto been left intact, may be divided in the mid line by a saw-cut, though this should be carefully made and should only just divide the bone. Now divide the first rib on each side with the bone forceps, about an inch external to the tubercle, after which, by carefully freeing the subjacent soft parts, the rib with half the manubrium may be turned outwards on each side, as a book is opened. This method allows the parts to be replaced from time to time for reference. Look for the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles on the back of the manubrium, the former extending outwards to the back of the sternal end of the clavicle and posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, the latter to the posterior surface of the inner end of the first rib. Some dark-coloured fibro-fatty tissue will now be exposed, Avhich represents the remains of the thymus gland. It is said that careful microscopic examination will always show thymic tissue scattered among this fat, even in very old subjects. On cleaning away this tissue the large veins are seen. These are the right and left innominate veins, with their tributaries, and the upper half or extra-pericardial portion of the superior vena cava receiving the vena azygos major. It must be noted that only the termination of this latter vein lies in the superior mediastinum. The formation of the innominate veins [vente anonymse] by the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian takes place in the root of the neck and is studied there. It will be seen that the right innominate passes almost vertically down- wards for about an inch (see Fig. 206), but that the left, nearly three times as long, runs almost horizontally behind the upper half of the manubrium to join the right behind the VOL. II. D