9 THE THORAX always be attempted. Before the Avails of the thorax can be turned outward it will be necessary to divide the Internal Mammary Vessels and the Triangularis Sterni muscle [M. thoracis transversus]. The vessels run parallel to and half an inch from the lateral border of the sternum. They should be divided at the level of the upper and lower transverse saw-cuts. The triangularis sterni will be divided at the lower level only. On turning the wall now aside the last- mentioned muscle will be seen to spring from the back of the gladiolus, ensiform cartilage, 5th, 6th, and 7th rib carti- lages, and to pass upwards and outwards to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, oth, and 6th costal arches at the junction of the rib and cartilage. The internal mammary vessels lie superficial to the muscle in part of their course. On the deep surface of the parietes a good view will be obtained of the internal inter- costal muscles, while posterior to the angles of the ribs the fibres of the subcostal muscles may be distinguished. Although the direction of these subcostal fibres is the same as that of the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles, they are on a deeper plane and are longer, passing in many'cases over a rib in their course from the internal surface of one rib to the internal surface of another. They are supplied by branches of the intercostal nerves (see Fig. 210). The triangularis sterni muscle now exposed on the "i-eflected wall should be carefully cleaned, and its attachments, already stated, should be confirmed. An attempt should be made to trace into its substance nerve twigs from the neighbour- mg mtercostal nerves, which are seen as they near the sternum passing forwards deep to the internal intercostal muscles and superficial to the triangularis sterni and internal mammary vessels. The nerves enter the muscle on its superficial surface. The portion of the internal mammary artery extendincr from the 2nd to the 6th costal cartilages should also be exammed at this stage. It will be seen to be accompanied by a pair ot vems and to furnish branches inwards to the