170 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the transverse process of the 1st kimbar vertebra. From this bony point the internal arches inwards to the body of the second kimbar vertebra, while the external arches outwards to the last rib. From the upward convexity of these arches the diaphragm will be seen to arise, while along their concavity they are continuous with fascite of con- siderable strength, the sheath of the psoas and the anterior lamella of the lumbar aponeurosis in front of the quadratus lumborum, which descend over the posterior abdominal wall, separating the muscles behind from the extra-peritoneal tissue in front. In defining the sheath of the psoas some very important structures will be met with. In the first place the peritoneum must be dissected away, and immediately behind this the right an4 left colic vessels will be found on their respective sides; if the latter are 'followed inwards (medially) the inferior mesenteric vessels will be exposed. Deep to the colic vessels the spermatic or ovarian vessels are seen. If the subject is a male, the spermatic vessels should be traced down to the internal abdominal ring, the situation of which has been defined already (see p. 85). In the female the ovarian artery has a course nearer the • mid line of the abdomen, and makes for the point of bifurca- tion of the common iliac artery, and descends in the ovario- pelvic ligament to be noticed later. On a deeper (posterior) plane is the abdominal course of the ureter, which runs nearly vertically downwards from the hilum of the kidney to the bifurcation of the common iliac artery, and is four to five inches in length. As the iliac vessels have not yet been studied, it should be noticed that the bifurcation of the common iliac artery will be found by drawing a line from the bifurcation of the aorta to a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis; at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of this line the bifurcation of the common ihac artery