310 PRACTICAL ANATOMY artery, after which it passes deep to the Hexor subliinis digitoruni; but as the radial origin of that muscle has been divided, the nerve can be traced all down the forearm by turning the muscle aside. Soon after leaving the pronator radii teres, it gives off the anterior interosseous nerve, and then runs between the flexor sublimis digitorum superficially and the flexor profundus deeply, accompanied by the small median artery (see Fig. 311). As the wrist is approached the palmar cutaneous branch is given off, and the median nerve now winds round the outer side of the four tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum to become superficial to them in the hand. Where it is winding round the outer side of these tendons is the point at which it lies deep in the interval between the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus tendons at the wrist (see Fig. 310). The external relations of the ulnar artery in theforearrji&re only the flexor sublimis digitorum and the outer vena comes. The internal relations of the ulnar artery in the forearm are at first the flexor sublimis digitorum, but in its lower two-thirds the flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar nerve, and the internal vena comes. The flexor carpi ulnaris rises from the internal condyle, the deep fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum. This is its anterior or condylar head [caput humerale]. The posterior or olecranal head [caput ulnare] rises from the inner side of the olecranon and, by a membrane, from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna. It gradually becomes tendinous in the lower third of the forearm, and is inserted into the pisiform bone. If the muscle is pulled, it will be found to adduct the wrist, i.e. draw the hand towards the mid line of the body when the palm is forward, and also to flex the ulnar side of the wrist. The Ulnar nerve in the forearm.—As the nerve passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris, a full view of it may be had by dividing the condylar head and then