PRACTICAL ANATOMY 320 The central part of the Deep Palmar Fascia is very thick, and will be followed most intelligently if its meaning is understood. It is really the distal end of the palmaris longus tendon, gradually spreading out to reach the proximal phal- anges of the four fingers. In the palm it is a triangular plate the apex of which is towards the forearm and is con- tinuous with the palmaris longus tendon when that is present. The base is about the level of the lowest line on the skin of the palm, and here divides into four slips, one for each of the fingers. If these are followed they will be found to divide so that half may be attached to each side of the proximal phalanx. At the base of the palmar fascia, where it splits into these four digital slips, there are some thick transverse fibres called the superficial transverse metacarpal ligament, and just below this, between the slips for the fingers, the digital arteries and nerves will be found dividing for the contiguous sides of the digits (see Fig. 310). Clear away the delicate deep fascia covering the thenar eminence in order to expose the muscles which form the "ball of the thumb." The Muscles of the Thenar Eminence are three, the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, and opponens poUicis. Of these the two former lie on a superficial plane, while the last is deep to both of them (see Fig. 315). The Abductor Pollicis [m. abductor pollicis brevis] is the most external of the two superficial muscles, and rises from the tubercle of the scaphoid and the anterior annular ligament. In most cases a slip from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis may be traced into its origin. It is in- serted into the outer side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb, and from its insertion a dehcate expansion passes back to the extensor longus pollicis tendon on the dorsum. Thefiexor brevis pollicis lies just internal to the abductor, and rises from the ridge on the trapezium and the anterior annular ligament. Like the former muscle, it is inserted