THE AXILLA 259 the upper part of the scapula, and internally by the first rib. It contains (1) the axillary artery ; (2) the axillary vein;^ (3) the brachial plexus of nerves; (4) the branches and tribu- taries of the foregoing; (5) numerous lymphatic nodes; (6) the intercosto-humeral nerve; (7) a quantity of loose cellular tissue packing up all these structures and continuous with the same tissue in the neck, with the superficial and deep fasciae of the arm as well as with the superficial fascia of the side of the trunk, and, round the anterior and posterior axillary folds, with the superficial fascia of the chest and back. No definite fascial sheets comparable to the deep fascia of the arm are present during life, or indeed after death, until the skill of the dissector manufactures them. The laxness of this tissue allows abscesses, generally arising from inflamed lymphatic nodes, to reach a great size before coming to the surface. Dissecting the axilla simply means clearing away all this cellular tissue, though it is much more easily talked about than done. In the actual dissection, although no one structure is com- pletely cleaned and then left for another, it is better to have some system in approaching this difficult piece of work. The method the author would recommend is to work down the outer side of the axilla from above, taking the axillary artery as the main guide. Do not get into the way of scraping, but make a series of short, shallow cuts with the point of a sharp knife, looking very carefully after each cut to see whether any structure is visible which might be cut with the next. The veins are the greatest trouble, since when cut they often bleed most annoyingly. It is a good plan to have some silk or thread at hand and to ligature any bleeding points. The dissection will be made easier if the veins accompanying all the smaller arteries are tied in this manner and deliberately cut away. It may then be safely assumed that each artery had its vena comes or vense comites.