JOINTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 365 distal row are united by three ligaments which are usually incomplete, so that the articular cavity of the carpo-meta- carpal joint communicates wit h that of the intercarpal. The Carpo-metacarpal Joint of the Four Fingers, Hke the intercarpal, has palmar, dorsal, and interosseous ligaments; the palmar and dorsal may be dissected out if time permits, but their exact arrangement is somewhat variable and not of any practical importance. Before cutting any ligaments make out the movements; these are very shght, and consist of feeble flexion and extension, though these are a good deal more free in the joint between the unciform and the little finger. Abduction is very limited, but still is extensive enough to burst a tight dress glove occasionally. Such feeble movements are nothing more than gliding, so that this is classed among the arthrodial joints. Open the joint from in front, and notice that there are two interosseous ligaments. The outer one joins the outer side of the base of the index metacarpal to the trapezium and is always complete, so that the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb never communicates with that of the other digits. The inner interosseous ligament joins the contiguous borders of the medius and annularis metacarpals to the borders of the os magnum and unciform. It is sometimes complete, and when this is the case the carpo-metacarpal joints of the annularis and minimus digits are shut off from the common joint cavity. The Carpo-metacarpal Joint of the Thumb is re- markable for the saddle-shaped appearance of both its articular surfaces, the concavity of one fitting into the convexity of the other, and vice versa. Like the condyloid joints, it will be found to allow movements round two axes— abduction and adduction as well as flexion and extension— but no rotation; it is, however, less liable to dislocation than is the condyloid joint. It has a complete capsule, which should be opened to examine the joint surfaces of the