THE ABDOMEN 73 should next be made, beginning at the angle between this muscle and the last rib, and extending downwards and for- wards for four or five inches in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique. The incision should be carefully made so that only the latissimus dorsi and external oblique muscles are divided. Unless the greatest care is exercised, particularly at the upper end of the incision, it will be found that a very thin sheet of muscle, the serratus posticus inferior, is also divided. It is helpful to remember that the outer border of this latter muscle runs upwards and outwards from the second lumbar spine to the last rib. Any nerves which may happen to lie in the line of the incision should be dissected aside. Now retract upwards and downwards the latissimus dorsi and external oblique muscles, a procedure which will expose a larger area of the internal oblique, a small portion of the serratus posticus inferior, and between the two the lumbar fascia, which extends inward to fuse with the origin of the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi and from which the internal oblique may be seen to arise. The latter muscle should now be divided in the same line as were the latissimus dorsi and external oblique, and re- tracted upwards and downwards, detaching the muscle as much as is necessary from the lumbar fascia and sparing all vessels and nerves. This dissection will bring into view the transversalis muscle, which derives its name from the direc- tion of its fibres. This muscle will be seen to be the forward continuation of the lumbar fascia. Between the transversalis and the internal oblique in this dissection three important nerves will be found—the last thoracic (subcostal) running nearly parallel with and below the last rib; the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal at a shghtly lower level. The dissector is often guided to these nerves by one or other of their branches met in reflecting the external oblique. The lumbar fascia should now be traced inward and its disposition and attachments demonstrated. In this the