THE MEDIASTINA 39 will be found to be continuous with the posterior pulmonary plexus. • Behind the oesophagus and on the right side ot the thoracic aorta, detine the vena azygos major, a large vein, already noted, running upwards, behind the root of the right lung, and then arching forwards above the root to enter the r superior vena cava on its posterior aspect. On its right side this vein receives the loiver eight intercostal veins, and, as it is arching above the root of the lung, the right sitjyerior intercostal, Avhich drains the second, third, and usually the fourth spaces (see Fig. 20G). On its left side one or sometimes two veins reach the vena azygos major in front of the eighth or ninth thoracic vertebriE. These are the azygos veins of the left side, and are often called superior [v. hemiazygos accessoria] and inferior hemiazygos [v. hemiazygos]. Trace them upwards and down- wards on the left-hand side of the bodies of the vertebra, noticing that they lie internal to and in front of the sym- pathetic cord, and drain the intercostal spaces of the left side of the body from the 5th to the 11th. Since they usually open into the vena azygos major about the level of the 8th thoracic vertebra, the upper one generally receives the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal veins, and the lower the 9th, 10th, and 11th. The thoracic duct [D. thoracicus] should now be found. First retract the pericardium to the left and hook it there, then draw the oesophagus to the left and look between the thoracic aorta and vena azygos major for a collapsed thin- walled vessel looking rather like a strip of very narrow ribbon; its colour varies, sometimes being white, at others as dark as a vein, while occasionally it is double. Posterior mediastinal lymphatic nodes [Lympho-glandulse mediastinales posteriores] are found scattered about the mediastinum close to the thoracic aorta. The accompanying section (Fig. 207) gives a good idea of the position of the structures in the posterior mediastinum.