22 PRACTICAL ANATOMY interventricular sulcus towards the apex. On turning the triano-ular flap downwards a good view will be obtained of the interfor of the cavity (see Fig. 197). The surface is marked by a large number of muscular columns, the columrvx carnece [trabecuke carnete], some detached, except at their extremities, from adjoining parts, others semi-detached. Among these columnse earner are a number of conical eminences, the musculi painUares, the largest of which are to be found on the anterior wall. From the apices and sides of these eminences pass a number of tendinous cords—the chordm tendinece—v^hich are traceable to dehcate mem- branous folds dependent from the margin of the auriculo- ventricular aperture. These folds are the cusps of the nght awriculo-ventricular vcdve. The cusps are, normallythree in number—one anterior, one to the left, one to the right— and are known respectively, because of their positions, as infundibular, septal, and marginal. In some cases how- ever two of these cusps are united, usually the infundibular and the marginal, while in other cases all three are continuous. When the three cusps are present it is often possible to make out small accessory cusps between them. The valve, because of the number of its cusps, is often termed the to^icuspid valve [valvula tricuspidahs], while the right auriculo-ventri- cular aperture Avhich it guards is, because of the association, styled the tricuspid aperture. Note that the chordae ten- dinejB are attached to the margins and ventricular surfaces of the cusps and not to the auricular surfaces. Now examine the anterior musculi papiUares, when there will probably be observed a strong muscular bundle which passes from he base of one of the largest of them across the cavity of the ventricle to the septum. The bundle is known as the moderator hand, and is of interest in that it contams a definite extension of the auriculo-ventricular muscle bundle which connects the musculature of the auricle with that ot the ventricle. It is only in a fresh heart that this bundle can be seen. It is most easily observed in the sheep s heart,