128 PRACTICAL ANATOMY which run to the small intestine in the way already described —the raoyii intestini tenuis. Before removing the intestines the method of performing gastro-jejunostomy, or joining the stomach to the jejunum, should be studied. Turn the transverse colon up, and find again the incision previously made in the transverse meso- colon, and identify through it the posterior surface of the stomach. The operation of gastro-jejunostomy consists in making an opening into a loop of jejunum, passing the gut through a hole in the transverse meso-colon, and stitching the margins of the orifice to those of a similar orifice on the posterior wall of the stomach. By this procedure the con- tents from the stomach are short circuited into the jejunum without having to traverse the pyloric canal and duodenum. The' small intestine should now be ligatured near its beginning and end, divided and removed, cutting through the mesentery one to two inches from its parietal attachment. In this way the direction and relations of the mesentery will be seen. In passing from left to right it crosses the duo- denum, aorta, third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, inferior vena cava, right sympathetic cord, right psoas muscle, genito- crural nerve, right ureter, right spermatic vessels, terminat- ing just above the right sacro-iliac joint. Examination of the Removed Intestines.—Two portions of the highest part of the jejunum, each six inches in length, and two similar portions of the ileum should be taken. One portion of each part should be slit longitudinally along the attachment of the mesentery, and examined under a tap of running water. The other portions should be hgatured, inflated by bellows and hung up to dry. The mucous mem- brane of the first portions should be carefully scrutinised, when it will be seen to be thrown into a series of folds, some transverse, others ohliqne—the valvulce conniventes [phcne circulares]'. Further, the surface of the mucous membrane is studded all over with fine papillae, which are termed viUi, and which produce an appearance which has been well hkened