246 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the omo-hyoid muscle is attached to the border and runs upwards, inwards, and forwards from its attachment. With a Httle deep dissection a sight of it will be gained, but it is not advisable to do more than realise that the back of the muscle can be exposed from this point of view. Accompanying the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid are the suprascapular artery [a. transversa scapulae] and nerve; these will be exposed in the posterior triangle when the neck is dissected, but here they are seen as they are turning back over or through the suprascapular notch. Notice that the nerve is lower than the artery and passes through the notch, while the artery lies above the transverse ligament which converts the notch into a foramen. On the inner side of the insertion of the levator anguli scapulae in the angle between it and the rhomboideus minor, look for the posterior scapular artery and nerve to the rhomboids. Only a glimpse of them will be caught in the small interval between the levator anguli scapulae and the rhom- boideus minor. When the artery is seen, the nerve should be looked for nearer the mid line of the body. Now examine the rhomboideus minor, which rises from the seventh cervical and first thoracic spines, and is inserted into the vertebral border of the scapula opposite the root of the spine. Cut it to verify its attachments, but, in reflecting it, look very carefully for its little twig from the nerve to the rhomboids which enters its deep surface. The rhomboideus major rises from the spines of the second to the fifth thoracic vertebrae or thereabout as well as from the supraspinous ligament; it may be mentioned here that this ligamentous origin is an important one to remember, because but for it these flat muscles would have to arise froni the spines by a series of digitations which would give quite a different appearance to the part. The insertion is into the vertebral border of the scapula, below the root of the spine, by a tendinous arch which is better seen when the muscle is