61 THE MEDIASTTNA innominate vein. To the right of the trachea he the inno- minate artery above, the right vagus, pleura and vena azygos major below. To the left are the left common carotid artery and -the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Behind, as already mentioned, are the upper four thoracic vertebra3, while pos- teriorly and to the left lies the oesophagus (see Fig. 216). It is in the angle between the trachea and oesophagus that the left recurrent laryngeal nerve runs upwards. The region of the bifurcation [bifurcatio-tracheie] may now be carefully dissected, and the bronchi traced in the direction of the root of the lung. In doing this a number of lymphatic nodes will be met. They are grouped along the lateral aspect of the bronchi as well as between the two divergent bronchi. They are continuous above with the lymphatic nodes of the superior mediastinum, below with those at the root of the lung, and their enlargement may cause pressure symptoms on the bronchi, oesophagus, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve should now be 'followed from its origin to the point where it leaves the thorax to enter the neck. It may be seen to furnish a few fine twigs to the adjacent deep cardiac plexus. That portion of the oesophagus which lies in the superior mediastinum should next be examined. It hes behind the trachea, although a small portion may be seen to the left of that structure, since it does not adhere to the median plane as closely as does the trachea, but inclines to the left. It lies in front of the bodies of the upper thoracic vertebrae, and the prevertebral muscular system here represented by the longus colli muscle. Further, the oesophagus is separated from these parts by some loose areolar tissue in which, pass- ing obliquely upwards and to the left, lies the thoracic duct. By the time the duct has reached the level of the third thoracic vertebra it is lying distinctly to the left side of the oesophagus (see Fig. 216, OE.). In front of the oesophagus are, in addition to the trachea, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the arch of the aorta, the