THE PALM 327 very short, stout branches, but more often into six branches at once. Of these the outermost is distributed to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, the second and third supply the two sides of the thumb, the fourth suppHes the radial side of the index finger, while the fifth and sixth run to the clefts between the index and medius and medius and annularis, where they divide to supply the neighbouring sides of these digits (see Fig. 317). The branch to the radial side of the index finger must be carefully dissected, because the nerve to the first lumbrical muscle is given off from it while it is still in the palm. The nerve to the second lumbrical comes from the branch which runs to the cleft between the index and medius fino-ers To see the distribution of the nerves in the fingers median incisions should be made along the palmar surfaces of the index and medius, and the skin reflected in two flaps ; if the nerves are now carefully dissected, they will be seen to give off numerous small twigs, at the terminations of vrhich numer- ous mmute white knobs should be looked for. These are the tactile end plates or Pacinian corpuscles. As the tips of the fingers are approached, small twigs are given off to the dorsal surface of the skin over the middle and terminal phalanges, and these twigs are especially abundant in the matrix of the nails. The Tendons of the Palm and Fingers.—Turn the divided tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum downwards. As soon as they have passed the metacarpo-phalangeal joint each will be seen to enter a very firm fibrous tunnel known as the theca or digital fibrous sheath [vagina tendinum digitalis]. It is advisable to dissect two fingers, in order that any points missed in the one may be seen in the other. The theca is very thick opposite the phalanges and its fibres are transverse, but opposite the joints it is much thinner, to allow flexion of the fingers, and here its fibres cross in an X-like manner. It will readily be seen that any collec tion of pus in the theca will be closely shut in and as it