276 PRACTICAL ANATOMY will cut through fibrous plates of origin, like those in the deltoid, rising from the ridges or costse of the scapula, and giving' attachment to short bipenniform fibres. Notice that, as the muscle passes directly in front of the shoulder joint, it must be an internal rotator. The double nerve supply of the subscapularis has been seen already. Do not separate the tendon from the capsule of the shoulder - at present. _ f ^r. The supra-spinatus rises from the mner part ot the supra-spinous fossa and from the upper surface of the spine on the dorsum of the scapula; it runs directly above the shoulder joint, to be inserted into the upper facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Cut the muscle just internal to the shoulder joint and turn the origm aside, looking carefully for a nerve entering its deep surface from the supra-scapular. Since the muscle passes above the shoulder joint it must clearly be an abductor (see Fig. 298). The supra-scapular artery [a. transversa scapulae] and nerve [n. supra-scapularis] may now be traced through the supra-scapular notch, the artery lying above and the nerve below the supra-scapular ligament which converts the notch into a foramen (occasionally this ligament is ossified). After leaving the notch the two structures run towards the outer limit of the attachment of the scapular spine, the nerve, as has been seen, supplying the supra-spinatus, the artery givmg off several branches to the muscle, some of which anastomose with branches of the posterior scapular artery, while others, in a well-injected part, are seen to form a delicate network superficial to the acromial process, where they anastomose with the acromio-thoracic artery. With very great care a small twig of the nerve may be followed in the substance of the supra-spinatus to the shoulder "'""rhe infraspinatus muscle rises from the inner part of the infra-spinous fossa, and the lower surface of the spme to be inserted into the middle of the three facets on the great