PRACTICAL ANATOMY 270 along the axillary vessels, and two oblique chains along the long thoracic and subscapular vessels respectively, have been looked for. The vertical chain is arbitrarily divided into three groups. The lower vertical nodes are sometimes called the brachial group because they receive most of the lym- phatics of the arm. The middle group of vertical nodes receive lymphatics from the last as well as from the sub- scapular and pectoral chains. The upper vertical nodes or infra-clavicular group receive vessels from all the outer groups as well as some which accompany the cephalic vein from the outer side of the arm. The chain along the long thoracic vessels {pectoral group) drains the chest, including the greater part of the female breast, while the subscapular group along the subscapular vessels drains the back. A central group of small nodes, lying a,bout the middle of the floor of the axilla, is sometimes described. What they drain is not known with certainty, nor are they always to be found. It must be remembered that lymphatics anastomose very freely, consequently surgeons find it advisable to remove every node they can reach from the axilla after amputating the breast for cancer. By this time the dissectors of the head and neck will be ready to divide the clavicle about its middle, and a full view of the brachial plexus will be obtained. With the aid of the accompanying diagram the three trunks, each dividing into anterior and posterior secondary divisions, will be seen, the secondary divisions uniting to form the three cords which alone are found below the level of the clavicle. The dissectors of the two parts should now try to find out from which spinal nerves the branches of the plexus derive their fibres. A glance at the construction of the plexus shows that branches of the outer cord can only come from G. 5, 6, and 7, while those from the inner are confined to G. 8 and Th. 1. In the posterior cord, on the other hand, there is a wider range, since fibres continue into it from G. 5, 6, 7, axid 8, though seldom from Th. 1.