PRACTICAL ANATOMY 32 in this order from before backwards. Begin by clearing the ^pulmonary veins [vente pulmonales], which are recognised by their position, and by the fact that in dissecting-room subjects they frequently contain injection. There are usually two pulmonary veins, which are formed by the union of a number of tributaries which leave the root along its anterior border and at its lower extremity. The 'pulmonary artery [A. pulmonalis] breaks up into branches corresponding to the tributaries of the pulmonary veins, from which they are most readily distinguished by tracing them to their origin. The bronchus similarly breaks up into branches on entering the hilum. Its posterior posi- tion, the' cartilages in its walls, and its characteristic feel to the touch make it easily identified. On comparing the root of the right lung with that of the left, it will be noticed that one of the branches of the bronchus on this side is higher than any on the left. It is known asjhe eparterial bronchus [ramus bronchialis eparteriahs], because of its being situated higher than any of the branches of the pulmonary artery. All the other branches on the right side and all those on the left side are known, because of their relation to the artery, as hyparterial. Having dissected the root of the lung from the front, turn the lung forwards, securing it in position by hooks if necessary. Dissect off the pleura from the back of the root, taking care to remove nothing but the membrane. The posterior pulmonary plexus [PI. pulmonalis posterior] will now be exposed, fibres from which are traceable into the lung. It will be seen to be formed by the spreading out of the fibres of the vagus and their union with branches from certain of the upper thoracic sympathetic gangha (2, 3, and 4) The student, however, is advised not to trace the plexus at present in either an upward or downward direction. Also at the back of the root of the lung the bronchial arteries which supply the substance of the lung should be looked tor They are most readily picked up on the posterior surface of