PRACTICAL ANATOMY 172 peritoneal operations always moves with the peritoneum when the latter is turned aside. As it enters the pelvis, it will be understood, if the lines of the small and large intes- tines be reconstructed, that it passes behind the ileum on the right side and the pelvic colon on the left. On both sides the ureter in the abdominal portion of its course has over- lying it coils of small intestine. It should also be observed how close the ureter on the right side lies to the inferior vena cava. Traced inwards, the fascia over the psoas forms a series of fibrous arches opposite the concave lateral surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, thereby forming osseo-tibrous foramina, through which pass the lumbar vessels and small nerveconnections between the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves and the lumbar sympathetic ganglia. Traced out- wards, the fascia blends immediately beyond the outer border of the psoas with the fascia over the quadratus lumborum. Below, the fascia throws a wing-like expansion outwards to enclose the iliacus muscle and to gain an attachment to the iliac crest. It then passes down, covering the ilio-psoas, which it follows under Poupart's ligament to its insertion. Inter- nally, in its lower part, it is attached along the ilio-pectineal line. The fascia in front of the quadratus lumborum has been noticed already on one side in the dissection to expose the lower pole of the kidney from behind ; it is the anterior lamella of the lumbar aponeurosis, and passes inward behind the psoas, outwards to fuse with the rest of the lumbar fascia, downwards to the ihac crest. These two fasciae, particu- larly the fascia in front of the psoas, are of great importance in surgery. A knowledge of the attachments of the fascia which covers the psoas explains why, if suppuration enters the so-called sheath of the psoas, it tracks downwards into the thigh. The fasciae are not to be regarded as everywhere complete, for they are perforated by blood vessels, and more particularly by nerves. These nerves should now be found. Close to the inner border of the psoas and its sheath lies the lumbar sympathetic cord, which should be traced upwards to