THE THORAX 13 accumulated underneath it in the abdominal cavity (see Fig. 194). The Pericardium should now be studied before the lungs are displaced. It will be seen as a fibrous bag lying in the median plane behind the gladiolus and between the two pleural sacs. It should here be noted that it is en- veloped by the pleural sacs, which separate it from the anterior thoracic wall, except over a narrow triangular area limited to the right by the median line from the 4th to the 6th costal cartilages below by a horizontal line extending for 1 to 2 inches to the left from the median line at the level of the 0th costal cartilages, and to the left by an oblique line running downwards and outwards, joining the free extremi- ties of these hues. The student will now understand that in tapping the pericardium through the 5th space on the left side the surgeon may, if he introduces the trocar too near the sternum, injure the internal mammary vessels, while, if too far from the sternum, he may penetrate the pleural ' cavity. It should be remembered, however, that the peri- cardium is always distended in those cases in which tappino- is necessary, and, further, that in such conditions the left pleural sac is pushed to a considej-able distance from the middle hne. With the forefinger strip the pleura from the pericardium, when the latter will be seen to have the shape of a truncated cone with its base resting upon, and insepar- ably fused with, the diaphragm, while its blunt apex reaches as high as the 2nd costal cartilages. By replacing a portion of the thoracic parietes note that the pericardium reaches as high as the 2nd costal cartilao-es and as low as the 6th, that to the right it extends for halflin inch or so beyond the lateral masgin of the sternum, while below and to the left it reaches to a point 3^ inches from the middle line in the 5th intercostal space. Pick up the anterior wall of the pericardium with a pair of forceps and with scalpel or scissors make a median vertical incision through it from apex to base. The pericardial sac, which