80 PRACTICAL ANATOMY and, if necessary, retraced. The superficial fascia now ex- posed is often laden with fat, a condition which makes the discovery of the subcutaneous nerves somewhat difficult. A median vertical incision should be made through the superficial fascia down to the thin layer of deep fascia which overlies the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles. The superficial fascia should then be turned outward as a con- tinuous sheet, a sharp look-out being kept for the sub- cutaneous nerves, Avhich will be seen to pierce the aponeurosis at variable distances from the mid line, and enter the super- ficial fascia. These are the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdon^en, and are derived from the last thoracic and the lower five intercostal nerves. The branch from the 10th intercostal nerve is distributed at the level of the umbiUcus. Two other nerves are practically constant in position and therefore easily found; one—the Injpogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve—enters the superficial fascia about an inch above the external abdominal ring; the other—the ilio- inguinal—comes out of the external abdominal ring just ex- ternal to the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the scrotum (or labium) and thigh (see p. 371, vol. i.). The nerves being found should be traced as far as possible into the superficial fascia and then divided, so that the fascia may be reflected still further. As the lateral portion of the abdominal wall is reached, another series of nerves will be found emerging be- tween the serrations of the external oblique muscle. These are the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. These nerves should be treated in the same way as were the others. The lateral cutaneous branch of the twelfth thoracic nerve crosses the iliac crest about an inch behind the anterior superior spine, while the iliac branch of the iho-hypogastric also crosses at the site of the tubercle of the crest; they are noticed in the dissection of the buttock (see p. 343, vol. i.). The fascia of Scarpa, or deeper layer of the superficial fascia, in the lower part of the abdomen, contains less fat I