138 PKACTICAL ANATOMY costal arch, or about half an inch below the right nipple; in the mid-axillary line, where it separates the superior surface from the base, the 7th costal arch. It is limited below by a line which coincides with the lower costal margin of the right side as far as the 9th rib, which then passes obliquely from the 9th right to the 8th left, and is continued on to meet the superior limiting line at the apex behind the 6th costal arch. It will now be seen that the liver lies behind the 7th to 11th costal arches inclusive, on the right side separated by the diaphragm, behind the ensiform cartilage and anterior abdominal wall, and behind the 6th to 8th arches inclusive on the left side. The median portion, which lies against the anterior abdominal wall, can be easily palpated, and can therefore yield information as to the state of the liver. It must further be clearly understood that the liver moves downwards in inspiration, and, if the inspiration is forced, almost the whole of the inferior border can be felt. The inferior surface of the Hver looks backwards and to the left as well as downwards. It is in relation from right to left to the right kidney and hepatic flexure, the descend- ing portion of the duodenum, the gall bladder, the upper horizontal portion of the duodenum, the pylorus, and anterior surface of the stomach, including the fundus. The exact position of these relationships should be observed, and it will be seen that the liver is largely moulded by the viscera with which it is in contact. It may be here mentioned that, generally speaking, the solid viscera of the abdomen are more inclined to be moulded by than to mould the hollow ones. The posterior surface of the liver cannot be studied until the organ has been removed. The liver should now be hooked up so as to expose as much as possible of the inferior surface (see Fig. 247). The free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum should next be fixed, and the two layers of peritoneum which form it separated. As a result of this procedure the structures lying in the free edge will be exposed; these are the hepatic artery, portal