THE BACK OF THE FOREARM 341 carpal bone of the index finger, and at its insertion lies deep to the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis (see Fig. 321). Divide the muscle where its tendon begins, and look for its nerve from the musculo-spiral. The extensor carpi radialis hrevior [E.O.R. brevis] comes from the external condyle by the common extensor origin already mentioned. It lies deep to the last muscle, and so close to it that some care is necessary in separating them. Its fleshy belly is a good deal longer than the last, and its tendon has the same relations, passes through the same groove, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger at the root of its styloid process. Divide the muscle, and look for its nerve coming from the posterior interosseous before that nerve pierces the supinator brevis. The extensor digitorum communis lies on the ulnar side of the extensor carpi radialis brevier. Follow it down from the common tendon, and notice that in the lower third of the forearm it divides into four tendons, which pass through the innermost groove on the back of the radius. After this each passes to its own finger, but Avhile they are on the dorsum of the hand they are connected by bands known as vincula accessoria [junctura tendinum] (see Fig. 321). The vin- bulum between the tendons for the index and medius is usually feeble, if it is present at all, and this, no doubt, is associated with the free mobility of the index. The other two vincula pass obHquely downwards from the annularis tendon to those of the medius and minimus, and enable the tendon to the ring finger to help the one on each side of it. These vincula accessoria, or " helping bands," should not be confused with the vincula vasculosa in the flexor sheaths. Follow one tendon along the dorsum of a finger, preferably the medius, and notice that opposite the proximal phalanx it forms the dorsal expansion, which resembles the barbed head of an arrow. Each barb is wrapped round the side of the phalanx, and receives the insertion of the lumbricales and interossei. The radial barb of each expansion receives a