107 THE PERINEUM it will convey some idea of the way in which the fascia over the obturator iuternus is continuous with the deep layer of the triano-ular liy-ament. It will be also understood that the internal pudic vessels and pudic nerve, which lie external to the fascia over the obturator internus, pierce that fascia by means of Alcock's canal, and enter the lateral portion of the deep perineal compartment. The terminal branches of the artery and the nerve then pierce the superficial layer of the triangular ligament to enter the superficial perineal compartment. In the dissection of the female perineum the external generative organs must be examined, though the student is warned that by the female perineum the gynaecologist under- stands only that area which intervenes between the external organs of generation and the anus. The VULVA or pudendum includes all the female external generative organs, and consists of the labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, vestibule, orifices of the vagina and urethra, bulbs of the vestibule and Bartholin's glands. The labia majora are the large folds of skin covered on their outer su-rfaces with hair, and usually having their smooth, moist, internal surfaces in contact so as to conceal the other external generative organs. Make a section of one of them, and notice that it contains fibro-fatty tissue continuous with the mass of similar tissue in front of the symphysis pubis forming the mons veneris. The labia majora are the homo- logues of the two halves of the scrotum in the male. The labia minora or nymphce are smaller flaps or folds of skin covered by the contiguous labia majora; below they join to form the fourchette, but above they approach one another and bifurcate. The upper limb of the bifurcation seems to join its fellow to form a Httle hood over the glans clitoridis known as the prejmtium clitoridis, while the lower limb blends with the clitoris. Some observers, however, hold that the preputium is quite distinct from the nymphie.