THE MALE PELVIS 201 From the upper part of each side of the bladder the peritoneum is reflected off on to the side-wall of the pelvis, thus forming the lateral false ligaments [plicae vesicales transversse]; its point of reflexion is determined by the obliterated hypogastric artery—a fibrous cord continuing the superior vesical artery up to the umbilicus. Anteriorly, the peritoneum is lifted off the apex of the bladder by the urachus and forms the superior false ligament [plica pubo- vesicalis], while posteriorly, two folds of peritoneum run, one to each side of the rectum, forming the side-walls of the recto-vesical pouch, and known as the loosterior false ligaments. It will thus be seen that all five false ligaments of the bladder are formed of peritoneum, and that the obliterated hypogastric arteries and urachus form three foetal ligaments. There are, in addition, three true ligaments described, which are formed from the pelvic fascia. They are all attached near the neck of the bladder, and are anterior and two lateral. The anterior true ligament runs forward to the symphysis pubis, while the two lateral run outwards to the origins of the levatores ani or white lines of Henle. These so-called true ligaments are merely condensed parts of the cellular bed in which the bladder lies. The Vesicul^ Seminales lie behind the bladder and above the posterior part of the base of the prostate, which projects, like a narrow shelf, behind the level of the bladder to support them. Each is 1| to 2 inches long, and resembles a pear flattened from before backwards (see Fig. 273). The vasa deferentia [ductus deferentes] have been seen entering the abdomen at the internal abdominal ring, and traced as far as the ischial spine. As they approach the base of the bladder they become enlarged and sacculated, forming the ampuUce. Lying to the inner side of the vesiculse seminales, the vas joins the apex of the vesicula to form the common ejaculatory duct, which disappears from view within the prostate.