303 THE FOREARM As soon as it reaches the lower border of this, the radial artery meets it at an acute angle, and the two run side by side (the nerve being external) as far as the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm. Here the nerve leaves the artery and runs backwards, deep to the tendon of the brachio-radialis, to the dorsal aspect of the forearm. Notice that in the whole of this course it gives off no branches. The internal relations of the radial artery in the fore- arm are only the pronator radii teres above, the flexor carpi radiaHs below, and the internal vena comes all the way. The pronator radii teres rises from the internal condyle and slightly from the internal supra-condylar ridge; it also rises, like all the other superficial flexor muscles, from the deep fascia covering it. It has in addition a small, deep head, which will be seen better a little later on. Follow the muscle obliquely downwards and outwards, as the inner boundary of the antecubital triangle, till it reaches the inner margin of the brachio-radialis. Here it passes deep to that muscle and to the radial artery, and, becoming tendinous, is inserted into the middle third of the outer surface of the radius, at the point where the bone reaches its greatest outward convexity. This enables it to pronate the radius with greater force, but, since it passes in front of the elbow, it is also a flexor of that joint. Be very careful in following its upper border to look for the twig which the median nerve gives to it; this enters the muscle rather deeply. The flexor carpi radialis mttscle lies on the inner side ol the pronator radii teres, between it and the palmaris longus. It has the same origin as the pronator, except that it does not come from the supra-condylar ridge, nor has it any deep head. Notice that the origin of the flexor carpi radialis cannot be separated from that of its neighbours, since they rise from the side of fibrous intermuscular septa. While close to the internal condyle the origin of all this superficial