354 PRACTICAL ANATOMY imporLant in keeping the bony ends in apposition; the pos- terior of these two ligaments is called the conoid, and is an inverted cone attached above to the conoid tubercle of the clavicle, and below to the bend or knuckle of the coracoid process, while the anterior ligament, the trapezoid, is attached to the trapezoid ridge on the under surface of the clavicle and upper surface of the coracoid process. Cut through the upper ligament of the acromio-clavicular joint and look for an incomplete meniscus or interarticular fibro-cartilage [discus articularis] hanging down from it for a short distance. Notice also that the clavicle overrides the acromion somewhat, so that when this joint is dislocated the clavicle is almost always displaced upward. The coraco-acromial ligament is triangular, the base being attached to the posterior border of the coracoid process, while the apex joins the tip of the acromion process. The central part of this ligament is usually more feeble than its margins; it is sometimes even perforated. Beneath this ligament is the large subacromial bursa already explored. Below this again, and separating it from the capsule of the shoulder, is the supra-spinatus muscle. When the body is supported by the arms, as in parallel-bar exercises, the weight is taken by the acromion and coraco-acromial ligament, and the bursa plays the part of an accessory shoulder joint. If it were not for this overhanging arch, upward dislocation of the shoulder would constantly happen. The Shoulder Joint [articulatio humeri].—Clear away the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub- scapularis as far as possible without opemng the joint. When the capsule is fully exposed, notice that its laxity is great enough to allow the head of the humerus to be drawn away from the glenoid cavity for nearly an mck Trace the attachment of the capsule round the margm of the glenoid cavity, on the one hand, and round the anatomical neck of the humerus on the other. Notice that the capsule is continued down as a roof to the bicipital groove for some