20 PRACTICAL ANATOMY of the auricle, immediately in front of the opening of the inferior vena cava. It is known as the valve of Eustachitis [valvula venae cavse]. It directed the blood in the fcetus from the inferior vena cava to the fossa ovalis, which at that stage was patent and known as the foramen ovale. In front of the valve is a large opening into the right ventricle ad- mitting, under normal circumstances, three fingers; it is the right av/riculo-ventricular apertv/re through which in the foetus passed the blood from the superior vena cava, the valve of EustPjChius thus separating the two streams. The position of the right auriculo-ventricular apertvire, in terms of the amterior thoracic wall, should now be studied by re- placing the right part of the reflected thoracic parietes. It will be seen to lie obliquely behind the sternum, close to the middle line, and to extend from the level of the 4th left costal cartilage to the level of the 6th right (see Fig. 201, p. 26). Below the opening of the inferior vena cava look for that of the coronary sinus; it is guarded by a small pocket-like valve [valvula sinus coronarii], the opening of which points to the left. In about 25 per cent, of all normal hearts a valvular opening will be found in the anterior part of the fossa ovalis leading into the left auricle; it is sometimes large enough to admit a good-sized quill. The Right Ventricle [Ventriculus dexter].—The Right Ventricle should next be studied. Notice that it forms the whole of the right margin of the ventricular portion of the heart, and that, as seen from the front, it is prolonged upwards into a conical portion, the infundihulum, which in turn is continued into the pulmonary artery. Pass the forefinger through the right auriculo-ventricular aperture from the right auricle to the right ventricle, and with a sharp scalpel divide the wall of the ventricle upon it, maldng the incision run parallel to and just below the auriculo-ventricular groove. From the left extremity of this incision cut parallel to the