THE FOREARM 315 flexor profundus digitorum hus already received a branch from the uhiar nerve, so that it is a muscle with a double nerve-supply. Minute branches are also given to the radius and ulna, since in both cases the nutrient foramen is on the anterior surface of the bone. A long delicate branch of the artery usually accompanies the median nerve for some distance down the forearm ; it is called the comes nervi mediani or median artery, and repre- sents a disappearing blood path to the hand. About the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm the anterior interosseous artery and nerve are lost sight of, as they pass deep to the edge of the pronator quad- ratus muscle, and it will be better to leave them for a minute until this muscle is examined. The Pronator Quadratus is so hidden by the flexor tendons of the forearm that they should be divided and turned aside. Tie the four tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum together in two places, and divide them between the ligatures. Do the same for the flexor profundus digi- torum tendons, and, finally, divide and reflect the flexor longus" pollicis. Do not cut these tendons too near the wrist, because of their synovial sheaths. Now the pronator quadratus is seen rising from the lower quarter of the anterior surface of the ulna, and passing across to be inserted into the same amount of the anterior surface of the radius. Cut right through the muscle from above downwards, being careful not to mjure the anterior interosseous nerve; and notice that although the upper edge is quite thin, the muscle thickens rapidly as the wrist is approached, until near its lower edo-e it is quite half an inch thick. On reflecting the two cut ends it will be seen that the anterior interosseous nerve enters the deep surface of the muscle, and that the main part of the anterior interosseous artery pierces the interosseous mem- brane to reach the dorsum of the forearm, while a smaller branch continues in front of the membrane to join the anterior carpal arch.