THE FOREARM 307 Nerve. P.C.M. Palmar Cutaneous of Median. Just external to this is the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis. E.O.M.P. Extensor Ossis Mota- carpi Pollicis. S.V.Ay. Siiperficialis Voire Artery. Opp.Pol. Opponens Toliiois. Abel.Pol. Abductor Pollicis. F.Br.Pol. Flexor Brovis Pollicis. Add.Tr. Adductor Transversus. \st Int. 1st Dorsal Interosseus Muscle. of the ulna; (6) from the oblique line of the radius by a separate thin sheet, which sometimes is very feebly marked. As the wrist is approached, the muscle divides into four tendons, of which those going to the middle and ring fingers are superficial, while those to the index and little fingers are deep (see Eig. 310). Pull the different tendons to realise on which fingers they act, and notice that the radial origin goes only to the outer superficial tendon, that is, the one to the middle finger. The flexor longus pollicis is partly hidden by the radial head of the last muscle. This may be divided and turned aside, but it is better to sketch the undisturbed parts before doing so. The muscle rises from the middle third of the anterior surface of the shaft of the radius, and a little above the wrist becomes tendinous, its tendon lying deep to that of the flexor carpi radiahs. Experience has taught us how often these two tendons are mistaken for one another by students, especially when the whole length of the muscles is not exposed, and we would advise very careful observation of their relative positions. The branches of the radial artery are (1) radial recurrent; (2) muscular; (3) ant. radial carpal; and (4) superficial volar! The radial recurrent artery comes off in the antecubital fossa close to the origin of the radial artery; it should be traced up, deep to the brachio-radialis and superficial to the supmator brevis, in front of the external condyle where it is m close relation with the end of the musculo-spiral nerve It supplies the surrounding muscles, and sometimes an anato- mosis between it and the superior profunda artery is seen Ihis, of course, is an important path for collateral circula- tion when the brachial artery is ligatured (see Fig 304) Ihc anterior radial carpal [ramus carpeus volarisj runs