THE SMALL INTESTINE 127 the ileum,, due largely to the foldiugs of its mucous mem- brane—the valvuhe conniventes—being better developed; (3) I the jejunum is shghtly wider than the ileum. A piece of I the small intestine should now be pulled downwards, the mesentery stretched, and the structures between the two ; layers of peritoneum examined. First Jook carefully at the I mesentery, and in all but very fat bodies some indication ' will be seen of blood vessels and lymphatic nodes. Next I carefully strip olf a layer of peritoneum and clean up the blood vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of a portion at least four inches broad. The blood vessels will be seen to be I arranged in a very characteristic manner. They run towards the gut, spreading as they go; as they near the gut they divide into ascending and descending branches, which join similar branches from adjacent arteries, forming a series of loops, from which loops other branches arise; these, again, form loops, until there may be a series of three or more loops I before the terminal branches are given off. The last branches divide a little distance from the intestine into two relatively small vessels, which run alternately in front of and behind the gut to anastomose with each other on its anterior aspect; they may thus be said to form loops round the gut. The veins have a corresponding course to that of the arteries. The vessels are accompanied by fine nerves and lym- phatics (lacteals), passing through a series of lymphatic nodes [lymphoglanduke mesentericte]. These are more numerous in the jejunal than in the ileal portion of the mesentery. Further, although the nodes are scattered through the mesentery from gut to abdominal wall, they are much larger near the parietal than near the visceral attach- ment. If the artery already dissected in the mesentery be traced to its origin, it will be found to come from the supe- rior mesenteric, a large artery which arises from the aorta at the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, and pursues a slightly curved course, with its convexity to the left, to the right iliac fossa. From its left side arise several vessels