119 THE PERITONEUM by passing one hand above the right lobe of the liver and the other below the right lobe; the meeting of the two hands is prevented by the reflexion of the peritoneum from the liver to the diaphragm above, and from the liver to the posterior abdominal wall below. The liver should next be pulled, first to the right and then to the left, when slight folds of peritoneum will be seen passing on either side from it to the diaphragm—the rigid and left lateral ligaments. It will be seen that the space between the liver and diaphragm is divided by the falciform ligament into right and left por- tions, each of which is again divided by the lateral ligaments into a large anterior and a small posterior part, so that there are four compartments, and therefore four anatomical varieties of intra-peritoneal subphrenic abscesses are possible. The Mesentery.—Take hold of a loop of small intestine and pull it forward, when it will be seen to be attached to the posterior abdominal wall by a strong fold of peritoneum—the mesentery. Trace the small intestine upwards to the left side of the 2nd lumbar vertebra, where the free portion of the smaU intestine will be found to join a fixed portion at a bend—the duodeno-jejunal flexure; it is at this flexure that the mesentery begins. Now trace the small intestine downwards to the ileo-csecal junction in the right iliac fossa, where it and its mesentery end. The mesentery will by this procedure be shown to be attached to the posterior abdominal wall along an obHque line from the left side of the 2nd lumbar vertebra to the right ihac fossa (see Fig. 240, M.). By examining a short length of small intestine it will be seen to be covered by peritoneum everywhere except alono- a narrow hnear area. The length of the mesentery at its parietal attachment is 6 or 7 inches; at its intestinal attach- ment, 23 feet. From posterior abdominal wall to the intestine its maximum length is about 10 inches, but considerable variation is met with. In some cases the mesentery is so short that an inguinal or femoral hernia of this portion of the gut would be impossible.