219 THE FEMALE PELVIS of the ovary. The ovary is of a broad almond-shape skmg between the uterus and the Lateral wall of the pelvis, and attached anteriorly to the posterior surface of the broad ligament. The band which connects it with the uterus is a rounded cord known as the ligament of the ovary [lig. ovarii proprium], while that Avhich connects it with the pelvic wall is the ovario-pelvic ligament, in which it is possible to feel, through the peritoneum, the ovarian vessels as they are passing down from the abdomen. The fimbrias of the Fallopian tube will be seen to lie in close relation to the ovary. ' A similar dissection to that already described for the male pelvis should now be carried out. Make an incision in the median plane through the peritoneum from the right side of the beginning of the pelvic colon to the symphysis pubis, and remove all the peritoneum from the right half of the pelvis. In this way the structures will be left in situ, and the left half can be used for comparison. Clean as before the cellular tissue away from the viscera, preserving all the blood vessels, lymphatics and nerves. This cellular tissue is of great clinical importance, since inflammation is liable to spread into it from the uterus, causing the con- dition known as " para-metritis," The branches from the internal ihac artery in the female correspond to those in the male, except that a vaginal branch replaces the inferior vesical, and there is an additional uterine artery (see p. 224). The ovarian artery, which corresponds, of course, to the spermatic in the male, enters the pelvis at the upper end of the ovario-pelvic ligament, withm. which it is conducted to the ovary, supplying branches not only to that organ but to the Fallopian tube and to the uterus. It is accompanied by the ovarian veins, which in the ovario-pelvic and broad ligaments form a plexus with those coming from the uterus. The ureter should next be traced from the brim of the pelvis to where it opens into the bladder. So far as the