125 PERITONEAL FOSS^ ileo-colic vessels; the fold bounding the ileo-C£ecal fossa usually contains no vessel, and is termed the ileo-appendicular or bloodless fold. In order to see it and its fossa draw the ctecum and ileum forwards with the left hand, and the appendix backwards with the right; this stretches the fold, which passes back from the lower margin of the ileum to the root of the appendix. The fossa is just above the fold. The retro-ccecal fossa passes upward behind the csecum and ascending colon; when present, it not infrequently contains within it the vermiform appendix (see Fig. 240, R.C.P.). The fossa in connection with the pelvic colon is known as the fossa intersigmoidea, from the name which this por- tion of gut formerly bore—sigmoid colon. To demonstrate it turn the pelvic colon upwards and to the right, and examine the attachment to the posterior abdominal wall of the pelvic meso-colon. At the highest point of the line of attachment hes the opening of the fossa. The little finger should be passed into the fossa, at the apex of which lies the left ureter (see Fig. 240, P.M.C.). In addition to the forementioned fossae two other pouches may be noted; one is for the spleen, while the other is of great practical importance, because of its relation to the gall bladder. The pouch for the spleen is at the left upper comer of the abdomen, and is bounded above and to the left by the diaphragm, below by the phrenico-colic ligament, and to the right by the gastro-splenic omentum and lieno- renal hgament. Pass the hand into the pouch and lift the spleen up, when the two peritoneal folds last mentioned will be seen, one passing forward to the stomach, the other back- ward to the kidney. Both folds contain blood vessels; the gastro-splenic omentum conveying the vasa brevia, branches of the splenic artery, to the fundus of the stomach, while the iieno-renal Hgament is the fold whereby the splenic vessels pass from the posterior abdominal wall to the spleen (see Fio-. 240, L.R.L.). The phrerdco-colic ligament, as its name implies, runs