PRACTICAL ANATOMY 226 in addition to this bending, the whole uterus, body and cervix, is turned forwards from the coronal plane of the trunk into an oblique plane passing forwards and upwards, the position being known as that of anteversion. A proper understanding of anteflexion and anteversion is of considerable importance, since errors of position are far from uncommon. The Fallopian tubes [tubse uterinse] will be seen to be about four or five inches in length. In addition to the fim- briated extremity, the following parts can be distinguished : a short narrow portion, the isthmus, which joins the uterus ; a relatively wide portion, the ampulla, which forms the greater part of the tube; and a second constricted portion, the cervix, which adjoins the fimbriated end. The tubes pursue a somewhat wavy course from uterus to ovary, around which latter organ the fimbriae are disposed, being particu- larly related to its antero-internal surface. If the fimbriae are closely examined they may be seen to be scored by a deep longitudinal groove on their ovarian surfaces, which serves to conduct safely the ovum from the ovary to the Fallopian tube. If the fimbrise are carefully separated with two pairs of forceps, a cavity known as the infundihulum will be opened up. At the bottom of this is a small but easily dilat- able aperture, leading into the tube, known as the ostium ahdominale. Attached to the fimbriated extremity of the tube there is often a small hydatid. The ovary may now be examined more closely, and the gland should be compared with specimens of different ages in the post-mortem room whenever the opportunity arises. In old dissecting-room subjects it is usually atrophied and very hard from fibrous contraction. In girls below the age of puberty it is small and its surface is quite smooth, but during menstrual life it is large and its surface puckered by the scars of ruptured Graafian follicles [folliculi oophori vesiculosi]. If a section is made of such an ovary,^ the Graafian folHcles may be seen in various sizes, the ripest attaining the size of a small pea.