JOINTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 363 but it can also act round an antero-postorior axis and produce the movoments of adduction and abduction. Adduction is very free, and the Uving hand can be adducted to a right angle with the forearm, though here again the intercarpal joints are responsible for a good deal of the movement. Abduction, however, is very slight, and the hand can only be abducted through a very few degrees from the straight line of the radius. Notice that no rotation round a vertical axis is allowed, nor is any needed, since pronation and supination of the forearm supply this movement. The Avrist is known as a condyloid joint; that is to say, it is a ball-and-socket joint as far as its bony surfaces are concerned, and as far as its movements are concerned, except that it can only act round two axes; it lacks rotation. Open the joint from the front and notice that the three bones of the carpus which enter into it are joined together by two interosseous ligaments [ligg. intercarpea interossea]. These are complete ; that is to say, they reach from the palmar to the dorsal aspect of the joint, and so there is never any communication between the wrist and the intercarpal articulations. The Carpal Joints [articulatio intercarpea]. — First examine the joint between the pisiform and cuneiform bones [articulatio ossis pisiformis]; this has a capsule which shuts it off completely from aU the other articulations. There are two accessory bundles of fibres, without which this capsule would be much too weak for its duties. The first runs up to the styloid process of the ulna, and is formed by the anterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist; while the second (pisi- unciform ligament) runs down to the hook of the unciform and resists the pull of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. This, like all the other intercarpal joints, belongs to the gliding or ar-throdial variety. The carpal bones other than the pisiform are connected by palmar, dorsal, and interosseous ligaments. The palmar and dorsal ligaments take a good deal of time and patience