81 THE ABDOMINAL WALL than does the superficial layer or fascia of Camper; the dis- tinction between these two layers, however, is quite arbitrary. The underlying muscle—the external oblique—must now be cleaned, and its origin from the eight lower ribs exposed. It rises by a series of digitations, one from each rib, external to the angles. Each digitation lies behind as well as below the one above it. The upper five interdigitate with serrations of the serratus magnus ; the lower three with those of the latissimus dorsi. This part needs careful dissection, as it is here that the lateral cutaneous nerves are found. The external obhque muscle will be seen to form an aponeurosis, which passes forwards to the linea alba, a fibrous band occupying the middle line, and downwards to form the ligament of Foupart. Between the pubic symphysis and pubic spine a gap will be found in the aponeurosis—the external abdominal ring [annulus inguinalis subcutaneus]. The ring is a buttonhole-like slit with its long axis passing upwards and outwards. The margins of the slit are called the internal and external pillars of the ring. The ring is at present not clearly defined, because from its margins the thin external spermatic fascia is prolonged downwards along the spermatic cord. That portion of the external oblique muscle which lies above a horizontal line through the anterior superior iliac spines should now be detached from the lower eight ribs and from the iliac crest and carefully thrown forwards. It will be found that its aponeurosis can be traced beyond the linea semilunaris. In this reflexion several of the intercostal nerves will be met as well as the last thoracic, the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves. The two latter pierce the internal oblique close to the anterior superior iliac spine, while the last thoracic is found one to two inches above. The branches of these nerves already found will aid the dissector to find their main trunks. The internal oblique muscle is now partly exposed and VOL. II. P