86 PRACTICAL ANATOMY midway between the anterior superior spine and the sym- physis pubis, and lateral to the deep epigastric artery. Further, in its course through the inguinal canal from the internal abdominal ring to the external the spermatic cord receives a series of muscular slips, sometimes forming loops, from the internal oblique muscle and Poupart's ligament. These fibres form the cremaster muscle, which is supplied by the genito-crural nerve. The inguinal canal will now be seen to be a passage, flattened from before back, beginning at the internal abdo- minal ring and ending at the external; it is directed down- wards, foi'wards, and inwards, and is inch in length. Its posterior wall is formed by the fascia transversalis, con- joined tendon, and triangular fascia; its anterior wall by the internal oblique and by the aponeurosis of the external oblique; its floor by Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligaments. Finally, a very strong tendinous band should be noted lying along the ilio-pectineal line, and passing up along the inner border of the psoas muscle to join Poupart's ligament. It is called the ligament of Cooper, and from its strength it is not infrequently serviceable as a structure to which Poupart's ligament can be stitched in the operation for the radical cure of hernia. The sheath of the rectus muscle must now be opened and its contents examined. A vertical incision must be made from the lower border of the thorax to the symphysis pubis, midway between the linea alba and the linea semilunaris. The anterior wall of the sheath must now be reflected inwards and outwards. No difficulty will be met in this procedure except along three transverse lines called the lineoi transverscB [inscriptiones tendineoB], where the rectus muscle has tendi- nous intersections which are fused with the sheath. The.se hnes are situated one about the level of the umbilicus, one at the tip of the ensiform cartilage, and one midway between these two. Occasionally there may be four or more lines, as in the statue of Hercules Farnese. In reflecting the sheath