JOINTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 3G1 and supination the radius describes half a cone, the apex of which is above and the base below. Now cut the orbicular ligament, and free it from the neck of the radius; cut the oblique ligament and interosseous membrane, and draw the upper end of the radius away from the ulna gently. It will now be noticed that the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint rises some little distance between the bones; it is called memhrana sacciformis [recessus sacciformis]. Now cut the anterior and posterior ligaments of this joint, after which the ulna can be turned aside enough to give a good view of the triangular fibro- cartilage [discus articularis], which in most cases completely separates the inferior radio-ulnar joint from the wrist. Its apex is seen to be attached close to the root of the styloid process of the ulna, its base to the border of the radius which separates the sigmoid cavity from the articular surface for the wrist, while anteriorly and posteriorly it blends with the capsule. Notice that this meniscus is thinnest about its middle, and here it is sometimes perforated. When this is the case, the wrist and inferior radio-ulnar joints communicate. The Wrist Joint [articulatio radio-carpea] lies between the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage above and the scaphoid, semilunar and cuneiform bones below. It has a complete capsule of great strength. Notice that when the fibres of the front or back of this capsule are cleaned with a sharp knife—and for dissecting ligaments a knife with a very sharp point is needed—the fibres run downwards and inwards from the radius to the first row of carpal bones. In studying the action of the wrist the first row of carpal bones should be grasped firmly, or else the wrist joint will be given credit for movements which really happen between the proximal and distal I'ows of carpal bones. The living hand can be bent to a right angle with the forearm, but the dissected joint will show that less than 45° of this flexion really occurs at the wrist. Extension is rather