PRACTICAL ANATOMY 218 is in contact Avith the posterior fornix of the vagina, since, in unslvilled attempts to procure abortion, instruments have been pushed from the vagina into the peritoneal cavity and fatal peritonitis caused. The utero-vesical pouch normally is empty and almost obliterated by the close apposition of the anterior surface of the uterus to the base and superior surface of the bladder. In many cases, however, found in the dissecting-room the uterus is bent backwards and lies in apposition to the rectum, the recto-uterine pouch being a mere fissure, while the utero-vesical is large and open. The utero-vesical pouch is limited laterally by two peri- toneal folds which pass from the uterus to the internal abdominal ring; they enclose the round ligaments of the uterus, to be described later, but which have been mentioned already in the description of the inguinal canal. After the abdomen has been opened, the round ligaments are relaxed, and are much less prominent than they were originally. Having noticed these peritoneal arrangements, the student should next study the viscera, so far as this is possible with- out removing any peritoneum. The uterus should be firmly grasped between the fingers and thumb of one hand and lifted up out of the pelvis, thus showing its great mobility. With the thumb and fingers of the other hand the limits of the viscus can be defined. It will be observed to be flask- shaped, with its fundus above and neck below. If the uterus be now pulled upwards and to one side, a good view of the broad ligament [lig. latum uteri] will be obtained stretching from the lateral surface of the uterus to the inner surface of the lateral wall of the pelvis. Now roll the upper border of the ligament between the fingers and thumb and the round Fallopian tube [tuba uterina] will be easily felt. Trace the tube inwards to the \iterus and outwards to the ovary around which it ends; its walls are here cut up into a number of fringe-like processes—the jftm&r'U^B—one of which, the fimbria ovarica, is constantly attached to the upper and outer pole