PRACTICAL ANATOMY 214 fore evident that each ureter runs obliquely through the wall of the bladder for more than half an inch. This oblique piercing causes a functional valve of great competence. Running across the base of the trigonum is a transverse ridge joining the internal openings of the two ureters, and therefore known as the inter-v/reteric bar [plica ureterica]; it is caused by a band of muscle, and is of great importance in examining the interior of the living bladder with the cystoscope, since, if followed outwards in either direction, it leads to the ureteric openings. Each of these openings is about an inch from the urethral orifice, so that the trigonum is an equilateral triangle, each wall of which is one inch. A small heaping up of the submucous tissue at the apex of the trigonum produces a low-lying eminence, which has received the name of the uvula vesicae. From the uvula there stretches into and along the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra a well-marked median ridge, the verumontanum [colliculus seminalis]. In front of the highest point of the ridge is a small slit-like aperture, the open- ing of the sinus pocularis [utriculus prostaticus], just within the orifice of which are the openings one on either side of the common ejaculatory ducts. A bristle passed through one of these ducts from the incised ampulla will show where it opens, though without this aid the orifice can seldom be distinguished. On each side of the verumontanum is a longitudinal depression—the prostatic sinus—into which the ducts of the prostate mostly enter. These, however, are not visible to the naked eye. As a rule, the median section of the bladder resembles that of a pear, all the boundaries being convex outwards. Occasionally, however, what is known as a "diastolic bladder" is found in which all the boundaries are concave outwards. This is probably due to the normal muscular contraction having passed off, or to the bladder having been emptied after death. Now dissect the various coats of the bladder on one