244 PRACTICAL ANATOMY The trapezius and latissimus doi\si form the first layer of back muscles. Replace them carefully, and notice how the lower and outer border of the trapezius crosses and then runs away from the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, en- closing a triangular space, the base of which is the posterior border of the deltoid, and the origin of the triceps below it. This space should be cleaned carefully, and then it will be seen that at its apex, where the two muscles diverge, there is a smaller and deeper triangle, the floor of which is formed by a rib or part of an intercostal space (see Fig. 290). At this point, then, the coverings of the chest are deficient, and intra-thoracic sounds are heard here with the stethoscope more clearly than elsewhere during life. It will be noticed that this uncovered area lies a little above and to the inner side of the loAver angle of the scapula. In passing from the apex towards the base of the triangle formed by the trapezius and latissimus dorsi, the next thing noticeable in the floor is the lower margin of the rhomboideus major, outside Avhich the infraspinatus and teres major form the floor, concealing the scapula. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi should now be reflected once more, and the muscles of the second layer studied; these are the levator anguli scapulae and the two rhomboid muscles. . The levator anguli scapulce [m. levator scapute] rises from some of the cervical transverse processes, and its origin should not be interfered with by the dissector of the upper extremity. Its insertion, however, into the vertebral border of the scapula, above the root of the spine, should be carefully noted Do not cut it until the arm is actually ready for removal, since it is of importance to the dissectors of- the neck. On each side of the levator anguli scapuise some structures should be found which it will be well to point out to the head and neck dissectors. On the outer side of the insertion of the muscle feel care-