50 PRACTICAL ANATOMY junction of the first right intercostal space with the manu- brium. Notice very carefully whether the left innominate vein appears above the supra-sternal notch. It does so sometimes, more often in children, and then may be a source- of great danger in operations at the root of the neck. Both innominate veins receive the internal mammary [v. mammaria interna] and vertebral veins [v. vertebrales] as tributaries, the latter opening just below the orifice of the internal jugular, and already exposed by the dissectors of the neck. In addition to these, the left innominate receives the left superior intercostal and the inferior thyroid veins. Dissect the left superior intercostal vein from the place where it'has been seen already, through the pleura in front of the arch of the aorta, and notice that it drains the second, third, and usually the fourth intercostal spaces. The corre- sponding right superior intercostal will be found opening mto the arch of the vena azygos major. • n n The inferior thyroid vein [v. thyreoidea mferiorj de- scends in front of the trachea to enter the left innominate close to the middle line. With a high innommate it does not enter the superior mediastinum at all. The superior vena cava, which begins behmd the farst intercostal space on the right side, ends behind the third by opening into the right auricle. It is divided for descriptive purposes into two parts-an upper extra-pericardial, a lower intra-pericardial. The upper portion receives the large vena azygos major and a few small tributaries from the peri- cardium. Its right side is in direct relationship to the right phrenic nerve and the right pleura, while its left side is m contact with the ascending aorta below, with the arch of the aorta and the innominate artery above (fe ^ig. 216)^ After the veins the nerves should be studied. Ihe phrenic and vagus have already been seen. Many of their relations on opposite sides of the body are dissimilai, but not Si: it is convenient to remember that the following statement is true for both sides, viz. the phrenic and vagus