SYLLABUS OF THE LECTURES ON SURGERY DELIVERED BY WILLIAM SANDS COX, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, AND OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, LONDON, AT THE ROYAL SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY, BIRMINGHAM. BARLOW, BIRMINGHAM, BOOKSELLER TO THE ROYAL SCHOOL OF MEDICINE. M.DCCC.XXXVI.. ' . R'i5cIZ\The Arrangement of the Lectures on Surgery is founded on the principles laid down by the genius of John Hunter, combined with the present improved state of general and pathological Anatomy. I have been, with diffidence, induced to publish the plan, in the hope of assisting the Student in the prosecution of his studies. To treat Surgical Diseases according to the Anatomy of the Tissues, to shew the alteration peculiar to each structure, appears to me the most favourable method for teaching, and for impressing upon the mind, the scientific Principles of Surgery. During the course, the different modes of operating adopted in this country, and also on the continent, will be practically de- monstrated. w. s. c.. / I .SYLLABUS. Introductory Remarks.—Of health, of disease—of the cause, symptoms, progress, and termination of diseases —of diagnosis—of prognosis—of treatment of diseases. Inflammation.—Of healthy and unhealthy inflamma- tion—of acute and chronic inflammation—characteristic symptoms—redness, heat, pain, and tension—causes of in- flammation remote or exciting, proximate or state of parts under disease—different theories respecting the proximate cause—progress and termination of inflammation, resolu- tion, effusion, suppuration, gangrene, induration, retroces- sion—structure modifies termination. Treatment of Inflammation.—Constitutional means —of bleeding, purgatives, sudorifics, diuretics, sedatives— local means—heat and moisture combined, counter-irrita-6 tion, position, various modes of bleeding.—Of the opera- tions of arteriotomy and phlebotomy. Adhesive Inflammation Definition nature of adhesive matter effused—symptoms, treatment, use of adhe- sive inflammation—animal engraftings, Taliacotian opera- tions—adhesive inflammation a most important principle in wounds, in surgical operations, closing of blood-vessels, for- mation of pus, formation of cysts—tissues most prone to adhesive inflammation. Suppurative Inflammation.—Local appearances, and effects—time required for the production of pus—of the nature, properties, and uses of pus—tissues which take on suppurative inflammation—constitutional symptoms—symp- tomatic or sympathetic inflammatory fever—hectic fever— treatment.—Abscesses—definition—general rules of treat- ment—modes of opening abscesses—simple incision, caustic, seaton—abscesses of the mamma, mediastina, abdomen, pe- rinseum—fistula in ano—operations. Ulcerative Inflammation.—Definition and theory of ulceration—causes, symptoms, local and constitutional treatment—tissues most susceptible of ulcerative inflamma- tion—uses of ulceration—of granulation, and cicatrization —treatment of healthy, indolent, and phagedenic idcers. Gangrenous Inflammation. Definition, causes, symptoms, local and constitutional treatment—of hospital, traumatic and gangrene of old persons.7 Specific Inflammation.—Inflammation dependent on some specific cause, as morbid poison, peculiar local or constitutional irritation, or a morbid state of the system; viz.:— Scrofulous Inflammation.—Definition of scrofula —age at which it most commonly appears, temperament, causes, influence of climate and season—constitutional and local treatment—tissues attached by scrofulous inflamma- tion. Cancerous Inflammation.—Definition of cancer— tissues attached by cancerous inflammation—period of life —causes, symptoms, progress, pathological appearances, treatment. Fungoid Inflammation.—Various other definitions —tissues attached by fungoid inflammation—characters, progress, termination, pathological appearances, treatment. Syphilitic Inflammation. — Definition — primary symptoms—chancre, bubo—chancre, usual mode of com- mencement, common appearance, seat—bubo, cause, pro- gress, termination.—Secondary symptoms—ulceration of the throat—eruptions—inflammation of the periosteum and osseous tissue—Carmichael’s views—remedies employed,— diaphoretics, narcotics, and those which introduce a large proportion of oxygen into the system—mercury and its preparations—best forms of mercury—objections to its use, or continuance—treatment of the various symptoms—mer-8 curial disease — warts, their growth and nature—treat- ment. Gonorrheal Inflammation.—Definition—causes— Is the matter produced by gonorrhsea and syphilis the same ? —symptoms, seat, mode of treatment in the acute and chronic stage—objections urged against injections—gonor- rhseal opthalmia—symptoms, seat, mode of treatment Stricture of the urethra, methods of cure.—Fistula in peri- naeo—phymosis — paraphymosis, causes, symptoms, treat- ment. Inflammation of the Cellular Tissue Its or- ganic changes—symptoms, progress, termination, and patho- logical characters—treatment—diffuse inflammation—ele- phantiasis — tumors — phlegmon. — Furuncuius, carbuncle referred to suppurative and dermoid inflammation. Inflammation of the Dermoid Tissue.—Causes, symptoms, treatment of exanthematous, vesicular, pustular, furuncular, papular, tubercular inflammations—paronychia —onychia—naevi materni. Inflammation of the Osseous Tissue. — Symp- toms, progress, termination, pathological characters—treat- ment—superficial, interstitial, adhesive, suppurative, ulcera- tive and gangrenous inflammation of bone.—Specific inflam- mation of bones, viz., scrofulous, cancerous, fungoid, syphi- litic—affections of bone depending upon a morbid condition of its assimulating vessels—injuries of bone—solutions of con-9 tinuity—definition of fractures—general treatment of sim- ple fractures—compound fractures—on the formation of cal- culus—false joints—treatment—fractures of the nasal bones, of the lower jaw, upper extremity, how ascertained—band- ages, position, time required for union—fractures of the trunk and injuries of the spine—fractures of the neck of the os femoris—within the capsule of the joint, external to it—absence of bony union, causes—fractures of the shaft and condyles of the os femoris, of the leg and foot—injuries of the head—fractures, simple and compound—fractures, with depression of the cranium—compression, concussion of the brain—diagnostic marks—inflammation of the mem- branes of the brain and its consequences referred to the fi- brous and serous membranes. Inflammation of the Synovial, Cartilaginous and Fibro-Cartilaginous Tissues.—The cause, symp- toms, progress, termination and pathological characters of inflammation of these tissues—of specific inflammation and its effects—affections of the joints generally—injuries— luxations—cause, symptoms, general treatment—individu- al luxations—symptoms and treatment of dislocation of the clavicle at the sternal extremity upwards, backwards, and forwards—at the scapular extremity upwards or downwards—of the os humeri—downwards and forwards into the axilla, forwards beneath the clavicle, backwards on the dorsum of the scapula, upwards with fracture of the acromion—partial dislocation—of the elbow, ulna, and ra- dius backwards, ulna and radius forwards, with fracture of the olecranon—radius forwards—ulna and radius laterally10 of the wrist forwards, backwards, laterally—of the tarsal, metatarsal, and phalanges—of the thumb—of the ossa in- nominata—of the hip joint, upwards on the dorsum ilii, downwards into the foramen ovale, backwards into the ischiatic notch, forwards upon the pubes,—of the patella— of the ankle-joint—forwards, inwards, and outwards—of the astragalus, metatarsus, and phalanges—of the extre- mities of the ribs—of the vertebrae—psoas and lumbar abscess—symptoms, progress, treatment—of loose substances in articulations. Inflammation of the Muscular and Fibrous Tis- sues.—Cause, symptoms, progress, pathological characters, treatment—lacerations—contusions—sprains—contractions. Inflammation of the Serous Tissue and its Or- ganic Changes.—Hydrothorax—paracentesis thoracis— peritoneal and ovarian dropsy—nature of the fluid—para- centesis abdominis—hydrocele—cause, symptoms, diagnos- tic marks—principles of cure—absorption, adhesion, granu- lation—various modes of operating—seaton, injection, in- cision. Inflammation of the Mucous Tissue, and its Or- ganic Changes.—Cause, symptoms, progress, termination, and pathological characters.—Diseases of the mucous mem- brane of the ear, of the nose, and antrum maxillare—dis- eases of the mouth, tongue, and salivary ducts—diseases of the tonsils and uvula—diseases of the throat—stricture of the oesophagus—diseases of the vagina and uterus—polypi11 .—formation—divisions'—operations of pharyngotomy and laryngotomy—tracheotomy.—Diseases of the conjunctiva and lachrymal passages are referred to the eye. Inflammation of the Bladder.—Retention and suppression of urine—causes, symptoms, treatment—ope- ration of paracentesis vesicae—above the pubes,—per rec- tum—in perinaco—retention of urine in the female—stric- ture of the rectum, treatment of.—Stricture of urethra referred to gonorrhma. Of Calculi.—Situations where found—symptoms— chemical composition—medical treatment—lithotomy—li- thotrity—parallel between the two operations considered— of calculus in the female. Inflammation of the Glandular Tissue.— Cause, symptoms, treatment, and pathological characters of inflammation of the testis, mamma, prostate gland—scrofu- lous and fungoid inflammation and its consequences—opera- tion for extirpation of the mamma and testis. Inflammation of the Arterial Tissue and its Organic Changes.—Aneurism — divisions—true, false,12 circumscribed, and varicose aneurisms—causes, mode of formation, diagnostic marks, appearances on dissection Operation for securing the different arterial trunks. Inflammation of the Venous System and its Organic Changes. — Causes, symptoms, pathological characters, treatment—varix—haemorrhoids—varicocele. Inflammation of the Nervous Tissue and its Organic Changes .—N euralgia—tetanus—trismus—sup- puration of the brain—causes, symptoms, treatment, patho- logical characters. Diseases of the Eye.—Inflammation of the globe, and its effects—specific inflammation of the globe, and its effects—diseases of the cornea—causes, symptoms, and treatment—ulceration and opacity of the cornea—nebula— leucoma—staphyloma—conical cornea—diseases of the iris —inflammation, pathological characters, prolapsus iridis— synechia, anterior et posterior—closure of the pupil—arti- ficial pupil—different modes of operating—myosis, mydri- asis—diseases of the retina—amaurosis—precursory symp- toms, causes, prognosis, diagnosis, treatment—diseases of the humors—hydropthalmia— glaucoma—cataract—varie- ties, causes, diagnostic marks,—operation for extraction, depression, solution—diseases of the appendages—opthal- mia tarsi—lippitudo—sarcoma palpebrarum — encanthis— entropium, ectropium—fistula lacrymalis—treatment of the disease.13 Lesions of Continuity.—Contusions—burns—local and constitutional treatment—wounds—division—incised, lacerated, contused, punctured wounds—mode of treatment —wounds of the head, neck, chest, abdomen—of the joints, tendons, vessels. Amputations.' Circumstances requiring it—of the double incision and flap operation—modes of restraining haemorrhage—application of the tourniquet—amputation of the fingers and toes—different modes—amputation be- tween the tarsal bones—between the carpal bones—ampu- tation of the leg by the flap operation, and by circular inci- sion—amputation above the knee—amputation at the hip joint—amputation through the fore arm—removal of the hand at the wrist joint—amputation of the arm above the elbow—removal of the arm at the shoulder joint—after treatment to be adopted—amputation of the penis—mode to be adopted. Lesion of Reports.—Luxations referred to the syno- vial tissue.—Hernise—definition of hernia—kinds of her- niae contents of hernial tumor—exciting and predisposing causes—reducible hernia, treatment—irreducible hernia, treatment—strangulated hernia, progressive symptoms— its reduction by the taxis—operations—after treatment. Morbid Productions. Various tumours distin- guishing marks—pathological characters.14 Malformations.—Adhesion of the labia—imperforate vagina—hare lip—cleft palate—supernumerary parts—clo- sure of the rectum—treatment—operations. Poisons.—Stings and bites of animals—hydrophobia— modes of preventing the baneful effects of these injuries. FINIS. dahlow, printer, bennett’s hill, Birmingham.