THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 507 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cusk—continued. great care that the fish retains its shape. In the mean- time put lqt., less 1 teacupful, of milk into a saucepan on the fire, add two sprig’s of parsley and a thin slice of onion, and bring it to the boil; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour worked smooth in the teacupful of milk, cook for eight minutes longer, season with salt and pepper, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and strain it oyer the Cusk. Put the fish into the oven for about ten minutes, so that it will slightly brown, and serve with a garnish of parsley, or small puff-paste cakes. Curry—continued. of cinnamon, also roasted and ground. Let the meat remain in this for a day, turning it frequently. Put 6oz. of lard into a frying-pan, warm it, throw in the meat, together with the marinade, add a few more peppercorns and bay- leaves, and cook over a slow fire for a couple of hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender. Turn the Curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Mustard-oil may be used as a substitute for the lard. CUSCUS.—A kind of wheat-paste prepared by the Arabs, and called by them Cooscooeoo. The French, who are well acquainted with Arab life, and would be certain to take much interest in Arabian cookery, say of Cuscus (which they spell couscous, that mode being more strictly in accordance with the pronunciation) that it is the national food of the Arabs in their highest state of civilisation. It was known to the Assyrians and Greeks many centuries ago, and was raised to the dignity of a national dish by the Carthaginians, under the name of pultophage. The Arabian Cuscirs is made by taking a certain amount of millet-seed, nicely cleaning it, grinding it to a fine flour, making this into a paste with water, leaving it exposed to the sun to ferment, and strongly seasoning with spices and sweetmeats. This is then tied up in a cloth and plunged into a pot in which a piece of mutton, strongly flavoured with aromatic hei’bs, is being boiled. The Cus- cus and mutton should be done at the same time, so that they may be served together. The French cook gives the name of Indian Cuscus to a dish prepared from locusts. When these destructive creatures have settled upon a field of cereals, as fast as they are gorged they fall upon their backs, which those in quest of them take advantage of, and picking them up in quantities, pull off their heads, wings, and legs, and throw them into a large earthen vessel, in which they pound, salt, and spice them. To the mass, a little millet- flour is then added to make a sort of pudding. This is set in the sun to ferment, when it gives off a most offensive odour. In time this evaporates, and the paste is then hardened Gy being spread on mats made of rushes. As overgorged locusts are not always at hand for the preparation of this Arabian delicacy, the paste is made in bulk when the occasion is favourable, and dried quite hard for keeping. It then merely requires softening by moistening with water. CUSHION.—That part of the leg of an animal which is adjacent to and partly covered by the udder. CUSK.—A large sea-fish (Brosmius brosme), about the size of and allied to the cod (see Fig. 619). It frequents the northern coasts of Europe and America, but is not much known in this country. The flesh is firm and white, and in America it is sometimes supplied to table either cooked as cod, or as follows: Boiled Cusk with Cream Sauce (a la Creme).— Clean and wash a Cusk weighing about 51b. or 61b., put it into a saucepan of slightly-salted water, and cook gently for about twenty minutes. Lift it out on a drainer, carefully remove the skin and the head, turn the fish over on to a dish, scrape off the skin from this side, and remove all the small bones, which are in rows like pins in a paper, and extend- ing the length of the back, with a few in the lower part near the tail. Now remove the backbone, commencing at the head and working gently down towards the tail, taking CUSSY.—The name of a soup composed principally of Spanish onions boiled in meat stock. It is supposed to have originated at the village of Cussy, in France. CUSSY CAKE.—So called after the famous Marquis de Cussy. See Cakes. CUSTARDS.—These are essentially English prepa- rations, made chiefly of eggs, sugar, and milk mixed together in various proportions. They may be either baked or boiled, and with or without a crust. To the crust, or croustade, is probably due the corrupted name. In France they were at one time known only as Cremes a l’Anglaise; but to Careme is due some slight alteration in the composition, such as the addition of gelatine, hence they are no longer English creams, but vanilla creams, chocolate creams, lemon creams, &c., according to flavour. Baked Custard.—(1) Boil a handful of peach-leaves with lqt. of milk ; when the milk is cold strain it, and mix in sib. of caster sugar; then beat eight eggs very lightly and stir them in gradually. Pour the Custard in a buttered pie- dish, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake for kalf-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. (2) Beat six eggs with If breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and add lqt. of scalded milk. Strain the Custard into a buttered pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. Baked Custard with Caramel Sauce.—Beat in a jug the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, stand the jug in a saucepan of hot water, sweeten and flavour to taste, and stir over the fire till the Custard is thick. Put a few lumps of white sugar in a small enamelled saucepan, with sufficient water to moisten it, and set it on the stove till it has a golden tinge, then take it off at once, or it will turn black. When it has turned brown, which will take a minute or so, add more water, but not enough to make it taste watery; turn the saucepan about till it is lined all round with the caramel, pour in the Custard, put on the lid, with a few live embers on the top, and cook gently for about half-an-hour. Serve hot or cold. Boiled Custard.—(1) Beat in a basin the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs with lqt. of milk, sweetening and flavouring to taste ; put this into a jug, stand it in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and stir the Custard over the fire till thick. Let it get cold, pour into glasses, grate a little nutmeg over each, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs, add 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt, pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, put all into a jug, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir till the Custard is thick ; then turn it into a glass dish. Beat the whites of the eggs till stiff, put it on a sieve, and pour boiling water over. This will cook it. Drain well and pile it in a rocky form on the cold Custard. A little chopped preserved fruit may be inter- mixed with the whipped white of egg. (3) Cut off very thinly the yellow rind of half a lemon, put it into a saucepan with f pint of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Break three eggs into a bowl, beat them till they are very light, and add 2oz. of loaf sugar. When the milk has been twenty minutes at the side of the fire and has got hot, take it off the stove, and let it cool a little; then pour it through a strainer over the eggs and sugar in the bowl, stir well, and turn it into a jug ; stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water on the stove and stir till thick ; then take it