THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 703 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. “ Class IV.—Fruit with White Skin. Abraham Newland, Adams’s Snowball, Antagonist, Bright Venus, Careless, Cheshire Lass, Crystal, Early White, Hero of the Nile, King of Trumps, Lady Leicester, Mayor of Oldham, Princess Boyal, Queen of Trumps, Boyal White, Snowdrop, White Champagne, White Fig, White Lion, Woodward’s Whitesmith.” The Barbadoes Gooseberry, which grows on a climbing plant, is not found in this country, although its fruit is considered very good. The Coromandel Gooseberry is another edible variety known as Carambola; but those known in this country have already been described. Bottled Green Gooseberries.—(1) Cut the tops and stalks off a large quantity of green Gooseberries, wipe them all perfectly dry, pack them in wide-mouthed glass bottles, and put in. 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar to each breakfast-cupful of Gooseberries. Stand the bottles in a deep saucepan, having laid cloths between them to prevent their knocking against each other and cracking. Fill the saucepan with salted water, and keep it boiling fast; put more fruit in the bottles as that which is in sinks down, and when the steam begins to come out of the bottles, and while the saucepan in which they are is still on the lire, put the corks in. When cold, seal them over with wax. The reason for bottling- Gooseberries in this way is to ensure their being- preserved without air in the bottle. When the bottles are corked, take the saucepan off the fire, and leave them in till the water is cold; then take the bottles out, wipe them, and put by in a dry cupboard till they are required for use. (2) Cut the tops and stalks off the Gooseberries, wipe, and pack them carefully in wide-mouthed glass bottles. Boil some sugar to 22deg. (see Sugar-boiling), pour it over the Gooseberries, filling- the bottles to the necks, cork them, and tie down. They should be kept in a dry cupboard till wanted. Bottled Biipe Gooseberries.—These are bottled in the same way as green Gooseberries, but the fruit is gathered when it is much riper. Compote of Green Gooseberries.—(1) Cut each Gooseberry at one side, squeeze out the seeds, and scald the jackets in hot water till they rise to the top. Take them out and put them in salted cold water to make them green. Place them in clarified syrup (see Sugar-boiling) and simmer, letting them remain in this syrup some time to sweeten them well. When they have remained long- enough, take them out, and arrange in the compotier. Let the syrup continue to boil gently till thick, pour it over the Gooseberries, and servo. (2) Take 2qts. of green Gooseberries, pick off the stalks and the stems, throw them into a larg-o saucepan of water boiling on the stove, and let them remain two minutes; take them out and drain, put them into a basin with sufficient cold water to cover, let them remain for two minutes, and then drain again. Put 21b. of white sugar and J pint of water into a preserving-pan, and boil till it is clear, taking off all the scum as it rises. When the syrup is clear, put in the Gooseberries and let them simmer till they are tender, but not long enough to let them burst. As soon as they are tender, take them out of the syrup, and put into a glass dish. Boil the syrup till a little of it put into a saucer jellies as it cools, then remove the pan from the stove, let it cool, and pour it over the Gooseberries. Let them stand till cold, and serve. Gooseberry Cheese.—(1) Select quite ripe Gooseberries, put them into the oven, bake till tender, rub them through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and boil gently. Sprinkle over caster sugar in the proportion of 3oz. to each pound of fruit, adding- only a little at a time, and continue to boil until quite thick. It will take several hours. (2) Snip off the tops and stalks from some green Goose- berries, steep them for a few hours in cold water, drain them, put them in a mortar, and bruise. Put them in a preserving- pan over a gentle fire and cook until tender, stirring fre- quently. For every 31b. of Gooseberries allow 2^1b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, put it in with them, and boil the whole until thickly reduced. Press the Gooseberry pulp into jars or moulds, and when cold cover and tie them down. Gooseberry Chutney.—(1) Make lib. of moist sugar into syrup with 1 pint of vinegar, and boil two dozen unripe Gooseberries—continued. Gooseberries in lqt. of vinegar. When cold, mix the Goose- berries and their vinegar with the syrup and 1 pint of cold vinegar; add lib. of salt, fib. of French garlic, fib. each of onions and ground ginger, 2oz. of cayenne, 6oz. of mustard- seed, and lib. of chopped raisins. The garlic and onions should have been peeled and bruised, and the mustard-seed washed to remove loose husks. Mix the ingredients well, turn them into small bottles, cork, and tie them down. (2) Pick off the tops and stalks of lqt. of green Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with f pint of brown vinegar, and boil them. Make a syrup with lib. of brown sugar (see Syrups), mix the Gooseberries with it when they are soft, and add f pint of vinegar, lib. of stoned and chopped raisins, 3oz. each of pounded and dried garlic and bruised mustard- seeds, and loz. of dried and pounded chillies. When all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, put the mixture into a cool oven for several hours. If in a month or two it is too dry, it may be moistened with a small quantity more vinegar. Put the chutney into small, wide-necked bottles, and cork them down tightly. (3) Snip the tops and stalks off 3 pints of green Goose- berries, and chop them; stone and chop lib. of raisins, and mince as finely as possible two onions and 2oz. of garlic. Mix these together in a saucepan with 4 table-spoonfuls each of ground ginger, ground mustard-seeds, and salt, If breakfast-cupfuls of raw sugar, and 3 pints of vinegar. Also add a small quantity of cayenne, and a sufficient quantity of turmeric to colour. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, pass it through a sieve, and put it into small, wide-mouthed glass bottles. When cold, cover them .with stout paper, and tie down. Gooseberry Cream.—(1) Pick 21b. of green Gooseberries, put them in a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil them until they will easily mash; strain the juice through a fine sieve, and weigh it; to every pound add lib. of loaf sugar, return to the pan, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan with 1 break- fast-cupful of cream, stir it over the fire until dissolved, but not letting it boil, and then let the cream cool, stirring constantly. Let the Gooseberry syrup get nearly cold, add the cream and the juice of a lemon, turn it into a mould, and set it on ice. This cream should be made fully twenty- four hours before being wanted. (2) Pick 3 pints of green Gooseberries, put them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, and boil quickly. When nearly done, stir in 2oa. of butter; and when they are quite cooked, mash them to a pulp with a wooden spoon, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Sweeten the pulp to taste with caster sugar, and beat it up well with the yolks of four eggs. Turn it into a mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to about three- parts its height, and steam for half-an-hour. When cold, turn the cream out of the mould, and serve. (3) Pick 1 quart of unripe Gooseberries, plunge them into boiling- water for a minute, drain the water from them, and rub them through a sieve. Put them over the fire in a saucepan, and boil till they arc reduced to one-half their original bulk ; then sweeten to taste, and add to them 1 pint of cream. Dissolve 2oz. of isinglass in a very little water, strain it through a cloth, and stir into the mixture. Pour it into a mould, let it stand till set, and then turn out on a glass dish. Gooseberry Cream Ice.—Pick and wipe 1 quart of Goose- berries, put them in a preserving-pan with a little water and a pinch of salt, and let them simmer at the side of the fire till tender; then strain, put them in a stewpan with ■jib. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir the pulp over the fire for ten minutes. Pass it through a sieve, mix with it 1J pints of cream and a little caster sugar, turn it into a freezer, and as it freezes at the sides, work it to the middle with a spatula. When the cream is smooth and frozen, fill a mould with it, put the cover on, and embed it in ice till about to serve ; then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a cold glass dish. Gooseberry-and-Cream Tarts. —Line some small patty-pans with puff paste, and bake them gently in the oven; turn them out when done, half fill them with well-whipped cream,