702 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. Sandwiches of Goose’s Fat Liver.—Remove all the crust from a tin-loaf, cut the crumb into slices about -Jin. in thick- ness, butter them well, and cover half of them with potted fat liver; place the other half on the top of them with the butter inside, press slightly together, and cut them up into fingers 2tin. long by ljin. wide. Surprise Pate de Foies Gras.—Put fib. of almonds in water to swell. Take them out, blanch, drain, pound them in a mortar, and then pass them through a fine sieve. Put a stick of vanilla in a saucepan with lib. of sugar and J- pint of water, and boil it to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; place the pan on the side of the fire, and pour in the almonds, mixing to a thick paste. Put this into a mortar, and work it quite smootli; then take it out, and work it on a board dusted over with a little caster sugar. Divide it into several | parts, and colour a few of them red, veined with white, to represent ham; others yellow, like fat liver; some black, with chocolate or caramel, in imitation of truffles, and one lot | the colour of paste when baked. Take this last one, roll j it out very thin, and with it line a small plain mould as if for pate de foies gras. Damp the inside of this imitation J paste and cover it with a coating of white paste, so as make it appear like underdone crust. Take some of the red paste 1 veined with white and also some of each of the other two, \ and chop them up together to represent forcemeat; thicken it with a little apple jelly, and spread a layer of it on the bottom of the imitation crust. Cut some large squares of the yellow mixture, and put some square pieces of the black paste into small holes made in them, to imitate larding the livers with truffles. Cut some square pieces off the white paste and the | red paste, and work them together in a basin, mixing in a few small preserved nuts, a few preserved apricots and pears, | all cut up, and a few small pieces of apple or quince paste, j Place this mixture inside the pie, arranging the different shades artistically. Leave a little space between the meat and the crust, and pour into it some soft liqueur jelly rather firmer than usually prepared, and of a darker colour. As | soon as the jelly is set, make the preparation in the shape | of a dome; cover over with a paste flat, fix the rim to the i mould, cut it straight with the mould, and pinch it all round as for ordinary pies. Cut a hole in the centre of the dome, and decorate with imitation leaves. Take away the mould j and pinch the edges of the paste. Colour the paste all round and on the top with caramel, reduced to a syrup as | thick as treacle, which will give a light brown colour i to the pie. Send it to table with a piece cut out of it, to show the inside ; or it may be placed on a dish and surrounded with croutons or chopped jelly. To the ingenuity of M. Urbain Dubois we are indebted for the above. GOOSEBERRIES (Fr. Groseilles; Ger. Stachel- beeren; Ital. Uva spina; Sp. Grosellas).—The fruit or berry of the liibcs Wrossitlaria, the English term being a corruption of Groseberry, ancl not in any way con- nected with goose, beyond that a sauce made from the green berries is sometimes served with roasted goose. The following is taken from Nicholson’s “ Dictionary of Gardening ”: “ The Gooseberry is a hardy, deciduous shrub, native of various parts of Europe, including Britain, where it is either indigenous or has been introduced at an early period and become naturalised. Its cultivation is neglected in France, Italy, Spain, and Southern Europe, but is much practised in Britain, where the fruit has been highly esteemed since the time of Henry VIII., and is still one of the most popular grown. Plants, under favourable conditions, are re- corded as having attained an age exceeding forty years. Two remarkable ones are stated to have been growing about the year 1821 against a wall in the garden of the late Sir Joseph Banks, at Overton Hall, each measuring upwards of 50ft. from one extremity of the branches to the other. Gooseberrries succeed well in the North of England and Scotland, and the fruits attain a higher flavour in these parts, where the temperature is moderate and comparatively cool, than in the hotter climate of the South, where they frequently become prematurely ripened Gooseberries—continued. by scorching sun and an insufficiency of moisture. In Lancashire, Cheshire, and neighbouring counties, the raising of Gooseberries has received special attention; more, perhaps, by encouragement offered for very large fruit than for their superior quality when ripe. These large-fruited varieties are, however, valuable in a green state for cooking, being sufficiently grown for the purpose before the smaller sorts, which are, as a rule, of the highest flavour when gradually and properly ripened. The crop is a valuable and usually remunerative one in the neighbourhood of large towns, where there is a demand for the fruit both in a green and ripened state. It is one of the earliest in use for cooking, bottling, or preserving. “ Gooseberries are divided into classes that are dis- tinguished from each other by the colour of the fruits and the absence or presence of hairs on the skins. Varieties in each colour are very numerous, many of the smaller fruits being of the highest flavour, while the larger ones are fit for cooking earlier in the season. Those having red skins are variable in flavour, a large quantity being more or less acid. On account of their late-keeping properties the best red sorts are most valuable for dessert-fruit in autumn, after the majority of the others are past. The highest flavour is attaiued in the amber and yellow varieties, which are very tender in the skin, and mostly early in ripening. Many of the green ones are large, and contain but little pulp in pro- portion. Others of the same colour are small, but re- markably thin-skinned and rich in flavour when ripe. Amongst white sorts there are several of good quality, but they are not so generally cultivated as the others. Subjoined is a selection from the leading varieties in each class: “ Class I.—Fruit with Red Skin. Conquering Hero, Crown Bob, Dan’s Mistake, Dr. Hogg, Henson’s Seedling, Ironmonger, Keen’s Seedling, Lion’s Provider, London, Miss Bold, Monarch, Plough Boy, Raspberry, Red Champagne, Red Turkey, Red Warrington, Rifleman, Rough Red, Wilmot’s Early Red, Wonderful. “ Class II.—Fruit with Yellow Skin. Brown Girl, Catke- rina, Criterion, Drill, Early Sulphur, Fanny, Garibaldi, Gipsy Queen, High Sheriff, Leader, Leveller, Lord Rancliffe, Moreton Hero, Mount Pleasant, Peru, Rumbullion, Smiling Beauty, Sulphur, Yellow Ball, Yellow Champagne. “ Class III.—Fruit with Green Skin. Glcnton Green, Green Gascoigne, Green London, Green Overall, Green River, Green Walnut, Gregory’s Perfection, Heart of Oak, Hebburn Prolific, Jolly Anglers, Keepsake, Laurel, Lord Eldon, Pitmaston Greengage, Random Green, Roseberry, Shiner, Stockwell, Tele- graph, Thumper, Thunder.