509 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. Custards—continued. Custard Pudding1.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar in a tin pudding-mould, and move it about on the stove until it begins to brown. When the mould is completely lined with the sugar, pour in 1 pint of milk boiled with the peel of half a lemon and four eggs beaten in with it, and sweeten to taste. Put the mould in a saucepan with hot water to half its height, let the water simmer gently for half-an-hour, turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve hot. (2) Lay some thin slices of bread-and-butter in a pie-dish; beat the yolks of ten eggs mixed with 3 pints of milk, add sugar to taste, pour the Custard over the bread, bake, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs and a little caster sugar to a stiff froth, pour them over the top of the Custard, and stand it in the oven for a few minutes to brown the surface. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan, add the well-beaten yolks of eight and the whites of six eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, a little ratafia, and sugar to taste. Place the pan on the fire, boil gently for forty-five minutes, pour it out on to a dish, and serve. (4) Put into a basin jib. of sugar, break in five eggs, and with a whisk beat well for two minutes; add lqt. of cold milk, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and mix well together for one minute longer. Butter and sugar well six small dariole-moulds, strain the preparation into another basin, Fig. 623. Custard Puddings. pour it into the moulds, arrange these in a tin pan filled to half the height of the moulds with warm, but not boiling, water, place them in a moderate oven, and steam for forty minutes. Remove from the oven, and turn them on to a hot dish, serving with cream sauce poured round them. See Fig. 623. (5) Break six eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites ; boil lqt. of milk with 6oz. of sugar, pour it by degrees (stirring all the time) upon the yolks of the eggs, which should have been beaten while the milk and sugar were boiling. Beat the whites of three eggs and stir them in gradually, flavour with a few drops of essence of ratafia or vanilla, pour the Custard into an earthenware dish, set this in a pan of water in the oven, and bake till the Custard is stiff. Take it from the oven, let it get cold, and serve. (6) Beat eight eggs well with Jib. of sugar and a little grated nutmeg, put them into a saucepan with jib. of butter, set it over a slow fire, stir till thick, then pour it into a basin to cool. Lay a strip of rich puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, pour the pudding into it, lay some thin slices of candied orange-peel and citron on the top, and bake in a moderately hot oven. (7) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, and beat the yolks well with 1 pint of milk and 2oz. of caster sugar; whip the whites of two of the eggs to a stiff snow with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir in lightly with the yolks. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a thick layer of apricot jam, strew grated breadcrumbs over it, pour the Custard in care- fully, and bake in a moderate oven. When the Custard has set, whip the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth with a few drops of essence of vanilla and If table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and spread it over the top of the Custard. Return the dish to the oven until lightly browned on the top, and serve cold. (8) Put lqt. of milk over the fire; beat up the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of powdered white sugar, and when the milk has boiled add it by degrees to the beaten eggs; then stir in a very little salt, put it over the fire again, mix in 1 table- spoonful of ground rice blended with a little cold water, and let it boil, continuing to stir for one minute. Take it from Custards—continued. the fire, pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, and set in the oven in a pan of boiling water. Beat the whites of six eggs, together with 2oz. of sugar and a flavouring of vanilla, to a stiff froth ; when the pudding is almost, but not quite, done, draw it towards the door of the oven, and without taking it out, drop this froth all over it in large spoonfuls, making it as rocky as possible. Do this very quickly, push the pudding back into the oven immediately, shut the door, and let it hake for about five minutes longer, or until quite done and the meringue slightly browned. Serve cold, with powdered white sugar sprinkled over the top. Custard flavoured with Rum.—Put loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold milk, soak it for fifteen minutes, and then stir it over the fire until dissolved. Rub 6oz. of loaf sugar on the yellow rind of two lemons, and put into the boiling milk. Beat the yolks of nine eggs with 1 pint of milk, pour it into the saucepan with the milk and gelatine, and stir the whole over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it off, and continue stirring until nearly cold. The Custard must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. When quite cold, mix in 2 wineglassfuls of rum. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour in the Custard, and pack it in ice. When about to serve, dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it, and turn the custard on to a dish with an ornamental dish-paper ; squeeze over the juice of a lemon, taking care to keep out the pips, and serve. Custard Sauce.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar into a saucepan with loz. of blanched and chopped almonds, add two yolks of eggs and one white, 1 teacupful of milk, and a little lemon, vanilla, or other flavouring (according to the flavour of the pudding with which it is to be served), and whisk carefully over the fire until it is frothy and hot, but on no account must it boil. It is then ready for use. (2) Beat two eggs till very light, pour them into a quart jug, add f pint of milk, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir till the Custard begins to thicken. Then take the jug from the boiling water, and stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the sauce is ready. (3) Put in an enamelled saucepan | pint of milk, one egg, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, and 8 drops of essence of vanilla. Whisk these over the fire till thick, but without boiling or it wrill curdle. Use as required. Custard Shape. —Soak Joz. of gelatine in | pint of milk for ten minutes, and add to it ilb. of sugar and another \ pint of milk. Pour all into a saucepan on the stove, and stir till it boils; then take the pan from the fire and let it cool. When almost cold, add j- pint of cream and 1tea- spoonfuls of essence of vanilla. Beat up the yolks of four eggs in a good-sized bowl, pour over the Custard, and mix; pour all back into the saucepan, put it on the stove, and let it gradually get very hot, stirring all the time ; but do not let it boil, or it will be spoilt. When very hot, take the saucepan off the stove again, and let the Custard cool, stir- ring it frequently meantime, or the gelatine will settle at the bottom. Wet a shape with cold water, pour the Custard into it, and let it set. When well set, turn out on to a dish, and garnish with red-currant jelly. Custard Souffle.—Boil | pint of milk ; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour together, add gradu- ally to the boiling milk, and stir over the fire for eight minutes; beat 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar with the yolks of four eggs, stir them in with the milk and other things, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a firm froth, mix them with the cold Custard, turn it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve while hot with a sweet sauce. Custard Tart.—Put 4oz. of powdered sugar into a basin, break in five eggs, and with a whisk beat together for three minutes; then add lqt. of cold milk, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, mixing well for two minutes; then strain through a sieve into another basin. Line a deep tart-dish with paste, fill it with the preparation, place in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Remove, and let it get cold. Cut the tart into six equal pieces, place these on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Custard Tart witli Meringue.—Mix to a smooth paste 3^ table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 teacupful of milk, the yolks of