THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 520 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. DIAMOND-BACK.— The common name of the I American Salt-Marsh Terrapin. DIASTASE .—A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable I of converting 2000 times its bulk of starch into grape i sugar. The action of the saliva on starch is clue to the Diastase secreted by the salivary glands. The term is derived from a Greek word signifying to separate, or set apart. DIAVOLINI.—The literal meaning of this Italian word is “ little imps,” in which respect it resembles the French diablotins. Diavolini are delicious sweetmeats, and may be prepared with chocolate and almonds, or pistachios. In the latter case they are made somewhat larger, and rolled in white or rose-pink coloured non- pareils (“hundreds-and-tliousands”). The following re- ceipts are modifications of those given by Francatelli and others, and can be readily manufactured by an amateur. (1) Take Jib. of good chocolate, put it into a sugar-boiler in the oven to soften, then add a few drops of essence of vanilla, and loz. of caster sugar. Place the boiler on the fire, and work the contents until they are thoroughly blended; then take the boiler off, and with the mixture make as many Fig. 645. Diavolini. Diavolini as the amount will permit, by taking up a little about the size of a filbert and rolling it in the palm of the left hand with the right-hand index finger until it assumes the shape of an olive. Push a pistachio-kernel in the centre of each, and roll them in rose-pink nonpareils, or hundreds- and-thousands, as they are sometimes called (see Fig. 645). (2) Put lib. of sugar in a sugar-boiler, boil it to the crack degree, then add 14oz. of ground pistachios, and stir over the fire until the paste no longer sticks to the side of the pan; stir in also Joz. of powdered gum dragon, and a little spinach greening to colour the paste, and thoroughly mix them. Take the mixture out, roll it into small shapes about the size of small nut kernels, dry them, and cover with melted chocolate, next rolling them in rose-pink nonpareils. (3) Put loz. of gum dragon into a small jar with 1 teacupful of warm water, to soak, covering over the jar. When all the water is absorbed by the gum, squeeze it through a cloth on to a plate, and work it with a flat hand, adding finely-powdered caster sugar until the paste is thick enough to be rolled ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls each of cinnamon and essence of Jamaica ginger, and mix in more sugar, using ljlb. in all. Should the paste be too thin, add a little more sugar. Put it into a pot and keep it covered over until wanted. Take out a small piece about the size of a walnut, roll it out with the hands on a slab well sprinkled with finely-powdered caster sugar, and make it into the form of a rope about -g-in. in thickness; cut this with a knife into very small lengths, and use the forefinger of the right hand to rub them in the palm of the left into the form of grains of rye or barley. Use plenty of sifted sugar to prevent them from sticking as they are rolled out, and put them on to a sieve covered at the bottom to Jin. in depth with fine icing sugar. When a good many have been made, move the sieve quickly to and fro until all the superfluous sugar has passed through, put them a little apart from one another on a sheet of paper on a baking- sheet, and dry them before the fire or in the hot closet. When they are quite dry, let them get cold, and put into air-tight bottles until wanted. DIET.—Although this word is stated by Webster to be derived from the Greek diaita—manner of living, it is so commonly used to signify the daily routine of food for invalids that the inclination is naturally towards associating the word with the Latin dies—a day. As Diet —continued. persons in ordinary health do not usually subject them- selves to any defined course of feeding, there is no necessity for the word to receive here a more extended signification than that of a system of food selected for the benefit of a particular state of health. DIETETIC BREAD.—See Bread. DIGESTERS.—Towards the latter part of the seven- teenth century, a certain French physician named Denis Papin visited some of the Alpine monasteries, and was much struck by the information given him that in the Fig. 646. Papin’s Digester. ordinary vessels it was impossible to boil meat so high up in the mountains. The reason of this was cpiite clear, the pressure of the atmosphere being so much less than on the surface of the plains and valleys below. The Fig. 647. Section of Papin’s Digester. atmospheric pressure being so much less, the water was converted into steam many degrees below that at the sea-level (212deg. Fahr.; lOOdeg. Cent.). To boil or stew meat, a temperature close upon that of the boiling-water standard is required. This set Dr. Papin thinking, and he conceived the idea that if a vessel could be closed, and the steam, together with the enclosed air as it expanded