THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 556 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dx., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. Egg Cromeskies.—Boil six Eggs till hard, let them get cold, and peel off the shells. Mix together 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, 3 dessert-spoonfuls each of chopped parsley and onion, 1J teaspoonfuls of mixed herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and sprinkle this over six slices of lean bacon, each slice 3in. wide and 8in. long. Place a hard- boiled Egg on each, roll the bacon round the Egg, and fasten with pieces of string or small skewers. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour, and serve hot. Egg Croquettes.—Boil eighteen Eggs till hard, remove the shells, and separate the whites from the yolks. Chop the whites into small pieces, and rub the yolks of six of the Eggs through a fine hair sieve. Put two onions cut into small pieces in a frying-pan with 4oz. of butter, and fry them, but not brown ; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix thoroughly, pour in sufficient boiling milk to just moisten the whole, and season with a little salt and pepper. When the sauce is ready, put in the six yolks and the whites, stir well, and let the mixture cool. Form it into croquettes, spread these over with breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling fat to a light brown, and serve. The remainder of the yolks can be used for other purposes. Eggs in Crusts.—(1) Cut out several thin rounds of bread 3in. in diameter, and with a small tin cutter, ljin. in diameter, cut the centre out of each round, leaving an unbroken ring. Melt a sufficient quantity of butter in a frying-pan, put in the rings, and fry them until lightly browned. Butter a dish, lay the rings in it, turn a raw Egg into each ring, being careful not to break the yolks, baste them with a few table- spoonfuls of sour cream, and dust over a small quantity of salt. Cover the dish, put it in the oven, and leave it until the whites are set, but they must not be browned. When cooked, lift the Eggs in their rings carefully out of the baking-dish, using a slice for the purpose, and lay them on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with watercress, and serve. (2) Cut off some slices of bread from the bottom of a stale loaf, and shape them quite round; then, with a small biscuit-cutter cut half-way through the centre, and scoop out the middle, leaving a round cavity large enough to hold one Egg. Beat up some Eggs with a little milk, dip in the pieces of bread, and fry them in hot fat. Cook 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms in a little chicken broth. Poach as many Eggs as there are slices of bread; arrange the pieces of bread, with a poached Egg in each, on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. Egg Cup-puddings with Game Broth.—Put 11 pints of game broth into a saucepan, with a small quantity each of coriander and cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, and boil till well infused. Take the mixture off the fire, remove the lemon- peel, mix in the beaten yolks of six Eggs, beat thoroughly, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into small cups. Stand the cups in a stewpan, with boiling water to about three-parts their height, put on the lid, with some live embers on it, and set it over a slow fire. Boil 1 pint of game broth, and thicken it with the beaten yolks of two Eggs. When cooked, turn the cream out of the cups on to a hot and rather deep dish, pour the thickened broth over them, and serve. Egg Drinks.—(1) These may be made in various ways, such as : Beaten up with a little milk and brandy, and put in tea or coffee in place of milk; or, beaten up in a cup, and hot tea or coffee poured over, stirring well. Great care must be taken to prevent curdling, which can be done if the Egg is well beaten before being used, and the liquid which is poured over several degrees under boiling-point. (2) Put Jib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then take it off and let it get cold, and mix with it a liqueur- glassful of cura9oa and i pint of sherry. Beat the white of an Egg to a stiff froth, mix it in well with the other ingredients, and pour all into a glass jug. Stand this on ice till very cold, and serve. Egg Dumplings (German).—(1) Dissolve loz. of dry yeast in \ pint of warm milk; melt 3oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 1J table-spoonfuls of sugar; beat two Eggs well, mix all the ingredients together, sift in gradually lib. of flour, and work the whole to a smooth, spongy dough; Eggs —continued. put a cloth over this, and set it in a warm place. When well risen, turn the dough on to a paste-board over which plenty of flour has been dusted, divide it into small, equal-sized pieces, roll these into dumplings, and put them in a warm place to rise again. Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 pint of milk, and place it over the fire until boiling; then put in the dumplings, cover with the lid, and set the pan in the oven until the moisture is nearly dry and the dumplings lightly browned. When cooked, take them out of the pan, carefully separating them if stuck together, lay them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and garnish with stewed fruit. Serve very hot. (2) Warm 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, beat it until creamy with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and beat in the yolks of three Eggs. Dissolve J teacupful of yeast in 1 teacupful of warm milk, and mix it with the above; then stir in gradually lib. of finely-sifted flour. Beat the mixture well, cover it, and put it in a warm place. When the dough has well risen, put it on a well-floured board, divide it into small quantities, and roll these lightly. Leave the dumplings to rise again. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a stew- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and stir over the fire until dissolved; then pour in J pint of milk, boil it, put in the dumplings, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it in the oven. When the dumplings are cooked, they should be lightly browned and the moisture almost entirely evaporated. Put them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve with sweet sauce. (3) Beat two Eggs with J pint of milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. Put a saucepan of salted water over the fire, and when it boils drop the batter into it in flakes, using a knife constantly dipped in water for the purpose; boil the flakes until they float, then drain them. Put a good- sized lump of butter into a stewpan, and make it hot; then put in the flakes or dumplings, brown them lightly, add two beaten Eggs, and stir over the fire until the Eggs have thickened, but without letting them boil. Turn the dumplings on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Put 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of flour in a basin, make a bay in the centre, and scatter a pinch of salt into it; beat one Egg with 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and stir the beaten Egg gradually into the flour till it is all used up. Boll the dough out rather thin, and form it into dumplings. Put a saucepan with some chicken broth on the fire, boil it, plunge in the dumplings, put on the lid, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take them out, drain, and serve hot. Egg’s Filagramme. Prepare a syrup with 41b. of powdered white sugar and 1 pint of white wine, and clarify it with white of Egg. Beat up eight Eggs until light, pour through a colander into the syrup over the fire, and cook a very short time. Serve hot or cold. Eggs served, with. Fine Herbs. —Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed; then add £ table-spoonful each of finely-chopped chives and chopped parsley, pour in three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of white wine, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently for five minutes, stirring continually. Boil half-a-dozen fresh Eggs until hard, and throw them into cold water for a minute; then peel them, cut a thin slice off the top of each Egg, so that they will stand up, arrange them on a dish, and pour the hot sauce over them. Garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, or sippets of toast, and serve. Eggs stuffed with Fisli.—Remove the bones and skin from any kind of cold cooked fish and chop it finely. Boil six Eggs until hard, leave them until cold, then cut them length- wise into halves; scoop the yolks out of the Eggs, taking care not to break the whites, and fill the whites wfith the fish. Put the yolks into a basin, and mix with them 1J teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1J teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and 1 scant table-spoonful of chilli vinegar; beat these until well mixed, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Lay the Eggs on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, keeping their cut parts upwards; put a small portion of the mixture on each, piling it up, and serve. Egg Flip.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of milk in a saucepan, and boil it. Beat the white of an Egg in a basin until stiff,