THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 656 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. beat well together, thus breaking the jelly up into small pieces. Pile the jelly in custard-glasses, and serve. (5) Soak l-j-oz. of gelatine in a small quantity of cold water, strain it, put it into a lined saucepan with lqt. of any kind of tinned Fruit and its juice, sweeten with 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stew gently until the Fruit is soft and the gelatine dissolved. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and put it in a cold place until well set. Whip to a stiff froth 1 pint of thick cream, with sufficient red Fruit juice to tinge it, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, pour the cream over it, and serve. A well-flavoured custard may be used instead of the cream. Fruits in Jelly.—(1) Make 1 pint of clear calf’s-foot jelly, pour half of it into a mould, and leave it until stiff; then put in a bunch of purple grapes, and around those put some peaches, with their stalks upwards. Pour in the remainder Fig. 811. Fruits in Jelly. of the jelly, whicli should fill the mould, and stand it in a cold place until the following day. Dip the mould for a few minutes in a bowl of hot water to loosen the contents at the side, then turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, and serve. See Fig. 811. (2) Pack a mould in ice, and line the bottom of it with a layer, about lin. thick, of half-set jelly flavoured with mara- schino. When set, put in a group of preserved Fruits, fixing it up at the sides with more jelly, and putting a layer of jelly on the top. Leave the mould in the ice till the jelly has set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy glass dish. Fruit-Juice Granito.—Boil Mb. of syrup to the twenty-eighth degree (see Syrups), then mix it with 1 pint of Fruit juice. Put the mixture into the freezer, and work it with a spatula or wooden spoon ; as it becomes frozen at the sides, scrape it, and work it to the middle. When half-frozen so as to resemble snowy water, turn the granito into glasses, and serve. Fruit-Paste Fritters. — Make lib. of pulp with any kind of Fruit by putting it in a preserving-pan with ^lb. of crushed preserving-sugar and sufficient water to reach to the height of the Fruit, putting the pan over a slow fire, and boiling gently, stirring constantly till the Fruit is reduced to a stiff mass. Turn the pur<Se on to a baking-sheet, and make it smooth and level; then place it in a screen of moderate heat, and dry it for several hours, turning it when it has been in some time. When dry, leave the paste till quite cold, then stamp it out into circular pieces about 2in. in diameter. Cut out of some stiff jelly half as many rounds as there are of paste, having them the same size. Place each piece of jelly between two rounds of paste, dip them in half-grained sugar, and place each one as it is done on wire trays placed in a screen. When quite dry, take them out of the screen, and serve. Fruit Fie.—Mix £ table-spoonful of arrowroot with a small quantity of cold water until smooth, put it into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of juice from a tin of any kind of Fruit, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened. Put about Fruit—continued. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of tinned Fruit and juice into a pie-dish, and pour the thickened juice over it. Put 1 teacupful of well-washed rice into a saucepan with 1^ pints of milk, and boil it until reduced to a pulp. Beat two eggs with 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stir them in with the rice when it is cooked. Spread the rice out on a dish, leave until cool, then work it up with a small quantity of flour ; mould it into a flat cake that will just fit in the pie-dish, lay it on the top of the Fruit, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a brisk oven until browned. Serve hot or cold. Fruit Pilau.—Prepare a syrup with 8oz. of sugar, flavouring it with joz. each of ground coriander-seeds and ginger, and simmer for about ten minutes so as to extract the flavour; then strain it, and put it on one side (see Syrups). Parboil lib. of rice in water, take it out. drain it, put it into the syrup, and complete the boiling. In the meantime, prepare a simple syrup with another pound of sugar, add the strained juice of two or three lemons and about twelve each of cloves and cardamoms, and simmer gently for fully ten minutes; then put in eight or ten bananas cut lengthwise into halves or quarters, and stew until done. Put the sugared rice in a heap on a dish, over this place the bananas, strain the syrup over all, and serve. Any other Fruit besides bananas can be used for this dish. Fruit Pudding1.— (1) Put \ pint of milk and J pint of the juice from any kind of tinned Fruit into a stewpan with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and place it over the fire until boiling-; then move it to the side, and stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Butter a pie-dish, and put in 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of the tinned Fruit. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, stir them lightly in with the custard, and pour it over the Fruit. Put the pudding into a brisk oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Serve hot or cold. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of any kind of tinned Fruit and juice into a basin, mix with it sufficient finely-grated stale breadcrumb to give it a consistency, and add also 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with suet crust, pour in the Fruit mixture, cover it with a flat of the crust, moistening and pressing the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, put it into a saucepan of boiling- water, and boil it for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of any kind of tinned Fruit and juice into a lined saucepan, and stew it g-ently until the Fruit is tender; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, mix with it J pint of milk and two well-beaten eggs, and stir over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it to the side. Butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of thin slices of bread- and-butter, pour a layer of the Fruit mixture over it, then cover with another layer of bread-and-butter, and so on until the dish is full, the last layer being of bread-and-butter. Let the pudding soak for an hour, then bake it for half-an- hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of flour into a stewpan, and stir in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and any kind of tinned Fruit juice ; continue stirring the mixture over the fire until boiling and thick, then turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the Fruit in a tinned saucepan, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stew until tender. Beat well four eggs, then mix them in with the batter ; mash the Fruit, and add it also. Thickly butter the interior of a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, smooth over the surface with the blade of a knife, strew over caster sugar, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. When the pudding is evenly browned on the top, take it out of the oven, and serve hot or cold. (5) Cut four greengages, four peaches, and four apricots in halves and take out the stones, peel and core two large cooking apples and cut them in quarters, put the Fruit in a basin, and sprinkle caster sugar over it. Roll some pudding- crust into a flat round, place it on a buttered cloth, stand it in a basin so as to keep it up all round, put in the Fruit, tie the cloth tightly round, plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two hours, adding occasionally more boiling water, but putting the lid on the saucepan again directly. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, sprinkle