G46 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauers, ic., referred to, sec under their special heads. Freezing Mixtures—continued. Reduces r<l L ’ Temperature Snow or pounded ice 12 3 Common salt 5 to —25deg. Nitrate of ammonia 5 4 Snow ! Concentrated hydrochloric acid 8 5 + 32deg. to —27deg. 5 ' Snow ( Crystallised chloride of calcium 2 3 to —50deg. , j Sal ammoniac 5 I 6 Nitrate of potassa 5 > + 50deg. to + lOdeg. 1 Water 16 s 7 j Nitrate of ammonia ( Water 1 1 j + 50deg. to + 4deg. ( Nitrate of ammonia 1 1 8 Car'bonate of soda 1 . + 50deg. to + 7deg. ( Water 1 s ( Phosphate of soda 9 ) 9 - Nitrate of ammonia 0 + 50deg. to — 21deg. ( Diluted nitrous acid 4 s 10 ( Sulphate of soda j Hydrochloric acid 8 5 ^ + 50deg. to — Odeg. 1 11 ( Snow | Diluted nitrous acid 3 2 j + Odeg. to —46deg. ( Snow 2 ) 12 < Sulphuric acid ... 1 l —20deg. to —60deg. 1 Water 1 j 13 | Snow j Crystallised chloride of calcium 1 2 J + Odeg. to —66deg. 14 ) Snow | Crystallised chloride of calcium 1 3 | + 40deg. to -—73deg. j Snow 8 ) 15 < Sulphuric acid 5 v —68deg. to —91deg. (Water 5 f The signs + and — signify that the degrees are above ( + ) or below (—) zero. FRENCH BEANS.—See Beans. FRENCH BEERS.—These differ in no degree from British, German, or Austrian beers. FRENCH CHARLOTTE.—See Charlottes. FRENCH CIDER.—This is in no way superior to well-made British cider, although much larger quantities are made in France than in any other country; and, indeed, by excellent judges it is pronounced greatly inferior—other juices than apple occasionally finding their way into the fermenting-tun. FRENCH CUSTARD.—See Custards. FRENCH G ALETTES.—See Galettes. FRENCH GAUFFRES.—Sec Waffles. FRENCH GINGERBREAD.—See Gingerbread. FRENCH MUFFINS.-See Muffins. FRENCH PANCAKES—See Pancakes. FRENCH PICKLES.—See Pickles. FRENCH PLUMS.—See Prunes. FRENCH ROLLS.—See Bread. FRENCH RUSKS.—See Rusks. FRENCH SAUCE—See Sauces. FRENCH SOUFFLES.—See Souffles. FRENCH SOUPS.—See Soups. FRENCH WINES.—See Wines. FRESH-WATER FISH.—See Fish. FRIAR’S OMELET.—See Omelets. FRICADELLES.—These are also erroneously called Fricadilloes and Fricatelles. They are hashed meat made into balls and fried. The following are good receipts for their preparation, and they can be formed either into Fricadelles—continued. balls or egg shapes, or cut out in any design, like ovals, rounds, or cutlets. (1) Mince any cold cooked meat, and add a slice or so of onion, also finely chopped, and, if the meat is very lean, a slice or two of bacon may be added ; season with salt, pepper, sage, thyme, lemon-juice, and parsley, using a little of each, and add a quarter as much breadcrumbs or boiled rice as there is meat: beat up one egg and add it, with sufficient water or stock to Fin. 799. Fricadelles. form a paste. Make this into balls or egg shapes, put them into a frying-pan with butter or dripping, and fry to a brown colour; or they may be dipped in breadcrumbs, brushed over with egg, then dipped in crumbs again, and fried in boiling fat. When done, drain, and serve on a folded napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 799). (2) Finely mince some cold meat, and season it to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Make a light paste, roll it out rather thinly, spread the mince thickly all over it, and fold the paste over ; then roll it out smoothly with the rolling-pin, and cut it out with a tin cutter Fig. 800. Fricadelles. in the shape of cutlets. Melt a lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put the Fricadelles in it, and fry them until brown on both sides. Drain them for a few minutes on a sheet of paper, arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 800. (3) Finely chop lj-lb. of veal and lib. of fat bacon; soak lib. of crumb of bread in water, then squeeze it well, and mix it with the minced meats, seasoning with salt, pepper, the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs. Work the mixture thoroughly, and blend with it sufficient well-beaten eggs to make it consistent. Butter a baking-dish that will hold double the quantity of the above mixture, put in it the mixture, and bake it. In an hour’s time mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a little more than J- pint of gravy or broth, pour it over the Fricadelle, and bake for some time longer. When the Fricadelle is cooked, strain off the gravy that is on the top, mix it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, pour it again over the meat, and put it in the oven for two or three minutes longer to set the eggs. Servo hot. FRICANDEAU. — Of this peculiar word some amusing suggestions are made by Kettner. He says: “ Fricandeau is a Provencal word meaning something nice. Fricandela is a nice girl; Fric, or Frique (allied to the English freak), meant brisk; Fricand, dainty; Fricot, a dainty dish; and here is Fricandeau belonging