641 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Fowls—contimied. with a small weight on top, so as to keep them flat while cooking. Pnt the large fillets into a buttered saute-pan, and cook them the same way as Ihe minion ones. Care should be taken that they do not colour. "When done, let them get cold. Next bone the legs, and cut off the feet up to the first joint. Take sufficient chicken forcemeat and mix with it some truffles and lean ham chopped fine, stuff the legs with it, draw the skin up tight at the top, and tie round so as to keep the forcemeat in; twist buttered paper round them, cook in the oven in a deep saute-pan, moisten with 1 pint of stock, and when done let them stand to get cold. Take the minion fillets and trim them, trim the large fillets and split them in three, and cut the legs into long slices, using only the best parts. Dish them up upon a border of mashed potatoes in the form of a circle, so that they overlap each other. Arrange alternately, a fillet first, then a slice of the leg, then ham or tongue, and so on, putting the minion fillets at each corner in such a manner that they will lay up against the other fillets. Serve with supreme sauce round them. Supreme of Fowls. -Cut the meat off the breasts of three Fowls into slices ^in. thick, trim them to one size and to the shape of pears, lay them in a tin dish with plenty of butter, dust them over with salt, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them by until just before they are wanted, when they must be put in the oven and baked. Cut some slices of dressed tongue the same shape, but a little smaller than the cutlets, and warm them in the same manner, but not using so much butter. Cut up the remains of the Fowls into pieces, put them in a stewpan with slices of ham or bacon, trimmings of veal, and half a calf’s-foot; add vegetables, such as onions, carrots, thyme, celery, mushrooms, parsley, marjoram, a bay-leaf, and a few trimmings of truffles. Season to taste with pepper, salt, mace, and cloves, fill up the saucepan with cold water, put on the lid, and simmer gently for three or four hours. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, leave it until cool, and then skim off all the fat. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire until well mixed, and then pour in gradually the above liquor. Stir it over the fire until very hot, but do not let it boil, then move to the side. Procure a small tin each of preserved mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs, and heat them by standing the tins in hot water. Pour some of the above liquor on to a hot, deep dish, pile the cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms in the centre, arrange the pieces of Fowl and tongue round them, and serve. Supreme of Fowls a la Bayard.—The same as for Supreme op Fowls a la Toulouse, only served with 1 pint of Bayard garnishing. Supreme of Fowls a, la Fatti.—The same as for Supreme op Fowls a la Toulouse ; then have a puree of rice for garnishing, place this on the dish, and lay the supreme on top. Decorate the rice with two thinly-sliced truffles, pour over 1 gill of perigueux sauce, and serve with paper ruffles as before. Supreme of Fowls a la Heine.—Prepared as for Supreme or Fowls a la Toulouse, but substitute 1 pint of sauce a la Reine for the other garnishing. Supreme of Fowls a la Rothschild.—Have ready a chicken supreme prepared as for a la Toulouse, but stuffing with pur4e of chestnuts instead of the chicken forcemeat. Mince very fine two truffles, mix them with 1 pint of hot puree of chestnuts, arrange the puree on a hot dish, place six croutons of fried bread over this, arrange the supreme over the croutons, and decorate the top of each, right in the centre, with one cooked mushroom. Supreme of Fowls a la Toulouse.—Singe, draw, and wipe three Fowls, and remove the skin from the breasts ; make an incision on top of the breast-bone from end to end, and with a sharp knife carefully cut off the entire breast on each side, including the small wing-bone, which must not be separated. Under each breast will be found a small fillet; carefully remove it, and place on a dish for future use. With a sharp knife make an incision 3in. m length by lin. in depth in each breast at the thinner end, season the insides with salt and pepper equally distributed, and stuff them with 2oz. of chicken forcemeat, mixed with two truffles and four mushrooms, also finely sliced. Butter a copper saute- Fowls—continued. pan, and gently lay in the six breasts. Take each small fillet, and press it gently with the fingers to give it shape; then make six small slanting incisions on top of each, and insert in these slices of truffle, cut with a tube -jin. in diameter. Slightly moisten the top of each breast with water, carefully arrange one fillet on top of each length- wise, and sprinkle over a little clarified butter, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the supreme, | wineglassful of Madeira wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover with the lid, and place it in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour 1 pint of hot Toulouse garnishing on a hot dish, take out the supreme from the oven, neatly arrange it over the garnishing, adjust paper ruffles on each wing-bone, and serve immediately. Timbale of Fowls. -Select a couple of Fowls of medium size, singe and draw them, and remove the pinions and leg-bones. Cut each bird into five pieces, not including the backs, which are likewise cut in halves, break the thick bones in the legs, take them out, and put the legs into a saucepan with the wings, 8oz. of soaked ham cut up small, 3 table-spoonfuls of the melted fat of bacon, a bunch of parsley, and a few sweet herbs. Set the pan over a sharp fire, and add a little seasoning; when they are done and of a light colour, take the chicken and ham out with a skimmer, and put them into another saucepan to keep warm on the side of the fire. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced shallot and onion into the saucepan with the liquor, fry them, and then add fifteen mushrooms cut in quarters. Place the pan over the fire again, and when the moisture is reduced, add half-a-dozen chicken’s livers, scalded and cut in halves, 4 table-spoonfuls of white wine (or Madeira), and the same quantity of melted glaze. Return the chicken into this saucepan, toss them in the sauce, removing the pan from the fire whilst so doing, sprinkle a little parsley over them, and let them stand for a little while. In the meantime line a timbale-mould with short- paste and mask it with a layer of raw minced veal or pork, with 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Put in the pieces of chicken, mixing in with them the ham, livers, and mushrooms, spread the top over with more of the raw mince, put a layer of paste on the top, fold the paste over from the sides, put the timbale on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Take it out when it is done, turn it out, make a small hole in the top, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of gravy, previously reduced with a little Madeira or white wine, and serve quite hot. Timbale of Fowls a la Dubois.—Cut up a couple of chickens into five pieces (limbs and body), put these into a saucepan with a little finely-chopped fat bacon, sprinkle salt and pepper over the meat, set the pan on a good fire, and fry. When the pieces are partly done and coloured, add 6oz. of ham cut into small pieces, and let these cook a little ; then add six Fig. 791. Timbale of Fowls. raw truffles cut up into thick slices, also the chicken’s livers previously scalded, and the trimmings of the truffles. Warm thoroughly, and pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine; put the pieces of Fowl in a basin, reduce the liquor to a glaze, and pour it over them. Line a timbale-mould with short- paste, and mask the bottom and sides with a layer of minced 3 D