705 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. until done. They must not burst too much. Turn them into a basin, put a plate over, and leave them for twenty-four hours. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag. For every pound of juice allow lib. of crushed loaf sugar, and boil them together for half-an-hour; then skim the jelly well, put half a stick of vanilla into it, and boil it for another half-hour. Turn the jelly into small jars, removing the vanilla, and when cold, tie down. Gooseberries in Jelly. — Pick the stalks and tops off the Gooseberries, pick out the largest ones, and lay them aside; put the smaller Gooseberries into a preserving-pan with water in the proportion of 1 breakfast-cupful to each quart of berries, let them simmer till they go to a pulp, put them into a jelly- bag, and let them drain in a warm place. Put the large Gooseberries into a good-sized saucepan on the stove with cold water to cover them, and simmer gently till tender; then carefully take them out of the water and lay them in a pan of cold water. Measure the juice that has drained through the jelly-bag, and to every breakfast-cupful of juice allow Jib. of sugar; put this sugar and jnice into a preserving- pan, stir till it boils, and boil till clear, taking off the scum as it rises. When the syrup is ready and perfectly Fig. 869. Gooseberries in Jelly. clear, take the large Gooseberries out of the cold water, drain them, put them into the syrup, and boil till they look clear; take out, and put them into a mould shaped like a gigantic half Gooseberry. Keep the syrup on the boil till it jellies. When a little put on a saucer will set it is boiled enough and may be taken from the Are, allowed to cool slightly, and then poured into the mould over the Gooseberries; when quite cold and set, turn the jelly out on to a glass dish, cut a piece of angelica to imitate the stalk and a piece of brown paper for the snuff, put stalk and snuff into their places, and drop whipped cream all round the dish. See Fig. 869. Gooseberry Pancakes.—Put a lump of butter in a frying- pan ; when it is melted, put in lqt. of Gooseberries, previously snipped, and fry gently till tender; then take them out, and mash them in a saucepan. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and whip three whites to a stiff froth ; mix them with 1 teacupful of cream and finely-grated stale breadcrumb and 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, pour them in the saucepan with the Gooseberries, add sugar to taste, and stir over the fire till thick. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, and fry the preparation like pancakes; put them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Gooseberry Pie.—(1) Line the edges of a buttered pie-dish with rich puff paste, fill the dish with cleaned and picked Gooseberries, and put Jib. of moist sugar on them ; pour in a little water, cover the pie with more puff paste, moistening the edges so that they will stick to the under-crust, cut it evenly all round, make a slit in the top with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take it out, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with a good custard. (2) Pick and wipe 31b. of Gooseberries, and put them in a stewpan with 31b. of loaf sugar and enough water to keep them from burning. Cook over a clear fire till they are like a jelly. Make some fancy shapes with puff paste, and bake them ; when done, take them out of the oven, pour in the Gooseberry jelly, and serve with cream or custard. Gooseberry Pudding1. — (1) Pick 1J pints of green Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently until soft but not broken. Drain and mash them through a fine hair sieve, using a wooden spoon. Gooseberries—continued. Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it well together with fib. of caster sugar; then beat in the Gooseberry pulp, eight eggs, and four pounded L'aples biscuits. Pour the mixture when quite smooth into a pie-dish, and bake it for half-an- hour. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Put lqt. of Gooseberries in a saucepan with a little water and some moist sugar, and stew gently till tender. Line a pudding-basin with slices of bread, strain off the juice from the Gooseberries, and put them in the basin ; cover the top with slices of bread, put a cloth over the basin, and let it stand till cold. In the meantime, boil the juice that was strained from the fruit with a little more sugar, and then let it get cold. Turn the pudding out on to a dish, pour the syrup over it, and serve with a custard. (3) Make a puff paste of Jib. of butter, 5oz. of sifted flour, and as little water as possible, and roll it out into a round piece thin in the centre and thicker towards the edges, and just the size to cover a soup-plate; lay the paste over the plate, press it to its shape, trim the edges with a sharp knife, and crimp or notch them. Put the paste into a cold place till the pudding is ready. Wash and pick sufficient green Gooseberries to fill a pint measure when stewed, put them over the fire with very little water (just enough to prevent them burning), and stew till quite soft. Let them get cold, mash with a spoon, and stir into them 2oz. of pow- dered white sugar. Beat 2oz. of butter to a cream together with 2oz. of powdered white sugar. Beat three eggs till very light. Mix with the sweetened Gooseberries 2oz. of sifted breadcrumbs. Now stir into the beaten butter-and-sugar a small quantity of the eggs, and then a small quantity of the Gooseberries-and-breadcrumbs; continue adding and mixing in alternately eggs and Gooseberries till all are mixed in, and stir well for a little longer. Pour the pudding into the soup-plate lined with puff paste, and bake for half-an- hour. Gooseberry Sauce.—(1) Pick lib. of green Gooseberries and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to keep them from burning; when soft mash them, grate in a little nutmeg, and sweeten to taste with moist sugar. This sauce can be served with roast pork or goose instead of apple sauce. It is also very delectable with boiled mackerel. A small piece of butter makes the sauce much richer. (2) Put lqt. of Gooseberries in a stewpan with just enough water to cover them, and boil till quite tender. Bub them through a strainer or sieve, add sugar to taste, loz. of butter, and 20 grains of ginger. Mix all well together, and boil up again. (3) Pick J pint of green Gooseberries, boil them in water till soft, drain well, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of melted- butter sauce and a little grated lemon-peel. Serve in a sauce-tureen. (4) Pick 1 pint of green Gooseberries, boil them in water till soft, and sweeten with brown sugar. Gooseberry Sauce for Geese.—(1) Pick the tops and stems from 1 pint of green Gooseberries, put them over the fire in a porcelain saucepan, with 1 teaenpful of boiling water and four lumps of white sugar, and stew gently until tender, then rub through a sieve with a masher, and return them to the saucepan. While the Gooseberries are being stewed, pound in a mortar 2 breakfast-cupfuls of spinach or sorrel- leaves, put them in a towel, and wring to extract the juice. Add this juice to the Gooseberry pulp, together with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 wineglassful of Madeira, heat the sauce, and serve at once. (2) Prepare and cook the Gooseberries as for No. 1. Put over the fire in a saucepan 1 piled table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir until smoothly blended, then gradually mix in 1 pint of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and J saltspoonful of white pepper. Let the sauce boil for a minute, add the Gooseberry pulp to it, and serve. Gooseberry Shape.—Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in 1 teacupful of hot milk. Beat the yolks of three eggs to a cream with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and pour over them 1 pint of boiling milk; turn the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and stir until thick without boiling ; add gradually the dissolved isinglass, and lastly 1 breakfast-cupful of the stewed pulp of green Gooseberries. Take the pan from the fire, and stir the mixture slowly until nearly cold. Pour it into a mould, 3 H