THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 596 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish—continued. (2) Remove the skin and bones from some cold boiled or baked Fish, spread it with Fish forcemeat in alternate layers in a shallow dish, and pour over just sufficient cream sauce to moisten the forcemeat between the double layers; when the dish is full, or the materials exhausted, spread over a crust of breadcrumbs mixed with liquefied butter, and bake in a quick oven till brown. Serve hot. (3) Remove all the skin and bones from any kind of un- cooked Fish, and cut the flesh into small pieces, but do not mince it to a pulp. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, make it hot, then put in the minced Fish, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and season with a small quantity of salt. Place the pan over a slow fire, and cook the fish gently. Put | pint of gravy into a small saucepan with 1 wineglassful of wine, season with grated lemon-peel, ginger, and nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne. Work 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful' of butter, put it into the sauce, and stir it over the fire until it is thick. Pour the gravy into the saucepan containing the Fish, with the beaten yolks of two eggs and a small piece of sardine butter, and stir it until well mixed. Fill some scallop shells with the ragout, put a layer of grated breadcrumb and Parmesan cheese over each, and baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the shells in a quick oven until browned, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve very hot. (4) Any Fish that is rather wanting in flavour may be used. Cut the Fish into neat slices, and put them in layers on a dish that can be served at table and will stand the heat of the oven. Sprinkle between the layers some finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs, a small quantity of cayenne, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Put loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then stir in 1 teacupful of milk. When the sauce is thick and boiling, squeeze a small quantity of lemon- juice into it, and pour it over the Fish. Cover the whole well with finely-grated breadcrumb, and bake in a brisk oven. When the Fish is cooked, and browned on the top, take it out of the oven, and serve while very hot on the same dish, with cut lemons on a separate plate. Scalloped Fish Roes.—When cleaned, boil the roes ten minutes in water with the addition of a little vinegar and salt. When done, drain, and break them up lightly with a fork, putting a layer of them in a shallow dish; rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg through a fine strainer, and sprinkle it over; follow that with a sprinkling of parsley and a squeeze or two of lemon- juice, pour over a little white sauce, spread another layer of the roe over the sauce, and finish as before. Then cover all with breadcrumbs, moisten with liquefied butter, and bake till the crust is brown. Serve very hot. Scorched Salted Fish.—Cut off the fleshiest part of some cooked salted Fish, divide it into long flakes, brown them under a salamander, arrange them on a dish, spread butter over the tops, and serve hot. Smoked Fish (Indian Mode).—Cut the Fish down the back, wash thoroughly, open it flat, and salt it. Sprinkle a little bran and brown sugar over a bright charcoal fire, cover over with an open-work bamboo basket, place a cloth over the top, set the Fish on this, and let it smoke, turning it over as soon as one side is brown. The smoke can always be kept up by adding more bran to the fire and fanning it. A cloth should be thrown over the fish to facilitate the smoking. The mango, beckty or hilsa Fish are the best kind for smoking. Smothered Fish.—Any kind of Fish can be used; it must first be scaled and thoroughly cleaned, then cut into pieces. Rub these well with salt, and leave them for a short time. Peel and cut four onions into slices, put them in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley and 4 table- spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them about over a brisk fire fire till lightly browned. Put a layer of them at the bottom of a rather deep earthenware dish, place the Fish on this, and cover with the remainder of the onions and parsley and any of the frying-oil that may be left. Cut three tomatoes into quarters, put them in with the Fish, moisten with 1 tea- cupful of cold water and f teacupful of malt vinegar, cover the dish, put it into a moderate oven, bake for twenty minutes or more, according to the quantity, and serve in the same dish. Fish.—continued. Spiced Fish.—Remove the bones and skin from lib. of cold cooked Fish ; flake it, put it in a stone jar, with 1 table- spoonful of moist sugar, eight peppercorns, eight cloves, five or six allspice, and i pint of vinegar to every lib. of Fish. Tie it down, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. Cloves and mace, in small quantities, can be added. Stewed Fish. —Remove the skin, head, and bones from any kind of Fish weighing about 41b. Boil the head and bones in water for twenty minutes, adding two onions, sliced and fried in pork fat till brown. Cut the Fish into 2in. squares, put them in a Fish-kettle, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and strain enough of the bone liquor over them to cover. Add a little lemon-juice, simmer for fifteen minutes, and thicken with a roux of a table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a little mushroom ketchup. Place the Fish on a dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Fish a la Turque.—Clean and wash the Fish required for the dish. Peel four large onions, cut them into rather thin slices, lay half of them at the bottom of a stewpan with a little picked parsley, put in the Fish, cover it with the remainder of the onions and more picked parsley, moisten with '2 teacupful each of malt vinegar, tomato sauce, and olive oil, and 1 teacupful of water. Stand the stewpan over a moderate fire, or at the side, and keep the contents boiling slowly until the Fish is tender; arrange it tastefully on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor round, and serve. Stewed Salted Fish as in Russia.—Put a chopped onion into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, fry it until slightly coloured, then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix well until quite smooth. Stir this into 2qts. of water in a saucepan, set the pan on the fire or stove, and as soon as the liquor commences to boil, put in six peeled potatoes, cut into slices, and a sprinkling of salt, and cook until done. Now put in the required quantity of salted Fish, cut up into pieces, add a few barley grits, a little chopped parsley and pepper to taste, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the whole is done. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Stuffed Fish.—Clean almost any kind of Fish, break the bones at the tails, and trim off the gills; remove the skins without tearing, and bring the heads off with them. Separate the flesh and bones, and chop the flesh small. Peel and chop three onions; put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a frying-pan, and make it hot; then put in the onions, and fry them till nicely browned. Blanch and skin 3 table-spoonfuls of pistachio-kernels, and wash i teacupful of currants; put the currants, pistachios, and Fish in with the onions, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of mixed spice, and stir the mixture over the fire until the Fish is nearly cooked. Stuff the Fish skins very carefully with the mix- ture, rub them over with flour, and dip them in beaten egg. Put about 1 breakfast-cupful of olive oil into a deep frying- pan, make it hot, then put in the Fish and fry them, turning them over carefully with a slice, to brown both sides. When cooked, drain the Fish for a few minutes, then lay them carefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Vinaigrette of Fish.—Put a cow-heel into a saucepan on the fire, pour over lqt. of cold water, and cook slowly for fully ten hours; strain the liquor and set it aside for a day. Skim off the grease and remove the sediment from the jelly, put it back into the saucepan with 1 wineg'lassful each of sherry and vinegar, season with lemon-peel, mace, allspice, pepper, and salt, set the saucepan on a very slow fire, and melt the jelly gradually. Should the jelly not be clear enough, clarify it with the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and strain through a jelly-bag. Pour a little of it on the bottom of a mould, let it slightly set, over it arrange a few capers, placing them in small piles; again over these place slices or pieces of any cold firm Fish such as sturgeon, mackerel, or salmon, then put over these twelve stoned olives, pour over more of the jelly, let it also get stiff, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Pack it in ice, turn it out carefully on to a dish, and serve with any desired garnish. A few boned anchovies or sardines may be added to the other ingredients.