681 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. Ginger Pancakes.— (1) Put in a mortar jib. of preserved Ginger and pound it, then mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of frangipane, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with jib. of sifted flour, 4oz. of caster sugar and a little salt; then stir in six beaten eggs and j pint of milk. Melt jib. of butter, add that and the grated peel of half a lemon, and work the mixture till quite smooth. Put jib. of butter in a small stewpan and melt it; dip a paste-brush in the butter, and brush over the bottom of a small omelet-pan; put in 2 table-spoonfuls of the batter at a time, fry both sides, then turn the pancake on to a baking-sheet. When all the batter is used, cover the pancakes one by one with a thin layer of the Ginger preparation; fold them lengthwise, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, ornament with meringue, and stand the dish in a moderate oven for a short time. Put a circle of preserved greengages round the pancakes, decorate the meringue with preserved fruits, or dried fruit pastes, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs together, then mix them in lqt. of milk. Put 6oz. of flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of grated Ginger and 1 pinch of salt in a basin, and stir in the milk and eggs, pouring it in gradually to prevent the flour becoming lumpy ; add also 1 wineglassful of brandy. Fry the pancakes and put them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Ginger Pastille Drops.—To make these drops successfully, only a little of the ingredients should be used at a time. Put 3ioz. of caster sugar into a small long-spouted saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of water, place it over the fire, and stir until the sugar begins to dissolve at the bottom of the pan ; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice and 1 teaspoonful of essence of Ginger; when this is mixed, remove the pan from the fire and drop the mixture in rows close together on a stiff sheet of paper. Let it get firm, turn the paper upside down, damp it, and shake it a little, when the drops should fall off. Any that still remain can be eased off with the point of a knife. Put them on a sieve, roll the sieve about over a slow fire so that the drops may dry, pack them in glass bottles, cork down tightly, and store in a cool place until wanted for use. Ginger Pudding.—(1) Trim off all the skin and finely chop jib. of beef-suet, then put it into a basin, and mix in jib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix these in- gredients well, then stir in 1 teacupful each of milk and treacle and one beaten egg. Thickly butter the interior of a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper, tying it round the rim of the basin. Put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for two hours, taking care that the water does not enter the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crumbs of French rolls in a basin with just as much milk as they will absorb, and let them soak for an hour or two. Then mix with the soaked bread jib. of finely-shred preserved Ginger, 1 table-spoonful of the syrup, and jib. of caster sugar. Beat these ingre- dients well for half-an-hour, mixing in, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs. Beat the whites of the eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Thickly butter the interior of a channeled mould, pour the mixture into it, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper ; stand the mould in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the pudding for five hours. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust it over with caster sugar, and serve. (3) Put j pint of milk into a saucepan with 3oz. of butter, and boil, stirring well; mix in 3oz. of flour and stir until it is perfectly smooth. Take the pan off the fire and let it cool for about ten minutes ; then add the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, mixing each one in thoroughly before adding another. Cut 3oz. of preserved Ginger into very small pieces, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup of the Ginger, add it to the egg mixture, and work it well. Put three eggs in a basin, whip them to a stiff froth, add them, and mix again. Butter a plain pudding-mould, dust it over with sugar, pour in the mixture, and place in a saucepan of boiling Ginger—continued. water for an hour. When done, serve it with a little sweet sauce. (4) Trim off the skin and finely chop jib. of beef-suet, put it in a basin with jib. of flour, jib. of breadcrumbs, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, and a small quantity of finely-shred lemon-peel. Mix in jib. of treacle, Fig. 838. Ginger Pudding. turn the mixture into a buttered mould, tie a cloth over it, and boil for four hours. When ready, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve with or without rhubarb jam round it. See Fig. 838. (5) Put 4oz. of flour into a basin with jib. of coarse brown sugar, 1 table - spoonful of ground Ginger, and j table-spoonful of ground allspice. Warm slightly 4oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then work in gradually jib. of treacle, and mix it with the flour. Dissolve j tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teacupful of warm milk, mix with it three well-beaten eggs, and pour it into the other ingredients. Work the whole into a smooth dough. Butter a shallow baking-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the tin on to a hot dish, and serve. (6) Finely chop jib. of beef-suet, and mix with it 6oz. of grated stale breadcrumb, 2 scant teaspoonfuls of ground Ginger, 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and a little less than jib. of treacle. When these ingredients are well mixed, turn them into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with or without a sweet sauce. (7) Put jib. of good dripping into a saucepan with lib. of treacle, and heat it over the fire until the dripping is dis- solved. Mix joz. of ground Ginger and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with lib. of flour, then stir in gradually the treacle - and - dripping. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the pudding mixture into it, tie a floured cloth over the top, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, keeping the pudding well under water. When it is cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish, dust caster sugar over, and serve. (8) Wash jib. of rice, and boil it in 1 pint of milk ; when cooked, turn it into a basin. Drain off the syrup from a small jar of preserved Ginger, and finely mince the Ginger; mix it with the rice, and beat the whole well with a wooden spoon for fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, strain them into the rice mixture, and beat for ten minutes longer. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, put a sheet of buttered paper on the top of the mould, and steam for an-liour-and-a-half. Strain the Ginger syrup through muslin into a small saucepan, mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy, and stand it at the side of the fire until hot, but do not let it boil. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the Ginger syrup round, and serve immediately. (9) Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until creamy together with 4oz. of caster sugar; beat four eggs well, mix them with the beaten butter, add 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, sift in slowly 4oz. of flour, and beat the whole for a few minutes longer. Butter the interior of a fluted mould, pour the mixture into it, and bake for forty minutes in a good oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (10) Free jib. of beef-suet from skin, and mince it finely mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale grated crumb of