712 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Gratin—continued. To cook anything an Gratin properly requires a shallow metal dish (see Fig. 878). These dishes differ sometimes in shape and ornament, but all answer the same purpose of promoting the “ Gratin ” better than earthenware or glass. Several receipts will be found scattered through this Encyclopaedia. GRATZER BEER.—The name given to a German white beer brewed at Gratzer from wheat-malt. This beer is fit to drink within two or three days of brewing, and remains good for some years. GRAVIES.—The literal meaning of Gravy is the sediment of that which drains from cooked meat; that is, the juice of the meat, which being heavier than the hot fat sinks to the bottom, just as greaves, which word has the same origin, sinks to the bottom of tallow when being melted for manufacturing purposes. The French term for Gravy is jus, so that meat served au jus is served with its own Gravy, and not with a made sauce. As the inclination of the French cook is generally towards some rectification or elaboration of plain foods, they are very much inclined to operate upon plain Gravies; to them it seems as though to serve plain Gravy or meat-juice with a dish, whether a roasted joint or ragout, would be desecrating, by neglect, the fine art of cooking; to obviate such a culinary error, and yet use that which must be acknowledged to be the legitimate sauce of the meat, its own juice, they have instituted a jus lie, which means thickened juice, or Gravy combined with something to make it stronger. When roasting meat, the dripping-pan catches the juice and fat that exudes in the process, and when the meat is cooked the plain cook pours off the fat from the dripping, carefully leaving the juice. To this pepper and salt are added, and as much hot water as the juice will bear without impoverishing the Gravy too much. The tin is then stood over the stove until the water or Gravies—continued. Gravy is boiling hot, stirring with a fork or knife until the juice is taken up in the water. This is poured over the meat through a conical (see Fig. 879) or flat (see Fig. 880) Gravy-strainer. Some meats, such as veal and lamb, and sometimes mutton, yield vei-y little juice, or juice of a very light colour only, it is then usual to add to the Gravy a little colouring, and for this purpose burnt.sugar is generally used; but the cook’s art is extended also to colouring Gravies, and so we find a variety of preparations with which a little flavouring is also combined, such as a taste of onion, shallot, or garlic. Some of these will be found described under the head of Browning.; and others, such as Tomlinson and Hayward’s Granular Browning, King and Co.’s Gravina, the latter named being said to contain also a proportion of dried meat juice, thus giving richness and colour at the same time, will be found useful and reliable, as well as the following : Colourings for Gravies. —(1) Put a little burnt Spanish onion into a basin, pour some boiling water over it, and work it with a spoon. Put it into the Gravy, and boil up together. This gives a decided flavour to the Gravy. (2) A simple method is to put an old iron spoon in the fire and make it very hot, and then a little moist sugar dropped into it gives a caramel that only requires to be mixed in the Gravy to give the latter any tinge of brown desired. (3) Baked raspings from bread thicken and brown all kinds of Gravies, but will not colour satisfactorily without thickening. (4) A little flour baked until quite brown in a tin dish is a colouring that can always be kept ready for use, but has the same objection to its general use as bread raspings have. (5) Put lib. of raw sugar into a frying'-pan (an old one is generally used for this purpose), place the pan over the fire, and stir until the sugar is dissolved, taking care that when it browns it does not boil over; then add lj- pints of water, mix well, and boil it up. Take it from the fire, and when cold put it into jars or bottles. A few drops will be sufficient for colouring any Gravy. A very important feature of Gravy-making is to have at hand a good base or stock, in case of its being required. The following will be found to answer all such purposes: Gravy-Stock. — Put lib. of minced beef (lean) into a flat stewpan, put the cover on, and toss the pan over the fire until the meat is browned. Pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of hot water, and let this boil until half of the liquor has evaporated; then pour in another J pint of water, and add a thick slice of lean ham, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ground mice, and salt to taste. Let this boil until the liquor is again reduced to less than 5 pint, then pass the liquor through a strainer, or squeeze it in a broth-napkin, and when all the liquor possible is squeezed out set it away to cool. There should not be any fat, but if there does