632 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. with. Jib. each of finely-chopped lean veal and bacon, pound to a pulp, season to taste with pepper, salt, and spices, and rub through a sieve ; now add the meat from the wings, 4oz. or 5oz. of parboiled bacon, and three large uncooked truffles, all cut into dice. Lay the Fowl flat on a board with the skin side downwards, season to taste, put in the forcemeat, roll up the galantine, making it as long as possible, Fig. 780. Galantine op Fowl garnished with Jelly. tie it up in a cloth, and boil in stock for one-and-a-half hours. Take it out, remove the cloth, tie it up in a clean one, and let it get cold; then remove this cloth, cut the galantine into slices, brush them over with glaze, and let them get cold and firm. Put a pain-vert in the centre of a dish, on it pile up chopped Fowl jelly, lay the slices of galantine round, garnish the base of the pain-vert with croutons and chopped jelly alternately (see Fig. 780), and serve. Grenade of Chicken Fillets.—Cut off some chicken fillets, lard half of them, and contise the others with truffles. Take a mould with ribs in it like a melon, line it with thin strips of bacon, place a cooked lamb’s sweetbread between the ribs, and put the thickest part of the small inside fillets alternately round the mould to fill up the ribs—first a larded and then a contised one—put in the other fillets, and cover with quenelle forcemeat. Put a thick mixture of vegetables in the centre, and cover that again with more forcemeat. Place the mould in the bain-marie or in the oven, so that the whole will poach at the same time. Turn it out on a dish when done, remove the bacon, salamander the larded fillets, and glaze them. Serve with Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. Grilled Chickens a la Chasseur.—If possible, procure small chickens for this. Split them down the backs, and beat them with a cutlet-bat until flat. Should the birds be large, they must be cut up into joints. Soak them for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with salt and pepper, slices of onion, parsley, and lemon-juice ; sprinkle lightly with breadcrumbs, and cook them on a gridiron ; if cut up into joints, dish them up in the form of a pyramid. Add to some Madeira sauce, an onion sliced and fried, and some chopped ham ; warm it up, pour over the chicken, and serve. Grilled Leg's of Fowls.—Score the legs of two cold cooked Fowls, rub them well with a mixture of salt, mustard, and cayenne, lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Put J breakfast-cupful of well-flavoured gravy in a small saucepan with 1 table- Fig. 781. Grilled Legs of Fowls. spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers, Joz. of butter worked with a little flour, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Stir the sauce over the lire until boiling. Place the legs on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve Fowls—continued. with watercress for garnish (see Fig. 781). This makes a very quickly-prepared breakfast or supper dish. Hamburg Fowl.—Cut off the wings and breasts of two Fowls, rub over them some warm butter, egg-and-breadcrumb them, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with clarified butter. Bone the legs, stuff them with quenelle forcemeat, and braise in a little broth. Pour some tomato sauce over the bottom of a dish, arrange the breasts and legs alternately on it, and serve. Hashed Fowl.—(1) Put the bones and small pieces of any cooked Fowl into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, add a few onions sliced and fried, two carrots, sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan over the fire, and boil until all the goodness is extracted; then strain the liquor, and add a little flour and butter to thicken it. Put the meat from the Fowl into a saucepan, add the gravy, and place the pan on the side of the fire where it will simmer for twenty minutes. Just previous to serving, add the juice of half a lemon. Put the pieces of Fowl-meat on a dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with triangular croutons of fried bread. (2) Take a couple of chickens that have been either boiled or roasted, and cut off all the flesh in small slices, remove every particle of skin, put them in a saucepan, place on the cover, and set them at the side of the fire to warm; pour a little brown Italian sauce over all, and place the pan where the sauce will simmer without boiling or sticking to the pan. Cut some rather thin slices of bread in the shape of pears, but quite flat, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and fry until they are a light brown colour. Place the pieces of meat on a dish with the fried bread in between them, having previously glazed them, pour the sauce over the meat only, and serve hot. (3) Cut a cold Fowl in pieces, remove the skin and bones, put the meat in a stewpan, cover with melted glaze, and keep them on the side of the stove where they will warm with- out boiling. Brown some finely-chopped onion in a saucepan with a little butter, add a teacupful of vinegar, and reduce to glaze; sprinkle in a little flour, moisten with 1 table-spoonful of broth, and stir over the fire for five or six minutes. Mix this preparation with the Fowl, add a pinch of pepper, stir the hash over the fire till almost boiling', sprinkle a few chopped gherkins over it, and dish. Ivory-white Chicken.—Select two young birds of an equal size and whiteness, draw and singe them, and remove the breast-bones. Mix together a little butter and the juice of half a lemon, with pepper and salt to taste ; put half of it into the inside of each Fowl, and tie them up in a good shape with string. Place them in a saucepan, surround with several layers of fat bacon, cover them with slices of lemon and bacon, pour a little poele over them, and place the pan over a moderate fire; when they have cooked for thirty minutes, they should be quite done and perfectly white. Take them out, drain off all fat, remove the string, put them on a dish, and pour a little veloute sauce over them. Bechamel sauce may be used if preferred. Larded Fillets of Fowl.—Take ten fillets without removing the small or minion fillets, and lard each on the smooth surface with five strips of bacon; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, arrange them in a frying-pan close to- gether on a few slices of bacon, add a little butter, and put them on the fire for two or three minutes, then place the pan in a moderate oven and leave it for five minutes longer. Glaze them with a paste-brush, and cook to a good colour, leaving them a little underdone. Make a mince of black truffles, with a little Madeira added; put it in the centre of a dish, place the fillets in a circle leaning against it, with the sharp-pointed ends uppermost, and serve. Legs of Fowl en. Papillotes.—Bone the legs of some cold cooked Fowls. Mix some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, with a little liquefied butter, and dip the legs in it; put on each side of them a rasher of cooked fat bacon, wrap them in buttered paper, securing it at the edges, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them to cook both sides alike. When done, dish them, pour over hot beef gravy, garnish with parsley, and serve.