THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. 490 Cucumbers—continued. Put the Cucumbers in jars with the boiling vinegar, cover, and tie down tightly. (3) Select Cucumbers of a medium size, put them in a tub with salted water to cover, and let them steep for nine days; then drain the Cucumbers, pour fresh unsalted water over, and leave for a day and night. Afterwards drain, and lay the Cucumbers in a preserving-pan, covering each layer with a layer of green grape-leaves and 1 teaspoonful of powdered alum. Moisten to height with vinegar and water in equal quantities, and place them over a gentle fire until quite green. Peel and remove the seeds from several lemons, and cut them into small pieces ; also stone an equal quantity of raisins. When ready, scoop the seeds out of the Cucumbers, and fill them with the lemon and raisins. Put the Cucumbers in jars with a few cloves and a moderate quantity of stick cinnamon that has been broken into small pieces. Make a sufficient quantity of syrup with vinegar and sugar to cover the Cucumbers, allowing ljlb. of sugar for every igall. of vinegar, and pour it over the Cucumbers. On the following- morning strain the syrup off the Cucumbers, heat it up again without allowing it to boil, and pour it over them. Proceed thus for the eight following days, making a little more syrup if necessary, as the Cucumbers must be well covered. On the last day, leave the vinegar until cold, then tie the jar over with stout paper and put it away for use. Preserved Cucumbers.—(1) Boil some small well-formed Cucumbers for two or three minutes; take them out of the water, pierce with a needle in three or four places, and let them drain. To every pound of Cucumber, allow lib. of sugar and 1 pint of water; put all in a stewpan with a stick of ginger and the rind of one lemon. Boil, then let it simmer at the side of the fire for five minutes. Take out the Cucumbers, put them in a jar, skim the syrup, pour it over them, cover the jar tightly, and let it remain for two or three days. Strain off the syrup, give it another boiling, pour it again over the Cucumbers, tie a bladder over the top of the jar, and keep it in a cool place. (2) Select some large Cucumbers, put them in a large crock, pour a strong brine over them, lay a few cabbage-leaves over the top, tie paper tightly over the crock, and leave it in a corner of the stove until the Cucumbers turn yellow; then take them out, put in a sauce- pan with more salted water and a cabbage-leaf over the top, and let them heat gently until green. When they are a good colour, remove from the fire, and let them remain in the liquor till cool. Peel, and cut them into long fingers, scrape away the seeds, and rinse the pieces several times in cold water to take out all the salt. Boil enough syrup to cover the Cucumbers, using lib. of sugar and loz. of ginger to every pint of water, and when the proper thickness, let it cool. Drain and pack the Cucumbers neatly in a glass jar (see Pig. 599), pour the syrup over them, and keep the jar in a cool place. Look at the preserve in a few days, and if the syrup shows signs of fermenting, it must be boiled again. (3) Green the Cucumbers by scalding with vine-leaves and alum ; wipe them with a dry cloth, cut out a piece from the side of each, scoop out the seeds, fill the hollows with a little grated lemon-peel and bruised mace, and tie on the cut-out pieces with packthread. Put in a preserving-ketde lib. of loaf sugar and | pint of water to each pound of Cucumber, and j the beaten white of one egg to every 41b., and boil the sugar, skimming it till quite clear ; add lemon and sliced ginger to suit the taste. When cool, pour the syrup over the Cucumbers, and leave them in it for two days, with a plate over to keep them well under the syrup. Boil the syrup up again, adding one-half the quantity of the ingredients used before, and the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Cucumbers -continued. juice and grated peel of two lemons, for every six Cucumbers. When the syrup has boiled for two minutes, strain it, pour it over the Cucumbers, put them in small jars, and cover down tightly. Puree of Cucumbers. (1) Prepare and stew three Cucumbers; put the trimmings and worst-shaped pieces in a stewpan with loz. of butter and J teaspoonful of chopped onions. Cook them over a moderate fire for twelve minutes, then add 3 table- spoonfuls of veal stock, and simmer till the Cucumbers are quite tender; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of stock, and lj teacupfuls of bechamel sauce. Season with i- teaspoonful of sugar, salt and pepper, and pass it through a sieve. When ready to serve, add 5 teacupful of cream. (2) Peel some young Cucumbers, and boil the peels in mutton broth until it has the flavour but does not taste bitter; then remove the peel, cut the Cucumbers in pieces, and boil them in the same broth until soft enough to mash to a pulp. When so far done, take them out, rub through a colander, put the pulp in the saucepan again with the broth, and season with butter, vinegar, pepper, and- salt. Boil it up, taking care not to let it burn, and serve. Stewed Cucumbers.—(1) Peel some Cucumbers, split them lengthwise into four pieces each, scoop out the seeds, and wash the pieces; cut them into smaller lengths, put into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender; drain them, and dry on a cloth. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then put in the pieces of Cucumber, moisten nearly to height with broth, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir the whole over the fire until the liquor has reduced to the required thickness. When ready, take the saucepan off the fire, place it at the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two egg-s and a few drops of vinegar. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) When the Cucumbers are pared, cut them down the middle, take out the seeds, and cut into pieces about 2in. long. Fry the pieces in a little butter, add to them some brown sauce, a little vinegar, and a sprinkling- of salt, and let them stew gently till done. (3) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, and scrape out the seeds. Put them in a saucepan with a large lump of butter, and stew them till quite tender. When done, take the Cucumbers out, and sprinkle them with salt and pounded mace; thicken with flour a little of the liquor in which they were cooked, and pour it over them. (4) Peel three or four young Cucumbers, cut in thick slices, stew in water with a little salt and vinegar in it for fifteen minutes, and then strain. Make 1 breakfast-cupful of cream sauce in a saucepan, and beat in the yolks of two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Arrange the Cucumbers on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (5) Peel three medium-sized Cucumbers, cut them in slices 2in. long, with the seeds left in. Melt in a stewpan 2oz. of butter, with 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar and 5 teaspoonful of chopped onions; put in the Cucumbers, and cook them over the fire till tender and lightly browned. Put in another stewpan 1 pint of half-glaze and -J pint of consomme, and reduce it until rather thick ; add the Cucumbers, season with pepper and salt, boil for two minutes, skim, and serve. (fi) Fob Garnish. -Peel three large Cucumbers, cut them in slices, and put in a dish, with 1 pinch of salt, | pinch of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 1 sliced onion placed over them. Leave them to marinade for one hour; strain, and put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of Spanish sauce. Cook for twenty minutes, strain through a fine sieve, and use as required. CUISINE.—Fr. for Kitchen. Clief de Cuisine is the head cook, and his assistants are Aides de Cuisine. CULINARY UTENSILS {Fr. Batterie de Cuisine). — It has been said that a good workman never finds fault with his tools. This may have a tinge of truth in some cases, hut as applied to cooking it is manifestly absurd, for the best work invariably requires the best and most suitable tools. Anecdotes of the shifts to which cooks have been put in the kitchens of parsimonious proprietors are amusing and plentiful; but no cook of any experience under their special heads. Fig. 599. Preserved Cucumbers. Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see