THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 571 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Elder—continued. the pan on the fire, boil for five minutes, remove it, cover, and let the mixture get cold. Fill up some wide-mouthed bottles with the chutney, and cork. A few crushed mulberries are a great improvement. Elderberry-and-Grape Jelly.—Take 41b. of ripe grapes and 81b. of Elderberries with their stalks picked off, put them into a preserving-pan on the stove, and let them simmer slowly till the juice comes freely from them; then empty the pan into a jelly-bag and let the juice drain into a basin. Add sugar in the proportion of lib. of sugar to 2 breakfast-cupfuls of juice ; put the sugar and juice into the preserving-pan on the stove, stirring till the sugar is melted, and boil until a little put into a saucer stiffens as it cools. Then take it off the stove, and when partly cooled put it into a fancy glass. Cover well so as to keep out the air until required for use, then turn it out on to a small ornamental glass dish (see Fig. 711), and serve as dessert. Elderberry Ketchup.—(1) Put 6 pints of ripe berries without stalks into a jar, and add 3 pints of vinegar, 4oz. of ginger, twelve anchovies, four blades of mace, and loz. of whole pepper. Set the jar in a slightly-warmed oven and let it remain for ten or twelve hours. Strain off the juice into an enamelled sauce- pan, add the ginger, mace, anchovies, and a little pepper and salt, and boil until the anchovies are quite dissolved. Strain again, and when cold put it into bottles and cork down until wanted. (2) Select ripe berries, pick 1 pint of them from their stalks, put them into a deep basin or jar, add 1 pint of boiling vinegar, and leave them in it for about twelve hours or so. Pour the liquor through a sieve into a saucepan, and press the berries with the bowl of a wooden spoon to extract the juice ; add a little whole ginger, a blade of mace, loz. of shallots, and 1 teaspoonful each of peppercorns and cloves. Put the pan on the fire and boil for seven or eight minutes. When it is cool, put it into bottles with the spices, and cork down securely. Elderbei’ry Syrup.—Procure the berries when quite ripe, pack them in a stone jar, tie a stout piece of paper or bladder over the top, stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, but not sufficiently high to enter the jar, and keep it boiling gently irntil the berries are tender. Strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, measure it, and for every breakfast-cupful allow 1 teacupful of brown sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with the juice, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling. Skim the syrup, move the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour. Pour the syrup into bottles, and cork them tightly. Elderberry Wine.—(1) Put 3galls. of Elderberries into a vessel with 3|galls. of water, 2oz. of allspice, loz. of ginger, and a few cloves, and boil for half-an-hour. Press the berries through a sieve, allow 3jlb. of moist sugar to every gallon, and boil together until the liquor has become clear, removing all the scum as it rises. Pour the liquor into a small cask, leave it until lukewarm, then put in a piece of toast thickly spread with yeast. When fermentation has ceased, bung the cask closely down. In three months’ time the wine will be fit for drinking, and will keep for some years. If fermentation does not commence the day following that which the wine is poured into the cask, take out a little of the wine, boil it, and pour it back again ; if that does not have the desired effect, put in a piece more toast thickly spread with yeast. (2) Put the berries into a large vessel, and for every quart pour in 2qts. of water; boil for half-an-hour, then strain the liquor and press the fruit through a sieve For every 4 pints Elder—continued. of the juice allow ljlb. of rather coarse sugar. Put the sugar and juice into a pan with a small quantity of Jamaica ginger, pepper, and cloves, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Pour the wine into a bai-rel, and proceed as for No. 1, adding, after fermentation, 1 pint of brandy for every 4galls. of wine. (3) Squeeze Ggalls. of Elderberries through a sieve into a large vessel, and mix with them some moist sugar, allowing 3jlb. of sugar for every gallon of fruit; add ilb. of allspice, 2oz. of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, and 7galls. of water. Boil the whole until clear, and keep it well skimmed. Pour the wine into a cask, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Choose ripe berries, set them in a vessel in a heated bread- or stove-oven, and bake for a few minutes. Put them into a hair sieve and strain off the juice. Measure this, and for every pint add igall. of water and 4oz. of sugar. Boil the ■water and sugar for an hour, adding more water every now and then to allow for that which is boiled away in evaporation, so as to have the original quantity after boiling. Let it get cool, and add the juice. Put in a piece of toast thickly covered with yeast, and let the wine ferment in an uncovered vessel for seven or eight days. Put it into a cask with loz. of allspice, lib. of chopped raisins, and loz. of sugar to each ./gall, of water used. Leave it for three or four months, strain it, add ^ gill of brandy, and bottle, corking down securely. Elder-flower Fritters.—Pick the flowers while in bloom; put them in bunches in a basin with a small piece of lemon- peel, strew over caster sugar, and baste them with brandy and a few drops of orange-flower water. Let the flowers Fig. 712. Elder-flower Fritter. marinade for several hours. Prepare a thick frying-batter, dip the flowers in it, fry them in boiling' butter, drain the flowers, put them on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew more sugar over them, and serve. See Fig. 712. Elder-flower Vineg'ar.—Fill a large bottle with Elder- flowers, pour vinegar over them, and let them stand for a fortnight; then strain through flannel, put the liquor into small bottles, and cork. A few leaves of any sweet herb may be put into the bottles with the Elder-flowers, and the taste will be thoroughly infused. Elder-flower Wine.—(1) Bruise lgall. of Elder-flowers and half that quantity of vine-leaves and tendrils with a wooden mallet, put them into a mash-tub with a tap at the bottom (this is most essential), and then prepare the wort. Put 4gall. of water into a saucepan with 31b. of sugar and 31b. of glucose, boil and skim well, pour it into an earthenware vessel to cool, and when nearly cold pour it over the Elder-flowers, &c., in the tub. Now add 1 teacupful of yeast, work it well in, and leave it for seven days; then add finings, stir well, let it remain for another day, draw off carefully so as not to break the crust formed on the surface by the finings, pour it into a cask, bung up when the fermentation has ceased, and in a few weeks’ time it will be fit for bottling. (2) For every -/gall, of water allow ljlb. of loaf sugar and the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon; put them in a large pan and boil for an hour, removing the scum as it rises, and then pour the liquor into a vessel. When lukewarm, mix in for each gallon 1 pint of picked Elder-flowers and 1 table- spoonful of yeast. Stir the wine every day until fermentation ceases, which will take about a week, and for every gallon of