099 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. b'vr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, «0c., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. into balls, mask them with bechamel sauce mixed in a little warmed aspic, and decorate with slices of cooked black truffles cut in various ornamental designs. Put as many- small moulds as there are balls of fat livers on ice, pour in a little warmed aspic jelly, let it set firm, put in the fat livers carefully so as not to disturb the decorations, fill up the moulds with more of the warmed aspic jelly, and let them set. Finely chop a few lettuce-leaves, mix them up with oil and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper, put a layer of this on a dish, turn the contents of the moulds on to it, and serve with a garnish of shapes of coloured aspic jelly put round the base of them. Goose’s Fat-Liver Cloutes witli Truffles.—(1) Cut some raw truffles into fillets, having them flat at one end and pointed at the other, insert them into small holes made in a fat liver, the same as if larding, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and cover with strips of fat bacon and then with buttered paper. Place the liver on a baking-sheet with the rim turned up, put a little butter over it, and bake in a slow oven for forty minutes or so, continually basting with more butter to keep the paper moist. Take it out when done, remove the paper and bacon, and place it on a dish with a garnish of quenelles, : mushrooms, and truffles. Put a little brown sauce reduced with wine at the bottom of the dish, and serve with a little more in a sauceboat; or if perigueux sauce is used, it must be poured all round the fat liver and not served in a boat. (2) Prepare a fat liver as for No. 1. Put it in a saucepan with some mirepoix, cover over with a piece of buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and place it on the side of the fire to simmer rmtil quite done. Take it out, drain it, and dish on a croustade of bread ; pour a little Madeira sauce over, and serve. (3) Procure a fat liver weighing about 21b. (or if one at that weight is not obtainable, get two or three smaller ones), j Remove the gall, and eloute the liver with truffles. Place some bacon-fat in a frying-pan, and when melted put in with it a little mirepoix of vegetables and fine herbs; fry them, and when done, take them off, and let them cool. Spread the preparation of vegetables on the liver, and cover it with thin layers of fat bacon. Roll out some paste, then wrap the liver in it, damping the edges of the paste to make them stick, put it on a fiat baking-dish, and bake for one hour. Select fifteen black raw truffles, pick them carefully but do not peel them, put them in a stewpan with a little Madeira, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Take out the truffles, and mix with the wine J pint of boiling brown sauce; boil it till sufficiently reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. When done, unwrap the liver, put it on a hot dish, mask it with forcemeat, arrange the truffles round the liver, pour the sauce over, and serve. Goose’s Fat-Liver Croquettes.— (1) Take Mb. each of truffles and fat liver, cut them into small pieces of equal size, and put them into lqt. of hot Spanish sauce reduced with a little essence of truffles and made quite thick. Take out when cool, separate the pieces, roll them into little balls or shapes like corks, dip them into egg beaten up with oil, salt and pepper, and then roll them on a board covered with breadcrumbs. Plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown colour. Take them out, drain, dust over with salt, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with parsley for a garnish. (2) Mix joz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue with 1 breakfast- cupful of fat-liver forcemeat; put it into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry wine, and 1 table-spoonful of meat glaze. Reduce for ten minutes, stirring well; then turn out on to a cold flat dish, cover with buttered paper, and put aside to cool. Divide this into six parts, shape each one like a pear, roll them in breadcrumbs, dip in beaten egg, and put a slice of truffle on the top of each. Again roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat for four minutes. Remove them, drain them well, and serve on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin. Any garnish may be used. Goose’s Fat-Liver Fritters.—Put a handful or so of semo- lina into a sauoepan with a little broth, and boil until it is of the consistence of thick paste. Pour it out on to a board, and when it is cold line some tartlet-moulds with it to the thickness of jin. Chop equal quantities of truffles and fat Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. livers into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, put them in the moulds, cover over the top with a layer of the semolina paste, close the edges, remove them from the moulds, brush over with egg, then cover them witli bread- crumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Goose’s Fat Liver in Paper Cases. -Select a few fresh and firm Goose’s Fat Livers, and cut them up into slices jin. thick. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry lightly ; take out, and let them cool. Meanwhile take an equal bulk of truffles cooked in Madeira, and cut them up into slices jin. thick. Put a little Spanish sauce into a saucepan with a small quantity of essence of truffles, reduce it, and mix in the livers and truffles. Have ready some paper cases slightly oiled, fill them with the mixture, and serve. Goose’s Fat-Liver Quenelles (German).— Finely chop a Goose’s Fat Liver. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, stir in four well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of finely - clioppcd parsley, a little salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken; then move it off, and stir in the crumb of a roll that has been soaked in milk and squeezed until almost dry. Add the chopped liver and 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs to the other ingredients, work the mixture well, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix in two more beaten yolks of eggs. Shape the mix- ture into quenelles, using two table-spoons for the purpose. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying'-pan, melt it, then put in the quenelles and fry them. When evenly browned, drain, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and serve very hot. Goose’s Fat Liver in Shells (en Coquilles).-Chop half or three-quarters of a fat liver into small dice or squares, and put them into a saucepan with half their bulk of chopped mushrooms. Sprinkle over these a little salt and pepper, and place the lid on the pan. Put f pint of bechamel sauce into another saucepan, and place it over a quick fire to reduce it, keeping it stirred continually and adding slowly a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze until the sauce is soft enough without being too thick ; then add it to the fat- liver mixture in the other saucepan, and place the pan on the side of the fire where it will warm without boiling. Fill ton table-shells with the mixture, smooth the surface, cover them with breadcrumbs, and salamander, or place them in a slow oven to brown. Put a folded napkin on a dish, place the shells on it, and serve. Goose’s Fat Liver in Timbale.— (1) Butter a large dome-shaped mould, place three strips of nouille-paste round the inside of it, and then line the mould with short-paste. Cut up a fat liver into large squares, put them into a saucepan with half their bulk of raw truffles cut up into quarters, sprinkle over salt and spices, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and pour 4 table-spoonfuls of Madeira over them. Place the pan over a good fire to reduce the liquor quickly, then remove to the side and let it cool. Take jib. of raw chicken-meat and the same of bacon, chop them up very fine, and add this to the trimmings of the liver and truffles and a few chicken livers. Put these in a mortar and pound them well, season with pepper and salt, and pass the whole through a fine sieve. Take a little of this forcemeat and mask the bottom and the sides of the mould to about j in. in thickness, then put in the fat liver and truffles in layers, alternately with the forcemeat mixture. Continue this until the mould is full, finishing off with a layer of the forcemeat. Place a flat of paste over this, make a small hole in the centre, and put the timbale in a baking-dish with hot ashes round to support it. Place it in a moderate oven, cover it with buttered paper, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out, and after it has stood for fifteen minutes, pour in through the hole in the crust j pint of Madeira sauce with a little aspic jelly dis- solved in it; let it remain for twelve hours or so, then turn it out on to a large round of fried bread, garnish with chopped aspic jelly round the base of the timbale, and round the bread put croutons of aspic jelly. Garnish an attelette skewer with a truffle and a cock’s comb, and place it in the top of the timbale.