THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 491 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Culinary Utensils—continued. will venture to assert that he can turn out the best kind of work without appropriate utensils. What is, and what is not, required in a kitchen thus depends upon the ability and proficiency of the cook and the requirements of the employer. The following alphabetical list may be con- sidered sufficiently exhaustive to suit a high-class kitchen, although there are few to lie found so perfectly fitted: Baba-mould, for baba cake ; Bain-marie, with sauce-, soup-, and glaze-pots; Baking-sheets; Basket made of wire, to hold salad ; Basins, in variety ; Biscuit-bag, and other biscuit utensils such as cutters, dockers, and a break if required; Blanching - pan; Boiling - pot; Border - moulds ; Braising - pan, with drainer and charcoal-fire cover ; Brawn-press ; Bread- grater ; Bread-pan ; Bread-rasp, and Bread-tins ; Broth-napkins ; Broth - skimmer ; Burnishers, for brightening metal-work: Butter-brush ; Cake-moulds and Hoops ; Charlotte-moulds ; Choppers, Chopping-block, and Chopping-boards ; Cleaver, for bones ; Clock ; Coal-scuttle ; Coffee-mill, and Coffee-roaster ; Colanders, tin and copper ; Cook’s Knives ; Cradle, and ordinary Spits; Cutlet-bat; Cylinder - mould, for aspics, jellies, &c.; Dariole-moulds; Digester; Dishes of all sorts; Dishing-up Forks and Spoons; Double-boiler for milk, custard, beef-tea, &c. ; Dripping-pan, with well and basting-ladle; Egg-bowl, Egg-slice, and Egg-wliisk ; Fat-pan, with drainer ; Filter ; Fish-kettle and Fish-slice ; Flawn-ring ; Flour-dredger and Flour-tub; Freezing-pot and Pail; French-roll Tin ; Frican- deau-pan ; Frying-pan and Basket; Funnels ; Gauffre-iron ; Gratin-dishes; Gravy-strainers, two or three different shapes and sizes ; Gridirons, for bar and to hang; Herb-tray ; Holdfasts, for joints ; Ice-bucket ; Iced-pudding Moulds; Jelly-bags and Stand; Jelly-moulds, various; Larding- and Daubing - Needles; Marble Mortar and Wooden Pestle, for pounding meat, &c. ; Measures for liquids, quart, pint, 5 pint, and gill; Meat-hooks, Meat-saw, and Meat-skewers; Mince-pie Pans ; Omelet-pans ; Palette-knives ; Paste-board, Slab, and Rolling-pins; Paste-brush, Paste-jagger, Paste-knife, and Paste-nippers; Pastry - cutters in boxes, round plain, round fluted, and fancy shapes ; Poultry-singer ; Poultry- skewers; Preserving-pan; Puree-presser; Raised-pie Moulds; Root-knife; Salamander on Stand; Saucepans, in about six different sizes ; Saucepan - brush ; Saute - pans ; Scales and Weights; Screen, with hot closet; Sieves, hair, wire, and silk ; Spatulas ; Spice-box ; Spoon-drip ; Steak-tongs ; Stewpans, in sizes from 1 pint to 9qts. ; Stewpan with Steamers, 6qts. and 7qts. ; Stock-ladles and Stockpots ; Sugar-boiler and Sugar- dredger ; Syrup-gauge and Testing-glass ; Tammy-cloths ; Tartlet-pans ; Tea-kettle ; Terrines ; Timbale-moulds ; Tin- opener ; Toasting-fork ; Trussing-needles ; Turbot-kettle ; Vegetable - cutter and Scoops ; Waffle-iron ; Water-cans ; Wooden Spoons ; and a variety of others which will be found described, as well as these, under their various headings. CULLET. — The technical term for broken bottles and glass generally, by which name it is bought for re- melting. CULLIS.—This word answers to the French Coulis, I having precisely the same meaning in one sense, but one that is widely extended, even to our custard, by Continental cooks. Being derived from the verb colder, to How, it is just possible that it was intended to signify a gravy or melted jelly that did How, and just so thick that if it were a little more consistent it would not flow. A double cream would be a Cullis, whereas clotted cream loses its claim to the word. The following receipts are for gravies that come rightly under this heading: (1) Take about lib. of bacon or undressed ham, cut it in pieces about fin. thick, and strew at the bottom of a saucepan ; upon this put 21b. of lean beef or veal, one large onion stuck with cloves, one large carrot cut in slices, a bunch of herbs, 1 saltspoonful of bruised celery - seed (or a few sticks of celery), a bay-leaf, two blades of mace, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper (put the smaller spices in a muslin bag), and pour over all f pint of water. Cover over the pan, set it over the fire to simmer for thirty minutes, or until all the liquor has boiled away, and the meat, after being turned, is browned on both sides. Then pour over it 3 pints of boiling water or stock, and simmer for about three hours. Add gradually Cullis—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of flour made into a smooth paste with a little gravy or cold water, and simmer for another twenty minutes. Add a little water if too thick, or simmer a little longer if too thin. Strain well, remove the fat, and it is ready for use. (2) Break the bone of a leg of mutton or a large piece of beef into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little bacon-rind or ham-bone chopped small and 5 pints of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil; then remove it to the side and let it simmer for five hours, taking care that it does not leave off simmering. Pass the liquor through a sieve, skim it, and replace it in the saucepan with a large onion stuck with three cloves, % teaspoonful of bruised celery- seeds'-(or a few bits of celery), a bay-leaf, a sliced carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and simmer for two hours longer. Strain again, and add 1 teaspoonful of extract of meat and a little colouring. Stir in, a little at a time, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly mixed with a little cold water, and simmer for twenty minutes longer. Add water if too thick, or simmer longer if too thin. All the vegetables must be strained out. This Cullis will keep for seven or eight days, but in summer it would be advisable to boil it every third day. (3) Line the bottom of a stewpan with a few slices of ham, and put on tlijit some fleshy pieces of veal; pour in enough stock-broth to cover it to half the thickness of the meat, and let it stew on a brisk fire, taking care that it does not burn. When the broth is reduced, cut the meat here and there so that the gravy may run out, and let it simmer gently, stirring it occasionally, so that the glaze may be all the same colour and the meat will not stick. When the glaze is a dark red colour, stir it up thoroughly with some hot broth; flavour with mushrooms, green onions, and a bunch of parsley. Mix some brown thickening with the gravy, but do not make it too thick, or the fat will not be easily removed, and let it stew for one hour; skim off the fat, and strain through a sieve or cloth. CUMBERLAND PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. CUMIN (Fr. Cumin; Ger. Kfimmel; Ital. Comino).— This word is sometimes spelled Cummin, but as it claims origin from tlie Arabian quamoun, preference is given to tlie mode adopted in the heading. In cookery the seeds of the plant (Cuminum) are occasionally used, especially in the making of curries. They are aromatic and pungent, resembling in a way the seeds of the caraway, for which they are used as a substitute. Germans use Cumin-seeds in bread-making, the Dutch flavour cheese with them, and the Turks are very fond of them in their ragouts. The plant is an annual somewhat resembling fennel, and although it grows very readily, it is not much cultivated, perhaps for that reason; but in olden times both monks and nuns made of it a beverage which acted as a comforter to the starved stomach during days of rigid fasting. A liqueur has been made from Cumin which is little else than that already described as Anisette. CUNNER.-A small edible fish (Gtenolabrus adsper- sus) frequenting the Atlantic coasts; it is known also as Chogset, Burgall, Blue-perch, and Bait-stealer. Sometimes the word is spelled Connor. The mode of cooking would be the same as that prescribed for other small fish such as sprats. CUPS.—There can be no necessity to explain the meaning of this term—it is but too well understood in all its various bearings. To be “ in one’s Cups ” is exceedingly significant, although perhaps not quite correctly defined. At one time the word Cup was habitually used to indicate a sense of joviality and good fellowship, and in some instances the fashion of Loving-cups, Grace-cups, Parting-cups, and other excuses for quaffing have been handed down to posterity. The following receipts are given as illustrative of these three, but numerous other