THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 502 Currants—continued. of coarse paper with holes pricked in it to let the air through. At the end of that time strain the juice, measure it, and put in a pan with lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar for each pint. Boil gently, stirring it occasionally, until reduced to a syrup, keeping it well skimmed. Leave the syrup until cold, then bottle, and keep tightly corked until used. Currant Water.—Put 1 small table-spoonful of any Currant jelly in a tumbler of water with 10 or 15 grains of tartaric acid, stir it till dissolved, and serve. It is a very refreshing and easily-made drink for the summer-time. Currant Wine from Unripe Fruit.—Bemove the stalks, put the fruit into an earthenware crock, and mash the berries with a wooden spoon or pestle ; pour over an equal quantity of water, and add the same amount of sugar as for ripe fruit. The wine will not be very sweet, but it will be pleasantly flavoured and strong. The liquor must be well strained before putting it into the cask, and it must then be set aside to ferment. Raspberry-and-Currant Jelly, Pie, Tart, and Tartlets.— See Baspberries. Red-and-White-Currant-Cherry-and-Strawberry Salad. —Take some red and white Currants, cherries, and straw- berries, all perfectly ripe, and having picked out the bad fruit and stalks, put them in layers in a deep dish, sprinkle some caster sugar over each layer, pour over the whole a little thick cream, or a few lumps of Devonshire cream (a slight distance apart) on the top of the fruit, and serve. Red- or White-Currant Cordial.—Put lib. of crushed red or white Currants into a vessel with 1 pint of brandy, and let it macerate for a month. Strain it, and to every pound add 3oz. of sugar; let this dissolve, filter through paper, and bottle. Red- or White-Currant Cream Ice.—Bemove the stalks and unsound fruit from 51b. or 61b. of red or white Currants, put them into a saucepan with an equal weight of Currant j jam and ilb. or so of raspberries or strawberries, pour in 1 pint J of cream, and cook gently over the fire until the Currants are done and pulpy ; add the juice of a lemon, and an equal weight of the Currants and raspberries in sugar, and simmer gently until the whole is done. Let it cool, turn it into the freezer, freeze, and it is ready for use. Red- or White-Currant Fritters.—Wash a dozen or so large bunches of red or white Currants, put them into a saucepan with some weak syrup, and let them simmer on the side of the fire for two or three minutes. Take out and let them get quite cold. Dip into batter sweetened and flavoured with noyeau, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or butter, and fry to a good colour. When done, take them out, drain off all the fat, arrange on a napkin folded over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 612. Red and White Currants Glacees au Caramel.—Take an j equal quantity of red and white Currants, say about twenty bunches each, and dip them (a bunch at a time) into some boiling syrup. Take them out, drain, and when cold they can be served. Red-and-White-Currant Jam.—Choose fruit that has been [ picked on a dry day, remove the stalks, weigh it, put it into a preserving-pan with an equal weight of preserving-sugar, and boil for nine minutes. Pour the jam into jars, cover For details respecting Culmary Processes, Currants—continued. with paper soaked in brandy, and then with bladder or pre- pared paper. Red- or White-Currant Paste.—Put a quantity of red or white Currants on a sieve, press out about three-parts of the juice from them, and put it on one side. Then squeeze the remainder of the juice from the fruit, put it into a stewpan over a moderate fire, and heat slowly, stirring continuously until the paste is dry. For every pound weight of the original bulk of fruit add Jib. of sugar. When the sugar is added, boil for twenty minutes more, taking care not to burn the paste. Place it in jars, cover over, and pack away until wanted for use. Red-and-White - Currant - and - Raspberry Jelly.—Bemove the stalks and unsound fruit from 81b. of red and white Currants in equal proportions, put them into a large pan, and with the hand squeeze out all the juice. When it is all extracted, which will take some time, leave it in the jar for a day before using. Take 21b. of raspberries, put them into a stewpan with J pint of water, and boil for a few minutes, crushing them with a spoon; then put the Currants and raspberries together on a hair sieve and press them well with a wooden spoon to extract as much as possible of the juice. If the juice is not clear, strain it through a flannel jelly-bag, and for every pound weight of it add an equal weight of sugar, in large pieces. Put the sugar into the preserving-pan with 1 pint of water, pour the juice over it, set the pan on the fire, and boil for thirty minutes or so, stirring frequently. When it is done and has cooled a little, pour it into bottles and cork. Two or 3 table-spoonfuls of this jelly dissolved in a tumblerful of water or aerated water makes a very delicious beveragefor a hot summer’s day. Red-and-White-Currant-and-Raspberry Sweet Salad.— Pick the stalks off lib. of red Currants and the same quantity of white Currants. Put the red Currants in the middle of a compote-dish; then arrange round them a border of alter- nate rows of the white Currants and some raspberries. Sweeten 1 pint or more of cream with caster sugar, and stir it till the sugar has dissolved, adding gradually J wineglassful of curaijoa and J wineglassful of brandy. Pour the dressing over the fruit and serve without delay. See Fig. 613. It is better perhaps to pour the dressing over the salad after it is placed on the table, as if it is not served at once, or is shaken much in carrying, the cream is likely to sink to the bottom, and somewhat spoil the appearance of the dish. Red - and -White - Currant - and - Raspberry Syrup.—Crush 61b. of red Currants, 21b. of white Currants, and lib. of rasp- berries in a sieve ; press all the juice through into a pan, put this into a cellar to allow the juice to ferment, and let it stand a week. Then clarify and boil 41b. of sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add the juice to the sugar when it is at this point, the juice having fermented during its week in the cellar, which fermentation is necessary to prevent the syrup from becoming a jelly after it is bottled. When the juice and sugar are mixed, let them boil once, remove the scum, take the syrup from the fire, and when sufficiently cooled pour it into bottles. Red-and-White-Currant Salad. — Select large bunches of perfectly ripe red and white Currants, put them in alternate layers at the bottom of a dish, and sift caster sugar over each layer. Sift more sugar on the top, also a small quantity of grated nutmeg; pour over a little rum or brandy, and serve. see under their special heads. Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to,