634 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads= Fowls—continued. return the pan to the fire, warm up for a few minutes, and then let it cool. Turn out the mould*, place them in a circle round a dish, put the cold montglas in the centre (see Fig. 783), and serve. Should the montglas be required hot, substitute the jelly with small moulds of Fowl forcemeat. Orleys of Fowl. -Cut off the fillets of two Fowls; when ti'immed, cut each one lengthwise into four or five pieces, put these on a dish with some parsley, two or three slices of onion, a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and the juice of a lemon. In two hours’ time wipe the pieces of Fowl, dip them in batter, and fry in boiling fat till crisp and brown. Drain, then arrange them on a dish covered with a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce. Pain of Fowls a la Dncliesse.—Remove the skin and sinews from ljlb. of white Fowl-meat, chop it finely, put it into a mortar, season to taste, and pound it to a pulp. Pass it through a fine sieve back into the mortar, add to it 5oz. of butter, and 1 teacupful of veloute sauce seasoned with mush- room trimmings, and pound again. Turn the forcemeat into a basin, and stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of raw cream to give it the required consistence. Butter the inside of a plain mould, fill up with the forcemeat, set the mould in the bain- marie, and poach the contents for about three-quarters-of-an- j hour. Turn it out on to a hot dish, mask it with veloute sauce, garnish an attelette with a cock’s comb and two rings of turnip, one cut larger than the other, place it on the top, decorate the base of the pain with slices of tongue (see Fig. | 784), and serve w'ith a sauceboatful of veloute sauce. Pain of Fowls with Jelly.— Cut off ten small or minion fillets of Fowls, trim them, and flatten them slightly. Contise half j of them on their smoothest sides with slices of truffles, dust all the fillets with salt, arrange them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook over a moderate fire, preventing them from curling up whilst cooking-. Take them out, drain off all the fat, and let them cool. Pack a dome-shaped mould in ice ; decorate the plain fillets with Montpellier butter, using- a paper cornet, dip the fillets singly into half-set aspic jelly, arrange them alternately round the mould, mask them with more of the jelly to fill up all the cavities, and fill the hollow with a pain (or cake) of Fowls, well seasoned with tarragon. Let the mould remain packed in ice until the whole is firm. Have ready sis dariole-moulds, mask them with jelly, fill them also with the Fowl pain, and pack in ice. Prepare also a round pain-vert of rice, place this in the centre of a dish, turn the mould out on to it, put in the top an attelette decorated with a cock’s comb, truffle, and a ring cut out of a turnip, arrange the darioles at even distances round the base, with truffles between the spaces (sec Fig. 785), and serve. Panada of Fowl.— (1) Cut off the skin from any cooked Fowl, chop the white meat into small pieces, pound it in a mortar, and add an equal bulk of breadcrumbs and a little Fowls—continued. salt. Mix in good chicken broth until the preparation is like a fluid paste, put it into a saucepan, stir frequently, and boil for ten minutes. It will then be ready for use. (2) Put 4oz. of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 1 pint of chicken broth, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Mince the flesh of a cold cooked Fowl, put it in with the crumbs, stir over the fire till the Fowl is hot, add a lump of butter and the beaten yolk of one egg, and use as required. (3) Boil a chicken in water until tender; then drain and skin it, cut off all the white flesh, chop it, put it in a mortar with a small quantity of its cooking-liquor, and pound to a smooth paste. Season the panada with salt, fhe grated peel of one lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and it is ready for use. Fig. 785. Pain of Fowls with Jelly. Pickled Chicken. Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it without breaking the intestines, cut it into joints, and boil until quite tender in just enough water to cover it, with 1 teaspoonful of salt, two blades of mace, and 1 teaspoonful each of whole cloves and pepper- corns. When the chicken is tender, remove all the bones, and pack the meat loosely in a jar. To enough of the broth to half fill the jar add an equal quantity of vinegar and all the spice. Let this pickle get scalding hot, then pour it over the chicken. When the pickle is cold, cover the jar. The chicken will be fit to use in about six hours. Potted Fowl.—(1) Pluck and draw a Fowl, skin it, chop it, put it into a stockpot with Iqt. of water and a ham-bone, and stew gently for six hours. Take it out, cut off all the meat, chop it fine or pass it through a mincing-machine, and pound in a mortar, adding a little of the liquor to moisten. Pack it tightly in small pots or jars, cover with clarified butter, and set aside until wanted. (2) Take ^lb. of cold roasted chicken and |lb. of ham, and cut into small piieces, carefully removing the skin. Put the pieces of meat into a mortar, add jib. of butter, and pound to a smooth paste, adding by degrees and pounding into the paste 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, one-third of a grated nutmeg, and a little salt and cayenne. Press it into small glass jars, and pour over them enough butter warmed over the fire till melted to cover the paste in each jar to the depth of jin. This will keep for several days. (3) Cut off about 6oz. of hot roasted Fowl, put it into a mortar with an equal quantity of lean ham, and pound them well, adding jib. of butter. Put the skin and bones of the Fowl in a saucepan with a little of the gravy taken from the pan in which the Fowl was roasted, and season with cayenne, mace, salt, and pepper. Place the pan over a good sharp fire, and boil quickly to reduce the liquor to one-half its original bulk and until it is of a glaze; add it to the pounded meat in the mortar, and beat it well in ; then put all into shallow earthenware jars, press down tightly, and cover over with clarified butter. Pressed Fowl. — Put a Fowl into a saucepan with a very little water, and boil until the bones slip out and the gristly parts are quite soft. Take off the skin, and pull the meat to pieces, mixing the dark - coloured meat with the white.