623 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Put them in a stewpan, season, add 21b. of well-washed rice, | fill the stewpan with chicken-broth, and simmer for fifteen j minutes; add 12oz. of clarified brown butter, half close the stewpan, stand it at the side of the fire, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the pilau out on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Cut a Fowl into pieces, seasoning with salt and pepper, and boil fib. of well-washed rice until tender. Line the bottom of a baking-dish with slices of bacon and onion, put in the pieces of Fowl with two or three cloves, and fill up the dish with rice. Make a flour-and-water paste, roll it out into a thin flat, and cover the contents of the dish with it. Bake the pilau for three-quarters-of-an-hour; at the end of that time remove the paste crust, pour in boiling flavoured gravy, arrange some slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and serve very hot. (4) Boil a Fowl in 3 pints of water. When it is nearly done, cook lib. of rice, that has been well washed three or four times and drained quite dry, in ill', of butter; when almost fried brown, throw it into the water the Fowl is boiling in, add a blade of mace, three or four cloves, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and two or three bay-leaves, and let all boil together till the water is all absorbed. Put the Fowl and rice on a hot dish, pick out the spice and bay-leaves, lay over the rice and Fowl some slices of onions fried brown, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. (5) Indian.—Clean and truss a young Fowl, put it into a saucepan with lib. of beef, season with onions, ginger, and cloves, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil over a moderate fire until the chicken is done and quite tender. Take out the bird, strain the gravy into a basin, and keep both warm. Put ^lb. of fat into a sauce- pan, warm it, and throw in twelve large onions cut into thin slices; when it begins to boil, slightly brown them, then add, removing the onions to the side of the pan, 1 break- fast-cupful of well-washed rice, and fry until all the fat is absorbed. Now add four or five cardamom-seeds, six small sticks of cinnamon, a few peppercorns, one or two blades of mace, and J table-spoonful of salt. Mix well, pour over the gravy in which the chicken was boiled, using only sufficient to cover, place the lid on the pan, and set it on a slow fire to simmer. Reduce the heat of the fire as the liquor is absorbed, tossing the pan frequently to prevent burning. In the meantime, put the Fowl into a frying-pan with butter or fat, brown it well, put it, either whole or cut up, in the centre of a dish, pour over the pilau, strew over the fried onions, and serve with a garnish of halves of hard-boiled eggs and a few slices of fried bacon. Fowl Pilau a la Creole.—Prepared the same as for a la Turqtje, adding- three medium-sized cut-up fresh tomatoes, o.r ^ pint of tinned tomatoes, to the other garnishes. Fowl Pilau a la Turque. — Singe and draw a chicken weighing 21b., wipe it well, and cut it into twelve pieces of equal size. Brown these in a stewpan with loz. of butter, one chopped onion, and one chopped green pepper, cooking' for six minutes, and stirring lightly with a wooden spoon. Moisten with 1 pint of rich chicken broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce, add 2oz. of dried mushrooms which have been soaking in water for several hours, or twelve tinned mushrooms, and season with salt, pepper, and \ teaspoonful of diluted saffron, j When incorporated, add i pint of well-washed, uncooked rice and 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; cook for twenty minutes longer, dress neatly on a hot dish, and serve. Fowl Pot-Pie (American).—Singe, draw, and wipe a chicken from 311b. to 41b. in weight, cut it into twelve even pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and leave them in for thirty minutes; then wash them well, drain, and return to the saucepan. Cover again with fresh water, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, add a bouquet garni, six small onions, and 4oz. of salted pork cut into square pieces, and cook for three-quarters-of-an-hour, taking care to skim well; add 1 pint of raw potatoes, and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour diluted with 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Stir until it boils, and cook for ten minutes. Remove the bouquet and transfer the whole to a deep earthenware baking-dish, then moisten the edges of this slightly with water, and cover the top with crust. Brush the surface over with egg, make a few transverse lines in the paste with a fork, and cut a hole Fowls—continued. in the centre. Bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes, and send to table. Fowl Pudding-.—Chop fine ljlb. of the meat of a cold roasted or boiled Fowl, mix with it ilb. of finely-chopped beef-suet, Alb. of bacon or ham also finely chopped, |lb. of sifted bread- crumbs soaked in boiling milk, and add also a small quantity each of chopped mushrooms, parsley, lemon-peel, onion, and sweet herbs, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and two beaten eggs. Mix all well together, put it into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake it for an hour. Turn it out on to a hot dish, pour good gravy over it, and serve. Fowl Puree a la Turque.—Pluck, singe, and draw two Fowls, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them. Take them out, cut off all the meat from them, put it into a saucepan with milk, and add a small quantity of the stock they were partly boiled in. Boil until the meat is reduced to a pulp, mix in pounded loaf sugar to sweeten, giving it a very sweet taste, put the whole on a dish, sprinkle over pounded cinnamon, and serve. Fowl Quenelles. -(1) Mix together 1 teacupful each of bread- crumb and of finely-chopped or pounded cooked chicken-meat: season highly with salt and cayenne, and moisten with raw yolk of egg to bind it, so that little olive-shaped pieces can be moulded between two small spoons. Either roll the quenelles in egg and cracker dust, and fry them, or poach them until they float in boiling broth or water, and use them as required. (2) German.—Cut off the breast and the thickest parts of the flesh of an uncooked Fowl, chop it finely, mix with it 3oz. of beef-suet, also finely chopped, and pound in a mortar. Soak two or three slices of bread in milk; when soft, press them well, put them with the meat, and pound the whole well together. Season the mixture with 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped par.-ley, J table-spoonful of minced lemon-peel, a little salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture with well-beaten eggs, divide it into small portions, roll them like balls, and boil them for ten minutes in clear broth. When cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Fowl Quenelles with Consomme. — Make some chicken quenelles, and roll them about the size of thick corks. Butter the interior of a stewpan, put in the quenelles, with a small quantity of salt and sufficient water to cover them, and poach them. Drain them when they are cooked, put them into a soup-tureen, pour gently over them clear boiling chicken consomme, and serve. Fowl Quenelle Forcemeat.—Put the crumb of a French roll into a saucepan, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of chicken- broth and 1 of veloute sauce, add also 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and stir over a moderate fire until of such a consistence that it will not stick to the pan ; then add the yolks of two eggs, spread the paste on to a dish, and cover it over with buttered paper. Put into a mortar the flesh of a cooked Fowl, pound it, rub it through a sieve, and put the puree on a dish. Have ready also about lib. of cooked calf’s udder-, rub it also through a fine sieve, and pound it in the mortar. Work the whole well together, season to taste, and form into a mass with the yolks of eggs. It is then ready for use. Fowl Quenelles witli Mushrooms. — Mince the meat of two cooked Fowls, without the skin; boil some breadcrumbs in milk till they present a thick pulp, mix with it an equal quantity of butter, add the minced Fowl, season with salt and grated nutmeg, break in the yolks of three eggs, stir all till quite smooth, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and put in 5 teacupful of double-cream. Put the backbones, necks, legs, and pinions of the chickens in a basin, cover them with warm water, and let them soak for four or five minutes; take them out, wipe them, and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter and a slice of onion, and turn these about over the fire for a few minutes ; sprinkle in a little flour, add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, four or five peppercorns, a few mushrooms, -j pint of white wine, and lqt. of broth. When the liquor boils, stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, so that the liquor may simmer, for thirty minutes. Skim and strain the sauce, reduce it, and add