TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 499 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. Bed-Currant Jelly Sauce for Game. — (1) Put 3 table- spoonfuls of butter into a stewpan with a finely-chopped onion, and brown it; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, a sprig of celery, and a bay-leaf, and stir until these also begin to brown ; then add 1 pint of good stock, and simmer on the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Pass the sauce through a strainer back into the pan, skim off the fat, add 1 teacupful of Red-Currant jelly, and stir over the fire until it is melted. It is then ready for use. (2) A good sauce for game, especially venison, can be made by smoothly blending 1 table-spoonful of dry mustard with i jelly-glassful of Red-Currant jelly. Keep the sauce in a cool place until it is wanted for the table. Bed-Currant Julep.—In a large glass mix 1 wineglassful of Red-Currant syrup, a little bilberry syrup, and 1 wineglassful of lemon syrup ; fill up the glass with ice, put a little mint and a few red and white Currants on top, sprinkle over powdered loaf sugar, and drink through straws. Bed-Currant Marmalade.—Pick the stalks off 2qts. of ripe Red Currants, put them in a preserving-pan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of raspberry-juice, and boil them gently. When the Currants begin to break, mix 1 pint of syrup boiled to the candying degree (see Syrups) with them, and boil the whole until reduced to a thick pulp. Skim the marmalade, flavour with rose-water, and turn it into jars. When the marmalade is cold, cover the jars with brandied papers, then with parch- ment, and tie down tightly. Keep them in a cool dry cup- board. Bed-Currant Pain, or Cake, or Cheese.—Mash a few pounds of Red Currants, using a wooden spoon, pass them through a fine sieve into a basin, sweeten to taste with sugar, add the juice of two or three oranges, and sufficient dissolved 1 and clarified gelatine to stiffen the mixture. Let it remain for ten or twelve minutes, strain through a fine sieve into a pan, stir well on the ice until it is as thick as required, pour it into a mould coated with jelly, pack it in ice for an hour, turn it out carefully on to a cold dish, and serve. Bed-Currant Paste.—Pick 61b. of fine ripe Red Currants free from stalks, bruise them in a basin, and add to them lib. of hulled red raspberries. Squeeze the juice from the fruit and strain it through a silk sieve. Clarify and boil 71b. of sugar to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). When it has arrived at this state, pour the fruit-juice into it, put it over a slow fire, and stir constantly until it becomes so clear that the bottom of the pan can be seen through it. Then remove it at once from the fire and put into tin moulds placed on slates or copper sheets. Smooth the surfaces with the blade of a knife, dredge powdered white sugar over, put them in a stove, and let them remain for twelve hours or so. Turn the paste in the moulds and dredge them again with powdered white sugar. Put them back in the stove and again let them remain twelve hours. Take the paste out of the moulds, put it in boxes lined with white paper, cover over with more white paper, and keep it in a dry place. Bed-Currant Pastilles.—Squeeze some Red Currants through a sieve. Put lib. of powdered white sugar on a plate, add the Currant-juice to it till it makes a paste as clear and thick as desired, cut into shapes, let them dry, and they are ready for use. Bed-Currant Preserve. -Take 41b. of Red Currants, pick off the stalks, and put them into a pan over the fire to dry; next press them through a sieve, and put them back again over the fire, stirring constantly until the liquor becomes so clear that the bottom of the pan can be seen. Have 61b. of sugar melted over the fire and boiled to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), when if the finger be dipped in cold water and then instantly into the boiling sugar and back again directly into the cold water, the sugar will roll from the finger in a little ball, and when cold will crumble between the fingers, and if bitten will stick to the teeth. When the sugar is boiled to this state, pour it over the Currants and keep stirring them. In a short time remove the pan from the fire, but continue stirring till the liquor bubbles, then turn it into moulds. Bed-Currant Pudding1 (Wiltshire Style).—Beat well three eggs and mix 1 pint of milk with them; throw in 1 saltspoonful of salt and stir till dissolved. Then dredge and mix in as Currants—continued. much flour as will make a stiff batter, beat for five minutes, and stir in gently 1 heaped teacupful of Red Currants freed from stalks. Dip a cloth into boiling- Jwater, flour it well, tie the pudding in it, and boil for two hours. Take off the cloth, put the pudding on a hot flat dish, cut it into slices about lin. thick, slightly separate the slices, mask them with thin slices of butter and a little brown sugar, and serve hot. See Fig. 609. Bed-Currant-and-Easpberry or Cherry Tart.—Put lib. of brown sugar to every pound of Currants and raspberries, or Currants and cherries, taken in equal proportions, and mix them well. In the meantime, make a crust with jib. of sifted and dried flour, 2oz. or 3oz. of butter or lard, and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar. When mixed add the yolk of an egg and 1 teaspoonful of water. Work the paste on a well- floured board with the hand for a minute or two, then roll it out and line a tart- or pie-dish with it. Arrange the fruit on the paste, put the dish in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of an- hour, then cover it over with a piece of well-buttered paper, and when the fruit is cooked and the crust is quite done in the centre, remove from the oven and serve. Bed-Currant-and-Easpberry Paste Drops.—Boil and pass through a fine sieve so as to have lib. each of the pulp of Red Currants and raspberries, put them into a preserving- pan, and add lib. of crushed preserving-sugar. Stir well, set the pan on a brisk fire, and boil until the paste is reduced to that thickness that by pulling a spoon or knife across the bottom of the pan it is shown plainly. Take it off the fire and pour out the mixture in drops about l|in. in diameter on to a baking-sheet by means of a spouted can or small sugar-boiler. Put the drops in the screen or the oven with the door open for an hour or so until they are quite dry, then take a knife or spatula, remove them from the sheet, and put away in boxes with paper between them. Bed-Currant-and-Easpberry Pudding-.—Pick off the stalks from lib. of Red Currants, and pick and hull lib. of rasp- berries. Mix with them lib of powdered sugar. Cut some slices of bread without crust; fill a pudding-dish with them, spreading the layers thickly with the fruit and sug-ar, and having a very thick layer of fruit on top. Bake for one hour, and serve. Bed-Currant-and-Baspberry Water.—Pour 1 pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) into 1 pint of the juice of Red Currants and raspberries previously squeezed through a flannel bag, and add lqt. of water. A very refreshing drink with ice. Bed-Currant Sauce.—Boil a handful of Red Currants in water for a few minutes, add loz. of butter, four cloves, 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and 1 wineglassful of port wine; stir till it boils, and serve very hot. One ounce of grocers’ Currants are sometimes used instead of Red Currants in making this sauce. Bed-Currant Shrub.— (1) Take 3qts. of ripe Red Currants, pick them free from stalks, and put them into a jar in a large saucepan of water on the stove; let it gradually heat till the juice comes from the Currants. This will take at least an hour. Squeeze the Currants in a straining-cloth so as to get out all the juice, then measure it; put it into a preserving-pan, and to each pint add 6oz. of sugar; stir the sugar in the warm juice till it is thoroughly melted, remove from the stove, and let it cool; when quite cold, stir in 1 pint of Jamaica rum to every pint of juice. Strain, bottle, and cork. 2 s 2