642 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i-c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fowls—continued. uncooked pork mixed with a few table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs ; then put in the chicken meat and truffles, keeping them packed as closely together as possible, spread a layer of forcemeat oyer it and then a layer of the paste, fix to the sides of the timbale, and put it into a moderate oven to bake for an hour. When done, turn it out on to a hot dish ; make a small hole in the top and pour in a little of the chicken gravy reduced with a little wine, pour a little sauce round the bottom of the dish, and serve with a g-arnish of forcemeat balls and truffles. See Fig. 791. Timbales of Fowls with Truffles.—Bono two Fowls, cut them up into pieces, and lard them with thin fillets of bacon. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, then put in the pieces of Fowl, with a few mushrooms, two or three shallots, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and | pint of white wine; season to taste with salt and spices, and stew gently at the side of the fire until the meat is tender. Boil a few chopped truffles in white wine, mix them with the Fowl, &c., and let the mixture get cool. Butter three timbale-moulds and line them with rolls or strips of paste, letting each roll firmly overlap the other; Fig. 792. Timbales of Fowls with Truffles. next line the moulds with small veal forcemeat balls, making them come nearly to the top. Fill the hollows of the moulds with the prepared mixture, and cover with a flat of paste; trim it round the edges, moisten and press them together, and make a small hole in the centre of each. Put the tim- bales in the oven, making a wall of ashes round them to keep them in position, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, stuff up the holes with a piece of paste, and turn the whole out on to a hot dish ; make a small hole in the centre, pour in a small quantity of reduced gravy, and serve, with forcemeat balls and truffles for garnish (see Fig. 792). Truffled Fowl.—Select a fat Fowl, bone it, and put it on a table with the fillets cut off the breasts of two other Fowls; cut some large slits in them all, and put pieces of pork cut into thin slips in the cuts. Chop lqt. of truffles into slices, and put them where they will show in the white meat when it is cut; sprinkle well with pepper, salt, powdered thyme, and a little finely-grated nutmeg, and put the pieces of the breasts in the thinnest parts of the Fowl ; draw the two sides together, sew them up into shapes as near the original as possible, wrap the Fowl in a cloth, tie it round with string, and boil it in salted broth for two hours. Take it out, put it in a mould or shape with a weight on the top, and let it cool. When perfectly cold, remove the string and cloth, put it on a dish, and cut it up into slices; or it may be put into a mould and filled up with aspic jelly, or masked with liquefied butter. Turban of Fowls a la Cleveland.—Singe and draw two Fowls, wipe them well, bone them, and cut them into quarters; then put them into a sautc-pan with loz. of butter, salt, and pepper, and wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil slowly for ten minutes. Take 1 breakfast-cupful of chicken force- meat, and add to it one chopped truffle, three chopped mush- rooms, and ioz. of minced cooked tongue, and stir well. Put this forcemeat on a dish, lay the pieces of chicken on top, crown-shaped, and decorate with twelve whole mushrooms and two thinly-sliced truffles. To the chicken gravy add % pint of Spanish sauce, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, and a small pat of fresh butter. Pour this immediately over the Fowls, put the dish in the oven, and cook very slowly for ten minutes. Squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and serve with six heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Fowls—continued. Turban of Fowl Fillets.—Select five or six chickens and remove their fillets : beat the latter with a knife for a while to make them tender, take off the outer skin, and with a larding-needle lard them on one side only with fat bacon. Make a little quenelle forcemeat with the flesh from the legs, pass it through a sieve, and to one-third of its bulk add the same quantity of mushroom puree. Take a well-buttered cylindrical dome-shaped mould, put the remainder of the forcemeat into it, and poach it in the bain-marie ; when done, turn it out on to a previously cooked flat of paste, cut about the size of an entree dish. Let this cool, then cover it over with a layer of the uncooked forcemeat, and put the fillets against it, having their larded side outside. Wrap some strips of bacon round the parts that are not larded, and thus the turban is formed. Stand it in a hot oven, and let it bake for from twelve to fifteen minutes. When quite done, take it out, moisten the larded parts with a little gravy, and with a salamander brown it on the outside ; then take off the strips of bacon, wipe off the fat, and slip the turban on to a round dish. Decorate it with a border of nouille paste, and put it in a warm place for a few minutes. Garnish the centre of the cylinder of the turban with some cocks’ combs and truffles, masked with a little brown sauce reduced with white wine, and serve with some more sauce in a sauceboat. Vinaigrette of Chicken.—Prepare a jelly with one cow-heel and lqt. of water, boil slowly for ten hours, and strain. Let the jelly stand for a day, then skim off all the grease and remove the sediment, put it into a saucepan with a seasoning- of lemon-peel, mace, allspice, salt, pepper, a shred of garlic, and two bay-leaves, pour in 1 wineglassful each of sherry and vinegar, and gradually melt the jelly. Should it not be clear enough, clarify with the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and strain through a jelly-bag until clear. Now add a little caramel to give it a dark colour, pour a little at the bottom of a mould, and let it get stiff ; then arrange over it in several thin layers the white flesh of a chicken, three hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, a pickled gherkin also cut in slices, and a few small pieces or slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, with a little more of the jelly poured over the layers. When the mould is full, pack it in ice, lot it get quite firm, turn it out, and serve. The above ingredients should be arranged in at least throe layers. Vol-au-Vent of Chicken.—Cut into dice 1V pints of cooked chicken-meat, and season with salt and pepper. Make a cream sauce, and season that also with salt and pepper, adding | tea- spoonful each of onion-juice and made mustard. Heat the chicken in this, and with it fill some vol-au-vent cases. Fowl's Giblets.—The practice of trussing Fowls for roasting, with the liver and gizzard tucked under the wings, should be considered obsolete—both are dried up and spoiled by such cooking. It is usual now to reserve the giblets for other purposes, such as are given here- under. They should be thoroughly cleansed by washing, and the gizzard cut open and the inside skin peeled off. Fowl’s Giblet Pie.—Take some stewed chicken giblets and put them into a pie-dish with the meat from the necks and pinions of the Fowls. Place them in in layers, with slices of fat bacon between, until the dish is full, pour in a little good gravy, cover the dish with a crust of mashed potatoes, and put it in the oven to bake for half-an-hour. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets. —Wash the giblets from four or five Fowls, dry them on a cloth, sprinkle them over with flour, and fry them in a frying-pan with a little butter. Take the gizzards, cut them into slices, put them into the saucepan with the giblets, add six onions cut up small and fried slightly, and a little bunch of sweet herbs, then pour sufficient stock to cover them, and season with salt and pepper. Place the pan on a very moderate fire where it will simmer for about an hour. When the giblets are perfectly done, take them out, drain them, pass the gravy through a strainer, and remove all the fat. Rub the onions through a fine sieve and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of flour, then stir them into the gravy, boil up again, add the giblets, let them remain until perfectly hot, and serve. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets a l’Anglaise.—Brown in a saucepan three minced giblets with a sliced onion, moisten with lqt. of white broth, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, a