TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 600 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dfcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Flour—continued. middlings for biscuits; 2, tippings or specks ; 3, dustings; 4, best pollard, called also Turkey middlings, or coarse middlings. According to one Mr. Hard, a practical miller, a quarter of wheat (5041b.) should yield: lb. Flour ... 392 Biscuit or fine middlings 10 Toppings or specks ... 8 Best pollard, Turkey pollard, or “ twenty-penny ” 15 Fine pollard ... 18 Bran and coarse pollard 50 Loss by evaporation and waste 11 504 lb. Of the nutritive qualities of Flour it is hardly neces- sary to say more than that it is one of the best and most useful alimentary materials we possess. In the form of bread, it constitutes the staple food of this and many other countries. It is made into bread, cakes, puddings, biscuits, and a variety of other valuable comestibles; and from the hard, highly glutinous wheat of Sicily, Russia, Sardinia, Algeria, and Egypt, numerous granular powders and dried pastes possessing great nutritive properties are manufactured, such as those known by the names of semola, semolina, soujee, marmacroup, macaroni, vermicelli, and Cagliari paste. According to Yacquelin, the best French Flour con- tains in 100 parts: Water 10 Gluten 11 Starch VI Sugar 5 Gum 3 100 When made into dough, about 50 per cent, is water. Blyth tells us that “ good wlieaten Flour should be sweet, and free from acidity. It should not lose more than 6 to 12 per cent, by being carefully baked in a stove; should exhibit no traces of bran even when pressed smooth with a polished surface, and its cohesive- ness should be so great that on being squeezed in the hand the lump should be some time before losing its shape. The colour of good Flour is white, or with a very slight tinge of yellow; there should be no lumps in it, or if any exist they should at once break down on slight pressure. When the Flour is made into a paste with water, its quality may be judged of by the tenacity of the dough, the length to which it may be drawn into a thread, or the extent it can be spread out into a thin sheet.” An experienced baker (Robert Wells), in a work on bread- and biscuit-making, says : “ To judge of Flour, take a portion in your hand and press it firmly between the thumb and forefinger, at the same time rubbing it gently, for the purpose of making a level surface upon the Flour; or take a watch with a smooth back and press it firmly on the Flour. By this means its colour may be ascertained by observing the pressed or smooth surface. If the Flour feels loose and lively in the hands, it is of good quality; if it feels dead or damp, or in other words, clammy, it is decidedly bad. Flour ought to be a week or two old before being used;” and as in keeping Flour it is apt to lie heavy, it is advisable at all times to sift it before mixing. The adulteration of Flour was at one time of common practice; but legislation has been very justly severe upon such frauds, with the result that additions for the sake of cheapening Flour are almost unknown. (See Adul- terations.) Alum is occasionally employed to whiten Flour and prevent injurious fermentation; but this is more often added by the baker than the miller, and by the pastrycook never. By putting a few grains of Flour—continued. the Flour under a powerful microscope the adulteration becomes manifest, standing out in uncanny prominence amongst the grains of starch. Speculative manufacturers have prepared a kind of Flour which is said to be self-raising. This property is due to an admixture of acid and alkali, which forms carbonic acid gas when wetted. The following is con- sidered to be a good receipt for preparing this Flour at home; but it is not recommended in preference to plain Flour treated in the ordinary manner : To every 41b. of flour use 2oz. of cream of tartar and loz. of bicarbonate of soda, mix them together, and sift several times through a fine hair sieve. Flour when prepared in this way will rise in making cakes, &c., without the aid of yeast. It should be kept well covered in an earthen or wooden flour-bin or barrel, for if damp gets to it the Flour will start rising before it is wanted to do so. Baked Flour.- -In baking Flour it should not be browned, as it is then no good : the best plan is to put the Flour in the oven towards night, especially if it (the oven) has been well heated during the day, and let it remain till the next morning. Press the Flour tightly down in an earthen jar, and put a saucer or plate on the top. Baked Flour makes a capital gruel when boiled with milk in the ordinary way; it can also bo used for thickening, and is better than the raw Flour. Boiled Flour.—(1) Put lib. of Flour in a pudding-cloth, tie it up as tightly as possible, dip it two or three times in cold water, dredge the outside thickly with flour so that a crust may form round it while boiling, boil for eight or ten hours, take it out, drain, and let it cool, still tied up in the cloth. Flour boiled in this way makes a capital food for children. Before using- it must first be grated, as when turned out of the cloth it will be a hard block. It can be boiled in milk like arrowroot, or any other way preferred. (2) Put a little Flour into a basin, press, and beat it down with a spoon and the hands, and continue in this way until the basin is as full as it will hold. Tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for about twelve hours. Take it out, remove the cloth, and let it remain for a day ; then scrape off the skin on top, pound and sift the remainder, and put it into jars until wanted. Browned Flour. — Cover a baking-sheet with sifted Flour, and stand it in a hot oven for a short time, giving it an occa- sional turn so as to colour it evenly and prevent burning. Browned Flour is sometimes used for colouring soups and gravies. FLOWER ARTICHOKES.—See Artichokes. FLUKES.—The fish known in America as Flukes arc large and white-fleshed, resembling the European flounder in appearance. The flesh is firm and sweet, and several delightful dishes can be made from it. The Fluke is fre- quently confounded with the halibut, to which, especially as regards the flesh, it has some resemblance. It is always in season, but primest during the winter months. Baked Fluke.—Thoroughly wash the fish in cold water, remove the fillets, using a very sharp knife, and skin them, being careful not to mangle the strips by uneven cutting or hacking. Fig. 757. Baked Fluke. Cut the strips of fish in pieces of even size, about 4in. or 5in. wide and Gin. long. Roll up as many of those pieces as are