492 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cups—continued. Cups will lie found under special headings, such as Champagne, Claret, and others: Loving-cup.—(1) Melt Jib. of loaf sugar and strain it into a jug that will hold 3qts., pour in a bottle of Scotch ale and 1 pint of sherry, stirring well all the time; put in a small piece of toasted bread, and four slices of lemon. Empty in a bottle of soda-water, grate a small quantity of nutmeg on the froth, and serve at once. (2) Rub off the thin rind of a lemon with lumps of sugar, put them into a jar with two lemons cut into thin slices, also the thin rind of one of them, 4oz. of loaf sugar, and J pint of ' brandy. Stir well until thoroughly mixed, and pour in lqt. of cold filtered water, 1 pint of Madeira wine, and a bottle of cider; grate in a nutmeg, and sweeten to taste, using either sugar or capillaire. Should the drink be required for summer, a small handful each of freshly-gathered balm and borage in flower should be put into the jar, stalks down- wards, and the liquor should be placed in the ice-tub for an hour before using. For winter use, ale may be substituted 1 for the cider, and it should then be drunk warm, not hot. (3) Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold spring-water into a saucepan, flavour with Joz. each of whole allspice, ground cloves, and cinnamon, and boil well over the fire until the liquor is reduced to one-third its original quantity. Strain it, and it is then ready for use, and may be bottled. A small portion of it mixed with a little sherry, Madeira, port, and claret, with lemon-juice, grated nutmeg, water, and sugar to taste, also any more spices that may be desired, will make a good bowl when served cold with ice. Oxford Grace-cup.—Rub off the rind of a lemon with lumps of sugar so as to obtain the zest; put them into a bowl, with the remainder of the lemon cut into thin slices, pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of strong but not bitter beer and 1 pint of sherry, add more sugar to sweeten, and grated nutmeg to flavour, and stir well until the whole of the sugar is dissolved. On the surface float four or five browned slices of toasted bread, let it remain for a couple of hours or more, strain, and it is ready for use. Parting-cup. — This should be made only a few minutes before serving. Well brown three slices of bread by toasting, put them into the bowl for serving, grate over nutmeg to taste, pour over a little more than half a bottle of sherry and lqt. of mild ale, stir well, add sufficient simple syrup to sweeten, and when upon the point of serving, add a bottle of soda-water. Clove or cinnamon for flavouring may be added if desired. CUP CAKES.—See Cakes. CUP PUDDING.—See Puddings. CURACOA. —A well-known liqueur, made in Amster- dam. Tlie ingredients necessary in the preparation of Curaooa are brandy, sugar, and orange-peel. The liqueur takes its name from tlie island of Curaooa, a possession of the Dutch in the West Indies, the best orange-peel in the world coming from that place. Hundreds of thousands of pounds of bitter-orange-peel are sent annually from Curaooa to Holland for the purpose of making this liqueur; the best being made at Amsterdam by the firm of Wynand Fockink. The French liqueur - makers dispute the superiority of the Dutch make. There are two kinds, white and brown, which, it is believed, differ only in respect of colour, the brown being- due to the addition of burnt sugar. Like all good productions, Curaooa is subject to imitation. (1) A very good Cura9oa for cooking may be prepared as | follows : Pour lqt. of water into a saucepan placed over the I fire, boil it up, add lib. of dark brown sugar-candy, a small piece at a time, let it dissolve, increase the heat of the j fire, and boil vigorously; turn the liquor into a shallow dish | and let it cool. Put 120 drops of oil of bitter-orange into a bottle with lqt. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof, dissolve it, and add it to the syrup when quite cold. Strain | through a filter into small bottles, and it is ready for use. The liquid will require to be filtered several times to obtain a clear bright colour. Curaqoa—continued. (2) Cut off the thin rind from one-and-a-half dozen Seville oranges, put it into a mortar, and pound well. Put 20oz. of white sugar-candy also into a mortar with loz. of ground cinnamon, and pound them; mix one pounded ingredient with the other. Put the whole into a bottle, pour in 3 pints of strong brandy, cork securely, and let it remain for three weeks, giving the bottle a shake every other day. Filter through flannel into small bottles, cork, and the Curaooa is ready for use. (3) Thinly pare the rind off six Seville oranges and one lemon, put it into a large glass retort, with a small piece of stick cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of coriander-seeds, and a very small quantity of saffron; then pour in 3 pints of pure spirit, cork the glass tightly, and keep it in a warm temperature. In about six weeks’ time strain the liquor through a piece of fine flannel until clear. Put 21b. of lump sugar in a sauce- pan with 3 pints of water, and boil until small transparent beads form on the top, then take it away from the fire and leave until cold. Mix the syrup and the spirit together, fill small bottles with it, and cork them tightly. Keep the Curagoa in a cool, dry place. (4) This is made by macerating the peel of forty-six oranges, 2 drachms of cinnamon, and 1 drachm of mace in lOqts. of spirits of wine (proof) poured into earthen or stone jars. It may be left for from three to five weeks, and should be occa- sionally shaken. It must now be filtered. Dissolve in this 71b. of sugar and add 3qts. of water. Give it a yellow colour by adding a little of an aqueous infusion of sunflower or French berries, and the tincture of saffron and turmeric. Bottle, and use. (5) Break ljlb. of rock candy very small, put it over the fire with just enough cold water to cover it, stir till melted, and let it come to the boil. Add the strained juice of four oranges, let it boil up once again, and then take it from the fire. Skim as it cools, and then put in the grated rind of four oranges, one dozen cloves, I teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 saltspoonful of g'rated nutmeg ; put it into a jar, together with 1 pint of the best brandy, cork it well, stand in a cool place for a fortnight, and shake well every day. After it has been in the jar a fortnight, strain it through flannel, bottle, and cork it well. Fig. 600. Curaooa Jelly. (6) Select a dozen thin-skinned Seville oranges, cut off the rind as finely as possible, put it into a jar with loz. of freshly-gathered orange-flowers, pour over a hot syrup made with 21b. of sugar, and cork up securely. Let it get cold, take out the cork, pour in Jgall. of over-proof spirit, and let it remain for a fortnight, giving it a gentle shake every now and then. Filter off into small bottles, cork and seal them, and use as required. A little saffron may be added should the colour not be deep enough. (7) Mix with a bottle of brandy 1 pint of capillaire, 1 table- spoonful of almond extract, a few drops of colouring, and sufficient orange extract to make it taste slightly bitter.