TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 516 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Darioles—continued. as a cream or cheese cake, which at once associates the name again with the cheese cakes so famous as Richmond Maids-of-Honour. Numerous receipts for the manufacture of various Darioles will be found throughout this Ency- clopaedia, the original principle, from which there are some variations, being that of lining a Dariole-mould (see Fig. 636) with thin paste and filling up with rich cream, or custard. (1) Put in a basin 2 teacupfuls of caster sugar flavoured with vanilla, 2 teacupfuls of flour, 2 teacupfuls of ground almonds, and break in two eggs; mix these ingredients together, then pass all through a sieve, and beat in 1| pints of milk. Butter and line some plain Dariole-moulds with rich short-paste, put a small piece of butter at the bottom of each, fill them up with the mixture, and stand them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven for half-an-hour; then turn them out, sprinkle over the top of each a little caster sugar flavoured with vanilla, and glaze them in the oven for five minutes. Serve cold on an ornamental dish-paper, and decorate with crystallised fruits on the top of each (see Pig. G37) and round the dish if desired. (2) Beat loz. of flour in a basin with one egg, and when quite smooth add the yolks of six eggs, 1 teacupful of caster sugar, \oz. of candied orange-flowers, and six crushed large macaroons ; beat one egg in pint of cream, and mix with the remainder. Butter and line very thinly twelve small Dariole-moulds with a thin layer of short-paste, fill them with the preparation, and stand on a baking-sheet in a quick oven. When done, turn out of the moulds on to a dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve while hot. (3) Put loz. of flour into a basin, and work in one egg; when smooth, add the yolks of six eggs, fib. of crushed loaf sugar, six almond or filbert macaroons ground to a powder, and a very small quantity of salt; mix well, and add 1 table- spoonful or so of cream. Line about eighteen Dariole-moulds with puff paste, put in each a small lump of butter, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Dust them over with pounded loaf sugar, and serve. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a basin, mix in l^oz. of flour and sufficient sugar to sweeten, and pour it, when smooth, into a saucepan, adding loz. of softened butter. Stir well over the fire until the milk boils, add two well- beaten eggs, remove the pan at once from the fire, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Butter six or eight Dariole-moulds, line them with puff-paste trimmings, three- parts fill with the preparation, place in a quick oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. When done, turn them out of the moulds, sprinkle well with caster sugar, and serve as hot as possible. (5) Put the well-beaten yolks of six eggs into a basin, mix in 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, a little grated rind of lemon, and sufficient sifted loaf sugar to sweeten; add about 3 break- fast-cupfuls of cream, and stir all well together. Line with puff paste a sufficient quantity of small Dariole-moulds to hold the mixture, set them in a sharp oven, and bake for from twenty to thirty minutes. When done, turn them out care- fully, and serve either hot or cold. DARiNE.— Fr. for a slice of certain fish, such as Darne de saurnon—slice of salmon. D’ARTOIS.—According to some authorities, this is the name of a famous French count, after whom several dishes have been named; but the probabilities are that the term originated from the province of Artois. See Cakes. Russian D’Artois.—Prepare a salpiijon of cooked oysters, cray- fish-tails and claws, mushrooms, and blanched eel-pout livers, adding a little raw pike forcemeat to thicken. Have ready 11b. of puff paste, cut it into halves, and roll out each half into a thin oblong square ; place one of these on a baking- sheet, spread over the salpifon (not too thick, and leaving about Jin. all round the edges), damp the edges with a paste-brush, place the other piece of paste on the top, fasten with the thumb, cut the four sides straight, and brush over the top with egg ; mark the surface with a knife-point, put it on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. When the top is evenly coloured, cover over with paper ; and when quite cooked, take it out of the oven, cut it into oblong squares about 2jin. by lin., and serve on a folded napkin on a dish. DARUM —A very intoxicating drink made in India from Mowha flowers. It is generally greatly diluted before being offered for sale, and has a most offensive odour, but is so exceedingly cheap that it is said some of our British soldiers will hold their noses when drinking it rather than lose the opportunity of tasting the pleasures of intoxication at little pecuniary cost. DATES (Fr. Dattes; Ger. Datteln).—Of the wonder- 1 ful palm-tree (Phoenix dactylifera) (see Fig. 638) that bears the fruit, familiar to us in its dried state, Fig. 638. Date Palm. little is known in this country, although it is grown in some gardens; but it forms one of the most important contributors to the luxuries of the inhabi-