THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 716 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i;c., referred to, see under their special heads. Grayling—continued. The Grayling is sometimes known as the umber. It varies in size, attaining as much as a foot in length, especially the Grayling found in American rivers; and all alike are esteemed as game fish, of fine flavour, and primest in July and August They may be cooked like trout, baked, or broiled, and served with lemon; but the smaller fish are usually most appreciated prepared as follows : Fried Graylings.—Scale and clean two or three Graylings, wash them well, dredge over with flour, put them before the fire to dry, then plunge them into a frying-pan of lard or dripping, and fry for about five minutes. When done, drain, place them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted- butter sauce. GREASE.—This term, although generally applied to all kinds of fat, is not much used in the kitchen excepting as a term of contempt. What the cook denominates Grease may be anything that is considered worthy of relegation to the Grease-pot, and has a very broad meaning in consequence. GREEN BUTTER.—See Butter. GREEN-COD.—See Pollock. GREEN CORN.—Sec Indian Corn. GREEN-CRABS.—Edible shore-crabs of Europe and America, known in New England as Joe-Rockers. Not very plentiful in this country. GREENGAGES.—These constitute a variety of plum (Primus domestica) that are perhaps more highly esteemed than any other for their firm flesh, delicate flavour, and sweetness. The term Gage was given to this fruit by a family of that name, who imported it from France into Eno-land about the end of the eighteenth century. In France ami other Continental countries it is known as Reine Claude, after the queen of Francis I. Fro. 882. Greengages. The Blue-gage, Frost-gage, Golden-gage, and some j others are probably sub-varieties of the Greengage. See Fig. 882. Bottled Greengages.—Select Greengages that are not quite ripe, make small holes all over them, put them in wide- mouthed bottles, fill the bottles with thin syrup, cork, and tie down; place them in a saucepan of water, bring it gently to the boil, and simmer until the fruit turns brown. Remove from the fire, leave the bottles in the water for a day, boil again for ten minutes, and the fruit is ready for use. Greengages—continued. Candied Knots of Greengage Paste.—Put sufficient ripe Greengages in a copper preserving-pan to produce lib. of pulp; add 4oz. of coarsely-crushed preserving-sugar and sufficient water to cover them, place the pan over a slow fire, and let the contents simmer gently for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Take the pan off the fire, cover the Green- gages with vine-leaves, and leave in a cool place till the following day; remove the leaves, stand the preserving-pan over the fire, and stir the contents till reduced to a rather stiff pulp, then pass it through a cane sieve. Boil 14oz. of sugar to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), put the Greengage pulp in it, and stir over the fire till reduced, Fig. 883. Candied Knots or Greengage Paste Packed in Box. so that when passing the spoon to and fro the bottom of the pan can be seen. Pour the mixture on to a bright sheet of tin to about jin. thick, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and set it in the screen to dry for four or five hours. Slip the blade of a knife under the paste, then turn it over and leave it to dry on the other side for an hour longer. When quite cold, cut the paste into thin strips about 6in. long and gin. wide, and tie these into true-lovers’ knots. When all the paste is used in this manner, put the knots on a wire tray, set it in a screen of a moderate heat, and dry them. Pack the knots of candied paste in boxes between sheets of white paper (see Fig. 883). Compote of Greengages.—(1) Select twenty large and per- fectly sound Greengages, wipe them, and put them in a copper sugar-boiler with Hb. of loaf sugar and j pint of water; when it has boiled cover the pan, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Take the Greengages out, strain the syrup, put it back in the sugar-boiler, and reduce to 30deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Arrange the Greengages tastefully in a compote-dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve. (2) Prepared as for No. 1, only an equal proportion of pale brandy should be mixed with the syrup when they are being finished off. Dried Greengages.—Procure some fine perfectly sound Green- gages, cut off the brown end of the stalks, but leave the remainder on; prick them all over with a pin, then put Fig. 884. Greengages on Wire Drainer. them in a pan with sufficient syrup of 22deg. (see Syrups) for them to float in; set them over a smothered fire, and leave for ten minutes. Turn the Greengages and syrup into