651 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Frogs—continued. crumbs in a gratin-disli, lay the pieces of Frogs on them, season with salt and pepper, strew a few sweet herbs over them, also more sifted crumbs, put two or three small bits of lemon-peel on the top, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and pour in about 1 breakfast-cupful of brown gravy. Cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake for half- an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, brown them under a salamander, and serve in the same dish. Frog Salad.—Soak some Frog’s legs in salted water for lialf- an-hour, then drain them, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil gently by the side of the fire. When tender, drain the water from the Frogs, cover them with milk, and let it come slowly to the boil. Take the legs out of the milk, leave them till cool, then bone them. Wash a head of celery, cut it into lin. lengths, put them in a salad-bowl, place the legs on the top, garnish the salad with young tops of celery, chopped hard-boiled eggs, and shrimps or prawns (or, if preferred, lobster claws), and serve with a mayonnaise dressing. Stewed Frogs.—(1) Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir it over the fire until browned ; mix in gradually lj pints of brown stock, and continue stirring it until boiling ; then move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an 'hour. Open a tin of Frogs and turn them gently into a basin, which should be stood near the fire in a saucepan of hot water; season them with salt and pepper, cover with a plate, and leave them until hot. Make a border of green peas round a hot dish, put on them here and there some small rings of lemon- peel, and place the Frogs in the centre; mix a wineglassful of port wine with the sauce, pour it over the Frogs, covering them, and serve. (2) Cut off the claws of |lb. of cleaned Frog’s legs, cut these into pieces at each joint, place them in a saucepan on the fire with |oz. of butter, season with salt and red pepper, and cook for five minutes ; then add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, with two finely-minced truffles, and reduce for three minutes. Put the yolks of three eggs in a basin, add j pint of sweet cream, beat well, and pour it into the pan with the Frogs ; gently shuffle the pan in opposite directions until "the sauce thickens, which will take two-minutes-and-a-half, pour it into a hot soup-tureen, and serve. (3) Take eighteen Frog’s legs, trim off the claws, place them in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, seasoning witli salt and pepper, add 5 wineglassful of white wine, cover over the pan, and cook on a brisk stove for five minutes; then add 1 pint of Dutch sauce, 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice, and mix well for two minutes, but do not let the liquor boil again. Turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) American.—Melt |oz. of butter in a saucepan on the fire, and in it brown one chopped onion, about loz. of raw ham cut into dice, half a green pepper-pod cut small, table- spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper ; moisten with lqt. of ■white broth or consomme, add 1 table-spoonful of rice, six sliced gumbos, and one sliced tomato, and cook thoroughly for about twenty minutes. Five minutes before serving add Jib. of prepared Frogs cut up into small pieces. Turn out on to a dish, and serve. One green pepper and two tomatoes may be substituted for the gumbo. FRONTIGNAC.—The name of a sweet French wine, made from Muscat grapes. Known in France as Vin de Frontignan. FROST AND FROSTING. — These terms are frequently used by foreigners practising in this country for freezing and sugar icing. FROST FISH.—An American name for the Smelt. FROZEN MEATS.—Sec Australian Meat. FRUIT (Fr. Fruit; Ger. Obst; Ital. Frutta; Sp. Fruta).—The distinction drawn by the cook between “ Fruit ” and “ vegetables ” is somewhat erroneous accord- ing to the botanist, who pronounces Fruit to be the mature ovary or pistil of a plant, containing the seeds. To call the stalks of a leaf (rhubarb) Fruit merely because Fruit—continued. it is used like a Fruit to make pies, puddings, jams, and other sweet dishes is evidently wrong, for it is certainly not the seed-bearer; and a similar objection is raised to calling a cucumber or vegetable marrow a vegetable because the cook serves them as vegetables. Correctly speaking, the term vegetable applies to all members of the vegetable kingdom, whether plants, shrubs, or trees, and equally therefore to their edible parts, such as leaves, stalks, or Fruit. Fruits are very much used as food either for man or animals, and are often regarded as a luxury. As a rule they do not yield much nourishment, their solid parts rarely exceeding, excepting in the case of grain, 13 per cent. Cooley says : “ The Fruit of the cereals furnishes our daily bread; that of the vine gives us the well- known beverage, wine; whilst other varieties enrich our desserts, and provide us with some of our most valuable condiments and aromatics. The acidulous and sub-acid Fruits are antiseptic, aperient, attenuant, diuretic, and refrigerant. They afford little nourishment and are apt to promote diarrhoea and flatulency. They are, however, occasionally used medicinally. The farinaceous Fruits (grain), as already stated, furnish the principal and most useful portion of the food of man. The oleo- farinaceous (nuts, &c.) are less wholesome and less easy of digestion than those purely farinaceous. The saccha- rine Fruits, or those abounding in sugar, are nutritious and laxative, but are apt fo ferment and disagree with delicate stomachs when eaten in excess. Stone-Fruits are more difficult of digestion than the other varieties, and are very apt to disorder the stomach and bowels.’ Whether, therefore, we regard Fruits as food, medicine, or luxury, it is apparent from their exquisite beauty, so entrancing to the eye, perfume, and flavour, that they were intended for the delectation of man. Fig. 806. Basket of Fruit. All Fruits should lie gathered in warm dry weather, and when the mid-day sun is upon them, for they will then hold the maximum of sugar, and any dew or moisture will have evaporated and dried off. They should be quite ripe when gathered, and not allowed to remain on the tree after ripening, except in certain cases when they are intended to be dried. When gathering Fruit for a dessert-dish, such as a basket (see Fig. 806), it is of the first importance that they should not be handled, lest they lose any of the bloom which is almost essential to the beauty of their appearance in groups.