649 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fritters—continued. (2) Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick from a stale loaf, cut them into rounds with a paste-cutter, put some butter in a frying-pan, and when it boils, fry the bread in it to a golden colour ; take them out, let them drain on paper till dry, and arrange on a dish. Have ready some hot orange- or lemon-syrup, pour it over the Fritters, and serve. Italian Fritters with Cheese. — Grate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese, mix with it half a cooked and cooled calf’s brain, and a salpiyon prepared with 8oz. of cold lean ham; shape this mixture into little balls of an equal size, flour them, dip them into batter, and fry in boiling fat. When well and evenly browned, take them out, drain, and pile them on a folded napkin laid on a dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Light Fritters.—Scald 1 pint of milk and pour it over ooz. of sifted breadcrumbs, beat it to a soft batter, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and salt and nutmeg to taste, and then mix in smoothly 3 dessert-spoonfuls of self-raising flour, and whisk in lightly and quickly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fry the batter in table-spoonfuls in boiling lard, lay the Fritters on kitchen-paper to drain, and serve them hot with sweet sauce. Marie Louise Fritters.—To Urbain Dubois we are indebted for these beautiful Fritters. Make a sponge with a little flour and 1 teacupful of milk in which loz. of German yeast has been dissolved ; set it in a warm place, and when risen to double its original volume knead it; add the remainder of lib. of flour and Jib. of warmed butter, and when these are well worked in, add gradually six beaten eggs. Pound 1 teacupful of sugar with little more than J teacupful of peeled and blanched Jordan almonds, add 1 pinch of salt, and mix these with the paste ; put it into a basin, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place ; break it, let it rise again twice, breaking each time. Roll the paste out thin on a floured table, and cut it in twenty-six rounds with a plain tin cutter. Fig. 801. Marie Louise Fritters. Strain and reduce some raspberry jam till firm, put a small quantity in the centres of half the rounds, cover them with the other half, moistening slightly round the edges to make the paste layers adhere. Cut the rounds again with the same tin cutter so as to trim off irregularities. Spread a floured cloth on a baking-tin, put the Fritters on, and let them rise. Put plenty of lard in a frying-pan, and when just melted but not boiling, drop half of the Fritters into it, and keep them covered for three or four minutes ; take the cover off, allow the fat to cool a little, take the Fritters out, and proceed with the frying of the remainder. When nicely browned they are done. Drain them of the fat, sprinkle caster sugar over the tops, pass a salamander over to give a glaze, and serve on a folded napkin laid over a dish (see Fig. 804). Mixed Fritters.—Have ready and separately cooked, brains, sweetbreads, calf’s feet, calf’s head, and artichokes. Divide them into pieces of equal size, brush them over with egg, breadcrumb or flour them, put them into a pan of hot butter, and fry brown. Put the pieces of meat on a dish, add a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice to the butter, and serve all together. Mogador Fritters.—Put a thick piece of ox-marrow into water to soak, take it out, put it in a saucepan with a little broth that has not been skimmed, then place the pan on the fire, and boil for two minutes; remove the pan from the fire, and let it cool for fifteen minutes or so. Take out the marrow, drain on a napkin, and cut it transversely into rather thin slices; dust these over with cayenne and salt, take them Fritters—continued. up separately, dip them into brown sauce reduced with a little wine, and glaze. Drain off the sauce, put the slices of marrow on some cooked and finely-chopped truffles, and cover them completely with them. Place them on a thin baking-sheet, put it on the ice, and let them remain until wanted. Take them up, dip each one into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until the batter is of a light colour. Drain them, put them in a pile on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve very hot. Portuguese Fritters.—Cut six slices of bread Jin. thick, remove the crusts, and shape the crumb in rounds the size of the top of a tumbler, with which they can be marked out. Lay them in a dish, with J pint of milk, but do not allow the milk to cover them; let them soak for half-an-hour, then lift them, and drain for ten minutes on the side of the dish. Dip the slices of bread in well-beaten eggs, and fry them in butter to a rich brown. Drain them, and serve on a folded napkin with crushed loaf sugar sifted over. A squeeze of lemon- juice is a great improvement. Fuff Fritters.—(1) Mix smoothly with 1 pint of milk 8 table- spoonfuls of flour. Put it into a well-greased pan, set it over the fire, and scald it, stirring all the time. Take it from the fire, and when cold mix in fourteen well-beaten eggs. Beat the eggs and batter well together till quite smooth and light, and then, taking 1 table-spoonful for a Fritter, drop them into plenty of boiling lard and fry a light brown. Drain on paper, and serve at once. (2) Put 1 pint of water in a saucepan, add 3 large table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 7oz. of butter ; when boiling, add quickly lOoz. of flour, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes, till the flour is cooked ; turn it into a basin, and when slightly cooled beat in six eggs, one at a time, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla flavouring. Shape the paste into Fritters, and fry them lightly in boiling lard over a slow fire; take them out, drain, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Regal Fritters.—Pour 1J pints of new milk into a saucepan on the fire, bring it gently to the boil, and add f pint of port wine. Remove from the fire, let it remain for six or eight minutes, then skim off the curd, put it into a basin, and with a whisk beat in five eggs, a seasoning of grated nutmeg, 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and sufficient sifted flour to form a stiffish batter. Put lib. or so of butter or lard into a frying-pan, boil it, drop in table-spoonfuls of the batter at a time, fry them, take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, garnish with sweetmeats, and serve. Spanish Fritters.—(1) Cut the crumb of a French roll into slices of an equal size ; beat an egg with some cream, and flavour it with sugar, powdered cinnamon, and grated nutmeg; pour the cream over the slices, and leave them till well soaked. When ready, put the Fritters into a frying- pan with butter, and fry them till browned. Stir 1 teaspoonful of flour over the fire with 4oz. of butter till well mixed, then pour in gradually J pint of milk, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar ; continue stirring the sauce till thick, then take it off the fire, and mix 1 wineglassful of sherry and J wineglassful of brandy in it. Drain the Fritters, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut some slices of bread, remove the crusts, and cut the slices into any shapes liked ; moisten each with a few drops of brandy. Beat up two eggs with J pint of milk, and mix in smoothly sufficient flour to make a batter. Pour the batter over the pieces of bread, and leave them for an hour. Melt a lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put in the pieces of bread, and fry them a pale golden brown. Drain them when taken out of the fat, spread a small quantity of any kind of preserve over them, arrange on a hot dish garnished with a dish-paper or folded napkin, and serve hot. (3) Mix together lib. of flour, a well-beaten egg, 1 table- spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make a dough rather softer than for muffins. Cover it with a cloth, set it in a warm place, and let it stand for several hours. When it has risen well, work into it 2oz. of butter warmed till very soft. Make the dough up into small balls, fry them a light brown in plenty of boiling oil or lard, drain them on paper, and serve hot with sweet sauce. (4) Trim the crust off a stale French roll, cut the crumb into four slices, and soak them in a little milk. Prepare