576 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fagots—continued. finely together with |lb. of beef-fat, melted over the fire and moistened with broth, seasoned slightly with salt, and rendered piquant by the addition of the juice of a lemon. This differs from mirepoix in that it has less onion and that beef-fat is used instead of grated bacon. See Blanc. Fagot of Ravigote.—A hunch consisting of equal parts of tarragon, chervil, burnet, and chives tied together and used for making ravigotes. Parsley is sometimes added in a similar proportion, but is not recommended. Fagot of Sweet Herbs (Fr. Bouquet garni).—Two or three sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, and three or four small sprigs of thyme. Some cooks add a few spring onions. FAGOTS, 01 FAGGOTS.—This name is' given to some very highly-spiced minced meats, consisting of what are technically called “ trimmings.” The term is pro- bably a corruption of Fag-ends, or Fag-orts, one being quite as probable as the other. The ingredients used in their wholesale manufacture are not generally very select, but Fagots made from the following receipt are really excellent: Baked Fagots. — Finely chop Rib. of either pig’s or calf’s liver, with a third of the quantity of fresh fat pork and one onion ; put the mixture into a stewpan with a small quantity of sage, thyme, and basil, season with salt and pepper, and steam the mixture over the fire for half-an-hour, but without allowing- it to brown. Drain off the fat, leave the mince until cool, then mix in gradually three well-beaten eggs and suffi- cient grated stale breadcrumbs to make it consistent. Season the mixture with grated nutmeg, work it well, then divide and shape it into small balls. Butter the interior of a stew- pan, put in the balls, pour in a small quantity of well-seasoned gravy, put on the lid, and bake in a slow oven. When lightly browned, g-laze the balls with rich brown gravy, arrange them in a group on the centre of a hot dish, garnish with fried watercress or parsley, and serve. A small piece of pig’s caul may be placed over them instead of glazing them. FAHAM.-This is the name given to a tea made from tbe leaves of Angrcecum fragrans, an orchid which grows in the tropics of Africa, the West Indies, and Cape Colony. The species is remarkable for bearing the largest flower of the orchid tribe, one of which, native to Mada- gascar, produces a spore measiu*ing with the petals more than twelve inches. The leaves are very fragrant and odorous, and when dried and infused yield a flavour which is described as between vanilla and almonds. The French grow it in their colonies, especially at Bourbon, and for this reason it is generally known as Bourbon tea. FAIRY BUTTER.—See Butter. FAISANS.—Fr. for cock-pheasants—Faisanes, hen- pheasants—and Faisandeaux, young pheasants from three weeks to six months old. FALERNIAN WINES.—These celebrated wines were originally produced from grapes grown on the slopes of Mount Falernus in Italy, and were considered one of the great features of a Roman banquet. Much of their fame fell with the Roman empire. FALERNUM.—The name given to a sort of cordial liqueur prepared principally in Barbadoes, Tobago, Hon- duras, and where limes are cultivated for export. There are two kinds, white and golden, both being compounded of lime-juice, water, and sugar, with spirit and colouring matter, such as saffron, for the golden. FANCHETTES. — These delicate little pieces of French pastry, the origin of whose name appears to be enveloped in doubt, are made thus .- Line a round mould about 2in. deep with a good tart-paste, and fill it with the following cream : Take ilb. each of sifted flour and caster sugar, and having mixed them thoroughly work in the yolks of twelve eggs. Put 1 pinch of salt into £ pint of double cream, and stir this into the egg mixture. Place it over the fire in a double boiler, or it may be heated in a bain-marie until thick, taking every care that it shall Fanchettes—continued. come as near to boiling as possible without boiling over. It may be cooked in a common stewpan if every care be taken also to prevent it burning, by lifting it off the fire as soon as any indications are given that it is going to boil up. These creams are usually made in the naked stewpan, but inex- perienced cooks might perhaps be safer as at first described. When the case is filled with this cream, it should be baked in a quick oven, and then covered over the top with a good meringue. Any other decoration, such as may be done with Fig. 724. Fanchette Decorated with Candied Fruits. piping in coloured sugars and candied fruits (see Fig. 724), is then added and a little fine sugar dusted over. Put it into a slow oven for a few minutes to set the meringue, and serve hot. A great variety of Fanchettes can be made by changing the flavourings of the cream, coffee and chocolate finding especial favour. The meringue may also be flavoured with noyeau, and the cream with almonds. Also in the matter of decoration there is considerable room for a display of artistic skill and invention. FANCHONNETTES. — These are literally small fanchettes, differing from them in some few particulars that are described in the following receipts. As may Fig. 725. Fanchonnette Decorated with Candied Cherries and Piping. be seen, they admit of endless variety, and offer very great facilities for the display of artistic ingenuity (see Fig. 725). (1) Lightly butter some plain or ornamental patty-pans, line them with puff paste rolled out very thin, Then fill them with the following- cream : Put 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of cornflour into a saucepan with 5 pint of water, and boil for five minutes; then add the juice of a lemon, a well-beaten egg, and 1 teaspoonful of butter, and mix well. Cover over the pans with a very thin paste-crust, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Line the tins as for No. 1, and fill with the following- mixture : Put 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and 3 table- spoonfuls of cornflour into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water and 1 salt-spoonful of salt. Boil for five minutes, and add the finely-grated rind of one and the juice of two large lemons. Let this mixture cool a little, and then add the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, and afterwards the whites, whisked to a stiff froth. Take this mixture up with a spoon and put it in the lined patty-pans, set them in a quick oven, and bake for twenty minutes. They may be covered with a meringue made with the whites of three eggs, and a little less than a teacupful of caster sugar beaten together, and put back again for a few minutes to set the meringue. Ornament to taste.