THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 532 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. Ro^olnic of Duck. —This is' a famous Polish dish, and is prepared as follows : Dress a Duck, put it into a stewpan with its giblets, and cover it with warm water; when this boils, remove from the fire, drain the Duck, plunge it into cold water, take it out, and divide it into four parts. Chop finely one leek and one onion, and put them in a stewpan, add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, the Duck, and the g'iblets, and fry over a moderate fire; season with salt and pepper, sprinkle in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and add 2qts. of broth and 1 breakfast-cupful of cucumber-juice (the Poles use the juice of the ogursis, which is a sort of native gherkin pickled in salted water) ; when the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, add a few sprigs of thyme, fennel, and parsley, and a bay-leaf, and simmer till the Duck is quite done. Take out the quarters of Duck and drain, skim the fat off the liquor, and strain it into another stewpan. Cut several roots of parsley and young carrots into shapes of little pointed columns an inch long, and make two cuts, form- ing a cross in the thick end of each of these columns, then put them in salted water, and boil till nearly done; drain, and put them in a stewpan with a little broth. Cut two large ogursis in strips nearly lin. broad, shape these into lozenges, blanch them, put them with the carrots and parsley roots into the strained soup, and boil for twenty minutes. Skim, thicken the soup with the yolks of three eggs beaten with the juice of the ogursis, add the pieces of Duck, the giblets, and a bunch of fresh fennel, and boil all up again; then serve. Salmis of Duck.—(1) Cut off the fillets from a cold roasted Duck, trim them, put them in a stewpan with a sprinkling of salt and allspice, and add 1 teacupful of olive oil and 1 wineglassful of claret; stir over a fire till the fillets are hot through, then dish, and serve. (2) Clean and draw a Duck, put the giblets in a stewpan, add three finely-chopped shallots, season with cayenne, salt, and pepper, cover with veal broth, and stew at the side of the fire. Meanwhile, roast the Duck till half done, then cut it up, put it in the stewpan with the giblets, cook until the bird is done, and then dish. Squeeze the juice of a bitter orange in the sauce, strain it, and pour it over the Duck before serving. (3) Singe, draw, and wipe two Ducks, and cut off their wings, legs, and breasts. Put the two carcases in a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and place in the oven to cook for six minutes; then remove them, break them up, put back into the saucepan with 1 pint of white broth and a small bunch of sweet herbs, and stew over a moderate fire for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put loz. of butter in a saute-pan, then the wings, legs, and breasts, season with salt and pepper, and cook on a very brisk fire for three minutes on each side ; add J wineglassful of Madeira wine, J pint of Spanish sauce, and the zest of a lemon, strain the gravy of the carcases over, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Place the salmis on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried hominy, and serve. (4) Clean two Ducks as for No. 3, and add twelve glazed onions and two raw carrots cut in shapes like cloves of garlic, and cooked in salted water for ten minutes; add also Joz. of salted pork cut in square pieces; cook together with the Ducks for fifteen minutes longer, and serve. (5) The same as for No. 3, adding twelve sliced mushrooms, and serving with croutons of bread. (6) Prepare the salmis the same as for No. 3, adding twelve small forcemeat quenelles and twelve mushrooms cut in halves. Warm the whole over the fire for five minutes, and serve with croutons of fried bread. (7) Proceed in the same way as for No. 3, adding 1 break- fast-cupful of parboiled and stoned olives to the sauce, and substituting croutons of fried bread for the hominy. Salmis of Duck •with Montglas.—Clean and prepare two Ducks, cut away their wings, legs, and breasts, and put the carcases in a roasting-pan; sprinkle over a little salt, spread on each bird a little butter, and place them in the oven for six minutes. Remove them, break them up, lay in a saucepan, moisten with 1 pint of white broth, add a small bouquet garni, and cook for fifteen minutes. Put loz. of butter in a saut£-pan, add the wings, legs, and breasts, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and cook over a brisk fire for Ducks—continued. three minutes on each side. Add 1 wineglassful of sherry, J pint of Spanish sauce, J pint of tomato sauce, two thin slices of smoked ox-tongue cut in small square pieces, two chopped truffles, and six mushrooms ; strain the gravy of the carcases over this, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Place the salmis on a hot dish, garnish with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, put paper ruffles on the ends of- the wings and legs, and serve. Stewed Duck.—(1) Prepare two Ducks, cut them into joints, put in a stewpan with 1 pint of rich gravy, let this come to the boil, and as the scum rises remove it ; season with salt and cayenne, and stew gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Mix smoothly 2 teaspoonfuls of ground rice with 1 wineglass- ful of port wine, stir it into the gravy, and boil for seven or eight minutes longer ; then turn the whole on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Singe, clean, and bone a Duck. Mix together 1 tea- spoonful each of soy, stewed apple, olive oil, and mustard oil, and pour the mixture inside the bird. Stew the giblets in water to make a gravy, and flavour it with pepper, salt, and about 1 teaspoonful of sweet herbs. Chop 21b. of beef- suet and the Duck’s liver very small, add 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful each of sweet herbs, chillies, and mixed spices, with salt and pepper to taste; when well mixed, stuff the Duck with this, together with 2oz. of melted butter. Put the bird in a stewpan, strain the giblet-gravy and pour it over, stand the pan close to the fire, and simmer gently till the Duck is tender. Dish, surround with some plain boiled vegetables, pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Singe and draw two Ducks, rinse them inwardly, cut into quarters, put in a stewpan in which 3oz. or 4oz. of butter has been melted, dredge over a little flour, season with salt and pepper, and fry till a light brown all over; strain off the fat, sprinkle over more flour, add 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, 1 wineglassful of port wine, two finely-chopped shal- lots, one anchovy, or a little of the sauce, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a pinch of cayenne; cover the stewpan, and simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Dish the Ducks, take the herbs out of the sauce, skim off the fat, pour the sauce over the birds, and serve. Stewed Duck with. Chestnuts.— Draw and prepare a Duck, lard the breast with bacon, and roast it before a brisk fire for fifteen minutes. Put in a stewpan 1 pint of beef-gravy, two dozen roasted and peeled chestnuts, two onions sliced and fried in butter, a small sprig of sage and thyme, and season Fig. 674. Stewed Duck with Chestnuts. with pepper and salt. Put the Duck cut up in the stewpan, place the cover on, stand the pan by the side of the fire, and simmer for twenty minutes ; then dish it. Skim the gravy, take out the herbs, add 1 teacupful of port wine, thicken with flour and butter, and boil it up ; then pour it over the Duck, and serve with the Chestnuts round it. See Pig. 674. Stewed Duck with Green Peas.—(1) Put in a stewpan Jib. of lean bacon cut into 2in. squares and the rind cut off, add a piece of butter, and fry to a light brown ; sift in a little flour, stir over the fire till brown, add one onion stuck with four- cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of broth, and season with salt and pepper. Put the Duck, previously browned in front of a brisk fire for ten minutes, in a stewpan, and simmer gently by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-quarter, or a little longer if necessary. Put lqt. of peas in a separate pan, and while the Duck is cook- ing, stew them in butter. When done, put the peas on a hot dish, and stand the Duck on them. Strain the gravy,