648 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. referred to, sec under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.. Fritters—continued. ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Fritters on it, sift caster sugar over them, garnish with quarters of lemon (see Fig. 801), and serve without delay. Fritters a la Bonne Femme.—Put loz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, melt it, and mix in 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and 1 tumblerful of water. When the liquor boils, sift in sufficient potato-floirr to make a stiff paste, and stir well until the mixture adheres to the saucepan. Turn the pre- paration into a basin, let it cool, but not get cold, add the yolks of six egg's, singly, beating each one in for about four minutes before another one is added. When all the yolks are worked in, spread the mixture on a dish, keeping it about lin. in thickness, and let it get cold. Take it up in small lumps about the size of walnuts, drop them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and shake the pan well until the Fritters are swollen and of a golden colour. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Fritter Cakes.—Warm 4oz. of butter in a basin, then beat it up with three eggs and ^ pint of milk, put in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sift in sufficient flour to make a soft flexible paste. Dredge flour over a board, turn the paste on it, and work with the hands for a few minutes; then roll it out, and cut it into diamond-shaped cakes. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the cakes, and fry them over a gentle fire until lightly coloured. Drain the cakes to free them as much as possible from the fat, arrange them in a pile on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. See Fig. 802. Fritters flavoured with Vanilla.—Infuse half a vanilla bean in 1 breakfast-crrpful of boiling milk in a saucepan, and reduce it to half its original quantity; remove the bean and put in loz. of butter. Bring it to the boil, add 2oz. of sifted flour, and with a spoon stir briskly, to form a paste so stiff that it will leave the sides of the saucepan. Turn it into a basin, and add loz. of powdered sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and § saltspoonful of salt. Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, mix with it J table-spoonful of whipped cream, and add it to the paste. Boll the paste on a floured board, sprinkle lightly with flour, cut out pieces the size of walnuts, take them up with a skimmer, drop them into very hot but not boiling fat, and cook quickly for three minutes, or until they are of a golden colour; arrange them upon a folded napkin, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over. German Carnival Fritters.—Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast in 1 teacupful of warm milk, then mix with it two well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 2oz. of warmed butter, and a small quantity of salt. Beat these ingredients well, then mix in gradually lib. of flour ; more milk can be added if the dough is too stiff. Beat the dough thoroughly with a wooden spoon, and leave it covered with a cloth in a warm place until well risen. Put a good-sized lump, of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in small quantities of the dough, about the size of walnuts, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain the Fritters when cooked, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, dust caster sugar over, and serve. German Fritters.—(1) Cut some slices of bread about £in. in thickness, trim off the crusts, and cut the bread into finger- lengths about lin. thick. Pour over them two eggs, beaten in Fritters—continued. a little milk, and let them soak. Melt a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, put in the pieces of bread, and fry them. When browned, take them out of the fat and put them on a sheet of paper to drain for a minute or two ; roll them in caster Fig. 803. German Fritters. sugar, arrange tastefully on a dish with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and serve. See Fig. 803. (2) Pare, core, and cut into slices six large apples. Put a pint of brandy into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of pounded sugar and a little cinnamon ; place the slices of apple in this liquor, and set them over a gentle fire, stirring often, but taking care not to break them. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling lard or butter; drain the apples, dip them in flour, and plunge them into the frying-pan. Sprinkle some sugar over a dish, set it near the fire to melt, lay in the apples piled up, strew sugar over them, glaze with a hot salamander, and serve. Hollow Fritters.—Put 1 pint of water in a saucepan with the peel of one lemon, saltspoonful of salt, and 1 dessert- spoonful of moist sugar, and simmer for a few minutes ; mix fib. of flour with sufficient water to make a smooth paste ; strain the water in which the peel has been boiled, mix it gradually with the flour, turn all into the saucepan, and stir over the fire till thick enough for the spoon to stand in it without further support. Turn it into a basin, stir in slowly four beaten eggs, and let it remain till cold. Put some butter in a frying-pan; when boiling, take up 1 dessert-spoonful at the time of the paste, and fry them ; when the Fritters are puffed and browned, take them out, drain, and dish them, sifting caster sugar over before serving. Indian Fritters.—(1) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stiff paste with boiling water, keeping it quite smooth ; when the paste has somewhat cooled, break into it the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, then beat all well together. Put a good-sized lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then drop in a dessert- spoonful at a time of the batter. Fry until browned all over and well risen, then take them out of the fat, and drain them for a minute on a sheet of paper. Mask half of the Fritters with marmalade, and lay the others over them. Garnish a dish with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, arrange the Fritters on it, dust a small quantity of caster sugar over them, and serve. (2) Goolgoola.—Put lib. of flour into a saucepan, mix in a little yeast and milk, and add sufficient water to make a thick paste. Pour in gradually lib. of sugar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk (less the quantity already used), stir well over the fire, add six small sticks of cinnamon, and continue to stir until the mixture is again thick. Bemove the pan from the fire, let the preparation cool, form it into small balls, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. Take them out, drain, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Italian Fritters.—(1) Put i pint of stock in a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling strew in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiffish paste, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Leave the paste until nearly cold, then pound it in a mortar with two eggs. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling drop in the mixture in table-spoonfuls, and fry them a pale golden colour. When cooked, drain the Fritters on a sheet of paper, then pile them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve.