THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 585 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Filberts—continued. in water and slightly spread them out, but still keeping them round and fully iin. thick. Put them in a moderate oven, and bake until light brown and sufficiently cooked. Take them out of the oven, brush over with white of egg, and sprinkle chopped Filberts on top. Filbert Cream Ice.—(1) Put about 12oz. of Filbert-kernels in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water and a small quantity of milk, and pound them well; stir in with them the remainder of 3 gills of milk, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and add to it fib. of caster sugar. Put the Filbert pulp into the freezer, work it till frozen and stiff, then mix in by degrees two whites of Italian meringue, flavoured with essence of peach-kernels, and 1 pint of well-whipped cream. Turn the frozen mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice for fully two hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on to a fancy dish. (2) Roast some Filberts in the oven, skin them, and pound slightly with a little cream. Beat up four eggs with | pint of syrup and 1 pint of cream, put eggs, syrup, and cream together over the fire, stir till thick and boiling, strain through a sieve, cool, and put the cream into a freezer; freeze, mix in the pounded Filberts, pack in a mould, and turn out when wanted. Filbert Croquettes.—(1) Take ilb. or so of Filberts with their skins on, wipe them, and pound in a mortar, adding a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. When they are reduced to a pulp, mix in ITb. each of flour and caster sugar, the yellow rind (zest) of two oranges rasped on lumps of sugar, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and a few drops of noyeau. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, take the mixture out of the mortar, place it on a floured board, roll it in the shape of a thick rolling-pin, put it on a buttered baking-sheet, brush it over with egg, and place it in a moderate oven to bake. Take it out, and while it is quite hot cut it up into slices ; put these on a baking-sheet in a warm oven to dry. Damp the edges with a little royal icing, roll them in finely-chopped pistachio-kernels, and then let them dry again in the oven before using. See Fig. 737. (2) This is prepared as above, with the exception of keeping the Filberts whole, and after the paste is cut up into slices colouring the edges with pink sugar icing. Imitation Filberts.—(1) Blanch |lb. of almonds, and pound them in a mortar, adding a few drops of water or orange- flower water to prevent them oiling ; mix up with them Jib. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, the yolks of four eggs, and a little noyeau, or any other kind of flavouring desired. When this mixture is worked into a smooth, stiff paste, take it out and put it on a slab or board sprinkled with fine sugar, roll it out to gin. in thickness, or a little thinner if possible, and with a tin biscuit-cutter cut out some pieces the shape and size, as if laid flat, of the hull that surrounds a Filbert. This can easily be done by cutting or dividing one end of the leaves with the point of a knife. Take a large Filbert- kernel (without its skin), and place four of the prepared leaves round the bottom or thick end, pinching them together, so as to form the stem; fasten three or four of these Filberts by the stalks to make a group, and put them (keeping them upright) on a baking-sheet slightly waxed. When all are ready, place the sheet in the hot closet or screen, and let them remain for Filberts—continued. a day; remove them into a slack oven, and bake until they are quite dry, and but little, if at all, browned. In the meanwhile get ready some royal icing, made with an egg, divide it into three parts, colour two of these parts with spinach-green, and the other part with dissolved chocolate, strong enough to give the nut-brown colour to the kernels. Paint the kernels with the brown icing (using a small brush to do it), and the leaves, especially towards the tips, with the green, which must be of a very light tint. Place them for a few minutes in the screen or oven to dry, and they are ready for use. Care must be taken when drying them, after they have been coloured, not to injure the icing. (2.) Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a long-spouted sugar- boiler, boil it to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), and then stir in jib. of Filbert-kernels, blanched and pounded in a mortar to a smooth pulp, with a liqueur-glassful of noyeau. Pour this out of the sugar-boiler in little lumps the size and shape of Filberts, dust them over with starch powder, and put in a hot closet to dry. Take them out, brush free of the powder, take one up at a time with a fork, dip them into thin royal icing, place with the broad end downwards on a wire tray, and put them on a sieve in the hot closet to dry. Paint them over when dry with a little thinly-diluted burnt umber, so that they will have the necessary tint; imitate the ribbed shades as nearly as possible, with a little thin royal icing give the broad end of the Filbert the natural white tinge, dry them a little, and they are ready. Sugared Filberts.—(1) Put 6oz. of sugar into a comfit-pan over the fire, add a very little water, let the sugar melt, then pour in a small quantity more of water ; add 6oz. of Filberts, and stir them well with a spatula until the sugar begins to sparkle on them. Remove the pan from the fire, and work well until the sugar grains and falls off the Filberts. Take out a little of the sugar, place the pan over the fire again, and stir well until the Filberts are well covered with the sugar, taking care that the fire is not too hot. Now put in the sugar that was taken out, and continue to stir until the Filberts have the whole of the sugar adhering to them. Turn them out on to a sieve, separating them as much as possible, and letting all the sugar that does not adhere fall through. Let them get cold, and they are ready for use. (2) Sift ilb. of sugar into a basin with an egg and beat well for about ten minutes. Slightly roast at the mouth of the oven 2oz. of Filberts without their skins, roll them well in the sugar icing, and stick them two together until all are done, removing any icing that is superfluous, as only a covering is required. Put them on a thick piece of paper, keeping them quite 2in. apart, then group some of them together to form designs, and bake in a slack oven until light brown. Take them out, let them get cold, remove from the paper, and they are ready for use. FILLETS (Fr. Filets; Ger. Lendenstrecken; Ital. Filetti; 8p. Filetes).—Derived from the Latin word filum—a thread, it gives the idea that a Fillet should be long in proportion to its breadth. The tenderloin of beef answers this description, and from that the term lias come to be used to describe any piece of lean meat without bone. A Fillet of veal or mutton is the fleshy part of the thigh; a Fillet of fish is a long slice without hone. Fillets of fowl or other birds are the long pieces cut from each side of the breast-bone. These are all described under their special headings. FILTERS AND FILTERING.—Sufficient could be written upon this subject to fill a large volume, without arriving at any more practically useful con- clusion than that it is very necessary that water for kitchen purposes should be perfectly pure. In many households this is neglected, water used even for drink- ing purposes being rarely filtered, although it is only by some such process that its freedom from floating particles can lie secured. Upon the variety of Filters it would be invidious to make much comment, seeing that all are more or less satisfactory in their action. Certain merits are claimed for some over others; but it may be taken for granted that the action is mechanical, or should be, and, therefore, that the special qualities,