TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 618 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Pc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. (2) Cut up a Fowl, put it into a tinned saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice, pour oyer 2qts. of water, and set it to boil; skim well, add a few coriander-seeds and a small quantity of poppy grains, and boil slowly for a couple of hours; put in seven or eight crayfish, boil for twenty minutes longer, then add 1 handful of borage leaves, cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, let it stand for fifteen or twenty minutes, and pass the liquor through a fine sieve. It is then ready for use, and should be served warm but not boiling. (3) Pluck, draw, and clean a Fowl, separate it at the joints, and take away the skin and fat. Cover the Fowl with cold water, and add 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and one sliced onion ; simmer until the flesh is ready to drop off the bones. Take away the best part of the meat, put the bones and gristle back, and simmer until the bones are clean. Strain the broth, and remove the fat. Wash and soak 2 table-spoonfuls of rice for half-an-hour. Put the nicest portions of meat into the broth, add the rice, and simmer again until the rice is tender, adding season- ing to taste. Serve hot. (4) Put in a saucepan a Fowl cut into joints, and a beef or veal bone; add plenty of water to cover the meat, also two onions, two carrots, a sprig of parsley, and a little salt. When the broth boils, remove the scum, and simmer gently. An old Fowl, to yield all its goodness to the broth, will take five or six hours ; but a young one will accomplish the same object in less time. (5) Pluck, singe, and draw a chicken, cut it up into moderate-sized pieces, put them into a tin-lined saucepan, pour in lqt. of water, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil for ten minutes, skimming carefully ; then add the yellow leaves of a lettuce, and boil for five minutes longer; next add a handful of chervil and sorrel, and a few leaves of beetroot, cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, and let it remain for a quarter-of-an-hour; then strain it, and it is ready for serving. Care must be taken that every particle of fat is removed. (6) Turkish.—Pluck and draw two or three Fowls, wash them well, and put them in a saucepan with two or three onions cut into quarters, a piece of celery, and 5 or 6 pints of water. Place them over the fire till the water boils, then skim it, move the pan to the side, add a lump of salt, and boil the Fowls till the meat can be easily removed from the bones. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a cool place for use. Fowl Consomme.—Remove the fillets of two chickens, and j put the carcasses with 61b. of fillet of veal into a stock- | pot with 5qts. of good stock, season with Joz. of salt, place the pot on the fire, and boil; then skim it well, and add two j onions stuck with two cloves each, a head of celery, and four leeks. Let the pot remain on the side of the fire to simmer for about three hours, skim off the fat, strain the broth, and clarify, with the fillets of chicken previously removed; then strain once more through a cloth into a basin. This consomme should be colourless. Fowl Consomme with Green Peas.—Put two Fowls into a stewpan with lgall. of water, a few veal bones, and a piece of gravy-beef, and boil for an hour; then take out the birds, and add 1 teaspoonful of bruised peppercorns, half a blade of mace, a small bay-leaf, and a bunch each of parsley and sweet herbs. Place the pan on the side of the fire, simmer for three hours, strain into a deep jar or basin, remove the fat, and pour the fine part that is without any sediment through a broth-napkin or jelly-bag, once or twice, so as to have it quite clear. Put it back again into the stewpan, which must be perfectly clean, add 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour mixed with a little water, salt to taste, and use a little browning to give it the colour of strong tea. Wash J pint of green peas thoroughly in hot water, and put them in the consomme just before serving. Fowl Cream.—(1) Cut up the white meat of a Fowl into very small pieces, pound them in a mortar, and pass through a fine sieve into a basin; add the yolks of three eggs, a little butter, cream, salt and pepper, and work them into a smooth paste ; a slight flavour of onions may be added, if desired, by putting a small piece of onion in the cream for a few minutes. Have ready a well-buttered basin, put the mixture in this, Fowls—continued. and steam it over a saucepan of boiling water for an hour or so, when it will be ready to serve. (2) Chop the flesh from the breasts of one or two Fowls, and pound it in a mortar; pass the meat through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar with the crumb of a French roll that has been soaked in as much milk as it will absorb, and Jib. of butter. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and when quite smooth, mix with it 1 teacupful of thick cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth. Melt a lump of butter in a mould, turn it about so that the whole of the interior gets well coated, and fill it with the above mixture. Put a sheet of buttered paper over the top of the mould, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould out on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. (3) Finely mince the white flesh of the remains of some cold cooked Fowl, put it into a mortar with a good-sized lump of butter and a small quantity of bechamel sauce, and pound it. Stir in the yolks of four eggs with the above mixture, beat all well together, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the above ingredients. Turn the mixture into a croustade, and put it into a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty-five minutes, according to the quantity. When ready, put the croustade on to a hot dish, and serve it at once. (4) Clean and draw a couple of young Fowls, partially boil them in water, drain them, and cut them into pieces. Put a large lump of butter into a stewpan with a few chopped morels and some chopped parsley, and fry them for two or three minutes ; then put in the pieces of Fowl, dredge them with flour, salt, and pepper, and fry them until browned. Pour J pint of boiling water over the Fowls, put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on the top, and stand it over a slow fire. When the liquor has reduced, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and a small lump of butter. Stir it occasionally until boiling. Put the Fowls on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (5) Pound the flesh from half a boiled chicken in a mortar, then put it in a saucepan, and moisten with 3 pints of broth, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of raw rice, one bouquet of herbs, J table-spoonful oi salt, twelve whole peppers, and three cloves, and boil thoroughly for thirty minutes ; then strain through a fine sieve, put in 1 teacupful of cream, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of small pieces of cooked chicken in the tureen. Fowl Cromeskies.—(1) Boil a calf’s udder in stock, and when cool, trim and cut it the length of the piece in thin slices. Prepare a salpigon of Fowl, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, mixed with German sauce; when cold, put some of the salpiijon on each slice of the udder, and roll them up in something the shape of corks ; dip them in batter, and fry them till crisp and brown in boiling fat. Take them out, drain, and dish them, garnishing with fried parsley. (2) Remove the skin of some cold roasted Fowl, and chop the flesh coarsely. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and when smooth, put in the pieces of Fowl and fry them for a few minutes. Next put in a few chopped mushrooms, and a small quantity of minced parsley, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices. Moisten to height with stock, stir the whole over the fire until on the point of boiling, then move it to the side and stir in the yolk of one egg that has been beaten in with the strained juice of a small lemon. Spread the mince out on a plate, and leave it until cold. Cut some bacon that has been partially boiled, into thin slices, place a small quantity of the mince on each slice, and roll the bacon round it. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 tablespoonful of olive-oil, and about 1 teacupful of water; next stir in until smooth sufficient flour to make it the consistency of batter, with a small quantity of salt; beat the batter well, and add lastly the well-whisked whites of two eggs. Dip each of the cromeskies in the batter, and fry them in hot lard until browned. As 'each one is done, take it out of the fat, drain it for a minute on a sheet of paper, and serve on a napkin on a dish. Fowl Croquettes.—(1) Select two Fowls weighing about 31b. each, put them into a saucepan with water to cover them,