THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 526 DOUGH - NUTS. — Very old-fashioned country favourites are Dough-nuts. They are made from various doughs, more or less resembling each other, and bread dough in particular. The following receipts have been obtained from very reliable sources, and the instruc- tions given are that Dough-nuts shall be fried in fat: (1) Beat three eggs in a large bowl for about five minutes, and then stir into them 1 brealcfast-cupful of powdered sugar (not more, lest the nuts discolour in cooking), 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint of sweet milk, and one-third of a grated nutmeg. Sift together (two or three times) 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of cream of tartar and carbonate of ammonia, and stir the flour quickly into the ingredients already mixed in the bowl. Just sufficient flour to make a dough only stiff enough to handle is required. If more than 2 breakfast-cupfuls are needed, stir it into the dough, but remember to make it only stiff enough to roll out. Handle the dough very quickly and lightly, and as little as possible. As soon as it is mixed, turn it from the bowl on to a floured paste-board, dust a little flour over, roll it out Jin. thick, j cut into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, or a thin cup or [ glass dipped in flour, and cut a small round from the Fig. 662. Dough-nut. centre of each (see Fig. 662) with another smaller cutter dipped in flour. Set them in a warm place to rise again, but not too much, or they will be spongy, and absorb the fat. Have ready a frying-kettle half full of smoking-hot fat, put into it as many Dough-nuts as will float without pressing against each other, and fry a light brown; then take them out of the fat with a skimmer, and lay on a sieve or paper to drain. When all are fried, roll them in powdered sugar, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Put 12oz. of sugar and 6oz. of butter into a basin and beat them to a cream; then add two well-beaten eggs, \ pint of milk, and J pint of yeast, and mix in sufficient flour to form a light dough; set this in a warm place to rise. Roll it out to about lin. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a small tin cutter, place a raisin in the centre Fig 663. Dough-nut. of each one (see Fig. 663), press it in, and fry to a light brown as for No. 1. Dust with caster sugar. (3) Put 21b. of light bread-dough in a basin before the fire to rise. Warm Jib. of sugar, one egg, and 4 table- spoonfuls of melted lard; when warm, and the dough light, work them well together, and let the mixture stand for another thirty minutes; then beat it smooth, and add 1 handful of flour. Let it stand in a warm place to rise for four hours ; knead it well, fold it over several times, roll it out into thin sheets, and brush these over with a little melted lard. Cut into rings (see Fig. 662), and put these on a baking-sheet to rise for thirty minutes; then fry them as for No. 1, dusting with sugar after. (4) Rub lib. of flour and Jib. of butter togethor in a basin, add 4oz. of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Dough-nuts—continued. mix thoroughly with warm milk or water until the paste becomes of the consistency of dough ; then put it near the fire to rise. Roll it out, and cut it up into any fancy shapes. Fry as for No. 1. (5) Rub loz. of butter into 4oz. of flour, and put it into a basin with loz. of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of baking-powder, one egg, a little juice or essence of lemon, and 1 teacupful of warm milk: mix well, and then let it remain for two hours to set. Take it up with a spoon, drop it into hot fat in a frying-pan, and cook to a light brown, that is, until they are done. (6) Put into a basin Jib. of flour, make a bay in the centre, and pour in 1 wineglassful of yeast; mix the flour into it by degrees, wetting it at the same time with a little milk. Cover the basin with a cloth, and let it stand by the fire for two hours, that the dough may rise. In the meantime take another fib. of flour, and rub into it 5oz. of butter; mix in then a little grated nutmeg and Jib. of powdered white sugar ; mix all together with three beaten eggs, J pint of milk, and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. As soon as the dough is light, knead all these ingredients into it, cover up again, and let it stand near the fire to rise for another hour. Then put it on to a well-floured pasteboard; if it seems too soft, add a little flour to it, but be careful not Fig. 664. Dough-nut. to add too much; roll it into balls (see Fig-. 664) about the size of small apples, fry them brown in boiling lard, and sprinkle with sugar before serving. (7) Put lib. of flour into a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of salt, mix in sufficient water to make a smooth batter, and stir this over a slow fire until thick; then take it off and leave .until cold. Beat sufficient eggs with the cold paste to make a smooth liquid batter. Put 4oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, put in small quantities of the batter with a table-spoon, and fry a pale golden brown. Drain them, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about ten minutes. When cooked, drain them, arrange in a g'roup on a hot dish, pour whipped cream over, and serve. (8) Put Jib. of plain white biscuits in a mortar, pound them until quite smooth, and sift through a fine wire sieve. Put the whites of twenty eggs in a basin, and beat well, adding gradually the sifted biscuit. Put about 6oz. of butter in a frying-pan and make it hot. When the mixture is quite smooth, take it up in small quantities with a spoon drop them in the hot butter, and fry till of a pale golden colour. Drain and put them in a stewpan with boiling water to cover them, and boil for ten minutes, then take them off the fire. Put lib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and a few drops each of essence of rose-water and prepared cochineal, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then pour it over the Dough-nuts, put these over a slow fire, and leave till nearly all the syrup has soaked in. When ready, arrang'e them tastefully on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. (9) Beat two eggs into Jib. of hread-dougli, add 2 table- spoonfuls of sug-ar and 2oz. of butter, also a small quantity of salt, and work the whole until well mixed, dredging it occasionally with a little flour. Divide the dough into small equal-sized portions, mould them into round cakes (see Fig. 664) with floured hands, set them on a board, and leave in a warm temperature for three hours. When Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads.