THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 684 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. (4) Take some salsify and cut it up into knotted shapes and different lengths to look like green Ginger; peel round the stalk without scraping it, and parboil in a little water and lemon-juice. Take it out, drain, and put it into a sugar- boiler with a little syrup at 32deg. (see Sugar-boiling) ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of Ginger and the juice of a lemon, place the boiler on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Boil it up twice more, and turn it out into jars for use. (5) Skin some rhubarb, cut it up into convenient lengths, put it in layers in an earthen dish with sugar between, allowing lib. of sugar to every pound of rhubarb, and leave for forty-eight hours. Afterwards strain the juice from the rhubarb into a preserving-pan, and boil it quickly until reduced to a thick syrup ; put in the rhubarb, move the pan to the side of the fire, and let the rhubarb simmer gently until soft, shaking the pan occasionally, but do not stir the contents. Move the rhubarb off the fire, flavour it strongly with essence of Ginger, and leave it until cooled. Put it into jars, cover and tie down, and keep in a dry cupboard. (6) Large old vegetable marrows may be used. Peel them, and if very large cut first across in three and then into strips. Pack them into a large vessel, and cover with boiling syrup made of brown sugar and water. Let the marrow steep for three days, then drain it, put it into a preserving- pan with lib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound of fruit, loz. of ground Ginger tied in a bag, the rind and juice of one lemon, and about J teaspoonful of cayenne for every 31b. of the preserve. Boil the whole over a slow fire until the marrow looks clear, then pour in 1 wineglassful of whisky for every 21b. of marrow, and boil for two or three minutes longer. Turn the preserve into jars, and when cold cover them. Preserved Ginger.— (1) Sort out some green roots of the plant just as it has been dug up; separate the small from the large roots, cutting the latter into pieces of a convenient size, clean, and drop them into cold water. Take them out, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil; let them cool, boil again, and continue in this way three times in all, when they should be quite tender. Take them up, and dip them into cold water with vinegar in it. Remove the peel, put them again into cold water, and let them remain for four or five hours ; take them out, dry on a sieve, put them in an earthen pan, and pour over some cold syrup of the small thread degree (see Sugar-boiling). Let it remain for three days, drain off the syrup, and put in more boiled to the large thread degree when cold. Let it remain three days longer, and repeat this twice more, taking syrup of another degree each time, and pouring it over while hot. Now put the Ginger in the pan and boil up once more, by which time it should be quite clear and well saturated with the sugar. (2) With a sharp knife peel some green Ginger, and as it is peeled throw it into a basin of cold water; when the required quantity is done, boil it until tender, changing the water three times, each time putting the Ginger into cold water to take out the spirit. Prepare a syrup, using 41b. of sugar for every 3jlb. of Ginger. Drain and put the Ginger into an earthen jar, pour the syrup, when cold, over it, and leave for two days; afterwards drain the syrup from the Ginger and boil it up again, pour it hot over the Ginger, and at the end of three days boil again. Proceed like this until the sugar enters the Ginger, removing the scum from the syrup as it rises. If the syrup is poured hot over the Ginger in the first place, the Ginger would shrink. Pack the preserve in jars, cover tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard. Tincture of Ginger.—Put into a jar lflb. of unbleached, powdered and sifted Jamaica Ginger, pour over lqt. of spirits of wine 20deg. under proof, and let it macerate for three days, shaking the jar slightly now and then. Turn the whole into a deep percolator or filter, let it drain, and pour over another quart of the spirits; when the Ginger is drained, press it close together, pour over 1 pint of water, and continue to filter until igall. in all has run through. Bottle, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for use and quite bright. GINGERBREAD (Fr. Pain d’Epice; Ger. Pfeffer- kuchen; Ital. Pane di Gengiovo; Sp. Pan de Gengibre).— This household favourite requires but little explanation, it being one of the charms of infantile life, and too Gingerbread—continued. often used, alas, to beguile the young stomach into taking nauseous medicines, such as magnesia or Epsom salts. In all civilised countries Gingerbread has been regarded as of medicinal value, either as a carminative due to the spices it contains, or as a stomachic stimulant. It is to be feared that a persistent introduction of large quantities of magnesia, and a reduction of the quantity of spices, has tended to reduce the demand for what should be a most valuable remedy for constipation. The following receipts may pei'haps rouse up some fresh enthusiasm in favour of Gingerbread. Wholesale makers of Gingerbread mark the tops of the bread with a stamp in the pattern of herring-bones. American Gingerbread (Southern). — (1) Put 1 pint of molasses into a copper basin, warm it, and melt ^lb. of butter in it; then mix in ^lb. of moist sugar and three well-beaten eggs, add ground ginger to taste, 1 pint of milk, and 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder mixed up with lib. of flour. The Fig. 841. American Gingerbread. milk and flour should be added alternately and a little at a time. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into small oval buttered pans, and bake in a moderately quick oven. Turn them out when done, and serve either hot or cold. See Pig. 841. (2) Whisk together with an egg-whisk, till light and creamy, jib. of slightly-warmed butter, ilb. of molasses, also slightly warmed, and jib. of sugar. Add as many beaten eggs as will weigh ilb., 1 saltspoonful of powdered mace and powdered cloves mixed, 1 saltspoonful of cinnamon, 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, and 1 gill of loppered milk or butter-milk. When the eggs and spice are well mixed in, stir in jib. of flour, and then 1 heaped saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water. Beat hard for a minute or two, mix in jib. of raisins, stoned and cut in halves, and bake. (3) Beat well together 2oz. of warmed butter, jib. of sugar, |lb. of molasses, 1 saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger; when these are beaten together light and creamy, mix with them quickly 1 gill of sour cream and then ^lb. of flour, adding lastly 1 heaped salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water. Beat hard for a couple of minutes after the soda is added, and then bake in small tins in a quick oven, but be careful that it does not burn. (4) Slightly warm ^ breakfast-cupful each of butter and molasses, beat them together to a cream with j breakfast- cupful of sugar, i table-spoonful of powdered ginger, and I teaspoonful of cinnamon. When thoroughly beaten, add the yolks of as many eggs as will weigh jib., beat the whites separately to a stiff froth, and reserve them. With the beaten yolks add j breakfast-cupful of sour milk, then mix in in small quantities and alternately jib. of flour and the whites of the eggs; but if the batter is not stiff enough, add a little more flour; then stir in j dessert-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water. Mix in lastly J breakfast- cupful of raisins, stoned, cut in quarters, and well floured, and bake in one piece. (5) Richmond.—Beat together lib. each of butter, sugar, and molasses, and 1 dessert-spoonful of mixed powdered ginger and mace. When quite light and creamy, add the beaten yolks of two eggs and I pint of fresh milk with 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it; mix in quickly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and ilb. of flour. Bake at once in small tins. Canadian Gingerbread.—Beat 1 teacupful of butter together with 2 teacupfuls of moist sugar till creamy, and mix with it 1 teacupful of molasses, 1 table-spoonful of cinnamon,