THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 587 aces, ibc., referred to, see under their special heads. FIRKIN— This is a rather indefinite measure, signi- fying 9galls. of beer, or the fourth part of any barrel, the first syllable “fir” having the same derivation as “ four.” A firkin of lard or butter has no exact defini- tion, signifying merely a small barrel. FISH (Fr. Poissons; Ger. Fische; Ital. Pesce; Sp. Pez).—The word itself can be traced back to the Anglo-Saxon fisc, which has also a much older origin; but the use of Fish as a food can be traced back until all account of it is lost in the dark ages. Fish is the food of the world, and probably always has been, and is very likely as delicious to the savage who toasts it on a stick over wood ashes as to the greatest epicure that ever sat down to a carp a la Chambord or a salmon mayonnaise. That Fish is almost invaluable as a food is universally admitted, although its actual proportion of flesh-forming material is exceedingly low as compared with beef or other meats, but it contains a large proportion of phos- phorus, which is necessary for the nourishment of the brain. Then again, Fish differ amongst themselves as to their nutritive value. According to Dr. Letheby, white Fish such as whiting, cod, haddock, halibut, sole, plaice, flounder, and turbot contain only about 22 per cent, of solid nutritive matter. To increase this ratio, it is usual to serve them with butter-sauce, commonly known as “ melted butter.” Those Fish that are richer in fat, such as mackerel, eels, salmon, herring, sprat, and pilchard contain the largest proportion of nutrient material; but it is also a well-ascertained fact that the fat, or oil, is somewhat difficult of digestion, and apt to disagree with delicate stomachs, more especially after it has been kept awhile and probably commenced to turn rancid. Shell-fish, we are informed, contain about an equal pro- portion of solid matter, about the same as white-fish; but they differ in their degrees of digestibility. Of all shell-fish oysters are the most digestible; next to them may be classed scallops, cockles, periwinkles; then shrimps, lobsters, and crabs; after these, prawns and crayfish; concluding, as last in order, with such fish as mussels, limpets, and whelks. Dr. Fleming in his works on Zoology states that the flesh of any Fish is always in the highest perfection, or in season as it is called, during the period of the ripening of the milt and roe. The hard roe is the female spawn, the milt, or soft roe, is the deposit of the male that fecundates the roe. After the fish has deposited this spawn, the flesh deteriorates in quality and becomes soft, and loses a great deal of its flavour, owing to the disappearance of the oil or fat from the flesh, expended in the function of reproduction. It is poor satisfaction to those who delight in a hard roe to know that they are destroying an indefinite number of probable young- fish. According to Mr. Frank T. Buckland, a salmon roe would contain about 1000 eggs to every pound weight of the Fish ; a trout is the same. A lib. mackerel contains about 86,120 eggs; a herring (Jib.) 19,810; a sole (lib.) 134,46b; a turbot (81b.) 385,200, and a cod (201b.) no less than 4,872,000. As it happens, both spawn and young Fish have so many enemies to contend with that it has been reckoned not more than 1 in 1000 come to a size suitable for the table, otherwise our supply of fish would be enormous. The following remarks, which appear in Cooley's Cyclo- pedia, are well founded, and are therefore worthy of considerable attention: “Fish should be dressed as soon after being caught as possible, as much of their peculiar delicacy and flavour is lost by keeping, even for a few hours. Turbot and salmon are said by the fishmongers to be improved in flavour when two or three days old, but this is surely a mistake, as the former, when dressed immediately after being caught, possesses a fine creamy taste, which it afterwards loses; whilst the latter, by the loss of a single tide, loses a portion of the fine white curd which is previously found between the flakes, and by longer keeping, this curd, with the larger flakes, I1 or details respecting/ Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fish —continued. disappear altogether. In the eyes of some epicures the richness is, however, increased by this change. Mackerel, and some other Fish, suffer so much from keeping only a few hours that they become quite unwholesome. Her- rings offer a remarkable example of the advantage of dressing Fish as fresh as possible. When cooked soon after being caught, they possess considerable delicacy of flavour, but after being kept for only a few hours the oil separates from the flesh, and they become soft, greasy, and strong flavoured.” For the latter reason, also, fresh haddocks are rarely met with in inland towns, and even then they should be treated with caution. In selecting Fish, the foregoing remarks should have great weight: Fish cannot be too fresh, for which reason cooks much prefer to have a little life in the fish they buy; an idiosyncrasy that has doubtless led to the wild fiction perpetrated by street vendors, who inform the public that their fish is “ Alive, oh! ” when in many cases it is even something worse than stale. Fish in their natural state of life have red gills; these change to a liver colour, or almost a muddy white, some little time after death, so that the colour of the gills is a very good test of the state of freshness of the Fish. The flesh of a recently-caught Fish is firm and elastic, leaving little or no depression if pressed with the finger. Fresh Fish do not as a rule lie flat on the slab; they are generally curved a little to one side or the other, being still possessed by the stiffness that follows recent death. Other features for guidance in selecting various kinds of Fish are described under their special headings. Sometimes it is necessary for the cook to keep Fish until they are wanted for use. In such cases they should be thoroughly cleaned, profusely washed, and then laid on stones, or block ice. Turbot, skate, and halibut, and such-like fish, should be hung up by the tail, as if laid flat they deteriorate on the side next the slab. Some cooks partly boil the fish, and then dry them thoroughly with a cloth. This mode is very successful in cold weather. The importance of thoroughly cleansing Fish is indi- cated by the usual superiority of Fish cleansed by the fishmonger. He opens the belly right down, scrapes the backbone, and washes the Fish again and again in plenty of cold water. The cook should wash it once more, and leave it to soak for a few minutes in salted water, or water to which a small proportion of vinegar has been added. The fins and tail must be cut close with a pair of stout scissors (see Fig. 741). “For cooking Fish,” Kettner tells us, “one thing is clear: if it is of the first order and perfectly fresh, do not give too much heed to French directions. The only safe guides are the English and the Dutch. The French, when they settled their methods of cooking Fish, did not get it so fresh as it was to be had in England and in Holland—it was generally a day older. When a noble Fish—a salmon or a turbot—is quite fresh, the simplest way of cooking it is the best, and it is impossible to improve upon the English and Dutch methods. On the other hand, when the Fish is poor, or a day older than