510 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Custards—continued. four eggs and the white of one ; add fib. of sugar and loz. of butter, and pour in gradually 1J pints of milk with the grated peel of an orange; stir this over the fire till boiling, then remove from the fire and let it get cold. Line a mould with puff paste, pour in the Custard, and bake for lialf-an-hour ; then let it cool. Beat the whites of three of the eggs, and when firm, mix with 3oz. of caster sugar. Spread the egg and sugar over the tart, sprinkle caster sugar on the top, put it in a slow oven, and when a light yellow serve. Custard Toast.—Break an egg into a basin, and beat it till it is very light. Cut a slice of bread rather less than -jin. thick, toast it a light brown on both sides, lay it on a hot plate, and spread it with about Joz. of butter. Put into a saucepan loz. of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and Joz. of butter, and stir over the fire till it boils; draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, let the boil go off, and pour slowly over the beaten egg, stirring all the time. When well stirred, pour it over the buttered toast, and serve at once. Custard Toast called Scotch Woodcock.—Beat well the yolks of three eggs, pour them into a saucepan with f break- fast-cupful of milk, and stir over the fire until thickened, without boiling. Cut four slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them to a pale brown. Butter the toast, spread some anchovy paste over, lay it on a hot dish, pour the Custard over, and serve while very hot. Durham Custard.—Beat the yolks of four eggs in a sauce- pan, pour in lqt. of cream and f pint of mild ale, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but without boiling, or the eggs will curdle. Cut some thin slices of bread, toast them, trim into small squares, lay these at the bottom of a hot dish, pour the Custard over, and serve. French Custard.—Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of potato-flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold milk ; when smooth add gradually £ pint of boiling milk sweetened with loz. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire until thick ; then add two well-beaten eggs, flavour to taste, and keep it over the fire for four or five minutes. Turn the Custard into a basin and let it get cold, giving it an occasional stir to prevent a skin forming on the top. Serve cold. Jamaica Custard.—Grate Jib. of cheese into a pie-dish, stir J in a beaten egg and sufficient milk to mix well until about the thickness of a rich Custard. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Serve the Custard hot, -accompanied with mustard and pepper. Jelly Custards.—Make a boiled Custard with 1 pint of milk, three beaten eggs, and Jib. of powdered white sugar, and let it stand till cold. Flavour to taste with vanilla, ratafia, or lemon, pour it into Custard- or jelly-glasses, but only fill them I two-thirds full, and heap up one half of them with raspberry | or red-currant jelly and the other half with orange or lemon jelly. Quaking Custard.—Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table- j spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt, pour over 1 pint of hot milk, and cook in a double-boiler till thick. Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of gelatine in cold water, and mix with the j Custard, having first drained off the water. Strain the Custard into a mould. When about to serve, beat the whites of the J three eggs stiff with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and the juice | of one lemon. Turn the Custard on to a glass dish, heap the meringue round it, and serve. I Custards—continued. Savoury Custard Soup.—Beat the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and add J pint of white stock and 1 pinch of salt. When well beaten, butter a jar, pour in the mixture, stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water to half its height, and steam for twenty minutes, or until the Custard is firm. When cold, turn it out, cut in dice, and serve in clear soup. Spanish Custard.—Sweeten lqt. of milk to taste with caster sugar, and boil it; then take it off the fire and stir in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot. Flavour it with a small quantity of essence of almonds or noyeau, and add Joz. of isinglass. Stir the Custard in one direction over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and place the Custard in a cool place till set and quite cold. Turn it on to a dish, stick it all over with blanched and shredded almonds, and serve. See Fig. 624. Sponge Custard.—Soak Joz. of gelatine, for ten minutes at least, in enough cold water to cover it. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar for fifteen minutes. Warm 1 pint of milk, stir it into the beaten eggs and sugar, pour all into a saucepan on the stove, and stir till thick ; then remove it from the fire. Add to the soaked gelatine 1 table- spoonful of boiling water, and set the bowl it is in into a pan of hot water. When the gelatine is completely dissolved, stir it into the eggs and milk, flavour to taste with essence of vanilla or lemon, and put it away to cool. As soon as it commences to stiffen, beat it thoroughly with an egg-whisk. Beat also to a stiff froth the whites of one or two eggs, and add it by degrees to the sponge. Continue beating thoroughly and quickly till quite spongy; then wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the Custard into it, and let it stand in a cold place till it is quite firm, in hot water to loosen it, and turn it on to a glass dish. CUSTARD APPLES. —These are the fruit of a low-growing tree or shrub, indigenous to tropical Ame- rica, of the genus Anona. The fruit is of a roundish ovate shape (see Fig. 625) about the size of a small orange, and contains a soft, yellowish, juicy pulp, which is considered very pleasant and refreshing. It is occa- sionally imported into this country, but, like most rare foreigners, has not found much favour. CUTLERY.—This term is used to signify all manner of cutting instruments. Those used at table or for culinary purposes will be found described under their special headings. CUTLETS.—These are literally small ribs, being a corruption of the French word cotelettes. See Fig. 626. Fig. 626. Cutlet, Untrimmed. It is often applied by modern cooks to slices of meat, especially of lamb, mutton, or veal, which are neatly To turn it out, dip the mould