THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 620 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. and six chopped mushrooms, cook five minutes, and serve in a saucebowl. Fowl Croquettes a la Perigueux.—The same as for a la Reine, substituting hot perigueux sauce for sauce a la Reine. Fowl Croquettes a la Reine.—Make a croquette preparation with chicken and mushrooms, roll it into six cork-shaped pieces, dip each one separately in beaten egg, then in sifted or rasped breadcrumbs, fry them in very hot fat for four minutes, drain them thoroughly, and place them on a hot dish over a folded napkin. Serve with J pint of hot sauce a la Reine in a sauceboat. Fowl Croquettes with Onions.—Cut the meat from the breast of a cold roasted Fowl, mince it, and mix with it some cooked Fowl’s livers, mushrooms, and pickled ox-tongue, all cut in dice. Cut four large onions in quarters, boil for fifteen minutes, drain, and put in another saucepan with a piece of butter, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and fry them over the fire till all the butter is absorbed; add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, moisten with a little milk till of the con- sistency of firm bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till the onions are done; add 1 teacupful of melted glaze, strain it | in with the meat, and when well mixed, spread it on a board. When cold, divide into small equal parts, roll these in egg- and-breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain them, arrange them on the napkin, and serve. Fowl Cutlets.—(1) Cut off the flesh from a cold boiled chicken, I chop it into dice, put it into a stewpan to cook with half its bulk of raw truffles also cut into dice, 4 table-spoonfuls of quenelle forcemeat, and 2 table-spoonfuls of reduced veloute sauce. Divide this mixture into eight equal parts, and roll them on a well-floured board, making them into the shape of cutlets, and sticking a small bone in the thin end. Take them one by one, dip them first into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, seeing that the crumbs are equally dis- j tributed over them, plunge them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them till coloured. Take them out, drain them on | a cloth, put a paper frill on each bone, and arrange them in a circle on a dish, with a mince of vegetables in the centre (see Fig. 775). (2) Cut off the legs of a chicken, with as much meat as can be removed with them, cutting close to the carcase, and serve the wings in the same way, so as to make four | cutlets. Loosen the larger bone in each leg, push all the meat on one side, make a hole, and pull it out, leaving the thin bone in ; scrape the meat from the ends of the bones, leaving about Jin., and chop off the knobby ends. Shape the meat as nearly like cutlets as possible, drop them into boiling broth or water, and parboil them for five minutes ; take them out, put them on to flat dishes, with other dishes laid on the top of them to keep them flat, and let them remain like this until quite cold. Dip each into egg, then into breadcrumbs or cracker-meal, plunge them into a frying- pan with hot lard or butter, and fry until done. Serve on a dish, and garnish with vegetables and parsley. Fowl Forcemeat.—(1) Take sufficient meat from a cooked Fowl, so that when it has been pounded and passed through a fine hair sieve there will be lib. of the puree; add to this lOoz. of veal udder, boiled and pounded the same as the chicken, and mix well, adding lOoz. of panada made with some good stock, and seasoning with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste. Pound all these well together, and moisten with reduced German sauce until it is of a good consistence. Take a small piece and plunge it into boiling water or stock, Fowls—continued. and if it is too thick, add a little double cream or a little more of the sauce; it is then ready for use. (2) Take the flesh from a cooked Fowl, the breast part for preference, put it into a mortar, and pound it weil; then pass it through a very fine sieve, and roll it up into a ball. Take a piece of bread panada, about half the bulk of the meat, put it into a mortar with a little butter (taking 2oz. to the lib. of meat), and half the quantity of fat bacon, scraped with a knife; pound these well, and then put in the meat, and mix well; season with salt and pepper to taste, and moisten with well-beaten egg, adding it gradually. Take a little of the forcemeat and drop it into boiling stock or water to poach; if it is too stiff, add a little white sauce ; if too thin, a little more yolk of egg. It will then be ready for use. (3) Chop up two uncooked breasts of chickens, and pound them in a mortar, adding an equal quantity of bread soaked in milk, 1 teaspoonful of fresh butter, and the yolks of four eggs, seasoning with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix all together, strain, put it in a bowl with 3 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce, and use as required. Fowl Forcemeat with Cream.—Cut into slices the breasts of two uncooked chickens, and pound them well in a mortar, adding the whites of three eggs ; bruise well, and season with § table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful each of pepper and grated nutmeg; add 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh cream, strain through a sieve, cool on the ice, and use as desired. Fowl Forcemeat for Fatties.—Remove the skin from a Fowl, cut off all the flesh from the bones, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Soak |lb. of breadcrumbs in milk, take it out, and squeeze it dry; then rub 3oz. of warmed butter into it, put in the meat, and add a little grated nutmeg and salt to taste, moisten with the yolks of four eggs, and form the forcemeat into balls. A thin slice of ham or cooked bacon wrapped round each ball is a great improvement, and the addition of a little chopped parsley is advised. Fowls Fried in Batter.—Roast two Fowls, and when cold cut them into joints, trim off the skin, and lay them in a deep dish ; season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, and squeeze the juice of one or two lemons, according to size, over them. Leave the joints for an hour or two, turning them occasionally so that they may absorb part of the acid. Boil the trimmings of the birds in sufficient water to make the requisite quantity of gravy, and season it afterwards; then strain it, and thicken it with flour and butter kneaded together. Cut loz. of butter into small pieces, put them in a basin with 1 teacupful of boiling water, and stir until dissolved; then pour in 1 teacupful of cold water, stir in very slowly 6oz. of flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt. When the butter is smooth, mix with it the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth. Dip the pieces of Fowl one at a time in the batter, and, covering them well with it, put them in a flat stewpan with boiling lard or butter, and fry them until browned all over. Drain the pieces of Fowl on a sheet of paper, arrange them on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat. Fowl Fritters. — (1) Finely mince the white flesh of a cold roasted chicken. Beat four eggs with | pint of milk and 1 pint of cream, and then stir in sufficient ground rice to make a thin batter. Put the minced chicken in the batter with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-shred candied lemon-peel, the grated peel of one fresh lemon, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; then turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon. When cooked, leave the mixture until cool, then roll it out, and cut it into small rounds. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and make it hot; then put in the fritters, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain, lay them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. (2) Cut the meat of some cold cooked chicken into slices. Put a good quantity of clarified fat into a saucepan, and place it over the fire to get hot. Dip the pieces of chicken in beaten egg and then in finely-sifted breadcrumbs that have been well seasoned with salt and pepper, then throw them into the saucepan of hot fat. As each piece is lightly browned, take it out of the pan, and lay it on paper near the fire to drain off the fat. When well drained, arrange