TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 658 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. in a glass or fancy china dish. With a sharp knife cut out a piece from the middle, leaving a wall about 2in. thick, but do not remove it from the centre of the cake, then pour the juice of the Fruit over it, and let it soak for half-an hour. Take out the middle of the cake, put it in a basin with three or four ratafias, 2 table-spoonfuls of the Fruit juice, and 1 heaped table-spoonful of powdered chocolate. Beat the mix- ture until quite smooth, then put it hack in the centre of the cake. Put 1 table-spoonful of cornflour into a lined saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stir in gradually 1 V pints of milk ; continue stirring it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. When cold, pour the custard over the cake. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow with f table-spoonful of caster sugar, then spread it over the top of the custard. Decorate the top of the cake with crystallised Fruit, sugar-plums, or anything that may be fancied, and serve. (2) Stew lib. of cherries and lib. of red currants separately. Put at the bottom of a glass dish a layer of fresh strawberries; soak some slices of stale sponge cake in sherry, put a layer of them over the strawberries, then a layer of the stewed red currants, a layer of ratafias, and on the top the stewed cherries, covering with a custard. Whip some cream, pile it over the custard, and the dish is ready to be served. Fruit Vinegar.—For 4galls. of vinegar use 2 bushels of any kind of rijie juicy Fruit. Crush it with a stamper, put it into a large vessel with 4galls. of boiling water, stir well, and keep it in a warm temperature for a week. As the fermentation pro- gresses, skim off all the impure matter that rises to the top. At the end of the week strain the liquor and Fruit through strong fine linen, pressing the pulp well to extract all the juice. Pour the liquor into a 4gall. barrel, mix in 1 pint of yeast, and put in a piece of bread. Fix the bung in loosely, spread a piece of flannel over it, and stand the cask in a warm temperature. In about six weeks’ time draw the vinegar off into bottles, cork tightly, and put them by for use. Fruit Wine.—Take equal quantities each of black, white, and red currants, cherries, and raspberries, bruise them, and to every 41b. pour over lgall. of water. The more black currants that are used, the better the wine. Stir frequently for three days in an uncovered vessel, and then strain through a fine sieve. To each gallon of liquid add 31b. of sugar, and let it stand for three days longer, stirring frequently. Skim off the scum, pour it into a cask, and let it ferment for a fortnight. To each 9galls. add lqt. of brandy, bung up the cask, and bottle off when clear. Should it be a long time in fining, add a little dissolved isinglass. Glazed Fruits.-—Put lib. of loaf sugar over the fire in a copper sugar-boiler with 1 gill of cold water, and boil until the top is covered with large bubbles, then drop a little of it into cold water ; if when it is cold it breaks with a snap, it is ready. The sides of the boiler must occasionally be wiped with a wet cloth to free them from sugar, and the sugar closely watched lest it boil beyond the point indicated. Take the boiler from the fire, and glaze the Fruits by dipping them into the sugar and then laying them on a dish slightly coated with salad-oil. Macedoine of Fruits.—(1) Take two dome-shaped moulds with fluted sides, one mould being 2in. larger in diameter than the other, and fully lin. higher. The smaller mould must have four hooked handles at the sides, by which it may be hung exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Make a transparent strawberry jelly. Set the larger mould as level as possible in pounded ice, hang the smaller one inside, and pour the strawberry jelly into the larger mould, nearly filling it. Let it remain in the ice till the jelly is quite stiff. In the meantime, hull about twenty white strawberries, the same number of red ones, and twenty or thirty white raspberries; pick from their stalks a handful of red currants and the same quantity of white, and if they are not perfectly clean, wash them, but handle them as little as possible. When the jelly is quite set, remove the smaller mould by pouring hot water into it, when it may be lifted out without difficulty ; but raise it carefully, that its shape may be preserved smoothly on the jelly underneath. Arrange at the bottom of this space some of the white currants, surround them with a ring of Fruit—continued. white strawberries, and lay round them white raspberries. Pour in very carefully (so as to leave the Fruit undisturbed) a few table-spoonfuls of jelly, and let it stand till quite set; then arrange some of the red Fruit, again adding jelly, and letting it stand till set; add red and white Fruit alternately, pouring in jelly each time and letting it stiffen till the Fruit is all used ; fill up the mould with jelly. When quite set, dip the mould into hot water for an instant, and turn the jelly out. See Fig. 813. Fig. 813. Macedoine of Fruits. (2) Strain the syrup off some preserved pears, apricots, plums, and cherries, and put it into a stewpan with a few drops of brandy and a little loaf sugar, stir over the fire till it thickens, and skim off any scum that may rise to the top. Arrange equal quantities of the Fruit tastefully in a fancy dish, pour the syrup over it, and serve cold. Muscovite Dish of Fruits. Make 1 pint of apricot puree, and mix with it \ pint of syrup, four dissolved leaves of French gelatine, the juice of an oraug'e, and a little grated orange-peel; pour this into a plain border mould, surround it with salted ice, and leave it to set for half-an-hour. Whilst this is setting, get ready a mixed mince of Fruits, either fresh or crystallised ; if the crystallised are used, they should be first'•softened in warm water. Fill a dome-shaped mould with the mixture, pour in a little flavoured syrup, and surround the mould with ice till wanted. Dip the border mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a round dish. Drain the Fruit mixture, fill the hollow of the border with it, and mask it with a purde of fresh Fruits that have been sugared and cooled on ice. This dish makes an exceedingly pretty entremet. Raisinet.—For this capital children’s preserve, take, say, 181b. of Fruit, which may be made up of apples, pears, peaches, apricots, cherries, plums, currants, grapes, or any other fresh Fruits, taking them all in equal quantities as nearly as possible. Prepare the Fruits by stoning and peeling those that require it, and keep each kind separate from the others. Put 101b. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with water, and boil it to a syrup of 22deg. (see Syrups). Pour this into a pre- serving-pan, and simmer each kind of Fruit in it, one sort at a time, until nearly cooked ; then put them into a large sieve over a bowl, and let them drain. When all the various kinds of Fruit have been treated in the same way, pour in 6qts. of currant- or grape-juice (or cider will do), and boil quickly until the liquor becomes stringy and hangs from the spoon. Put in all the Fruits, taking great care not to bruise them, stir very gently for ten minutes, turn the raisinet into jars or pots, and it is ready for use. This may be eaten with rice, cornflour blanc-mange, or other farinaceous food. Suedoise of Fruits -with Jelly.—Pack a high-shaped char- lotte-mould in ice ; procure some white apples and reddened pears that have been previously boiled in syrup and cooled on ice, prick them with a larding-needle, and dip them in half-set white jelly; stick them round the sides of the mould, alternating the shades by two and two so that they form diagonal stripes; mask all round the inside, when the Fruit is arranged, with a layer of orange-jelly about |in. thick, fill the hollow with a strawberry bavarois mixed with a salpiijon