TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 500 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish —continued. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Pour over them some white stock, judging the quantity by that of the Fish, addloz of butter, and a sufficient quantity of curry-powder; season with salt, lemon-juice, a small lump of sug'ar, and a small quantity of cayenne. Boil the stock for fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain it into a clean stewpan, skim it, and put in the Fish, having carefully prepared it, and boil gently, but without breaking it. Wash and boil about ^lb. of rice in water ; when cooked, it should be rather dry, and the g’rains unbroken. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve it while very hot, with the rice separate. (2) Indian Style.—Wash the Fish well in salted water, cut it into slices, and for each lib. of Fish allow 1 tea- spoonful of minced onion, % teaspoonful each of minced garlic and ground turmeric, and a small quantity of cayenne. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the onions, garlic, and spices, and fry them. After- wards put in the Fish, fry it for ten minutes, then pour in 1 teacupful of butter. Put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the Fish at the side of the fire. "When cooked, turn the Fish on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, or toasted in front of the fire, and serve. Essence of Fish.—Put into a saucepan 1 lib. each of gurnet and soles in pieces, four shallots, two onions with a clove stuck in each, a medium-sized carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 pint of French white wine, and a little salt and pepper. Give the mixture two or three boils, then pour in 2qts. of Fish broth, and simmer gently till the Fish is cooked. Strain the liquor through a broth-napkin into a stone jar, leave it till cooled a little, then skim off all the fat, and put it by for use. Fish dressed a la Bouillabaisse.—Prepare this dish with several kinds of Fish, the greater the variety the better. Chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a clove of garlic, a small piece of orange-peel, and about 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; season to taste with pepper, salt, and spice, then pour in water barely sufficient to cover the Fish. When it is put in, add 1 pinch of saffron and a very small quantity of oil; set the pan over the fire till the onions are cooked. Trim the Fish, cut it into small pieces, put them into the stewpan, and stir the whole well over a quick fire. Put the Fish on a hot dish, and serve. It is necessary that this mixture should be cooked very quickly. Fish au Gratin.—Any kind of Fish may be served this way. Remove the skin and bones, cut the flesh into pieces about 3in. square, and season with pepper and salt. Make a sauce as follows : Put 3oz. of butter into a frying-pan, and set it on the fire or stove; when the butter is hot, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and brown it; then add gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring continuously. When the stock is boiling, put in a chopped slice of an onion and 1 dessert-spoon- ful of chopped parsley. Butter a shallow dish, fill it with the Fish and sauce in alternate layers, cover with finely-grated breadcrumbs, and bake for half-an-hour, or until the crumbs are well browned. Serve hot with tomato, tartar, or Dutch sauce in a sauceboat. Pish —continued. Fish in Aspic Jelly.—Put into a saucepan 21b. of knuckle of veal, a calf’s foot, jib. of lean bacon, three or four carrots and onions, one shallot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and add spices, salt, and pepper to taste. Pour in 2qts. of water, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is in rags, gradually adding more boiling water as this reduces or boils away. Strain the liquor into a basin, leave it until cold, skim off the fat, remove any sediment that may have settled at the bottom, put the jelly into a saucepan, and clarify it with the whites of two or three eggs and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag, and when nearly set, pour a thin layer into a jelly-mould, put in a layer of fillets of soles or other Fish, cover them with jelly, then put in a layer of prawns, next another layer of jelly, and proceed thus until the mould is quite full. Stand the mould in ice, and leave it until the contents are quite firm. When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish : garnish with prawns, parsley, and chopped jelly (see Fig. 748), and serve. Fish Balls or Croquettes.— (1) Any cold Fish will do for croquettes. Pick it carefully from all bones and skin, and chop it fine. Take one-third of its bulk of mashed potatoes, beat them to a cream with a little white sauce, add some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the Fish, and mix all well together; knead it into a paste, make the paste into balls, roll them first in beaten egg and then in bread- crumbs till they are well covered, and fry in boiling fat. Serve very hot, and garnish with thin slices of lemon. (2) Remove the bones and skin from some cold boiled Fish, pound it in a mortar, and add a little pepper, salt, and essence of anchovies. Flour the hands, roll this into balls, and dip them in beaten egg- and then in breadcrumbs ; put the balls into a wire frying-basket in a saucepan with boiling fat in it, shaking the basket about occasionally so as to brown the balls evenly. When done, drain, dish them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Take any cold boiled white Fish that may be left over from a meal, break it to pieces with a fork, remove all skin and bone, and shred the Fish very fine. Add to it an equal quantity in bulk and not weight of mashed potatoes, and work it with a little butter and milk to a stiff paste. A beaten egg is a great improvement worked into the paste. Flour the hands and form the paste into balls, and proceed as for No. 1. Fish Boudins a la Soubise.—Make 1 Jib. of Fish forcemeat, and mix with it a little more than Jib. of thickened and well-seasoned onion puree. Sprinkle some flour on a table, put the forcemeat on it, and divide into about fourteen flat-shaped boudins ; half cook them in boiling salted water, then drain, and dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the boudins, and fry them till nicely browned, turning them to cook both sides equally. When cooked, drain them on a sheet of thick paper, arrange upright in a circle on an ornamental dish-paper or napkin on a hot dish, garnish the hollow of the circle with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Fish Broth (Cuisson de Poisson).—Put 3qts. of water into a saucepan with 1 handful of salt, I wineglassful of vinegar, one carrot, and one onion (both sliced), § handful of whole peppers, one bunch of parsley-roots, three sprigs of thyme, and three bay-leaves. Cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Cool, and use when needed for various methods of cooking Fish. Fish Cakes.—(1) Put in a stewpan 1 pint of thick brown sauce; when it is hot add 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce and six finely-chopped ghei’kins. Remove the skin and bone from lib. of cold boiled Fish, divide it into little flakes with two forks, and pour the sauce over it; when cold, shape it into cakes, egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry in the boiling fat till brown on both sides, drain, put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut off the crust from a stale French roll, and soak the crumb in milk or wine. Remove the skin and bone from some raw Fish, cut about lib. of the flesh into small pieces, chop up two anchovies, and mix them with the Fish. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with the soaked roll, mix it