519 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Dessert—continued. cakes, preserves, and otlier sweetmeats, accompanying the service of wines. Modern customs have decided that the Dessert, with flowers, shall occupy the centre of the dining- or banquet-table, forming a kind of ornamentation that cannot be excelled. So soon as the dinner is at an end, and all the vessels pertaining thereto have been removed, a few small glass dishes containing crystallised fruits and other tasty morsels are supplemented to the fine dishes already in position, and to each guest is supplied a dessert-plate, fruit knife, fork, and spoon, wineglasses to suit the wines, and finger bowls. As regards the various fruits, ices, cakes and other dishes suitable for desserts, sufficient instructions concerning their preparation and mode of service may be found under their various headings. DEVILS.— This fanciful term is given to certain broiled meats or bones, freely peppered with cayenne. Numerous receipts for making them will be found under various headings, such as Beef, Bones, Crab, Bowl, Kidneys, Mackerel, Oysters, Salmon, Sardines, Turkeys, &c. The following mixture is considered very good for pre- paring Devils for the grill. Put 1 teaspoonful of mustard on a plate with 4 teaspoonful of anchovy paste and % table-spoonful of salad-oil, and mix them thoroughly together with the blade of a knife. Coat the meats over with the mixture. DEVIL SAUCE (Sauce it la Diable).—Sec Sauces. DEVONSHIRE BUNS.—See Buns. DEVONSHIRE CAKES.—See Cakes. DEVONSHIRE CREAM.—See Cream. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET.—The term “junket” is derived from the Italian giuncata—a cream cheese, and that word was doubtless derived from giuncato, signifying covered with rushes, that being the usual manner of pre- paring cream- or rush-cheese, as it is called, and giunco is the Italian for a rush. The French apply their jonc— a rush, and joncher—to strew with rushes, to cream cheeses in the same way as jonchee de creme. Devonshire Junket is much esteemed in Devonshire, and may lie prepared as follows : (1) Mix about i table-spoonful of rennet with lqt. of milk that has been freshly drawn from the cow. Place the curd on a fine hair sieve, and drain off the whey. Put 1 pint of cream in a saucepan, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and place the pan over the fire until the cream is on the point of boiling; then turn it into a jug, and let it get cold. Sift caster sugar over the bottom of a glass dish, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of port wine, turn the curds on to it, then pour over the cream, and serve. (2) Turn lqt. of new milk with a piece of rennet, and pour it into a glass dish. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream in a basin and mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy ; sweeten to tasto with caster sugar, and flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the milk is firm, pour the above mixture over it, put some ratafias round the dish, and serve. (3) If possible, procure 1 pint of milk fresh from the cow ; but if this is not convenient, the milk must be poured into a saucepan and placed over the fire until of blood heat. Put tablespoonful of rennet into a glass dish with 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; then pour in the warmed milk and mix all well together. Spread a thick layer of Devonshire cream over the top, dust it over with caster sugar and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and leave it for three or four hours in a cool place before serving. DEVONSHIRE PUDDING—See Puddings. DEVONSHIRE SAUCE.—See Sauces. DEVONSHIRE WHITE-POT—The county of Devon is celebrated not only for its cream, but also for numerous tasty dishes of which cream or rich milk forms the basis or chief ingredient. That known as White-pot is deservedly famous. It is prepared as follows: (1) Mix 3 pints of milk with J pint of water, and stir in five well-beaten eggs. Slice and butter thickly a French roll, lay the pieces in a dish or bowl, and sprinkle with caster sugar and nutmeg. Pour the milk-and-egg mixture over, and bake in a quick oven for about two hours. Serve hot. (2) Steep 1 teacupful of Smyrna raisins in boiling water until well filled out. Beat up four eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix with 1 pint of cream, and season with grated nutmeg and a very small quantity of salt. Cut a small French roll into very thin slices, lay them in a pie-dish, and pour the eggs and cream over them; strew the raisins on the top, put a few small pieces of butter over all, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. DEWBERRIES.—This is the name given to the fruit of a species of bramble (Rubus csesius). There are two or three kinds known in America, but none of them are much better than a sort of blackberry, possessing exceed- ingly little flavour. They are used chiefly for the purpose of making a semi-medicinal cordial, supposed to be valu- able in cases of intestinal laxation. Dewberry Cordial.—(1) Mash some Dewberries, strain the juice, measure it, put it into a pan with lib. of loaf sugar to each quart of juice, and boil for fifteen minutes; then strain, and leave till cool. Mix in for each quart 2 wineglass- fuls of brandy and 1 table-spoonful of powdered mace, cloves, and allspice. Bottle the cordial, and keep it tightly corked till wanted for use. (2) Pick sufficient Dewberries to make 2qts. of juice, and mash them in a mortar ; then pass the juice through a fine silk sieve, pour it into a saucepan, add four grated nutmegs, 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful each of powdered cloves and powdered allspice, put the lid on tightly to prevent evaporation, and simmer for half-an-hour. Strain the mixture through a silk sieve, and leave till cold ; then mix 1 pint of brandy with it. The cordial should be kept in tightly-corked bottles. DIABETIC BREAD.—See Bread. DIABLE, SAUCE A LA.—See Sauces. DIABLOTINS.—The literal meaning of this term is “ little imps,” which French cooks have applied to small balls or sweetmeats of various kinds. The following is an excellent receipt, given by a famous French confectioner: Blanch and pound 4ifOZ. of sweet almonds, adding while pounding 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Put 4oz. of ground rice into a stewpan, stir in gradually the almond milk, add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, loz. of butter, a small quantity of grated orange- peel, and a dust of salt, and stir over the fire till firm and thick ; then take it off, mix lj wineglassfuls of kirschenwasser or cognac with it, and turn it into a basin. While still hot, take the mixture up in pieces the size of walnuts, roll them round, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry till very darkly browned; then drain them, sprinkle with a few drops of orange-flower water, and roll in crushed sugar. Arrange the balls on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 644. See also Diavolini.