THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 605 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Forcemeats—continued. into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry quickly until of a light brown colour, and done. Forcemeat Balls for Soup. -(1) Chop 1 breakfast-cupful of any cooked meat, add 1 saltspoonful of thyme, the same of salt, half the quantity of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a few drops of onion-juice, and 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. Beat the yolk of an egg, and add sufficient of it to moisten the meat. Boll the mixture into balls about the size of walnuts, put them into a deep plate, dust over with flour, and shake the plate with a circular motion so as to get the balls well covered. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into an omelet-pan, and place it over a moderate fire, shaking it occa- sionally so that the balls are cooked all over. When they are done and a good brown colour, they are ready for use. (2) Finely mince half a calf’s tongue, and add half its bulk of breadcrumbs and 3 table-spoonfuls of melted butter. Mix thoroughly, and add one egg, a little grated nutmeg, a few sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and form it into a stiff paste. Make this into balls (putting a little flour on the hands), throw them into boiling water, and poach for a little while ; take them out, and put them into the soup. Forcemeat Cutlets with Green Peas. —Bather underdone meat should be used if it can be procured. Cut the meat into small pieces, then put them in a mortar and pound, season to taste with salt and pepper, and for lib. of meat beat in the yolks of two eggs. Divide the meat into equal quantities, and flatten and trim them to the shape of small cutlets. If tinned green peas are used, make them hot by standing the tin in hot water; but if fresh peas are used, cook them in the ordinary way. Put a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the cutlets and fry them ; as each cutlet is cooked, take it out of the fat, and drain for a few seconds on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, with the peas in the centre, and serve. Forcemeat for Game.—Chop lib. of veal, 4oz. of fat pork, six large mushrooms, and lib. of boiled ham, put them into a mortar, and pound to a paste. Put 1 pint of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, and cook gently until the bread is quite smoooth and soft, stirring continually; add J breakfast-cupful of butter and J teaspoonful of pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of onion sauce, a little cinnamon, clove, mace, and grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of salt, and put it away to cool. When cold, add the meat, mix well, and pass it through a sieve, binding it into a solid mass with the yolks of four eggs. It may be used as a border, or in pies, or for quenelles. If for a border, it must be put into a well-buttered mould set over a saucepan of boiling water, and steamed for three hours before being turned out. Forcemeat for Hare.—(1) Bemove the skin and finely chop Jib. of beef-suet, mix it with lib. of grated breadcrumb, and season well with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and sweet marjoram. Bind the mixture with one beaten egg and a small quantity of milk, and it is then ready. (2) Scald the liver of the hare and chop it very finely with Jib. of ham; mix well, and add half the bulk of finely-grated breadcrumb, one washed, boned, and chopped anchovy, a moderate quantity of chopped sweet herbs and grated lemon- peel, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture with two beaten eggs and a wine- glassful of red wine, work it well, and it is ready for use. Forcemeat-and-Mushroom Pie.—Butter a plain pie-mould about Tin. deep, line it with short-paste, cover the bottom with a layer of Forcemeat prepared with fowl and truffles, and fill with mushrooms that have been warmed in butter, some sliced artichoke bottoms, and some quenelles made of chicken Forcemeat. Cover the pie with a round of paste, moisten the edges and pinch them together, brush the top of the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake. When cooked, lift the cover off the pie, pour in some strong, hot gravy, and serve very hot. Forcemeat Patties.—Bub ljoz. of butter in Jib. of sifted flour, and when smooth mix in gradually a sufficient quantity of beaten eggs to form a stiffish paste. Boll the paste out to about -Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 3in. in diameter. Put in the centre of each round Forcemeats—continued. a small heap of nicely-flavoured and cooked Forcemeat, gather up the edges of the paste all round, and bind them together with a narrow strip of paste. When all the patties are made, put a large lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put them in and fry a pale colour. As they are cooked, take them out of the pan, and lay them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain off some of the fat. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Forcemeat Pie.— Cut lib. of veal into thin slices, also fib. of poi’k and the same of bacon ; finely chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes without browning, then put in the slices of meat, and moisten with water to half their height, season with pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents stew gently. When the meats are tender, take them out of the liquor, chop them finely, and season with plenty of salt; season the cooking liquor with salt and pepper and a small quantity of finely-minced green herbs. Stir 1 teacupful of milk and three well-beaten eggs into the gravy, then mix the Forcemeat in thoroughly, stirring it over the fire for a few minutes, but not boiling it again. A small quantity of grated nutmeg or mace may be added if the flavour is liked. Butter a pie-mould, line it with a good pie-crust, and fill it with the mixture ; cover it with a flat of paste, trim it off round the edges, and moisten and pinch them together; make a slight incision in the centre of the pie. Cut some leaves with the trimmings of paste, moisten them underneath with water to make them adhere, and arrange tastefully on the top of the pie ; brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put it into a moderate oven, and bake. When lightly browned, cover the pie with a sheet of paper, so that it will not be darkly coloured. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it until quite cold, then stand the mould in tepid water for two or three minutes to loosen the pie at the sides and bottom, lift the pie carefully out, place it on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Forcemeat for Pies.—Chop Jib. of fat bacon with lib. of veal, with the skin and fat taken off ; add a little powdered herbs and mushroom ketchup, two eggs, and a little salt to season. Mix well, roll up into balls, and use for pies or any made dishes. Forcemeat for Pigeons. -Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, and beat it until it is nearly a cream ; then add Jib. of bread- crumbs, a little finely-minced parsley, lemon-peel, ground mace, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and bind the mass together with a well-beaten egg. Forcemeat Rissoles. -Take about Jib. of g-ood puff paste and roll it out on a board to the thickness of Jin., and with a paste-cutter cut it into small rounds ; put a little Forcemeat on each one, wet the edges, and cover them over with another round of paste. Mark the top with a paste-cutter, and press round the edges. Put some fat (butter preferred) into a frying-pan, and when it is boiling put in the rissoles and fry them until done. Take them out, drain them, and serve on a dish-paper (see Fig. 760). Forcemeat for Roasted. Sucking-Pig.—Parboil one or two small onions (or they may be left out of the stuffing altogether), chop them very fine, and add Joz. of powdered sage, Goz. of sifted breadcrumbs, and 4oz. of butter ; season