TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 531 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. or ten minutes, drain, put them in a skillet, add 1 saltspoonful of sugar and a small piece of butter, and fry over a sharp | fire till a rich brown ; then add a little broth, and reduce, j Prepare a roux, mix it with the Duck broth, and stir over I the fire till it bubbles ; then move it off, and let it simmer I at the side for twenty minutes. Skim the fat off the soup, strain it, and put it back into the stewpan. Cut off the | meat in slices from the Duck’s breast, put it in a tureen, j pour the soup over it, drop in the turnips, and serve. (2) Prepare a good-sized Duck, cut it into six pieces, chop the back in halves, put all into a stewpan with the neck and pinions, add a piece of butter, and fry for ten minutes over a ' moderate Are; add three rashers of fat bacon, blanched and cut into squares, sprinkle over a little flour, salt, and pepper, and fry this over the fire for two or three minutes longer; then add lqt. of hot broth. When this boils, move the stewpan a little to the side, put on the cover, and simmer for half-an-hour; then add some carrots, celery-roots, and turnips cut into balls, and half-an-hour later add some potatoes, also cut in balls, and season to taste. Put one dozen small onions in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown ; season with pepper and salt, add a little broth, and reduce till the onions are glazed. Ten minutes before ready to dish, skim the fat off the soup, and put in the onions. Dish and serve. (3) Singe and draw a Duck, wash its giblets, put both in a saucepan with an onion, cover over with cold water, and boil slowly at the side of the fire. When the Duck and giblets are tender, take them out of the saucepan. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a small quantity of water to a smooth paste, stir it in with the soup, add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and season with salt and pepper. Partially boil a few small equal-sized potatoes, drain them, put them in the soup, fill up the saucepan with clear broth, and boil for twenty minutes. Cut the flesh of the Duck into small pieces, and put them with the giblets in the soup. When ready, turn all into a tureen, and serve. (4) Pomeranian.—Singe and draw two Ducks, and blanch them for a few minutes in boiling water; put them in a stewpan with a piece of chopped celery-root, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf; pour over them 4qts. of broth, place them over the fire until boiling, then move to the side and keep it simmering gently until the Ducks are tender. Drain them, skim off the fat of their cooking-liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a clean saucepan, mix in a small quantity of white roux, stir the soup over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Peel and cut some potatoes into small round balls and boil them gently until tender. Cut off the meat from the bones of the Ducks and trim it into even-shaped pieces; put these in the soup to warm up again. Drain the potatoes, put them in a soup- tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Hashed Suck.—Draw and clean a Duck, cut it in pieces, and put it in a saucepan. Fry a chopped onion in a little butter, thicken it with flour, put it in with the Duck, season with pepper and salt, and add a little soy or ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and a little sugar. When the Duck is cooked, dish it, and garnish with fried croutons of bread. Indian Dumpode, or Dam-pukht of Duck.—Pluck and clean a fat Duck, bone it without injuring the skin, and mask it inwardly with a mixture of 1 teaspoonful each of any sauce, sweet-oil, and mustard. With the bones and giblets prepare a gravy, seasoning highly with sweet herbs, bay-leaves, salt, and pepper. Chop finely the Duck’s liver, fib. of beef-suet, and 2|lb. of beef, without skin or fat, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and black pepper, half the quantity each of pounded mixed hot spices and essence of anchovies (if not objected to), 1 dessert-spoonful of minced sweet herbs, and 1 table-spoonful of sifted breadcrumbs. Stuff the Duck with this mixture. Melt 3oz. of fat in a saucepan, put in the Duck, pour over the strained giblet gravy, and cook on a moderate fire until tender. Take out the Duck, glaze it, and serve with a garnish of hot West-Indian pickle and glazed cooked vegetables. Leg's and Wings of Duck witli Scrur-crout.—Cut off the legs and wings of a braised Duck and keep them hot. Take out the stalk of a white cabbage and mince the remainder. Cut off a few slices from the belly-part of fat pork, trim Ducks—continued. them into lin. squares, and fry lightly; put the chopped cabbage in with the fat, having first taken out the pork. When the cabbage is nearly done put the pork in again, add a little thin brown sauce, skim off the fat, and reduce until moderately thick. When done, spread the preparation over the Duck, and serve. Puree of Duck.—Fillet a roasted Duck, skin it, take out the bones, and pound the flesh in a mortar with a piece of butter and a little grated nutmeg; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce and the yolks of four eggs; when thoroughly mixed, pass all through a sieve. Fry three sliced onions in a little butter till brown; sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and fry for a few minutes longer; add gradually 2qts. of broth and stir till boiling; move the stewpan on one side, add a bunch of herbs and a handful of the trimmings of mushrooms, and simmer for twenty-five minutes. Skim and strain the soup, add the puree of Duck, boil up again, and serve in a tureen with sippets of toast. Roasted Ducks.—(1) Remove the pinions, legs, crop, entrails, and oil-bags, truss the birds, rub a little butter over them, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, and roast in a hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. Should they be preferred Fig. 673. Roasted Ducks and Peas. stuffed, peel, core, and quarter some apples, and fill the body with them, removing them when the bird is done, as they are not fit to eat, the flavour being too strong. Serve with olive sauce and green peas. See Fig. G73. (2) Prepare a Duck for roasting, and put an onion cut in halves in the body of the bird ; truss it, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, and roast before a quick fire for forty minutes, basting continually with butter. Remove the skewers, &c., from the Duck, dish it, pour over a little rich brown gravy, and serve with red-currant jelly, and Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Blanch lib. of onions, cut in slices, with twenty-four sage-leaves for five minutes; then drain and mince them, put them in a stewpan, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time; add f teacupful of breadcrumbs, and stir for another three minutes. Truss the Duck, stuff it with the above preparation, and roast it before a very brisk fire for sixteen minutes, basting continually. Dish, pour over a rich brown gravy, and serve. (4) German Style.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Duck. Peel a sufficient quantity of apples, cut them in quarters, core them, and mix with them 1 teacupful of currants, soaked in hot water until plump, and 2oz. of butter. Stuff the Duck with the apple mixture, truss it, bind a sheet of buttered paper round it, and roast it in front of a brisk fire, basting frequently with butter. When nearly cooked, remove the paper, so that it may brown lightly. Put the Duck on a hot dish, and serve with it a sauce- boatful of clear gravy, and any other accompaniments liked in the way of vegetables. Roasted Duck ■with Orange Sauce.—While the Duck is roasting, scrape 1 table-spoonful each of fat bacon and raw onion, and fry them together for five minutes; add the juice of an orange, 1 wineglassful of port wine, the drippings from the Duck, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Keep this hot without boiling, and serve it with the Duck when the latter is done. U