THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 489 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Cucumbers—continued. and put into jars with a few small onions, cloves of garlic, and small bunches of herbs, composed of bay-leaves, tarragon, and burnet. Pour into a saucepan sufficient vinegar to cover the Cucumbers, place it over the fire until boiling, then pour it immediately over the pickles. When the vinegar is quite cold, cover the jars with pieces of wet parchment, and tie them round securely, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight. Look at the pickles occasionally, and if the vinegar turns white, throw it and the spices away, with the exception of the onions; then put in a fresh quantity as before described, cover again with boiling' vinegar, and when it is cold tie the parchment over the jars. (4) Select small smooth-skinned Cucumbers—those without seeds are the best—and wijie them over with a clean cloth. Cover the bottom of a small, very clean barrel or an earthenware crock with sour cherry-leaves, vine-leaves, and two or three walnut-leaves, and pack the “Cucumbers closely in, with two or three of the above-mentioned leaves here and there, also a sprig or two of green dill. When all the Cucumbers are packed, cover them with wild cherry-leaves. Prepare a weak brine and pour it over the Cucumbers so as to submerge them; then cover them with a plate or block of wood, over which put a weight. Stand the barrel in a warm tem- perature until small bubbles form on the top of the brine ; then remove it to a cool place. A small quantity of vinegar or tartaric acid may be mixed in the brine if liked. The pickles will be fit for eating in a month from the time of making'. (5) Select large yellow Cucumbers; peel, and split them lengthwise down the centre, scoop out all the seeds, then cut them into small pieces of various shapes; put the Cucumbers in a tub and pour over them sufficient of the best vinegar to cover them. In about two days’ time, drain the vinegar from the Cucumbers, measure it, pour it into a lined vessel, and for each 3qts. add lib. of sugar, Joz. of stick cinnamon, ‘2oz. of white ginger, half a grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves. Boil the vinegar, &c., for ten minutes, then put in the Cucumbers and boil them for two minutes; drain the Cucumbers (they should not be the least bit soft), and pack in stone jars. Pour the pickle over while hot, and leave them for a week ; at the end of that time, strain the pickle from the Cucumbers and boil it up again. Leave the pickle until cold, then pour it over the Cucumbers again; tie pieces of stout paper or parch- ment over the jars, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (6) Choose firm, seedless Cucumbers, and wipe them on a dry cloth. Peel a few pickling onions and steep them in salted water for a short time. Pack the Cucumbers closely in a large jar, strewing between them the onions, also loz. of ginger that has been broken into small pieces, Joz. of whole pepper, ^oz. of pimento, and a few bay-leaves; also add a few sprigs of tarragon and dill. Cover them with two- thirds vinegar and one-third water, with 1 dessert-spoonful of salt for every 3 pints of the liquor. Tie stout paper or parchment over the jar, and keep it in a cool, dry place. (7) Put some fennel at the bottom of a stone jar, then put in the required quantity of small Cucumbers, and lay some more fennel over them. Pour in sufficient salted water to cover them, put a board on the top, and on that a heavy weight to press the Cucumbers down. Keep them in a warm temperature for a week. At the end of that time, move the jar into a cool place, and leave it for ten days. The Cucumbers are then ready for use. (8) Choose small Cucumbers, lay them upon dishes, sprinkle salt over, and let them lie a week; then drain them well, put into stone jars, pour boiling vinegar over, place them near the fire, and cover well with vine-leaves. If not a good green, pour off the vinegar and boil it again; cover the Cucumbers with fresh vine-leaves, and continue doing so until they are a good colour. On no account must air be allowed to get to them. (9) Another good method of pickling Cucumbers is to put them in salted water as they are picked, changing the salted | water once in three or four days. Take them out, drain, put them into jars, pour over scalding-hot vinegar seasoned with alum, salt, and peppercorns, cover over, and pack away for use. (10) Put some small, but not too young, Cucumbers in a stone jar, add a small piece of alum, and pour over them a Cucumbers—continued. strong brine. Soak them in this for a week, then pour off the brine, cover with clear water, and let them remain for two days. Strain the water off the Cucumbers, and pour over them some cider vinegar that has been boiled and allowed to get cool (cloves, mustard, allspice, and cinnamon should have been boiled in the vinegar). Cucumbers pickled in this manner will keep good for quite a year. (11) Select a sufficient quantity of very small Cucumbers, as nearly of one size as possible, to fill a ljgall. jar. Wash, lay them in a lined pan with a very small lump of alum, cover with green grape-leaves, and moisten to height with vinegar and water in equal quantities. Place the pan over a moderate fire and leave the Cucumbers until of a rich green colour; then take- out with a wooden spoon and put them in the jar. Mix with Jgall. of good cider vinegar loz. of allspice, Joz. of mace, Joz. of nutmeg, £ table-spoonful of celery-seed, loz. of stick cinnamon, loz. of whole peppers, and half a red pepper; add also -fib. of brown sug'ar, three bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful each of ground ginger and white mustard- seeds, a small orange, and a lemon, both of them sliced and with their pips removed. Stir the mixture over the Cucumbers, tie a stout piece of paper over the jar, and put by for use. (12) Hot.—Select the requisite quantity of fully-grown Cucumbers, peel them, cut into halves, scoop out the seeds, and trim round the edges. Put the Cucumbers into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for a minute or two; drain them, lay in a large stone jar, strewing salt between the layers, and cover with wine vinegar. Leave them in the vinegar for one week ; then strain off the latter, and boil it up with a few cloves and peppercorns. Pack the Cucumbers again with a number of halved shallots, slices of horseradish, a few cloves of gai-lic, capsicums, sprigs of tarragon, bay-leaves, and a few small pieces of mace. Leave the vinegar until cold, then pour it over the Cucumbers, and tie a piece of parchment or stout paper over the jar. In ten or fourteen days’ time re-boil the vinegar, and when it has got cold, pour it over the pickles, and cover the jar again. (13) Russian.—Select full-grown seedless Cucumbers of an equal size, strew plentifully with salt, and let them remain thus for two days. At the end of that time, wipe them, and pack in earthen jars with peeled shallots and cloves of garlic between them, allowing for every dozen of the Cucumbers Jib. of the former and Joz. of the latter. Lay on the top of them a good handful each of fresh basil, dill-, and tarragon-leaves, also a pod of chillies. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover the Cucumbers, and pour it over them while hot. Tie a piece of very stout paper or bladder over the jars and leave them for fourteen days ; at the end of that time, strain the vinegar off the Cucumbers, boil it again, adding more vinegar if necessary to keep up the original quantity, and when cold pour it over the Cucumbers. Tie the jars over again, and keep them in a dry place for five or six weeks ; at the end of that time they will be fit for use. Pickled Cucumbers (like Mango Pickles).—(1) Select young but fully-grown Cucumbers, cut a small piece out of the side of each and scoop out the seeds, cover them with salt, and leave them for one night. Cut up into small pieces an equal quantity each of horseradish, shallots, and capers ; mix them together with a quarter their bulk of mustard-seeds, the third of a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of bruised cloves, and a small quantity of white pepper. On the following day, dry the Cucumbers on a cloth, and stuff them with the above mixture. Fix the pieces that were taken out of the sides in their places again and bind them round with twine to keep them in position. Put them in large jars, packing them closely together, and pour over sufficient of the best vinegar to cover them. Tie a piece of parchment or stout paper over each jar, and put them in a cool, dry cupboard till wanted. (2) Cut a narrow strip out of the side of large, not very ripe Cucumbers, and scrape out the seeds; mix some of the seeds with a few mustard-seeds, a little scraped horseradish, finely- shred garlic, and white peppers, and pound them. Fill the hollow of the Cucumbers with this mixture, put the strips back again, and tie round with thread. Cover the Cucumbers with boiling vinegar; strain, re-cover with boiling vinegar every day for three days, and on the last day boil the vinegar with Joz. of cloves, Joz. of mace, 2oz. of whole pepper, 2oz. of mustard-seeds, 1 stick of horseradish, and a clove of garlic, to every Jgall. of vinegar.