657 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. caster sugar oyer it, and serve with a sauceboatful of Fruit syrup. (6) Cut about one dozen thin slices of bread-and-butter, and soak them in just as much tinned Fruit juice as they will absorb. Thickly butter a pie-dish, put in about 2 breakfast- cupfuls of the Fruit and juice, then strew a thick layer of grated breadcrumb and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar on the top, and baste them with 1 teacupful of cold water; then lay over them the soaked slices of bread-and-butter, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake until browned. When cooked, sift caster sugar over, and stand the pie on a flat dish. It may be served hot or cold. (7) German. — Press sufficient juice out of raspberries and red currants to fill 3 breakfast - cups, the rasp- berry-juice predominating; mix 1 heaped table-spoonful of maizena smoothly with a little cold milk or water, and stir the Fruit juice into it, adding sufficient water to make up lqt.; sweeten to taste, turn it into a lined saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling; pour the mixture into a mould, and leave it until cold. Boil § pint of milk with half a vanilla bean in it ; beat the yolks of two eggs in a little cold milk, and stir the boiling milk quickly into them. Pour the sauce back again into the saucepan, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire until thickened, but do not allow it to boil. Turn the sauce into a jug, and leave it until cold. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Fruit Pudding1 with Sum Sauce.- Butter a quart pudding- mould 4in. high, and line it with |lb. of paste. Put 4oz. of stoned cherries into a basin with 3oz. each of stoned plums and apricots, sift over ilb. of powdered loaf sugar, mix well, and turn it into the mould. Pour \ pint of water in a sauce- pan, add 6oz. of granulated sugar, place it on the stove, and boil for five minutes ; then fill up the mould with this syrup, and bake in a very hot oven for thirty minutes. Turn it out, pour over rum sauce, and serve. Fruit Ratafia.—Stone 51b. of ripe cherries, pick 2|lb. of red and lib. of black currants, pick and hull lilb. of red rasp- berries, mix them all together, and strain the juice from them. Measure the juice, and allow to every quart ^lb. of loaf sugar and ^ pint of brandy. Let the sugar completely melt in the juice, and then add the brandy, together with 2 drachms of cloves and 1 drachm of mace. Let it stand for several days, then filter, bottle, and cork securely. Fruit-and-Rice Shape.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed rice into a saucepan with 6 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 3 pints of milk, and boil gently until tender, stirring it occasionally. Binse out a mould with cold water, then line it round the bottom and sides with tinned Fruit; pour the rice gently into the prepared mould, being very careful not to disarrange the Fruit, and set it in a cold place. Whip 1 pint of thick cream with the juice of the Fruit. When quite set, turn the contents of the mould out on to a fancy dish, pour the whipped cream over and round it, and serve. See Fig. 812. The cream should not be whipped until half-an-hour before being wanted. Fruit Salad.—Bemove the stalks and stones from jib. of very ripe cherries, pick ^lb. each of red and white currants, and Fruit—continued. pick and hull ^lb. each of raspberries and strawberries; sprinkle over the Fruit plenty of powdered white sugar and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Stir and shake the Fruit about lightly till the sugar is dissolved, and serve. Fruit Sauce.—(1) Stew 1 breakfast-cupful each of cherries, plums, and greengages with a very little water and loaf sugar to taste ; rub the Fruit through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, crack the stones, pound the kernels, and blend them with the Fruit. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cornflour with a little water, stir it in with the Fruit, and continue stirring over the fire till the sauce boils and thickens ; pour in also 1 wineglassful of port wine and the juice of half a lemon. This sauce is very nice served with puddings, pies, blanc-manges, &c. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar into a saucepan with double the quantity of any kind of jam or Fruit jelly, and add 1 teaspoonful of cornflour and 1 teacupful of water. Stir well over the fire until it boils, and serve. Should jam be used, it is advisable to strain the sauce before serving. Fruit Sauce for Batter Pudding's.—A simple sauce can be made by mixing with a fork equal parts of warmed butter and granulated sugar, together with enough Fruit juice or essence to flavour the sauce palatably. Fruit Syrup, suitable for making Fruit Drinks.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water and ^lb. of sugar into a porcelain- lined saucepan, boil for five minutes, add 1 pint of any kind of expressed Fruit juice, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for forty-five minutes, carefully removing all the scum. Let it get cold, bottle it, cork securely, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Used with iced water this makes a delicious beverage. Fruit Tablets.—(1) Pick, and put in a preserving-pan sufficient Fruit to make lib. of pulp, and stir it over the fire till reduced. Clarify 41b. of crushed preserving-sugar, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling). Put the Fruit into the boiled sugar, boil up again to the feather degree, then move it from the fire, and let it stand for five minutes. Work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a spatula or wooden spoon till quite glossy, then stir it gently in the middle. Pour the syrup into a case shaped out of cartridge- paper to resemble a shallow pan. When slightly cooled, mark the surface of the syrup across with the point of a knife into the shape of tablets. When quite cold, break it where marked, and keep the tablets dry in tins. (2) Extract 1 pint of any kind of Fruit juice by pressing the Fruit on a fine hair sieve, allowing the juice to drop through into a basin placed underneath. Boil 21b. of loaf sugar to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), then mix the juice with it gradually, working it at the side of the pan with a spoon. Brush over a shallow tin dish with oil of almonds, then turn the sugar into it. When cooled, mark the surface in tablets with a knife, and when quite cold snap them asunder where marked, and pack away in boxes. Fruit Tart.—(1) Boll out some short-paste to a round, put it on a buttered baking-dish, moisten the edges, and fix round a ring of puff paste about lin. wide ; brush over the top of the puff paste with egg, prick the surface of the flat of short- paste to prevent it swelling when baked, and bake in a moderate oven; when nearly done, sprinkle caster sugar over, and put it back in the oven. When done, take it out, and let it cool. Fill the lioilow with a mince of mixed Fruits, cooked as for a compote, put it on a round dish, mask with flavoured syrup, and serve. (2) Any kind of tinned Fruit can be used. Butter a shallow dish, line it with a rich short-crust, then put in the Fruit and its juice. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated stale bread- crumb into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat them with sufficient water to make a stiff paste. Spread the crumb mixture over the Fruit, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for tliree-quarters-of-an-hour. When the tart is cooked, strew caster sugar over the top, and serve hot or cold. Fruit Trifle.—(1) Put 21b. of tinned Fruit into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and stew it until tender; cut lib. of sponge cake into round slices; strain off the juice, mash the Fruit with a wooden spoon, spread it over the slices of cake, and place them on the top of one another 3 E