THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 533 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. thicken it, pour it over the Duck, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Prepare and cook a large Duck as for Stewed Duck with Turnips ; separate the breast, wings, legs, and back, and pare and trim them. Put 2qts. of green peas in a stewpan with a little water and 2oz. of fresh butter; mix the butter with the peas, drain the peas by taking them out with the hand, and let them dry. Put Jib. of lean bacon freed of the rind and cut into lin. squares into a stewpan, and fry till brown; drain off the fat, put in the peas, and let them sweat till very green ; stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of flour and some boiling water, add the pieces of Duck, a few sprays of parsley, two or three green onions, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When the Duck is done, dish it with the peas ; then take the onions and parsley out of the gravy, skim the fat off, and pour the gravy over the Duck. Serve very hot. (3) Singe, draw, and clean a Duck, stuff it with sage-and- onion forcemeat, and roast it for ten minutes in front of a brisk fire. Put in a stewpan a little chopped onion, black pepper, sage, marjoram, winter savory, and 1 pint of rich brown gravy ; put the partly-cooked Duck in this, and simmer for twenty minutes ; skim off all the fat, take out the herbs, pour in lqt. of partly-cooked green peas, and simmer for half-an-hour longer. A cabbage, previously boiled and fried in butter, may be used instead of the peas. When done, thicken the sauce with flour and butter. Dish, garnish with croutons of toast, and serve. (4) Cut the Duck in pieces, season them with the peel of half a lemon chopped very fine, and cayenne and salt to taste. Put them into a stewpan, pour over £ pint of good gravy, set the stewpan over the fire, and let the Duck get very hot, but do not let the gravy boil. Boil some green peas, drain and stir into them a piece of butter, pile them in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Duck round, and pour the gravy over the Duck. Stewed Duck with Olives.—(1) Prepare and truss a Duck, making it as plump as possible, squeeze lemon-juice all over it, rubbing it in. Put the Duck in a stewpan with a good- sized piece of butter, and brown it all over; stir in 1 dessert- spoonful of flour, and when brown add 1 breakfast-cupful of broth. Remove the kernels from some olives (by peeling them thick), scald them in boiling water, and when the Duck is nearly done, add them to the stewpan, and cook. When ready, dish the Duck, and arrange the olives round it; skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over the Duck, and serve. (2) Pluck and draw a Duck, truss it with its legs tucked inside, and put an onion inside it. Finely chop 2 or 3 small slices of fat bacon, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and toss them over the fire until warmed; next put in the Duck with its breast downwards, and fry it gently until it begins to brown ; then turn it over and put in with it a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and moisten nearly to height with clear stock. Stew it gently at the side of the fire until tender. Stone and par- tially boil the required quantity of olives; put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until blended; then strain in as much of the cooking-liquor of the Duck as will make a sufficient quantity of sauce, continue stirring it over the fire until boiling; then put in the olives, and boil them for a few minutes. Place the Duck on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, garnish round with the olives, and serve. Stewed Duck with Tomato Sauce.—Singe and draw a large Duck, and wash it inwardly. Clean three dozen small mush- rooms, peel, and chop their stalks, put them in a stewpan, and add a quarter the quantity of chopped ham and bacon, the liver of the Duck, three filleted anchovies, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley, seasoning with pepper and salt. Stuff the Duck with the preparation, truss it, put it in a stewpan with a little chopped bacon and two whole onions, and fry till brown over a moderate fire ; add the heads of the mushrooms cut in halves, salt and pepper, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic, and fry for ten minutes longer ; then pour in J pint of white wine. Put the lid on the stewpan with some live embers on the top, and let the contents simmer. When the Duck is done, take it out, drain, and dish it. Skim off the fat from the gravy, thicken Ducks—continued. it with tomato sauce, and boil up again ; then pour it round the Duck, and serve. Stewed Duck with Turnips.—(1) Prepare and truss a Duck, with its feet tucked behind ; put it in a stewpan with a little butter, and brown it; add 1 teacupful of broth, and season with salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf. Turn the bird occasionally, and when the broth boils, add a bunch of parsley and a few chives or spring onions. Put more butter in a frying-pan; when melted, fry in it some slices of turnips to a bright brown, then drain them. When the Duck is nearly cooked, add the fried turnips, and simmer gently. When done, dish the Duck, arrange the turnips round it; strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour, boil it up again, adding more seasoning if required, and serve. Or the Duck may be dished in the follow- ing manner, which gives it a more showy appearance : Cut some turnips in quarters, and boil them till tender; drain, and mash them, season with pepper, salt, and 1 piled teaspoonful of caster sugar, and mix in thoroughly 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Put this turnip puree in a saucepan, stir it about over the fire till quite stiff, and then spread it over the bottom of a dish; lay the Duck on this, garnish with slices of fried turnip, and serve. (2) Prepare and truss a large Duck, turning the legs inside, put it in a stewpan with some fat bacon cut in small pieces and one large onion, and fry it over a steady fire, turning it to colour both sides ; add white wine and broth to reach nearly to the top of the Duck, and season with pepper and salt. When the liquor boils, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer gently on the side of the fire, putting some hot cinders on the lid. In half-an-hour’s time stir in with the stock a little brown sauce to thicken it. Cut some large turnips into quarters, blanch and drain them, and fry till brown on a brisk fire, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little sugar ; add this to the Duck when it is three-parts done, and continue simmering till cooked. Drain, and dish the Duck ; take the herbs out of the sauce, skim off all the fat, put the garnish round the bird, and serve. Ducklings.—Ducklings that come in witli tlie first crop of green peas may be considered early; any before that will probably be somewhat tasteless and scraggy. The following receij>ts are contributed by some of our most famous cooks : Curried Duckling. — Put 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, J tea- spoonful of ground ginger, and \ teaspoonful of ground garlic into a saucepan with 2oz. of boiling fat, and brown them ; add a Duckling cut up into several pieces and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and brown the former slightly; pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of water, and simmer on the side of the fire until the meat is quite tender, which will occupy about an-hour-and- a-half. When done, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Half a teaspoonful each of ground coriander- and cumin-seeds may be added to this curry with advantage. Ducklings with. Olives.—Singe, draw, truss, and blanch two Ducklings for a few minutes in boiling water. Put a few thin slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, and fry for a few minutes. Drain the Ducklings, put them in the stewpan, and brown over the fire ; then add sufficient broth to reach to the top of the Ducklings, with a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, one carrot, one onion, and a few peppercorns; boil for a few minutes, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer till the Ducklings are done, turning occasionally. When ready, take out the birds, untruss them, and keep them hot. Skim the fat off the broth, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, and boil; then strain, reduce to half-glaze, thicken with kneaded butter or brown sauce, and add four dozen blanched and stoned large olives. Dish the Ducklings, garnish with the olives, pour the gravy over, and serve. Ducklings with Sour-crout.—Prepare three Ducklings, put them in a braising-pan with a very little broth or water, and glaze them ; then cut each one into five pieces, put these in a stewpan with a little brown sauce, and keep them hot. Cook 21b. of sour-crout with two small saveloys. Half- an-hour before serving, drain the sour-crout, heap it on a dish, place four croustades of fried bread at equal distances round it, and arrange the fillets, breast pieces and legs leaning against the sour-crout; place an attelette with