694 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., tvferred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. Sufficient water should be used so that when boiled there will be at least 1 pint of gravy. Let it cool, and skim off the fat. Put a layer of apple sauce at the bottom of a pie- j dish, lay the meat on this, cover it ‘Over with another layer j of sauoe, and fill the dish up with as much gravy as it | will conveniently hold. Sprinkle over with pepper and salt. J cover the dish with a good suet crust, and bake in a moderate oven until the crust is done. If uncooked meat is used, it should be first stewed for an hour or so. Onions, boiled and minced, may be used in place of the apple sauce, if preferred. (2) Singe and draw a fine large Goose, and cut off the legs and wings close to the body. Thoroughly clean the giblets, put them with the Goose into a saucepan, add a large onion stuck with five or six cloves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs with a few sprigs of parsley. Pour in sufficient cold water to cover the bird, put the lid on, and place the saucepan over the fire until the water boils ; then move it to the side and simmer for two hours, seasoning when half done with salt and pepper. Boil jib. of chestnuts, and when soft peel them, put them into a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound them; then mix in sufficient beaten yolk of egg to make a smooth but stiff paste, and add a small quantity of salt. Form the chestnut mixture into small egg-shaped balls. Cut all the meat in slices from the bones of the Goose, and scrape off what remains on the neck and bones. Chop the scrapings of the flesh with an equal quantity of bacon, and season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of minced herbs. Bind the mixture with egg, divide it into small, equal-sized quantities, and lay them on a plate. Return the bones, with the feet and gizzard, to the gravy, and stew them a short time longer. Butter a deep pie-dish, line it with short-paste, put in the meat alternately with slices of the giblets, and the meat and chestnut balls between the layers. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, seasoning with salt and pepper and a small quantity of lemon- juice, just sufficient to give it a slight acidity ; pour part of the gravy in the pie, cover it with a flat of the same paste, trim it neatly round the edges, moisten and press together, and make a hole in the centre. Put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake it a deep yellow colour. When cooked, take it out of the oven, fix a funnel in the hole in the paste, pour in the remainder of the gravy, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Raised.—Bone a small Goose and a young fowl, season them interiorly with beaten mace, salt, and pepper, put inside of the fowl a boiled, skinned, and sliced neat’s tongue, and put the fowl inside the Goose. Butter a larg-e raised pie- mould, line it with a good light paste, put in the Goose breast upwards, season it well, and put in about |lb. of butter in small pieces ; cover the pie with paste, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut out some imitation leaves, moisten them slightly underneath with a little milk, orna- ment the top of the pie with them, and brush the leaves over with beaten yolk of egg. Bake the pie for three hours in a good oven, and if it takes colour too quickly, cover it with a sheet of paper. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, and leave it until cold. When about to serve, spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, cut the pie across in slices, arrange these on the dish, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. If the pie is to be served hot, prepare the following gravy, which should be poured in the pie two hours after it has been in the oven : Put the bones and trimmings of the birds into a saucepan with lqt. of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil them gently until the water is reduced to half its original quantity; then strain, and use it. Goose K.ag'O'fit.—Peel and chop two onions, put them in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of Goose dripping (or fat), and fry until soft and lightly coloured; then dredge with flour, brown them, and stir in 1 pint of clear broth. Cut up any cold remains of Goose, put it into the sauce with 1 wineglassful of white wine or strong beer and 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the lid on the pan, and stew the contents for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the ragout on to a hot dish, and serve with any kind of vegetables on a separate dish. Goose Sandwiches.—These sandwiches are made with the smoked breasts of Geese cut into very thin slices. Cut some 1 Goose—continued. thin slices of bread-and-butter, lay the slices of Goose on them, with a few thin slices of hard-boiled eggs, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and cover them with slices of bread-and-butter. Cut the sand- wiches into fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Hashed Goose a la Lyonnaise.—Cut the legs of a Goose into small pieces, and fry them in Goose’s fat. When done, take them out, and fry some slices of onions in the same fat until brown; then drain, and put them on the pieces of Goose, which must be piled up on a dish. Pour over poivrade sauce, and serve. Indian Dunipode Goose.—Clean and bone a tender fat Goose, and pour in, or rub over the inside, a mixture composed of 1 dessert-spoonful each of mustard, sweet-oil, and mixed sauces. With the bones and giblets (without the liver) prepare a rich gravy, well seasoned with bay-leaves, sweet herbs, salt and pepper. Take the liver of the Goose, together with 31b. of beef and 4oz. each of fat bacon and beef-suet, mince them very fine, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of chopped sweet herbs, Fig. 856. Indian Dumpodf. Goose. 1 dessert-spoonful each of black pepper, salt, and finely- powdered mixed hot spices, 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, and about 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. Stuff the Goose with this mixture, put it into a saucepan in which 5oz. of fat or lard has been melted, pour over the strained giblet soup, and cook until quite tender. Glaze the Goose, put it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of pickles and glazed vegetables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, and potatoes (see Fig. 85G). Mock Goose.—Boil a boned leg of pork until half cooked, drain it, and trim off all the skin; then fix the meat in front of a clear fire, and baste it frequently with butter. Boil and chop two or three onions, and mix with them some bread- crumbs, finely-powdered sage, and salt and pepper. When the meat is nearly cooked, spread the breadcrumb mixture over it, and let it brown. Place the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with balls of forcemeat fried brown in butter, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Pickled Goose (German).—(1) Draw, singe, and truss a Goose, place it in a saucepan with a layer of minced vegetables at the bottom, surround the Goose with pieces of shin of beef, a boned calf’s foot, and a few blanched pork rinds, sprinkle over a little salt, and put in a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a few peppercorns and cloves; then pour in broth, with a wineglassful of white wine added, to half the height of the Goose, and place the pan on a quick fire ; skim well, and when it shows signs of boiling, cover the pan closely, remove it to a moderate fire, and place a few hot embers on the top. When the Goose is done, take it out, let it get cold, cut up into pieces, and put them into a basin. Pass the stock through a sieve, remove the fat when cold, and clarify it with a little finely-chopped raw meat and eggs, adding tarragon-leaves, sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of vinegar. Pour this through a fine sieve over the Goose, and when it is set, put the pieces of Goose on a dish in the form of a dome, and garnish with the jelly and lemons cut in slices or triangles. (2) Cut off the legs of a Goose, and divide the breast from the back by cutting through the middle of the body; rub the pieces with salt and saltpetre, pack them closely together in a dish, and set them in a cool place. In four days’ time put the back and legs in clear chicken broth, season to taste, and stew until the flesh is tender. The breast should be