574 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saxtces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fig. 717. Cutlet Entree Mould (Ttrnple and Crook). Entrees—continued. country, partake more of the character of side dishes; but are not always placed upon the table, the prevailing custom being to hand them round to the guests, so that each guest can take one portion which shall be strictly representative of the whole. An ingenious French culinary artist asserts that the term Entree signifies the real com- mencement of the cook’s art; but this is rather a stretch of culinary enthusiasm, that is if any merit whatever is due to the hors-d’oeuvres, soups, and removes. Entrees are so numerous that it would be impossible to name them, although they can be partially classified, as hot and cold, and those that are served plain (Entrees fines) and those that are elaborated (Entrees travailles). For instance, a dish of quails would be a plain Entree, the birds being served plainly prepared ; but croquettes, cromeskies, salmis, fricassees, and dishes of that class, com- monly called “made dishes,” are elaborated Entrees. As the ingenious and ar- tistic cook will understand, Entrees may be prepared from indefinite sources, and the skill of the cook is frequently in- dicated by the tact he uses to convert what he has at hand into tasty Entrees. For this purpose he invites mechanical assistance to give form and appearance to his production, and uses contrivances, such Flo. 718. as moulds, to give the out- ward distinguishing semblance of the material which he has been transmogrifying by working it up with others of a more tasty character. Besides the moulds and other apparatus described Ham Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). Entrees—continued. in Fig. 718, ox-tongue in Fig. 719, fish in Fig. 720, and crayfish in Fig. 721. The modes of preparing these will be found under their respective headings. Fig. 721. Crayfish Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). Urbain Dubois says of hot Entrees, in his magnificent work on artistic cookery, that to be perfect they must be dressed to a nicety, neatly dished up, and served very hot. For this purpose metal dishes are used (see Fig. 722), sometimes fitted with hot-water cases (see Fig. 723). Their value is especially enhanced by the sauces, which must be of a fine colour, delicate, and savoury. Fig. 719. Ox-tongue Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). under Cutlets and other headings, the following inge- nious moulds are worthy of attention. They are used for giving shape to various forcemeats, thus: forcemeat Fig. 720. Fish Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). of chicken might be moulded in Fig. 716, lobster or other forcemeat cutlet in Fig. 717, forcemeat of ham Numerous receipts for Entrees are given throughout this Encyclopaedia, some of them being rare and delicate, and either simply or luxuriously served. ENTREMETS. — The literal signification of this term would be “ go-betweens,” that is to say, side-dishes of dainties to which the guests can help themselves. They are now almost exclusively sweets of one kind or another, or rare vegetables, and form a very important feature at a dinner, whether simple or luxurious. Punch a la Romaine is served as an Entremet. EFERXiANS.—Fr. for smelts; sometimes the term is erroneously used for sprats. EFIG-RAMMES. — A French culinary term that seems to have little or no reason for its existence. Kettner states that it arose from ignorance. A wealthy French financier heard from a French nobleman that he had been dining with a poet who regaled them at