513 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saxices, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Dairy—continued. having to depend upon ventilation and other resources to keep down the temperature within. From 45deg. to 55deg. Fahr. is considered a good medium temperature, | in which milk can be preserved whilst preparing or col- lecting for manufacturing purposes. Much information I on this subject will be found under such headings as Butter, Cheese, Cream, Milk, and it will only be necessary here to give a few suggestions for the better working of the Dairy. The windows should be fitted with shutters or doors, and the walls built of a double thickness if possible. Large Dairies are built in com- I partments, all of which are kept separate by doors: the room where the milk is stored is therefore called the milk-room ; a second the churning-room; a third the clieese-room, in which the cheeses are pressed; and a fourth the drying-room, where cheeses are set to harden and ripen. Then follow the usual addenda in the form of a sort of covered scullery, furnished with a boiler and water supply for scalding and cleansing the Dairy utensils. One of the most important features of good Dairy- keeping is scrupulous cleanliness. This should be especially observed in the milking of cows, the milk- maid being most careful to see that her hands are clean before milking, and that she cleanses them again after ! milking is done. There are many more details to be learned by practice and tuition that require a volume to themselves, and cannot, therefore, be treated with suf- ficient exhaustiveness in this Encyclopaedia. DAL.—Hind, for split pulse, such as grain, lentils, or haricot beans, from which numerous dishes are made, one of these being a famous curry. Dal Curry. — Clean, pick, wash, and roast lib. of Dal, and add 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced onion, a clove of garlic, 1 saltspoonful each of turmeric and ground ginger, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of ground chillies. Put two onions cut in slices into a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry them brown and crisp. Put the Dal and the other ingredients with the fried onions into a saucepan and cover them with water to about 2in. above them. Set the pan on the fire and boil, without stirring, until the Dal is dissolved. Pass all through a sieve with the melted butter in which the onions were previously fried into a saucepan, stir well, cover over the pan, and simmer for twenty minutes; then serve with more cooked onions floating on the top. DAMP NOUILLES.—See Nouilles. DAMIAN A.—A plant of the Turnera genus, from which Indian hunters make a decoction supposed to give them unwonted strength in their expeditions. In Mexico it is regarded as a cure for all the ills that flesh is heir to. DAMKORF PUDDING.—See Puddings. DAMSONS.—In all other countries where this fruit is found, it is known as the Damas, Damascus, or Damas- Fig. 633. Damsons. cene Plum. It may be described as a small oval plum of a blue colour (see Fig. 633), the fruit of the Primus domesticus. It is also known as the Damask Plum, and Damsons—continued. is quite unfit for the table until cooked, or preserved with much sugar. The juice is then exceedingly rich flavoured and luscious, and the colour so deep as to lend itself to many forms of garnishing. Bottled Damsons.—Boil some syrup to 22deg., and then move it off the fire. Wipe and prick the required quantity of fine ripe Damsons, put them in the syrup, stand the pan over a smothered fire, simmer for fifteen minutes, and turn all in a basin. On the following day put the Damsons in bottles, boil the syrup up again, pour it over them, cork, and tie down. Candied Knots of Damson Paste.—Pick and wipe over sufficient Damsons to make lib. of pulp when boiled with i pint of water and then passed through a fine hair sieve, and put them in a preserving-pan. Boil 14oz. of crushed loaf sugar to the ball degree, then mix the Damson pulp in with it, and stir the whole over the fire till reduced to a stiff paste. Turn the paste on to a bright sheet of tin to about Jin. in thickness, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and set it in a screen of a moderate heat to dry for five or six hours. At the end of that time turn the paste over with a knife, and leave it for an hour or two longer to dry the other side. When the paste is cold, cut it into strips about Gin. long and |in. wide, and tie these into knots (see Fig. 634), or make them to represent the figure 8. As they are done, place them upon wire trays, set them in the screen, and dry them for an hour. Pack the knots in layers in boxes between sheets of paper, or else in wide-mouthed, well-stoppered glass bottles. Compote of Damsons.—Put Jib. of loaf sugar and 1 pint of water into an enamelled pan, and place it on the fire. When the sugar has dissolved, add the white of an egg, remove the scum as it rises, and boil the syrup for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Now drop in slowly lqt. of sound, ripe Damsons, and when these are soft (the skins should not be broken), strain off the syrup, and Boil it again till rather thick ; then stand it aside, and let it cool. Arrange the Damsons in a glass dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve with whipped cream separately. Damson-and-Apple Shapes.—Core, peel, and slice ljlb. of cooking apples, put them in a stewpan with lqt. of Damson juice, stir Jib. of powdered loaf sugar into this, and when it is dissolved boil for ten minutes. Turn it into small moulds, and when cold they are ready to be put on glass dishes to serve. Damson-and-Bullace Jelly.—Pick over and wipe some ripe Damsons and about one-third the quantity of bullaces, cut them all lengthwise with a knife, and put them in a large stone jar; cover with paper, tie down, set the jar in the oven, and leave it there for some hours. Strain off the juice, measure it, boil it quickly for half-an-hour, and then add lib. of crushed preserving-sugar to every quart of juice ; boil and skim until the jelly will set. Put into moulds, bottles, or jars. Damson Cheese.-—Boil 61b. of Damsons in lqt. of water till they are tender, and then rub the fruit through a coarse hair sieve. Boil 61b. of sugar and 1 pint of water to the ball degree, add the Damson pulp and a few of the blanched kernels of the stones, stir over a brisk fire, and boil sharply for twenty or twenty-five minutes. When the cheese is stiff and drops slowly from the spoon, pour it into moulds. To serve, turn into a glass dish, and garnish as desired with crystallised fruits.