THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 682 For details respecting Culinary Processes* Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. bread, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, and sufficient warmed treacle to bind all together; stir until thoroughly mixed. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about three hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. Ginger Sauce.—Bruise one or two pieces of whole Ginger, put them into a saucepan with 3oz. of loaf sugar and 1 pint of water, and boil for several minutes ; then skim and strain the liquor. Mix 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, stir in the above liquor, return it to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until thickened and boiling ; it is then ready for serving. Ginger Snaps.—(1) Put 1 pint of molasses into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and Jib. of butter, and boil until all are thoroughly mixed. Let it cool, and then add sufficient flour to make it into a soft dough; work it well, cut it into small cakes, and bake in a slow oven until done. (2) Put Jib. each of butter and lard into a basin, and mix in an equal quantity of brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, 1 pint of molasses, and lqt. of flour. Put 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda into J pint of butter- milk, and mix up to form a soft dough. Boll it out, and cut it with a biscuit-cutter into small cakes, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a slow oven. (3) Put J pint of molasses into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and when it is hot pour it into a basin over a teacupful of sugar; mix it well, and add 1 table-spoonful each of ground Ginger and bicarbonate of soda, 1 teacupful of butter slightly melted, and sufficient flour to make a paste. Work it well, roll out very thin, cut it into shapes, and bake in a very quick oven. (4) Warm Jib. of butter till quite soft, and beat it to a cream with fib. of sugar; beat up the yolks of three eggs with 3 teaspoonfuls of powdered Ginger and 1 saltspoonful of powdered cloves and cinnamon mixed, and beat them into the creamed butter and sugar. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and lightly mix them in, working in lastly lib. of flour. Boll the paste out as thin as possible, cut it into small cakes, and bake them crisp. When quite cold, put them in a tin box with a close-fitting lid till required for use. (5) Mix together lib. of flour, Jib. of molasses, Jib. of brown sugar, Jib. of lard, Joz. of powdered Ginger, and Joz. of bicarbonate of soda or pearlash. Boll out very thin, cut in rounds, and bake. Fig. 839. Ginger Souffle. Ginger Souffle.—(1) Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, and mix in gradually 3oz. of flour, J pint of milk, and Jib. of sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until thick and perfectly smooth, then move it to the side, and mix in the beaten yolks of five eggs and Jib. of preserved Ginger cut into small squares. Whisk the whites of the five eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly with the other ingredients. Ginger—continued. Line a souffle-mould with buttered paper, and pin a band of buttered paper round the outside, allowing it to rise quite 2in. above the rim of the mould, to prevent the souffle coming over. Pour in the mixture, and bake it for a little more than half-an-hour. When cooked, remove the band of paper from around the rim, and serve the souffle at once in the mould on a raised dish. Garnish round the dish with candied fruits (see Fig. 839). (2) Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; then add gradually 1 pint of milk, and continue stirring it until boiling and thickened. Sweeten the mixture to taste with caster sugar, and when nearly cold mix in the beaten yolks of eight eggs, flavouring with a few drops of essence of Ginger. Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff foam, and stir them in lightly with the souffle; turn it into a soufflbmould, which should be large enough to leave a clear space for the souffle to rise, put it into a brisk oven, and bake for twenty minutes, or until well risen and browned on the top. When cooked, pin a napkin round the mould, sift caster sugar on the top, and serve. Ginger Sugar.—Put lib. of caster sugar in a mortar with 2oz. of ground Ginger, mix well, pass it through a sieve, bottle, cork down tightly, and it is ready for use. Ginger Syrup.—(1) Put 2oz. of Ginger and 21b. of sugar into a saucepan with 1J pints of water, place the pan on the fire, and boil to the small thread degree (see Sugar-boiling). Strain the syrup through a sieve, and it will then be ready for use or bottling. (2) If fresh Ginger-root is used, it must be cut into thin slices; but if dried Ginger is used, bruise it. Prepare Jib. of Ginger, put it into a basin, pour over lqt. of boiling water, cover the basin, and let the contents steep for one day in a warm temperature. Afterwards strain the liquor into a sugar-boiler, put in with it 41b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, place the boiler over a moderate fire, and stir the contents until reduced to a syrup (see Syrups). Let the syrup get cold, pour it into bottles, and cork tightly. (3) To the required quantity of stock syrup (see Syrups) add a flavouring of essence of Ginger and a few drops of spirit of capsicum. Bottle, and cork securely. Ginger Tablets.—Clarify 31b. of loaf sugar and boil it to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add 2oz. of powdered Ginger, remove the pan from the fire, and with a smooth round stick stir the sugar, leaning the stick towards the sides of the pan, and taking off with a spoon the sugar that sticks to the edges, and putting it into the liquid sugar. Keep on alternately stirring with the stick and scraping the solid sugar from the edges and putting it into the liquid sugar about four times, or till all is thick and pretty firm, then pour it about Jin. thick into paper cases. With a fork mark the surface while still warm into lozenge shapes, and afterwards deepen some of these lines with the point of a knife; when quite cold, separate them where the lines have been deepened. The tablets will keep for a long time in a warm dry place. Fig. 810. Ginger Wafer with Whipped Cream. Ginger Wafers.—(1) Put Jib. of flour, Jib. of treacle, and 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, mix them well, and drop in 1 teaspoonful of essence of Ginger, 2oz. of butter, and a little salt. Place the pan over the fire, stirring continually, and boil quickly for three minutes. Put a bright copper baking-sheet over a clear fire or charcoal stove fire, and make it moderately hot. Take 1 table-spoonful of the