592 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish—continued. of mace, three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small quantity each of lemon-peel and salt. Place the lid on the pan, set it on the fire, and boil until the liquor is reduced to one-half its original quantity ; then add a lump of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir well until the latter is quite smooth; or the flour and butter may be worked smooth in a saucepan and the gravy strained over them. Boil for a few minutes, and the gravy is then ready for use. (2) Clean and wash a few flounders or two or three eels, skin them, cut up small, put them into a saucepan with an anchovy, a small quantity of sweet herbs and whole pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, a good-sized blade of mace, a small crust of bread toasted very brown but not burnt, and 1 teaspoonful of scraped horseradish, and pour in sufficient water to cover. Pit the lid tightly on the pan, put it over a gentle fire, and simmer till the Fish is like pulp. Then add a thickening of butter and flour, boil for ten minutes, and strain. Fish Jelly.—Put in a stock-pot 41b. of gurnet, 21b. of whiting, and 61b. of turbot heads, if obtainable (if not, use the whole Pish), 41b. of soles, two heads of celery, three onions stuck with four or five cloves, one large bunch of sweet herbs, three carrots, two whole cloves of garlic, and 2galls. of water; season with salt and mignonette pepper. Boil up and skim well, and simmer for two hours; when sufficiently firm, strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve, add to it 1J pints of Madeira wine, clarify with the whites of eight eggs, and 21b. of pounded whiting; strain the jelly through a jelly-bag into a basin, and when cool stand it on ice to get quite firm. Before clarifying, a little of the jelly should be put on the ice, to see if it will set firm, and should it not set add a little gelatine. The above receipt is advocated by Mr. W. A. Rawson. Fish-liver Sauce.—Boil the liver of the Fish with which this sauce is to be served, and put it into a mortar; add a little flour to it, and pound well; mix in a little of the liquor the Pish is boiled in, or a little melted butter, or broth, some chopped parsley, a little soy, ketchup, or anchovy sauce, and a very little cayenne. Boil all together, rub through a sieve, add to it a little lemon-juice, and serve in a sauce-tureen with the Fish. Fish Mooloo (Indian).—(1) Pour 1 teacupful of boiling water over a scraped cocoa-nut, crush it well, strain off the liquor, add to the cocoa-nut 2 table-spoonfuls more boiling water, and strain again. Cut up two or three onions and three or four green chillies, put them into a frying-pan with half a clove of garlic and a little fat or lard, fry them, then pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of the cocoa-nut milk, stir well until it is absorbed or evaporated, and then add the teacupful of cocoa-nut milk. Have ready a cold fried Pish, pour over the hot mixture, add a little vinegar, ginger, whole pepper and salt to taste, and serve. (2) Cut up a Fish into pieces about 2in. square, put them into a frying-pan with fat, add an egg, a little breadcrumb and turmeric, and fry to a brown colour. Put some sliced green chillies and green ginger into a saucepan with a teacupful or so of cocoa-nut milk, boil up gently, add the pieces of Fish, and continue to cook until the sauce is thick. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve as hot as possible. (3) For this any Fish, such as fillets of sole, mackerel, haddock, or mullet may be used. Rub the fillets with curry- paste and salt, and fry to a light brown. Grate some cocoa-nut into a basin, pour over 1 teacupful of boiling water, mash well together, and strain. Fry some slices of onions in the butter the Fish was fried in, sift in a little flour, add the cocoa-nut milk, a little vinegar, salt and pepper, and stir well until done and thick. Put in the fillets to warm, not cook, and serve up. Fish in Normandy Fashion.—Put 5oz. of butter into a baking-dish on the stove or in the oven, and let it melt. Sift into it 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, stirring it meanwhile, then stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a very little grated nutmeg, a small quantity of salt and black pepper, a very little red pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Then put in 51b. of any kinds of Fish, without skin or bone, in pieces about 4in. long and ljin. wide, pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and 4 table-spoonfuls of white wine, fit the cover on the dish, put a flour-and-water dough round the edge to keep the steam in, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve as hot as possible. Fish—continued. Fish Omelet.—Warm some scraps of any cold Fish in a stew- pan with a little sauce, such as lobster, shrimp, oyster, or anchovy, using only just sufficient to moisten. Mix together a little parsley and a few green spring onions, both finely chopped, and work up with a large lump of butter; place it in a deep oval dish, add the juice of a lemon, and put on the side of the fire to melt the butter. Beat one dozen eggs, the yolks and whites separately; season the yolks with salt and pepper, and mix them with the whites. Put about fib. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is melted pour in the beaten eggs; cook them over a gentle fire until brown on one side, then turn on the other and brown that. When done, take the pan off the fire, put the Fish in the centre of the omelet, double the edges over to the centre, and leave it a few moments to join. Put it on the dish, with the parsley and butter over, and serve. See Fig. 749. Fish Patties.—Make some light paste, roll it out about Jin. thick, and cut it into rounds all the same size, allowing two pieces for each patty. With a small cutter take out the centre of half of them, leaving a ring of paste behind. Now put the uncut pieces on a floured baking-sheet, wet the edges of them very slightly with a little milk or water, lay a ring of paste on each, and press the edges lightly together, but do not flatten the ring more than can be helped. Put them in the oven, bake quickly, and glaze with beaten egg. Take some cold boiled salmon, cod, or any other Fish, remove all skin and bone, and pick and shred the flesh very fine. Take a quarter of its bulk of mashed potatoes, mix it to a cream with some rich white sauce, adding the sauce by degrees, and beating quite smooth. Now mix with the Fish a moderate quantity of salt and pepper and finely-chopped parsley, and stir it into the potato cream. Do not beat it down, endeavour rather to heap it up and make it as light as possible. Fill the pastry shells with this, and put them in the oven to get hot through. Make a smooth paste by pounding and mixing' in a mortar the yolks of hard-boiled eggs with a little butter, and when the patties are quite hot spread a little over each, return them to the oven for a minute or two to set the coating of egg-paste, and serve. Fish Pie.—(1) Select a thick, firm, white-fleshed Fish, such as cod or halibut, and remove the skin and bones. Cut half of the flesh of the Fish into small neat pieces, and season them with salt. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the pieces of Fish, and cook them over a slow fire for fifteen minutes without browning. Take the Fish out of the stewpan, and put in a finely-minced onion, another ounce of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, | table-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg or mace. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and stew until the onion is soft. Move the pan from the fire, leave the contents until slightly cooled, then mix in four well-beaten eggs, three or four scraped and boned sardines, 1 table-spoonful of capers, and the remainder of the Fish finely minced; stir the mixture well. Line a buttered pie-dish with paste, and fill it with the mince and the pieces of Fish in alternate layers. Cover with a flat of the paste, trim the edges, and press them together, first moistening them with water. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. It should be covered with a sheet of paper as it begins to take colour. Serve hot. (2) Remove the skin and bones from any remains of cold boiled Fish, and mince the flesh small. Put a finely-minced