561 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eggs—continued. thick; then add 2oz. more of butter and \ teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lastly three Eggs boiled hard and finely chopped. Remove the pan from the fire, stir well, and the sauce is ready for use. Egg1 Sauce for Puddings.—Beat to a cream 1 breakfast- cupful each of butter and sugar, the yolk of an Egg, and 1 wineglassful of wine ; beat the white of the Egg to a froth. Stir the butter-and-sugar mixture into 1 gill of boiling water, then add the white of the Egg, and serve the sauce at once, either in a sauceboat or poured over the pudding, as required. Egg Sausages.—These 'are sometimes called Lent sausages, and are prepared as follows, requiring very great care: Select a few sausage-skins, taking care to see that there are no holes in them (which can be ascertained by filling them with water), wash them well, and let them drain. Put eight Eggs in a basin with 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste, and whisk in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. When the mass is thoroughly mixed, put a broad funnel in one end of the skins, tie the other end with string, and fill them, working the mixture down to the end by pressing with the finger and thumb. When full, tie the other end, and also at distances about 5in. apart, taking care not to have the skins too full, or they will burst in cooking. Throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water for twenty minutes (hut without letting them boil, or the skins will break), moving them gently about to prevent the herbs from falling to one side in the skins. Take them out, and remove the skins. When wanted for use, warm them for a few minutes in stock or broth, put them on a dish with mashed potatoes under or round them, and serve hot. Eggs ill Shells.—Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a basin, add 1 teacupful of finely-minced tongue or ham, a little salt, pepper, mustard in powder, chopped parsley, and melted butter; work the mixture to a smooth paste with a little hot milk, and spread it on table shells. Break some Eggs carefully, put one on each shell, sprinkle biscuit- or cracker-crumbs over the tops, with a little salt and pepper ; pour 1 dessert-spoonful of liquefied butter on each, and bake for five minutes, or till the Eggs are firm. Arrange the shells on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Egg Snow.—(1) Beat up the whites of six Eggs in a sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of milk and a little salt, and boil. When done, cut the mixture with a spoon into equal-sized pieces, and put them on a strainer to drain. Put 1 pint of cream in a saucepan with the peel of half a lemon and a little sugar and salt, boil, and stand it aside for a few minutes. When cool, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten Eggs, and let this thicken over the fire without boiling again. When the cream is thick enough, strain it through a sieve, and pour it over the Eggs, previously placed on a dish. (2) Put 1 pint of milk in a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured sugar; when the milk boils, stand the pan on the side of the fire. Beat the whites of six Eggs and a little caster sugar to a stiff froth ; put 1 table-spoonful at a time of the frothed Egg- in the milk, place on the fire again, and turn the Eggs about in the milk, to cook thoroughly ; take them out, and arrange on a cold dish, keeping them a little distance from each other. Beat the yolks of the Eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, put them in with the milk in which the whites were cooked, and stir over the fire till thick, but without boiling. Pour this over the whites, and serve. (3) Whisk the whites of five Eggs to a stiff froth, add and beat lightly into it 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar and a small quantity of dried and powdered orange-flowers. Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, with a flavouring of powdered orange-flowers and 3oz. of powdered white sugar; when it boils, poach the beaten whites of Eggs in it, 1 dessert-spoonful at a time, shaping them as much like eggs as possible, and laying them when done on a sieve to drain. When all the whites are used up, take half the milk they were poached in, add the beaten yolks, set the pan over the fire, and stir till thick ; then remove it from the fire, and pour it in a jug to cool. Arrange the poached froth in a glass dish, and pour the custard round. (4) Moulded.—Beat the whites of four fx-esh Eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with them Jib. of caster sugar flavoured Eggs—continued. with vanilla. Butter a fluted cylinder-moixld, dust it over inside with caster sugar, pour in the white of Egg mixture, stand the mould in a very deep stewpan, surround it with boil- ing water, and let it simmer for fifteen minixtes. Take out the Fig. 705. Egg Snow (moulded). mould, and leave it for five minutes or so to cool. Whip a little cream, flavour it with vanilla, pour it at the bottom of a glass dish, turn out the egg snow on to it, aixd serve. See Fig. 705. Egg Snow with Coffee Cream.—Whip the whites of five Eggs to a firm froth, and mix in 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of coffee extract. Put lqt. of milk in a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it; then put in the beaten whites, 1 table-spoonful at a time, and stand the pan at the side of the fire. When the whites are done, take them out, drain, and let them cool. Put the yolks of six Eggs, beaten up with 1 teacupful of the sweetened milk in which the whites were cooked, into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till thick, but without boiling; sti-ain, and when cool mix in 1 table-spoonful more of the extract. Arrange the poached whites in a circle on a dish, pour the coffee cream round or over, and serve. Egg-Snow Pudding.—(1) Put -jib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil until a dark brown ; pour it into a small warmed basin, and turn it about until well coated. Whisk the whites of six Eggs to a stiff froth, pour this into the basin, which it should only half fill, tie a sheet of white paper over the basin, place it in a large flat stewpan with boiling water to half its height, put the lid on the pan, and keep it at the side of the fire, so that the water will simmer, without boiling, for forty-five minutes. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar in a plain mould, and stir it over the fire till it melts and becomes brown and coats the mould all over; beat the whites of four Eggs in a whipping-bowl to a stiff froth, then sift in gently 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar, and flavour with lemon, almond, or vanilla essence. Pour the Egg mixture into the mould, and proceed as for No. 1. Egg Soup.—(1) Put two sliced onions into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry them a light brown; then pour in 3 piixts of water, and boil very fast to reduce the liquor to two-thirds of its original quantity. When the onions are quite tender, take them out, and put them on one side ; boil up the liquor again, and add 1 saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper and sugar, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and 1 teacupfixl of milk. Stir well, and when the mixture thickens take it off the fire, and add the yolks of four Eggs, one at a time. Put in a tureen some pieces of bread dried in the oven, pour the soup over, and serve hot. (2) Put lqt. of highly-seasoned broth in a stewpan, boil, add one dozen Eggs, each broken separately in cups. When they are firm, take them out with a perforated slice, and trim the edges. Put some slices of bread, cut in dice and fried in butter, at the bottom of a soup-tureen, and arrange the Eggs on it, taking care not to break the yolks ; strain the broth in which they were poached over them, and serve. (3) Beat together the yolks of two Eggs and the white of ' one, mix in as much flour as will absorb the Eggs, wox-k the 2 y