654 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fruit—continued. hours. Boil a stick of vanilla and 7oz. of caster sugar with 1 pint of milk, and beat in the yolks of seven eggs. Strain this cream, and when it is cool freeze it in a freezer ; when frozen, mix in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of maraschino and 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped and sweetened cream. Drain the Fruits, and fill the charlotte-mould with alternate layers of the Fruits and cream. Shut the mould, lute its junctures with paste, and pack it in salted ice for two hours. When ready, turn it out on to a fancy dish, mask it all over with apricot marmalade, ornament the top with a variety of different-coloured preserved Fruits, and serve. (2) Tastefully arrange in the inside of a charlotte-mould some preserved Fruits of various kinds, dipping them first into unset jelly so that they will stick to the mould, and stand the mould in ice. Beat together the yolks of five eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Put 1 pint of milk in a stewpan with 5oz. of isinglass, and boil it for ten minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it sticking; take it off the fire, put in two sticks of vanilla, place the cover over, and leave it till three-parts cold. Take the vanilla out of the milk, stir in the beaten yolks and sugar, and continue stirring over the fire till the custard thickens and coats the spoon, but do not let it boil. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand it on ice, pour in 4 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and keep stirring until it is on the point of setting; then mix in f pint of well-whipped cream. Fill the mould containing the Fruit with the cream, and keep it in the ice till set; then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cake on to an oval glass dish. Fruit Cheese or Cake. -Put in a mortar, in equal quan- tities, dried preserved Fruits, such as grapes, plums, oranges, and peaches, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, and pound them all together. Pass the pounded mixture through a fine wire sieve, and mix with it sufficient caster sugar and beaten yolks of eggs to form a smooth stiff paste. Mould the mixture like a cake, lay it on a sheet of white paper spread over a baking-tin, and bake it in a moderate oven, serving when cold. Fruit Cobbler (American).—Press the juice out of any kind of Fruit, strain it, and sweeten with caster sugar. When ready to serve, half-fill the glasses with the syrup, and fill to the top with small lumps of ice. Serve with straws to drink through. Fruit-and-Cornflour Jelly.—Put 1 pint of the juice from a tin of any kind of Fruit into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and place it over the fire to boil. Mix 1 teacupful of cornflour until quite smooth with a small quantity of water, and stir it in with the boiling juice until thick. Kinse out a fancy mould with cold water, turn the jelly into it, and keep it in a cold place until well set. Turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, garnish with preserves, and serve. Fruit Cream.— (1) Put loz. of gelatine in a saucepan with li pints of milk and sugar to taste, stir it over the fire till the gelatine is dissolved, and strain it through a hair sieve; press sufficient juice from any kind of fresh Fruit (red Fruits are the best) to make i pint ; strain and mix the juice with the milk and gelatine, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and whisk with an egg-whisk till quite stiff. Pack a mould in ice, pour in the mixture, and leave it till set. Wipe the mould, turn the contents out on a fancy dish, garnish round the base of the cream with preserved Fruits, and serve. (2) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of cornflour smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, pour it into a stewpan, mix with it 1 pint of tinned Fruit juice, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick and boiling. Pour the liquor into a large bowl, and leave it until cold. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the cream, and serve. (3) This is made either witli the expressed juice of Fruits or the pulp rubbed through a fine sieve. To each quart of pulp or juice add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and to each quart of this—that is, juice or pulp and water—add ilb. of powdered loaf sugar made into simple syrup (see Syrups), the juice of half a lemon, and the white of an eg'g beaten up with a little water; stir well, and freeze. Add to each quart of ice a meringue composed of the white of an egg beaten to a froth and mixed up with loz. of Fruit—continued. sifted crushed loaf sugar. The cream will be rich, smooth, and delicate. Fruit Cream-Ice.—Dissolve jib. of caster sugar in the strained juice of three lemons, and mix with it 1 wineglass- ful each of sherry and grape syrup, and 1 pint of cream. Stir the mixture well, then turn it into the freezer, and work it until frozen. Mix with the cream jib. of preserved Fruits cut into small pieces, turn all into a mould, cover, and pack it in pounded salt and ice for an hour or two. Dip the mould quickly into hot water, to loosen the cream, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Fruit Crusts. —(1) With an oval cutter cut pieces Ain. thick out of slices of stale bread, also some others of a round shape; scoop out a small hollow in the centre of them, fry in butter until lightly browned, and mask them inside with a little orange marmalade. Mix some preserved cherries with a salpii^on of preserved Fruits, thicken it with a little apricot marmalade, and add a little Madeira. Put some Fruit in the hollow of each crust. Fry a thick round flat block of bread, put it in the centre of a dish, and arrange the oval crusts, almost upright, leaning round it; put the round crusts on the top, stick some Fruits on attelettes, and fix them in the top of the bread support. Mask the bottom of the dish and the crusts with a little apricot sauce to which has been added a little Madeira, and serve with more sauce in a sauceboat, with a few Smyrna raisins that have been boiled in syrup for two minutes mixed up in it. See Fig. 809. (2) Cut three moderately thick slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and out of each slice cut two round or diamond- shaped pieces; lay them on a plate, pour over the juice out of a tin of any kind of Fruit, and leave them until well soaked. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan over the fire; when it boils, put in the soaked bread and fry it, turning- it carefully over when browned on one side. Drain the crusts, mask half of them with the tinned Fruit, put the remaining half on the top, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over, and serve hot. Fig. 810. Fruits with Crusts. Fruits with. Crusts.—Wash 1 teacupful of dried Smyrna raisins, put them in a stewpan with an equal quantity of preserved whole cherries, add a few slices of pine-apple, some preserved