496 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, [Jtensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. Black-Currant Drink.— Put teacupful of Black-Currant jam into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of water, and simmer by the side of the fire, stirring- frequently. Strain the liquor, and serve it either hot or cold as may he required. If wanted for allaying thirst, it is best when cold. Black-Currant Drops.—Press the Currants through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan, and boil them till reduced to one-third their original bulk; measure the pulp, and for every pound mix with it fib. of caster sugar. Butter some sheets of tin ; put the mixture in a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it through, cutting it off in drops about the size of a shilling, letting them fall on the tins; place the tins in a screen of a moderate heat and dry the drops for ten minutes. Remove them from the tins with the blade of a knife, put them on a fine wire sieve, leave them till quite dry, and pack in stoppered glass bottles. Black-Currant Fool.—Pick off the stalks from the Currants, put them in a lined pan with crushed loaf sugar to sweeten, and stir over the fire till dissolved. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, return it to the pan, and boil quickly till reduced to the consistency of thick cream. Leave the fool till cold, turn it into a glass dish, and serve with whipped cream. Black-Currant Gin.-—(1) Out of a pint bottle of gin take about 1 wineglassful, fill up with an equal quantity of bruised Black Currants, two Currant-leaves, and three lumps of sugar. Cork the bottle, seal, and leave for a month before using. (2) Mix together 2qts. each of 33deg. under-proof gin and syrup, then add 1 fluid ounce of essential essence of Black Currants, and the liqueur is ready for immediate use; or it may be bottled. Black-Currant Jam.—Pick the Currants from the stalks, seeing that they are quite clean and thoroughly ripe. They ought to be gathered in dry weather. Put them into a preserving- pan with powdered white sugar in the proportion of lib. of sugar to lib. of Currants. Set the pan over the fire and boil, stirring occasionally to pre- vent burning; boil for half-an-hour, and take off the scum as it rises. Then take the pan from the fire, and when the jam has cooled a little, put it into pots. When quite cold, lay over the pots pieces of white paper soaked in brandy, and cover so as to keep them air-tight. Black-Currant Jelly.- Pick the Currants and pass them through a cane sieve, thus obtaining all the juice. Put the juice in a pre- serving-pan, boil it up, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Weigh, return it to the preserving-pan, and for every 31b. put in 211b. of sugar that has been boiled down to the strong blow degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; skim the liquor and boil it quickly till reduced to a jelly that will Currants—continued drop from the spoon in a sort of congealed state, then turn it into small glass jars (see Fig. 606). Cut some round pieces of white paper that will fit inside the jars, dip them in brandy, and lay one carefully in each jar. Soak some bullock’s bladder in water till it becomes elastic and can be easily stretched, then fit a small piece of it tightly over each jar, and tie it firmly round the edges with some strong twine. Keep the jars of jelly in a dry store cupboard till wanted. Black-Currant Jelly Sauce. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with one finely-chopped onion and 2oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until browned ; then pour in f pint of clear gravy, and add a bay-leaf, a small piece of lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls of Black-Currant jelly, 1 table-spoonful of crushed juniper-berries, 1 wineglassful of red wine, and 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and chilli vinegar. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, stir it over the fire, and boil for eight or ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve before serving. Black-Currant Jujubes. -Select ripe fruit, put them (without removing the stalks) into a preserving-pan on the fire, and bruise them with a wooden spoon until the juice flows freely. Strain through a fine sieve, squeezing the fruit well to get as much juice out as possible, and return it to the pan, adding 4oz. of brown sugar to every pint. Place the pan on the fire, boil slowly for forty-five minutes, and just before taking it off add foz. of dissolved isinglass to every quart of juice. When done, pour it into plates to about fin. in thickness, put them in the screen before the fire to dry for three or four days, cut them into squares, and pack in layers in boxes with thin paper between. Black-Currant Liqueur.— (1) Put some Black Currants and an equal quantity of their leaves in a large jar, cover over with rectified spirits of wine, and let them remain for from six to eight weeks. Pass the liquor through a flannel bag without squeezing the fruit. Put lib. of sugar to every quart of fruit into a pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, boil, and while still hot, add it to the liquor. Bottle, and it is then ready for use. (2) Bruise lqt. of Black Currants, put them into a large bottle with lflb. of sugar candy broken into small pieces, and pour in 3 pints of proof spirit. Cork the bottle and stand it in a warm place. Shake the liqueur occasionally and leave for two months; at the end of that time filter it through flannel or a jelly-bag. Pour the liqueur into small bottles, cork, and put away for use. (3) Put 2qts. of ripe Black Currants in a saucepan with 3 pints of water and about f table-spoonful of bruised cloves, and boil for half-an-hour; strain the liquor through a hair sieve into another saucepan, mix with it 31b. of loaf sugar, and boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming off the scum as it rises. Move the pan from the fire when sufficiently boiled, leave it until nearly cold, and filter through a jelly- bag. Mix 3qts. of proof spirit with the liquor, bottle, cork tightly, and put away in a cool dry cupboard until wanted. Black-Currant Lozenges. -Pick the Currants, put them in a pan, and stir them over the fire till reduced to a pulp ; then press through a fine hair sieve. To every 31b. of the pulp add 71b. of crushed preserving-sugar, fib. of Turkey gum, and loz. of tartaric acid. Sift coarsely-powdered loaf sugar on a table, roll the paste when mixed out on it, and cut the lozenges the desired shape with a sharp-pointed knife. Keep them in tightly-corked bottles. Black-Currant Paste.—Pick off the stalks from some Currants, pass them through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan to remove the seeds, stir the puree over the fire till reduced to a stiff pulpy paste, and then take the pan from the fire. Weigh the pulp, and for every pound put in a sugar-boiler lib. of crushed loaf sugar; clarify it and boil it to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), mix in the Currant paste, and boil it up again. Pour the paste on tins, levelling it over the surface with the blade of a knife. Put the tins in a warm temperature for a day to dry the paste. Cut the paste into long strips about fin. in widtb, and tie the strips into knots or shape them in rings; or, if preferred, the paste can be cut into leaves or any other fancy shapes. Pack them in cardboard boxes, between sheets of white paper. Black-Currant Pastille Drops.—Free the Currants from stalks and any dead leaves that may be sticking to them, put Fig. 606. Black-Currant Jelly in Glass Jar.