THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 693 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. will be found under Trussing and Carving. See also Wild Goose. Baked Goose.—(1) Select a large fat Goose, draw and singe it, wash it inside, and wipe with a cloth. Pare and core eight or nine cooking apples, put them in a basin, and add 7oz. each of sultana raisins and currants, washed in warm water and wiped dry in a cloth ; season with a little finely- powdered cinnamon and add 3 handfuls of breadcrumbs and two eggs ; mix these, stuff the Goose with it, sew up the gap, truss the bird, and put it on a baking-dish with a little water. Cover over well with butter and then a piece of Fig. 854. Baked Goose. thick paper (see Fig. 854), place it in the oven, basting fre- quently, and bake for two hours. Finely chop a red cabbage, put it in an enamelled saucepan with a little salt and broth, set it on the fire, and cook gently, taking care to keep it quite firm. When about three-parts done, add half-a-dozen pork sausages slightly fried in Goose-fat, and when quite done, pour a little vinegar over it. Remove the string and paper from the Goose, put it on an oval dish, and garnish with the cabbage and sausages. Stir in a little broth to the stock, boil for a couple of minutes, strain it, skim off the fat, and serve in a sauceboat. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw the bird, and wipe it dry with a cloth. Take a little fresh pork, two onions slightly fried, parsley or sage, and chop them all to a mince ; add a few breadcrumbs and two eggs, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and stuff the inside of the bird with it. Sew it up, truss it, and place in a pan on the top of the fat taken from it, and cut in pieces. Put a few table-spoonfuls of hot water in the pan, sprinkle the Goose over with a little salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, tie it round, and then put it into a slack oven, basting frequently and turning it often; when done (it will take about one-hour-and-a-quarter), take it out, drain, remove the string- and paper, and place it on a dish. Pour a little gravy into the pan, boil it up for a minute or two, skim off the fat, strain it, and serve in a tureen. Garnish the dish with small savoy cabbages, sour- crout, or chestnuts boiled in gravy, and serve. (3) Prepare and clean a Goose, remove the pin-feathers, and wash it thoroughly in warm soapsuds to open and cleanse the pores ; then draw it, wash the inside in cold water, and wipe it dry with a cloth. Make a stuffing with mashed potatoes, seasoned with sage, onion, salt, and pepper ; or with breadcrumbs, finely-chopped apples, and boiled onions in equal proportions, and seasoned with sage, salt, and pepper. Stuff the Goose, sew it up, truss it, put it on a trivet in a pan, cover the breast over with slices of fat salted pork, and bake in the oven for forty-five minutes. When a good quan- tity of the oil has run from the bird, take the pan out of the oven, pour the oil into a basin, take the pork off the breast, and replace the Goose in the oven. Flour it well, and when browned add a little hot water to the pan, and baste frequently. When well browned and quite tender, take it out, put it on a dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with apple sauce in a boat. Collared Goose.--Procure a plump Goose, a small fowl, and a pigeon; split the birds down the back, and bone them carefully. Prepare a rich forcemeat with the livers of the birds, some sausage-meat, cold ham, mushrooms, and breadcrumbs, all finely minced, well seasoned, and bound together with beaten egg. Season the interior of the birds with salt and pepper, spread a layer of forcemeat inside the Goose, put in Goose—continued. the fowl, spread that also with forcemeat, and then put in the pigeon, with a layer of forcemeat inside it. Roll the Goose up round the two other birds, sew it, and dredge it over with flour. Put the Goose on a baking-dish, and bake it in a good oven, basting it occasionally with butter. When cooked, place it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, dredge in a small quantity of flour, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and small quantities each of salt and cayenne. Stir the gravy over the fire until hot, then pour it over the Goose, and serve. Devilled Goose.—Singe and draw a good-sized Goose, plunge it into a pan of boiling water, and leave for thirty minutes or so; then stuff it with a mixture made of mashed potatoes, butter, onions, parsley, thyme, and a little black pepper. Put a few slices of fat pork in a pan, place the Goose on it, and pour in a pint of broth. Put a little butter on the breast of the bird, and pour over it a mixture made with 2 table-spoonfuls each of pepper, vinegar, celery-vinegar, made mustard, and half that quantity of any acid fruit jelly. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, dust it well over with flour, and put it in a quick oven, basting frequently; when done, take it out, lay it on a dish, skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over, and serve. Devilled Leg1 of Goose.—Remove all the water from 1 table- spoonful of fresh butter by beating it up with a little salt, add to it 1 saltspoonful each of dry mustard and white pepper, I saltspoonful of dried salt, and any kind of chutney, also a small quantity each of sugar and cayenne. Work these to a paste, spread it over the leg of a cold cooked Goose so as to cover it, put it on a gridiron, and broil on both sides over a clear fire. Serve at once. Goose in Aspic Jelly.—Cut up three calf’s feet, put them in a saucepan with 2qts. of water, and boil until the flesh leaves the bones. Singe, draw, and clean a Goose, put it into a saucepan, strain the liquor of the feet over it, put in two or three small onions, two bay-leaves, a small bunch of thyme, basil, and tarragon, 1 teaspoonful of bruised allspice, three or four cloves, and half a lemon. Pour in more water to bring the liquor nearly to the height of the Goose, put the lid on the stewpan, and place it over the fire until the liquor boils ; then move it to the side, and simmer until the Goose is tender. When cooked, take the Goose out of the saucepan, cut the meat off in slices, put the Bones back into the liquor, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Dust a small Fig. 855. Goose in Aspic Jelly. quantity of cayenne pepper into the liquor, give it a sharp flavour by adding lemon-juice or vinegar, strain through a jelly-bag until clear, and skim off all the fat. Pour a thin layer of the jelly into a rather shallow mould, leave it to set, then arrange on it pieces of beetroot cut into various shapes, the whites and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, sliced separately, and a few green pickles. Pour carefully over these another thin layer of the jelly, and leave it until firm. Arrange the slices of Goose on the top of the jelly, then pour in carefully the remainder. Pack the mould in ice, or stand it in a cool place until the contents are quite firm. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a dish, and garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 855). Goose Pie.—(1) Cut the meat from the bones of a cold cooked Goose, put the bones with the skin and stuffing (if any) into a saucepan with a little water, and boil for two hours.