650 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fritters—continued. a batter with two eggs, £ pint of milk, and sufficient flonr to make it of the proper thickness. Put a few table-spoonfuls of oil in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire until the smoke rises ; then dip the soaked slices of roll in the batter, put them in the oil, and fry them for two or threx minutes; drain them, dip them again in the batter, and fry again until lightly browned. When cooked, put the Fritters on a sheet of paper to drain off as much of the fat as possible, then place them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew coloured sugarplums over them, and serve with clarified sugar. Sponge Fritters.—Boil 1 pint of water with lib. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, add a heaped breakfast- cupful of flour, and stir quickly over the fire for five minutes. Turn the paste into a basin, mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls more of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, five eggs beaten and flavoured with a little vanilla or ratafia, and 1 teacupful of water. Melt some lard in a frying-pan, and -when it is boiling, put in dessert-spoonfuls of the paste, and fry until browned; then dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with wine or brandy sauce. Turkish Fritters.--Put lib. of flour in a basin with 1 salt- spoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of four eggs, then stir them into the flour, with sufficient milk to make a light batter. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then pour in the batter, and stir it with a wooden spoon until it boils. Turn it on to a dish, spread it out, and leave until cold. When ready, cut the paste into 2in. squares, and roll them round with the hands. Beat the white of an eg'g, and mix 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon with breakfast-cupful of sugar. Put a good- sized lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises. Dip the Fritters in the beaten egg, roll them in the cinnamon sugar, then put them in the boiling butter, and fx-y. When cooked, take them out of the fat, lay them on a sheet of paper near the fire until well drained, pile on a hot dish with a napkin or dish-paper, sift caster sug'ar over, and serve. FROGS (Fr. Grenouilles; Ger. Frosclie; Ital. Rane; Sp. Ranas).—Altliougli each Continental country has its own popular name for the Frog, it is doubtful if it appears in the kitchen under any other name than its French one. Blytli informs us that Frogs are eaten in many countries, and that to associate them always with France is a mis- take, for in America they are considered a great luxury, and when better known will be sure to find favour in England. The edible Frog of Europe is the Green or Fig. 805. Preparing Frog. Gibbous Frog (Rana, esculenta). The Bull Frog (Rana j Catesbiana) is greatly esteemed in America, and said to be in no wise inferior to turtle. These are being introduced into France, and ought to find a ready market. In South Africa a large Frog is eaten, which, when prepared for the table, looks like a chicken, and is known by the euphonious name of Matlametlo. The Chinese and the natives of Australia are also large consumers of Frogs, the flesh being delicate and gelatinous. Frogs are in season during Lent, at which time they are i Frogs—continued. to be seen at the poulterers strung on skewers, having been prepared as follows : The Fi-ogs being killed, lay them on their backs (see Fig. 805), make a long incision from the neck along the side of the belly, make another at right angles across the middle of the belly, dissect out the entrails, and cut away the head, leaving only the back and legs. Skin the Frogs and chop off their feet, thoroughly wash them, and blanch in scalding salted water, and they are then ready for use. For the convenience of cooks, Frogs can be obtained preserved in tins. Broiled Frogs.—Prepare eighteen Frogs as described above, lay the liind-quarters on a dish, and pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of sweet-oil, seasoning with salt and pepper, and squeezing over them the juice of a lemon. Roll the Frogs round several times in this seasoning, place them on the broiler, and broil for four minutes on each side. Take them off, arrange on a hot dish, pour over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve immediately. Fricasseed Frogs.—Prepare twelve saddles or hind-quarters of Fi-ogs as above, and put them in a flat-bottomed saucepan with a little butter and a very small quantity of finely-minced shallot. Place the pan on the fire, and cook until the butter begins to bi-own; then pour over 1 teacupful of shei-ry, cover the pan, and stew for twenty minutes; now skim off most of the butter, and add cayenne and salt to taste. Put the yolks of four eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream in the stock to thicken, mixing the eggs in a little of the hot liquor before adding them, and as soon as the contents of the pan begin to show signs of boiling, remove it from the fire. Place the Frogs on a dish with their legs sticking out all round, and the thick part forming a circle in the centre; strain the sauce, and pour it over them. The wine and eggs are not always used in the cooking. Fried Frogs.—(1) Prepare eighteen Frogs as above, and put them in a bowl with a marinade composed of 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and sweet-oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together in the bowl, immerse them in frying-batter, plunge them singly into very hot fat, and fry for five minutes. Di-ain, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Serve with any desired sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Get a tin of Frogs, and roll them in beaten egg ; season some breadcrumbs with salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and cayenne, and coat the Fi-ogs with it, repeating the process. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fix-e ; when blue smoke rises, put in the Frogs, and fry them a golden brown. Dx’ain for a minute on a sheet of paper, then put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, gaimish with fried parsley or watercress, and serve. (3) Parboil the required number of saddles or hind-quai-ters of Frogs in fish stock, or steep them in cold water. When they are ready, take them out, roll them in flour, brush OA'er with egg beaten up with water, and dip them in cracker- meal or breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating; plunge them into a frying-pan of hot lard, and fry them for from four to eight minutes. Have ready some pieces of toast, cut them into triangular shapes, place them on a dish in twos with the thick bases together, and dish the Frogs up on them in like manner, with their thick parts together. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Frogs au Blanc.—Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed, but not browned; pour in 1J pints of stock and | teacupful of cream, and stir until boiling; then move it to the side, and simmer for an hour or more, keeping it well skimmed. Empty a tin of Frogs into a basin, season them with salt and pepper, put a plate over the basin, and stand it in a saucepan of hot water. Leave the Frogs until very hot, then pile them in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce well over them. Garnish with a border of green peas and rings of lemon, and serve. Frogs au Gratin.—Prepare and clean one dozen Frogs; put a thick layer of minced mushrooms and sifted brown bread-