695 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Por details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. dried, covered with paper, and smoked. Cut the breast into thin slices, and serve it raw with bread-and-butter. (3) Cut off the breast and leg’s of a Goose, and rub them well with plenty of salt and a small quantity of saltpetre. Rub and turn them well every day for three or four days, then roll them in plenty of bran, giving each piece a good coating. Bind each piece of Goose separately in thin paper, and smoke them for six days; then remove the paper and rub off the br-an with a cloth. Cut the meat into thin slices, season with salt and pepper, arrange them on a dish over whicli has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve raw with thinly-sliced bread-and-butter. Potted Goose. — Singe and draw a Goose, and remove the bones. To fill a potting-pan 7in. in diameter the Goose should weigh about 41b. when cleaned and without the giblets. Lard the breast with strips of fat bacon, and sprinkle over with a little salt and pepper. Remove the sinews from the thighs, cut off the flesh, add to it 8oz. of fillet of veal and lib. of fat bacon, chop them all up, and pound in a mortar together with loz. of spiced salt. Put a layer of this mix- ture at the bottom of the pan. Spread out the Goose with the skin part downwards, dust it over with a little more spiced salt, put another layer of the veal mixture in the inside of it, roll it round, and put it in the pan ; cover over with more of the veal mixture, put a few slices of bacon on the top, place a bay-leaf on this, put the lid on the pan, and set it in a large saucepan. Pour in water to about 2in. in depth, place the saucepan in the oven, and cook for three hours. When the Goose is done, which can be ascertained by putting a trussing-needle into it, take it out, let it get cold, and cover over in the dish with a layer of the melted fat of the Goose. Let it remain for a day, and it will then be ready for use. Potted Legs and Wings of Geese.—Take the legs and wings of some cold roasted Geese, and trim them. Put a large piece of lard in a stewpan over a slow fire, and boil for ten minutes, taking care it does not burn. Into a large jar put a few sprigs of thyme and a couple of laurel-leaves, dust the legs and wings of Geese over with salt, and x>ut them, one at a time, in the jar, pouring in after each some of the hot lard. Leave a clear inch space at the top, and fill this up with lard. When the lard is cold, tie a piece of stout paper over the jar. Roasted Goose and Chestnut Stuffing.—(1) Peel fifty chest- nuts, chop them up as small as possible, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, Jib. of sausag-e-meat, half an onion finely chopped, a little minced parsley, and a very small quantity of garlic. Set the saucepan on the fire, and cook for ten minutes. Scald and finely chop the liver of the Goose, add it to the chestnut mixture, and cook gently for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Prepare a Goose, stuff it with the mixture, and roast it before the fire. Boil gently fifty more chestnuts in white wine, adding any required seasoning, and cooking them until tender but not broken. When the Goose is done, put it on a dish, garish with the boiled chestnuts, and serve. (2) Trim lOoz. of fillet of veal, remove the gristle, chop it up with lib. of fat bacon, and season with loz. of spiced salt; moisten with 1 teacupful of broth, put it in a mortar, and pound well for ten minutes or so. Roast and peel forty chestnuts, put them in a basin, add the veal mixture, and mix together. Pluck, singe, and draw a Goose, stuff it with the chestnut mixture, truss it, put it on a spit before a moderate fire to roast, and baste well. When done (it should take forty minutes), remove it from the spit, cut off the string with which it was tied, and set it on a dish. Skim off the grease from the gravy, pour it on the dish, and serve. (3) Roast a sufficient quantity of chestnuts, peel them, taking off the inner skin, and pound to a paste, together with chopped parsley, shallots, a bit of butter, the beaten yolks of two or three eggs, a little pepper and salt, and the liver of the Goose. Stuff the Goose with the mixture, and then roast it as above. Roasted Goose with Haricot Beans (German).— Soak 2 breakfast-cupfuls of haricot beans in water for twelve hours, then boil them in rich broth with a clove of garlic, salt and pepper to taste, and a Goose’s liver. When the liver is done, take it out and chop it, also take out the garlic and Goose—continued. drain the beans. Put the latter in a well-buttered baking- dish, sprinkle with the chopped liver, and squeeze over the juice of a lemon (or 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar). In the meantime the Goose should be roasted before the fire; when nearly done, put it over the beans and cook gently in the oven for about thirty minutes. Place the beans on a hot dish, with the Goose on top (see Pig. 857), and serve. The Goose should be nearly roasted before being placed over the beans, otherwise the beans will become sodden with fat, and be overdone. Smoked Goose. —(1) Pluck a Goose as soon as killed, remove all the back, together with the bone attached to it, take out the inside of the remainder of the bird, wash and dx-y it, open it out flat, rub well with a mixture of salt, salt- petre, and honey, and leave for a couple of days ; then rub it over with powdered thyme, allspice, gai-lic, and white pepper, and leave it for another two days ; now sew it up, first in muslin and then in thick cloth, and hang it for a week over a wood fire. Take it down, remove the thick cloth, and put it in a cool current of air for three days ; then remove the muslin, sew up in more muslin, and place it in a cool room until wanted. The back part that was taken away may be used for stew or broth. (2) Select three Geese as fi’esh as possible, singe and draw them, l'inse them inside with strongly-salted water, and wipe quite dry with a cloth. Put into a pan lib. of bay-salt, ljoz. of saltpeti-e, 1 table-spoonful of powdered sage, two shallots, and three or four broken bay-leaves, anti pour in sufficient water or vinegar to cover the Geese. Boil the liquor for ten minutes, then move it to the side and simmer for twenty minutes. Put the Geese in a large pan, and when the pickle is quite cold pour it over them. Leave them thus for three days, then take them out and hang up to drip. When well drained, rub a large quantity of cayenne over them, and hang for three days and three nights iix cool smoke. At the end of that time the birds should be tied up separately in calico, and hung up in a cool, dry place till wanted for use. The best way to cook them is to cut them into pieces and boil. (3) Singe and draw a Goose, split it open down the back, and wash and dry it thoroughly. Rub it over inside and out with Joz. of saltpetre, and then with plenty of common salt and coarse brown sugar. Leave the bird in pickle for a fortnight, or twelve days in the summer-time, and keep it well rubbed and turned every day. When ready, cover with sawdust, and smoke it in wood-smoke for fourteen days. Stewed Goose. —(1) Singe and draw a Goose (one that is too old for cooking otherwise will do), timss it as if for roasting, and put it in an oval pan that is just large enough to hold it, with a few slices of veal and bacon placed at the bottom; cover the Goose over with slices of bacon, surround it with parsley, chives, half a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and basil, and four shallots, all very finely minced, and spi’inkle over gx-ated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Pour over lqt. of water, 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, and J pint of white wine. Put the lid on the pan, hermetically close it with paste, place it over a slow fire, and stew gently for five or six hours. When done, put it in a deep dish. Remove the fat from the liquor, and if it is stiff enough to form a jelly when cold, pour it over; if not, it must be reduced until it is. Serve cold. (2) Select a young Goose; singe, draw, and truss it, and put it in an oval pan with a few thin slices of bacon at