643 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. bunch of sweet herbs, J wineglassful of Madeira wine, 1 tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for about thirty minutes, and when done serve with one chopped hard-boiled egg. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets a l’Ecossaise.—As for Stewed Fowl’s Giblets with Rice, substituting .V breakfast-cupful of oatmeal for rice ten minutes before serving. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets with Pearl Barley.—As for Stewed Fowl’s Giblets with Rice, substituting pearl barley for rice forty minutes before serving. Stewed Fowl's Giblets with Rice.—Brown the giblets of three Fowls in a saucepan with Joz. of fat and one sliced onion, moisten with lqt. of white broth, adding one thinly- sliced carrot, half a sliced turnip, 1 tabic-spoonful of well- washed rice, i table-spoonful of salt, and a very little pepper. Stew for thirty minutes, then put in a sliced tomato, cook for five minutes longer, and servo, adding 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Fowl’s Livers.—It lias been said very truly by artistic cooks that the liver of any bird is a rare-bit that may be made into so many dainty dishes that it should be carefully washed and preserved for such purposes as the following: Forcemeat of Fowl’s Livers.—Choose two sound livers, carefully remove the gall, and then boil them for five minutes. Take them out, chop them, put them in a mortar with Jib. of grated cooked ham without fat, three or four mushrooms or truffles, a shallot, J teaspoonful of parsley finely minced, a little nutmeg, salt and pepper. Pound well, mix in 3oz. of butter, and it is ready for use. Fowl's Livers en Brochette.—Clean the livers of eighteen Fowls by cutting away the galls, dry them well with a cloth, season with salt and pepper, and cut each liver into halves. In the meantime cut off six slices of lean bacon, broil them for one minute, and then cut each slice into six pieces. Take six silver skewers (attelettes), run one through the centre of the liver, next a piece of bacon, and continue in this way until the six skewers are filled with the pieces of liver and bacon. Roll them in 1 table-spoonful of oil, dip them into sifted breadcrumbs, and put them on a moderate fire to broil for five minutes on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour over J gill of maitre-d'hotcl butter, and serve with a little watercress round the dish for garnish. Fowl’s-Liver Cake.—Steep eight livers in cold water to whiten them and remove all gall stains, then put them in a , saucepan with 4oz. of fat ham, loz. of lean cooked ham, 1 teacupful of sherry, half a bay-leaf, a little mace, pepper, and salt, put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer for two hours. When done, the livers, &c., should be nearly dry, but not browned. Mash them to a paste. Soak sufficient crumb of rolls in water to make 4oz. of bread panada, and squeeze it, then mix with it one beaten egg, add it to the pounded livers, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Cut up one pickled sheep’s tongue, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and two or three mushrooms, and mix them with the paste. Lay some thin slices of fat pork at the bottom of a mould, put in the liver, put some more slices of fat pork on the top, cover all with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a shallow pan of water, put it in the oven, and bake. When serving, turn it out of the mould, free it from fat, and decorate it with aspic jelly. Fowl’s Livers in Cases.—Remove the gall and trim off all the green part surrounding eight fat livers, plunge them into boiling water, and poach them without boiling; drain them, pare them slightly, and cut each in halves. Put a few more livers in a frying-pan with the trimmings of the other livers and a little lard, and fry them ; when cooled, put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of fat bacon finely chopped, pound them, sprinklo in pepper, salt, and spices, pass it through a sieve, and then mix with it 2 table- spoonfuls of quenelle forcemeat, 2 table-spoonfuls each of sweet herbs and onions, 4 table-spoonfuls each of truffles and mushrooms, all finely chopped; mix with this a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze; select eight either square or round small paper cases, oil them, and line them inside with half of the above mixture. Fry the livers in a little butter and Fowls—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine over a quick fire. When the wine is reduced, take out the livers, and put them on a plate; dip a paste-brush in melted glaze, and brush them over with it. Cut each of the halves of livers in halves again, put two pieces in each of the cases, cover them with a layer of forcemeat, put a piece of paper dipped in oil over each, then stand the cases on a baking-sheet, and warm them at the entrance of a moderate oven. Put the cases of liver on a hot dish, pour a little reduced brown sauce over each, and serve. Fowl’s Livers for Garnish. — Blanch the livers of four Fowls in boiling water for ten minutes, and put them in a saucepan with a little gravy, adding 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, a bunch of thyme, a little parsley, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Place the pan over a good fire, cook for fifteen minutes, drain them, and they are ready for use. Fowl’s-Liver Omelet.—Partially boil the liver, then out it into small pieces, put them in a frying-pan with butter, two or three button mushrooms, a shallot, and 1 table-spoonful of parsley, all finely minced ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry them for ten minutes. Turn them into a basin, and when cold beat in throe eggs. Put a lump of butter in an omelet-pan, and when melted put in the omelet, and fry it. Serve it on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Fowl’s Livers en Papillotes. —Wash and blanch eight livers in boiling water, drain, and split them. Put 2 table- spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed ; then pour in slowly 1 teacupful of cold water and 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze; add 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped ham, season with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire till boiling. Mask the livers with the preparation, put them in papillotes the same as cutlets, lay them in a baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Pile some croutons of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the livers round them, and serve at once. Fowl’s-Liver-and-Parsley Sauce.—Wash and boil a Fowl’s liver; when tender, drain and mince it very finely, mix with it some finely-chopped parsley, then stir it into a saucepan containing J pint of warmed butter. After it has boiled for a short time, it is ready to serve with poultry. Fowl’s-Liver Sauce.—Wash and boil two livers in salted water till they are tender. Drain and chop them into moderate-sized pieces, put them in 1 pint of melted butter with 2 table-spoonful each of ketchup and pickle vinegar; add pepper and salt to taste, give it a boil up, and it is then ready to serve. Fowl’s-Livers Sautes.—Procure the livers of six Fowls, and wash and wipe them thoroughly. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter iu a frying-pan, and when hot add a large slice of onion, frying it slowly for ten minutes ; take it out, and put in the livers, well sprinkled with salt, pepper, and flour, and fry them for ten minutes; then sprinkle over a little more flour, and cook them for two or three minutes longer. Pour in 1 teacupful of stock, 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and lemon-juice, add 1 pinch of sugar, and stir it over the fire till boiling ; then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve immediately. Fowl’s Livers Stewed a l’ltalienne.— The same as for Fowl’s Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine, but adding J tcacupful of cooked fine herbs five minutes before serving. Fowl's Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine. —Cut away the gall from the livers of ten or twelve Fowls, dry them with a cloth, and fry them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, on a brisk fire, for five minutes; season with salt and pepper, add J wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, then moisten with J pint of Spanish sauce, and cook again for three minutes; add Joz. of butter and the juice of half a lemon, tossing the pan without letting the contents boil. Pour the whole on a hot dish, and serve with six croutons of bread for garnish. Fowl’s Livers Stewed with Mushrooms.—The same as for Fowl’s Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine, but adding six minced mushrooms three minutes before serving. 3 d 2