515 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. DANDELION {Fr. Dent-de-lion ; Ger. Lowenzahn).— Lion’s-tootli is the popular name for this plant (Tarax- acum officinale), on account of its deeply-notched leaves, which are supposed to resemble the teeth of a lion (see Fig. 635. Dandelion-plant. Fig. 635). It bears a very familiar large yellow flower, and tufts of fluffy seeds, which float in the air to great dis- tances. The plants grow very prolifically when allowed full liberty, and make a very pleasing salad, either by themselves or as an addition to other salads. The roots are much sought after for medicinal purposes, and are used for making Dandelion tea. The young leaves are best for salads, as they are not so bitter as those which are matured or have been exposed. Dandelion salad should be freshly gathered in the early morning, before the sun has toughened the fibre of the leaves. The root is sometimes roasted and ground to imitate coffee. Dandelion-and-Beetroot Salad.—The same as for Dande- lion Salad, only using half the quantity of Dandelion and two boiled beetroots cut into slices. Dandelion Salad.—Pare away the roots and stale leaves from lqt. of white Dandelion, wash thoroughly in two waters, drain on a cloth, and place in a salad-bowl. Dilute 1 pinch of salt and pinch of pepper with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, adding If table-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix thoroughly, pour over the salad, and serve. Any other salad vegetables may be added and mixed in with the Dandelion-leaves. Dandelion Salad a la Contoise.—Well wash lqt. of pared white Dandelion, using several waters, drain on a cloth, arrange in a salad-bowl, and season with salt and pepper. Cut 2oz. of bacon in dice-shaped pieces, put these in a frying- pan on the stove, let them get a good golden colour, which will take about five minutes, and add them to the salad. Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar into the pan, let it heat for half-a- minute, then pour it over all, mix well together, and serve. Dandelion Salad with Eggs.—Prepared the same as for Dandelion Salad, adding two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters when serving. Dandelion Sandwich.—Pound the remains of any cold cooked meat, poultry, or fish, in a mortar, mix in a small quantity of butter while pounding, and season to taste. Pick and wash some Dandelion-leaves, dry them on a cloth, spread the mix- ture on some thin slices of bread-and-butter, put a few of the Dandelion-leaves on top, and cover over with more slices. Cut the sandwiches into halves, quarters, triangles, or fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. For picnics, &c., these sandwiches are invaluable, as being' cut a long time before using, they are liable to become dry, which the Dandelion- leaves prevent and make them more palatable. Dandelion Tea.—Wash, cut off the leaves, and scrape the out- sides of six Dandelion-roots, cut them in small pieces, cover with boiling water, and let them stand all night; then strain off the liquor through muslin, and it is ready for use. Dandelion Wine.—This is not likely to be a popular beverage, having no quality in particular to recommend it. Put 4qts. of yellow Dandelion petals in a tub, pour over them lgall. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Dandelion—continued. of water that has previously been boiled and allowed to cool; cover the tub with a sack, and let it stand for three days, during which time it should be frequently stirred. Strain off the liquor and boil it for lialf-an-hour, with the addition of 3|lb. of loaf sugar, a little ginger, the rind of one orange, and a sliced lemon. Let the liquor cool, then ferment it with yeast on toast, let it stand for two days, and pour it into a cask. Leave for two months before bottling. Stewed Dandelion-leaves.—Pick the required quantity of leaves, wash well in plenty of cold water to thoroughly rid them of sand, and steep in water for about two hours; then drain, throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for twenty minutes, or longer if they are full- grown ones. When cooked, turn the leaves into a colander, and press well, to extract as much of the water as possible; then turn them on to a board and finely chop them. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, judging the quantity by that of the Dandelion, and place it over the fire until melted; next dredge in 1 teaspoonful of flour, and small quantities of salt and pepper; then put in the Dandelion- leaves, and stir them over the fire for ten minutes with a wooden spoon. At the end of that time, moisten them with a small quantity of broth, and continue stirring for ten minutes longer. Serve hot. Stewed Dandelion- and Sorrel-leaves. —- Pick off the withered and hard parts of an equal quantity of Dandelion- and sorrel-leaves, wash well, and shred them into fine strips. Keep the Dandelion- and sorrel-leaves separate, put the former into a copper stewpan, cover with boiling water, and stew till tender; then put in the sorrel, and simmer till the liquor has nearly all disappeared and the leaves are suffi- ciently soft; then beat them with a wooden spoon, drop in a small quantity of butter, and add pepper and salt to taste. Turn on to a dish, and garnish with sippets of fried bread and hard-boiled eggs. DANISH NOUGAT.—See Nougat. DANISH PUDDING.—See Puddings. DANTZIC.—The name given to a liqueur manufac- tured at Dantzic, but formerly prepared in Italy as Acqua d’Oro or Gold Water. Some very good imitations of it are prepared at Amsterdam, and others in France, Ger- many, and other parts of the Continent, as Eau d’Or and Gold Wasser. It is a bright colourless liquid with frag- ments of gold-leaf floating about in it, adding to the beauty if not the flavour of the liqueur. See Cordials and Liqueurs for Eau d’Or. DANTZIC BRANDY.—See Brandy. DANTZIC JELLY.—See Jellies. DARIOLES. — The literal meaning of this term is, according to some authorities, “ something produced from a dairy.” As dairy evidently originated from deie, a Fig. 636. Dariole-moulds (Mathews and Son). maiden, it is just possible that Dariole may be Deie-royal or Royal Maid, that is Maid-of-Honour. Although the term is not so much used in this country as it used to be, in France, and on the Continent generally, it is recognised 2 t % Sauces, d:c., referred to, see render their special heads,