TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 588 Fish—continued. need be, the French cooks can give many a good hint, and their rich sauces and garnishings, their marinades and matelotes, have a magical effect. There are few dishes more worthy of honour than carp a la Chambord, a sole in a Normandy matelote, the remains of a turbot in a cream an gratin, or the tasteless little river crayfish done up a la Bordelaise.” Urban Dubois, whose experiences as a cook are of all nations, writing of Fish removes, observes that large Fish must either be boiled or braised; when boiled they should be served quite plain, with but one garnish, and that is potatoes, peeled and steamed. These he con- siders to be the natural companions of the boiled Fish. To this he would add “ light, delicate, and well-buttered sauce,” such as our “ melted butter,” flavoured with other more tasty Fish, or herbs. Thus: with turbot serve lobster sauce or prawn or shrimp sauce ; with boiled salmon, parsley sauce and cucumber salad; cod, oyster sauce; whiting and mackerel, egg sauce, parsley sauce, or gooseberry sauce. Mackerel is best served with fennel sauce. Braised Fish require very succulent sauces, and large Fish take bold garnishes of oysters, mussels, cray- fish-tails, milt, quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms, &c. Fried Fish, such as whiting, soles, trout, smelts, &c., require anchovy sauce. Fish stuffed and baked require gravies. In addition to the foregoing there are many modes of preparing and cooking Fish, for which other special sauces, garnishes, pickles, and other flavourings are desirable, most of which are given in detail amongst the multitude of receipts for Fish, special and general, with which this Encyclopaedia is so amply provided. It merely remains in this article to give some general instructions, leaving other important matters to be discussed under special headings, such as Boiling, Frying, &c. Instructions for curing, drying, pickling, salting, and smoking various kinds of Fish will be found under their special headings, such as Bloaters, Haddocks, &c. Baking Fish.—Prepared as for broiling, with the exception of stuffed Fish, which are then basted with fat. Boiling Fish.—All large Fish with the skins whole are to be put in cold water, but when they are crimped, or in slices, they require more rapid cooking, and should therefore be plunged into boiling water at once. By this way the cut surfaces are hardened and closed, pre- venting the juices of the Fish from boiling out. Sole, j Fish—continued. that it remains on its belly, some such system as the following may be resorted to. Pass some long steel pins (ladies bonnet-pins answer first-rate) through the bodies from dorsal fin to belly, taking care that two at least of the points shall pass through holes in the strainer. The upper parts near the ball-heads must then be made fast to the edges of the strainer by means of guys or Fig. 743. Fish tied on a Strainer for Boiling. stays (see Fig. 743), shown also in section (see Fig. 744). In this way both sides of the Fish remain untouched. As fast as scum rises on the water it should be taken away, otherwise the Fish will come out dirty. The addi- tion of a dessert-spoonful of salt to every quart of water is advisable, as it makes the flesh firmer; or the juice of half a lemon, or a table-spoonful of good vinegar, in the same proportion of water keeps the flesh beauti- fully white. The Fish is said to be done when the flesh begins to leave the bone; but if a Fish has been cooked steadily, by simmering instead of very fast boiling, the Fig. 744. Section of Fish on Strainer. skin may remain quite sound and yet the flesh be suffi- ciently cooked. “I generally try it by gently pushing a wooden skewer through the thickest part; if it goes in easily it is done,” observes Soyer. As soon as the Fish is cooked, lift it out, and let it drain thoroughly before dishing. The stock the Fish is boiled in will make a sauce or court bouillon; but the Fish should not be allowed to remain in it after the kettle is removed from the fire. After boiling, it is not easy to transfer the cooked Fish from the kettle to the dish or socle, or slab, upon Fig. 742. Fish on Strainer. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. skate, and mackerel should always go into boiling water at once. The Fish-kettle should not be much larger than the Fish, and as little water as possible should be used, covering the body by not more than 2in. or 3in., or the skin will crack, and then some of the goodness of the Fish will be boiled out; and instead of eating firm and full of flavour, it will be soft and woolly, and easily over-boiled. It is advisable to tie the Fish to the strainer of the kettle (see Fig. 742), so that it may not shift about and get broken in the boiling. When it is desirable to boil a whole Fish, say a stuffed one, in such a position Fig. 745. Mode of Lifting Boiled Fish. which it is to cool, without breaking it. An ingenious cook has found a couple of boards (see Fig. 745), neatly