627 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PEACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, tike., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fowls—continued. Cut them up small, pound in a mortar, and add loz. of rice boiled in broth, 4oz. of breadcrumbs, and a little salt: put the whole into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and £ pint of Fowl troth, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until done, taking care that the liquor does not boil. Eub the whole through a fine sieve, warm it without boiling, pour it into a tureen, and serve with sma 1 pieces of toasted bread. Fowl Soup a la Richmond. -Put a quarter of a boned chicken into a saucepan with loz. of butter or fat, add one finely-shred onion and half a green pepper, also shred, and fry for ten minutes; then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, adding 1 teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, a bouquet garni, 1 table-spoonful of Lima beans, 2 table-spoonfuls of green corn, and six gumbos cut up without the stalks. Season with table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, cook thoroughly for thirty-five minutes, remove the bouquet, and serve. Fowl Soup a la Turque. -Brown about a quarter of a chicken in a saucepan with loz. of butter, also loz. of raw ham and a sliced onion, moisten with lqt. of consomme and J pint of tomato sauce, add 2 table-spoonfuls of raw rice, a bouquet garni, 1 table-spoonful of salt, half a green pepper cut up, and 1 teaspoonful of diluted curry. Boil for thirty minutes, and serve, after removing the bouquet. Fowl Soup with Leeks.—Cut about a quarter of a chicken in slices, brown them for ten minutes in a saucepan with loz. of butter and half a chopped small onion, moisten with 3 pints of consomme, and add three leeks cut in pieces, a bouquet garni, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil thoroughly for thirty minutes, and serve, after removing the bouquet. Fowl Soup with Okras.—The same as for Fowl Soup a la Creole, adding twelve raw okras cut in pieces ten minutes before serving. Fowl with Stewed Pickle.—Cut any cold cooked Fowl into pieces, and prepare the following pickle : Put four shallots, an onion, and a carrot, all cut up into small pieces, into a saucepan with a little butter, and add a little thyme, clove, spice, bay-leaf, and a few roots of parsley. Place the pan on the fire, and let it remain until the mixture is of a light brown colour; then add a little vinegar and water. Boil again until the pickle is quite done, then add the chicken- meat, and boil again for two or three minutes. Take out the pieces of meat, drain them well, dip each piece separately into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Pour a little brown sauce on a dish, place the pieces of meat on it, and serve. Fowl Stuffing-.—Chop finely the heart, liver, and gizzard of a Fowl, season to taste, and mix them with boiled rice worked up with a little butter ; with th:s stuff a Fowl. It is then ready to be cooked. Fowl Surprise Pie.—Prepare a fricassee of Fowl, thickening it with yolks of eggs. Make a circular incision 4in. in diameter on the top of a round household loaf, scoop out all the crumb, fill up with the cold fricassee together with its liquor, replace the round cut off, and it is then ready. This is a useful and tasty way for travellers or hunters to take their lunch. Fowl as Terrapin.—Take a cold roasted chicken and a par- boiled sweetbread, and chop them up moderately fine. Put 4 pint of hot cream and 2oz. of butter into a pan, mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with it, and add the chicken mixture, with a little salt and pepper to season. Put the pan into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Before serving, add the yolks of two well-beaten eggs and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Fowl Toad-in-a-Hole.—Clean and bone a Fowl, stuff it with seasoned forcemeat, cover it over with a thick batter of flour, eggs, and milk, and bake. Serve hot. Fowl-and-Tongue Rolls.—Finely chop 6oz. of cold cooked chicken, half that quantity of tongue, and two or three white sticks of celery, mix them together, season with salt and pepper, and stir in a sufficient quantity of mayonnaise sauce to bind them. Scoop out the crumb of some French rolls, fill the hollows with the mixture, and cover the tops of the rolls with aspic jelly. A few small pieces of beetroot, cut in Fowls—continued. fancy shapes, and arranged on the tops, will greatly improve their appearance. Arrange them on a dish in an upright position, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Fowls cooked in Valencia Style.— Singe and truss a couple of large-sized Fowls as for boiling, put them into a sauce- pan with a little lard, and fry for a few minutes. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, add 4 table- spoonfuls of uncooked ham cut into small pieces, half that quantity of onions chopped very small, and lastly a clove of garlic, and fry a few minutes longer; then add two small sausages, a little saffron and bay-leaf, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne. Pour in sufficient chicken broth to cover them, put a piece of buttered paper over each one, and place the pan back again over a moderate fire. Boil gently, so as not to reduce the broth too much, and then put in half the bulk of rice that there is liquor, cover over the pan, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Bemove the pan from the fire, put it at the entrance of the oven, and let it remain for eight or ten minutes, when the rice will be quite cooked. Put the chickens on a dish on the mixture, garnish with the sausages, and serve. Fowl Vol-au-Vents with Croquettes.— Bake twelve vol- au-vents made with puff paste. Have ready a little un- cooked chicken forcemeat mixed with mushrooms cooked and cut up into small pieces. Fill the vol-au-vents with this mixture, put a layer of paste on the top, damping the edges and making them stick together. Cut a hole in the top of Fig. 777. Fowl Vol-au-Vents with Croquettes. each to allow the steam to come through, and bake them in a hot oven for thirty to thirty-five minutes. 'When done, take them out, and pour into them (through the hole pre- viously made) a little rich gravy or brown sauce. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, garnish the centre with giblet croquettes, and serve. See Fig. 777. Fricassee of Fowls.— (1) Prepare a Fowl weighing about 31b., cut it into pieces, and steep the pieces in cold water for an hour; drain, and put them in a large saucepan with one onion, having three cloves stuck in it, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lqt. of water. When the water boils, skim it, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for about half-an-hour with the lid partly off. Take out the pieces of Fowl, drain them, and let them cool for a few minutes in cold water. Keep the liquor in which they were cooked. Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire till smooth, but not brown, add the broth and the liquor in which a pottle of mushrooms have been cooked, and simmer for half-an-hour. Warm the pieces of Fowl in pint of the sauce in a separate pan; beat the yolks of four eggs, add 1 table- spoonful of melted butter, and stir the sauce over the fire till thick, but not boiling; strain the gravy, then add the mushrooms. Put the two back pieces of the Fowl in the middle of a dish, and arrange on them, one above the other, first the feet, then the two pieces of neck, and lastly the pinions ; rest the legs and wings against the sides of the square, and put the pieces of breast on the top. Arrange the mushrooms round the dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Clean two Fowls, skin the breasts, and cut off the fillets, leaving the pinion-bones on; put the remainder of the Fowls, with the exception of the legs, in a saucepan with an onion and bunch of sweet herbs; cover with water and stew till done. Take the small fillets, flatten them 3 c 2