675 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Giblets—continued. may be put on the top instead of pie-crust, and a little mush- room or walnut ketchup poured into the dish. Celery and sweet herbs are sometimes used. (2) Bemove the livers from a couple of sets of Giblets, blanch the Giblets (including the livers), trim them, and put them in a saucepan with a little butter, a little onion finely minced, and Jib. of streaky bacon cut in slices; sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and fry very gently over a slow fire for thirty minutes; pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira or white wine, and boil until the wine has all disappeared. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of beef, put the Giblets and bacon on it, dust over with a little parsley, and add the livers. Put a little game broth into a sauce- pan, boil quickly for five minutes, skim it, and add a little kneaded butter to thicken; pass it through a fine sieve, and pour it into the dish. Wet the edges of the dish, cover them with a strip of puff paste, damp the top of this, and cover the pie over with some more paste rolled out thin. Notch the edges, decorate the centre with leaves made of paste, cut a hole in the top, and bake in a slack oven for an-hour-and- a-quarter. It will then be quite done, and may be served either hot or cold. (3) Well wash some Giblets, put them in a saucepan over the fire with a small bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little whole black pepper ; pour over a small quantity of water, not quite enough to cover them, and stew gently till nearly done. Take them up, strain the liquor, and let both Giblets and liquor stand till cold. If there are not sufficient Giblets to fill the pie-dish, lay some mutton, veal, or beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, then put in the Giblets with the liquor they were stewed in, a few slices of peeled raw potato, and a few slices of apple peeled and cored; cover the pie with puff paste or short-crust, and after it is baked pour in 1 pint of cream. Giblet Sauce.—Put the Giblets of any bird into a sauce- pan with sufficient stock or water to cover them, and boil for three hours, adding an onion and a few peppercorns while cooking. Take them out when they are quite tender, strain the liquor into another pan, and chop up the gizzards, livers, and other parts into small pieces. Take a little of the thickening left at the bottom of the pan in which a chicken or goose has been braised, and after the fat has been taken off, mix it with the Giblet liquor, and boil until it is dissolved. Strain this sauce, put in the pieces of Giblets, and serve hot. Giblet Soup.—(1) Put 1 pint of dried green peas into a sauce- pan with Igall. of water, and boil them slowly for seven hours; add lib. of thoroughly cleaned Giblets, twelve cloves, a small piece of red pepper, and a little salt to taste, and boil for two hours longer. When the peas are reduced to a mass, rub them with the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Cut the Giblets up into small pieces, return them to the soup, boil up again, and serve hot with toast cut into dice. (2) Put the Giblets of any bird in a saucepan with the pinions chopped in halves, the feet scalded and the skin and claws removed, the neck cut into small pieces, the head split in halves and the eyes and beak taken out, the livers cut in halves, and the gizzards well cleaned and the hard white skin peeled off the inside. Put in the pan sufficient water to cover them, and stew until the gizzards are done, as they take the longest time to cook. A few carrots and onions should also be added before stewing, and a little salt and pepper sprinkled over all. Take the Giblets out, thicken the soup with flour, boil it up again, strain it, add the Giblets, and serve. (3) Put the Giblets from two or three birds in a saucepan with Igall. of water, and boil them gently until the liquor is reduced to lqt.; then take out the Giblets. Cut off the tough parts from the gizzards, add to them the livers and hearts, chop them all up into rather coarse pieces, put them into the liquor in which they were previously cooked, and add the quart of Giblet stock. Take a large onion, two slices of carrot, one of turnip, and two stalks of celery, chop them up fine, put them in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and fry for a-quarter-of-an-hour, taking care that they brown but do not burn ; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and keep on the fire until it is brown. Put this into the soup, and sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to taste. Strain the Giblets—continued. soup previous to putting in the vegetables, then put in the Giblets, and serve. If any bones of birds are used, they must be put into 3qts. of water with the Giblets, and in every other respect proceed as before. (4) Thoroughly clean a set of Giblets, and cut them into small pieces. Boil lqt. of white beans in salted water until soft, then drain them, put half of them on a wire sieve, and rub through with a wooden spoon. Cut a head of celery into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of broth, and boil until tender; then put the mashed beans in the soup, and stir it over the fire until quite smooth. Put the Giblets in the soup with a bunch of parsley -and sweet herbs tied together, and boil them. When the Giblets are nearly cooked, put the whole beans in the soup, season it moderately with salt and pepper, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. When ready, remove the bunch of herbs and parsley from the soup, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Clean and scald two sets of Giblets, cut the gizzards into pieces, or quarter them, and put all in a saucepan over the fire with 5 pints of water, together with 21b. of gravy- beef, several shanks of mutton or a scrag of mutton or knuckle of veal, a good bunch of sweet herbs, three onions, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and let all simmer slowly till the gizzards are quite tender, keeping it well skimmed. When the gizzards are done, take the Giblets out and strain the soup, return it to the fire, mix in sufficient flour and butter to thicken it, and stir till it boils ; then boil for ten minutes, and add 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom powder. When the soup is thickened, add the Giblets, and either 2 wineglassfuls of sherry or J pint of cream, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, and a small quantity of cayenne. Let it boil up, pour it into the tureen, taste it, and if it requires more salt, add it the last thing. (G) Chop up into small pieces Gib. of knuckle of veal (with the bones) and lib. of lean ham ; put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and add three onions, one carrot, two turnips, two heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, six cloves, a blade of mace, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Place the pan over a quick fire, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. When there appears a white glaze on the spoon with which it is stirred, add 2galls. of broth or water, and as soon as it boils remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer. Throw two sets of Giblets into a little boiling water, and scald them for five minutes ; take them out, cut them in pieces and the gizzards into quarters, put them into the stock, and let them simmer for two-hours-and-a-half, when they should be quite tender. Take them out, and strain the stock through a cloth. To clarify it, beat up the whites and shells of six eggs, add lqt. of cold stock, mix well, and strain. Bring the Giblet soup to the boil, pour in the egg mixture, and whisk all over a clear fire until the soup begins to simmer again and the eggs separate from the broth; it will then be quite clear. Take some carrots and turnips, and scoop them out with a vegetable-cutter, and cut two heads of celery into small pieces ; warm them with a little butter and sugar, put them into the soup, and boil gently until quite tender. Skim the soup, and sprinkle in a little salt and moist sugar. Place the Giblets and some cooked French beans or Dcas in the tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (7) Scald the Giblets' of two geese or ducks, cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with I Alb. of gravy-beef also cut into pieces, two peeled onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper in moderate quantities ; pour in sufficient cold water to cover, and place them over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side, and let the liquor simmer until the gizzards ar-e tender. Next strain the soup through a fine sieve, return it to the saucepan, and mix with it loz. of butter kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and boil for ten minutes longer. Skim the soup, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of cayenne, and put in the Giblets again. When the Giblets are hot, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Giblet Soup witb Leeks.—Blanch a couple of either turkey or goose Giblets, trim and divide them, and put them in a saucepan with enough broth to cover: set the pan on the fire, and boil gently until the meat is half cooked. Cut five 3 f 2