THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 581 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. rigs —continued. value to tlie cook, it must be omitted here, to give room for more useful information. The garden or common Fig (Ficus Carica) (see Fig. 730) derives its name Carica from Caria in Asia Minor, where it grows to perfection. In the time of Cato only six kinds of Figs were known; at the present time botanists reckon that there are over 160 varieties, but not many of them are to he met with growing in England. Some horticulturists are of opinion that the Fig might be naturalised to this climate, and that a good yield of ripe fruit might he ensured during the months of August, September, and October. In Italy and other warm climates they ripen much earlier, and some Fig-trees have two crops of ripe fruit in the year. More often, the fruit that appears in one year does not ripen until the next. Figs are easily dried by exposure to the hot sun, such as would be experienced in Turkey and along the shores of the Mediterranean. They contain a vast quantity of sugar, and as this oozes and is dried on the surface, it may be said that they are preserved in their own dried syrup. Our markets are supplied with dried Figs from Turkey, the better class coming from Smyrna ancl Eleme in small boxes called drums. This import has reached as much as a thousand tons yearly, and now that the duty has been removed it is possible the quantity may be considerably increased, for they are acluiowleged favourites with all classes, and possess mild medicinal properties that are, or ought to be, greatly appreciated for children. The following receipts refer to (1) Green Figs, and (2) Dried Figs. Green Figs.—This term is used in a general sense, signifying fresh Figs, the probability being that the colour is not strictly green. As before described, they vary very much in colour, being green, brown, violet, and piirple, and there are some varieties—Black Boiu-jas- sotte (see Fig. 731) and Black Ischia, for instance— which are nearly black. Compote of Figs.— (1) Put the required quantity of Green Figs in a basin with the juice and peel of one or two lemons, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, and leave until cold. For every 21b. of fruit put in a preserving-pan Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of water, boil Fig. 732. Compote of Figs. until the sugar is dissolved, then drain the Figs, put them in the syrup with one thinly-sliced lemon without seeds, and simmer gently until tender. Leave the Figs in the syrup until cold, then group them in the centre of a glass dish, strain their syrup over, and serve. See Fig. 732. Figs —continued. (2) Choose Figs that are not quite ripe, prick them with a sharp-pointed knife in four or five places, put them into cold water for a few minutes, take them out, place in a saucepan with a little water, and boil for thirty minutes, when they should be done and quite tender ; take them out with a spoon or skimmer, put them again into cold water, take them out again after a time, and drain. Have ready some sugar boiled to the small-thread degree (see Sugar - boiling), place the fruit on a dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve garnished with slips of crystallised angelica. (3) Gather some Green Figs before they are too ripe, prick them, put them in a saucepan with some thin syrup, and stew till tender. When cooked, drain them, arrange in a pyramid in a compote-dish with the stalks inside, place one on the top, pour over some thick syrup, and serve when cold. (4) Remove the stalks from the required quantity of Figs, prick them here and there with a pointed piece of wood, put them in a bowl, cover with hot water, and leave them until the following morning. Put the Figs in a glass bowl, and pass their liquor through a fine hair-sieve over them; flavour with a small quantity of orange-flower water, colour with saffron, put in a few small pieces of ice, and serve. Fig- Creams.—Pick half-a-dozen Green Figs, cut off the stalks, and stew them in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Put 5 table- spoonfuls of water into a saucepan, and add to it Jib. of caster sugar ; place the pan on the fire until the sugar browns, add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered gum-arabic, and stir continually until the gum is quite dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire, add 1 teaspoonful of extract of vanilla, and stir and Fig. 733. Fig Creams. beat well with a spoon, for the more it is worked the better and lighter it will be. When it is light, turn it out on to a table or board and form it into a long roll, cut it up into slices, put a Fig on each, pinch the paste up a little so as to hold the Fig, place them on a strainer to dry, and they are ready for use, forming a very pretty little sweetmeat (see Fig. 733). Fig Salad.—Put about two dozen Green Figs into a salad-bowl with lib. of honey ; add 1 wineglassful of brandy to lqt. of thick cream, whip it to a stiff froth, pour it over the Figs, and serve. Preserved Figs.— (1) Put 91b. of fresh Green Figs into a basin of cold water, and let them remain for a day : then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until they are quite tender. Take them out, plunge them into a bowl of cold water, and let them remain for a day ; then change the water, and let them soak for a day longer. Should they not be soft or tender enough, boil them, and put them into cold water for another day. Put 61b. of sugar into a sugar- boiler with a little water, and prepare a syrup (see Syrups) ; place the Figs in it, simmer gently for ten minutes, turn the whole out on to a dish, and let it remain for a couple of days. Put 31b. more of sugar into the sugar-boiler, pour over the syrup from the Figs, boil for a minute or two, add the thin peel of a lemon, a little raw ginger, and the Figs, and boil for a few minutes longer. Turn the contents of the pan into pots or jars, cover them over securely, put them into a cool place, and let them remain until wanted. (2) Place the Figs in an earthenware or stone jar, and cover them with a layer of their leaves. Sweeten sufficient water with honey to cover the Fig-s, and boil; skim well, pour it over the Figs, put paper over the jar, and tie down closely.