554 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. salt and grated nutmeg, and cook on the hot stove for five minutes, stirring lightly with the spatula or kitchen-lmife. Remove the pan to the corner of the stove to keep warm. Put ijoz. of butter in a dish, set it on the hot stove to melt, break in twelve fresh Eggs, being careful not to injure the yolks, season with salt and pepper, and cook for two minutes. Arrange the rice mixture in four dome-shaped heaps, one at each end of the dish and one at each side, place the Eggs in the centre, and serve immediately. Egg's stuffed with Anchovies. —Remove the shells from some hard-boiled Eggs, chop off a thin slice from each end, cut them in halves, take out the yolk, and stand each half on its end on the dish in which they are to be served. For each Egg take one anchovy, remove the scales and bones, cut them up very fine, and mix with the yolks, previously crushed; put all into a saucepan with a little warm butter, and mix until the butter is thoroughly worked in. Put this into the whites, and serve with Dutch sauce poured over. Egg-ail cl-Aneliovy Croquettes.—Boil four Eggs until hard, throw them into cold water for a minute or two, and then peel and chop finely; put them into a basin with 1 table- spoonful of anchovy paste, and mash with the back of a wooden spoon until well mixed. Chop as finely as possible 2oz. of cold boiled tongue, mix it with the Eggs, and season to taste with pepper. No salt will be required, as the anchovy paste is very salt; but a small quantity of cayenne may be used if liked. Divide the mixture into small quantities, roll into croquettes or balls, dip these in well-beaten Egg, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put lib. or so of clarified fat or lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the croquettes and fry them for two or three minutes, or until lightly browned. Take them out with a slice, and put them on paper to drain ; arrange in a group on a hot dish with a folded napkin or a fancy- edged dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Egg-and-Anchovy Toast. — (l) Boil four Eggs till hard, let them get quite cold, take off the shells, and chop them. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, with 1 tea- spoonful of cornflour blended smooth in a little milk, 1 tea- spoonful each of anchovy sauce and vinegar, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and 1 pint of milk; stir over the fire till boiling, and then put in the chopped Eggs, stirring them well in. Toast three rounds of bread, butter them, spread the mixture over, and serve hot. (2) Put a small lump of butter in a saucepan, with 1 table- spoonful each of gravy and milk, and three raw Eggs, seasoning with pepper and salt; stir with a fork over a slow fire till the Eggs begin to get lumpy, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir till the Eggs are set. Toast three slices of bread, spread them with anchovy butter, lay the Eggs on the toast, and serve hot. Eggs and Artichokes.—Boil twelve artichoke-bottoms in water for half-an-hour, and hard-boil half the quantity of Eggs. Cut as many rounds of bread as there are artichoke-bottoms, making them about lin. larger in diameter; put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling, put in the rounds of bread and fry them until well browned. When cooked, drain the artichoke-bottoms, peel and cut the hard-boiled Eggs into halves, place an artichoke-bottom on each round of bread, and then half an Egg, the cut side downwards. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toast and Eggs tastefully on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Eggs with Asparagus.—(1) Chop some asparagus-tops into small pieces about the size of peas and boil them; take them out, put into another saucepan with a little butter, chives, and a small quantity of parsley, set the pan over a rather slow fire, add a little water, flour, and salt and sugar to taste, and let them cook until quite done. Take them out, arrange on a dish with a few Eggs poured over them, and season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put the dish on a hot stove, with a salamander cook the Eggs, but keeping the yolks soft, and serve in the dish they were cooked in. (2) Beat ten Eggs, pour them into a stewpan with 3oz. of melted butter, and stir over a moderate fire till the Eggs begin to set; then move it from the fire, add £ teacupful'of cream, Eggs—continued. little bits of butter, and the required quantity of cooked asparagus-heads. Place all on a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Eggs in Aspic.—Fill a mould to one-third of its height with clear aspic jelly. When cold, arrange some slices of hard- boiled Eggs on the top, then three-parts fill it with more liquid jelly, and let this set; arrange a layer of Eggs as before, and fill to the top with more jelly. Let it set for twelve hours on ice if possible. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a dish, and serve. Eggs and Bacon.—See Bacon. Eggs-and-Bacon Pie.—Cold.—Put several thin rashers of bacon in a basin of water, and let them steep all night; on the following morning lay them in a pie-dish. Beat eight Eggs with 1 pint of cream, season them with salt and pepper, and pour them over the bacon; cover the pie with short-crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out, and leave till quite cold before serving. Egg Balls. —(1) Boil four Eggs in a saucepan of water for ten minutes, then plunge them into cold water. When cold, take them out, remove the shells, and separate the whites from the yolks. Put the yolks in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, and pound well; then add the uncooked white of one Egg. Mix and shape into small balls, roll these in flour, and fry in butter until they are brown, taking care not to bum them. They are then ready to be used as a garnish, or to make a separate dish with mashed potatoes. (2) Slightly beat an Egg in a basin, and add a dust of pepper, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; mix these, then add sufficient flour to make a paste of such a consistency that it can be easily shaped by the hands into small balls. Put these when ready into boiling stock or broth, and boil very fast until they are set. They are then ready for irse. Egg Balls ill Baskets.—Remove the shells from three hard- boiled Eggs, cut a thin slice off each end so that they can stand upright, and cut the Eggs crosswise in halves. Remove the yolks, and stand the baskets thus made round the edge of a dish. Mix with the yolks 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked ham or tongue, add 1 teaspoonful of melted butter, and season with salt, pepper, and mustard; form this into balls the size of the original yolks, put them in the baskets, pour 1 breakfast- cupful of white sauce in the centre, and set the dish in the oven for a few minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 700. Egg Balls in Caramel.—Bruise the yolks of twelve hard- boiled Eggs, sweeten them with powdered white sugar, mix with them three pounded almond macaroons and 1 gill of oream. Form small balls with this paste, dip them in caramel, and brown before serving. Egg Balls for Soup.—(1) Pound 1 teaspoonful of ham or tongue in a mortar, add the yolk of a hard-boiled Egg, a little boiled and finely-minced parsley, and a seasoning of grated nutmeg and cayenne. When well mixed, add the yolk of a raw Egg, and form the mass into small balls ; plunge these into a saucepan of boiling milk, poach for two or three minutes, add them to the hot soup for which they are intended, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of two hard-boiled Eggs in a mortar with half their bulk of boiled and mashed potato, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, the uncooked yolk of an Egg, a little seasoning of salt and cayenne, and pound them well. Dip the hands in flour, and form the paste into small balls; put these into a pan with boiling water, and when they have poached for a minute or two take them out, drop them into boiling soup, and serve. (3) Whip three Eggs and £ pint of milk, and mix with them 2 tablo-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, 1 saltspoonful