THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 663 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. lard, put a slice of bacon on each, then a slice of meat, next a layer of Game forcemeat, and lastly another slice of bacon. Fold the paper carefully over the meat, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire until browned on both sides. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fumet of Game.—Peel one carrot and half an onion, cut them into slices, and put them with half a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, a little chopped raw lean ham, and the carcase of any kind of raw Game in a covered saucepan. Let them brown, add 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and boil; then moisten with lqt. of white broth or consomme, and add 1 pinch of salt and twelve whole peppers. Cook well for forty-five minutes, then pass through a broth-napkin, and preserve in a jar. Game in Aspic Jelly.—Put into a saucepan 21b. of knuckle of veal, one lean rasher of ham, a sprig of thyme, a couple of sprigs of parsley, half-a-dozen white peppercorns, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and one shallot chopped up fine ; pour over them 3 pints of cold water, put the saucepan over the fire, and simmer till the liquor is reduced to 1 pint, then strain it through a sieve and let it stand all night. Next day take off all the fat. Put loz. of isinglass into a basin, pour over it i pint of cold water, and let it soak three hours; then pour over it nearly lqt. of boiling water, stirring it quickly till quite dissolved. Add the veal gravy, which should be a stiff jelly, and when this also is dissolved add 1 table-spoon- ful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of lemon-juice and red- currant jelly dissolved in a little cold water and strained through muslin. Keep stirring till all these are thoroughly mixed, then strain through a jelly-bag without squeezing or shaking. Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and some slices of cold roasted Game sprinkled with a little salt. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour in a thin layer of jelly, and when it stiffens lay over it rings or slices of the eggs overlapping one another like a chain, then pour in more jelly; when stiff enough, lay over slices of meat, then more jelly, and so on till the mould is quite full. Let it stand ail night, turn it out next day, and serve. Game and Chestnut Forcemeat Balls with Supreme Sauce.—Mince some cold roasted Game, and mix with half its quantity of minced ham. Peel fifty chestnuts, and boil them in white stock until tender; then pass them through a fine wire sieve, and mix with the mince ; stir in also a beaten egg and a small quantity of cream; if the mixture is not thick enough, add a little flour. Dredge flour over a table or board, and divide the mixture into balls. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs, roll the balls in them, then in sifted biscuit-crumbs, and fry in boiling butter or clarified fat. When browned, drain them on a sheet of paper; season the whites of the eggs with salt and whip them to a stiff froth, cover each ball with it, and put them in the oven for a minute or two to set the egg. Cover the bottom of a hot dish with supreme sauce, strew minced parsley over it, and lay the balls carefully on. Serve hot. Game Consomme.—Prepare a rabbit and two partridges 01- other Game, remove their flesh in strips, and put them into a stoekpot with 21b. of knuckle of veal and 5qts. of stock. Set the pot on the fire and let its contents boil, skim well, and put in two carrots, two onions, one stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, three leeks, one head of celery, and |oz. of salt. Place the pot on the side of the fire, simmer for two hours, then pass the consomme through a cloth, and clarify it with the meat of the Game pounded. Strain again, and it is then ready for use. Game Cromeskies. -(1) Cut the meat off the bones of any kind of cold Game into small pieces, and pound them in a mortar with a small quantity of butter; when smooth, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered mixed spices. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the pounded mixture and stir well over the fire. Mix in, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs beaten up together with the juice of half a lemon; spread the mixture on a dish, and when cold, divide it into small equal-sized portions, and Wrap each tightly up in a thin rasher of partially-boiled Game—continued. bacon. Prepare a good frying-batter with the yolks of two eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and a sufficient quantity of cold water. Put a good-sized lump of lard or butter in a flat stewpan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises dip the cromeskies in the batter, put them into the fat, and fry until equally browned. When they are cooked, take them out of the pan and lay them on a sheet of paper to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot Fig. 821. Game Cromeskies. dish, arrange the cromeskies on it (see Fig. 821), and serve very hot. (2) Free from skin and gristle any cold remains of Game, and chop the flesh; put it in a stewpan with two or three finely-minced truffles, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten with a small quantity of stock, and stir the mixture over the fire until hot. Move the stewpan to the edge of the fire and stir in the yolk of one eg-g beaten up together with a small quantity of lemon-juice. Spread the mixture on a dish, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Trim off all the skin, fat, and gristle from some fillets of cold Game, and cut the flesh into small pieces; cut an equal quantity of truffles in the same way, and mix both together with some Spanish sauce that has been stiffly reduced with essence of truffles. Boil an udder of veal in a stoekpot, leave it till cool, then trim and cut it length- wise into thin slices. Put portions of the Game about 2in. long and lin. wide on the slices of udder, wrap the udder Fig. 822. Game Cromesky. round them, and roll into shapes (see Fig-. 822). Dip them in frying-batter, coating them well with it, and proceed as for No. 1. Game Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop the white flesh of any cold roasted Game; melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, and mix with it 1 scant table-spoonful of flour, then put in the minced Game, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity, of grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until very hot, then move it to the side, and mix in the beaten yolks of one or two eggs and the strained juice of half a lemon. Spread the mixture on a dish and leave it until nearly cold. Divide and mould the mixture into small balls, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in fine breadcrumbs, covering them. Put a large piece of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when the fat boils put in the croquettes and fry them until nicely and equally browned. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the croquettes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Take as much meat of cold grouse, quail, or any other wild birds as will with their giblets fill a breakfast- cup. Pound the giblets in a mortar, first removing all skin and gristle, moisten with gravy, and continue pounding till quite smooth; season with pepper and salt, and then mix in a well-beaten egg. Mince the meat and mix it in, then work in loz. of sifted breadcrumbs. Form this paste into rolls about the thickness of two fingers, and about 3in. long; brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted