720 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tec., referred to, see under their special heads. GRIGNOLINO. — A Piedmontese wine which is largely exported to South America. GE.ILLADE. — Fr. for anything grilled, such as broiled ham. GRILLING.—“It is curious,” says Kettner, “that the most ancient and the most simple mode of cookery should be in some respects the most perfect, and in England certainly the most esteemed. The first cooked Fig. 891. Beef-steak Grill for Kitchener Stove (Wilson’s Design). food that man ate was a broil; and in England the steak or chop from the gridiron is in more request than any other form of food.” This statement has been disputed by French cooks, who declare that the use of the grill was not understood in this country until introduced by them. Be that as it may, there are certain distinctions between the two kinds of grilling that by a judicious association might lead to perfection in this mode of cooking. For instance, the British cook rarely prepares a piece of meat for the grill, whereas the French cook sprinkles it with pepper and salt, and brushes it over with oil or soft butter. When breadcrumbing is advisable, the French cook rolls the meat in oil or butter and then into bread- crumbs; whereas the British cook smears it over with egg, and then rolls it in crumbs, the egg forming too hard a crust over the meat. Fig. 892. Grill. The grill may be placed either over (see Fig. 891) or before the fire (see Fig. 893); but unless the fire can be specially prepared for the grill, and all smoke and gas- flaming kept down, grilling over would destroy the flavour of the meat, and introduce those that are not any too pleasing. Grill-stoves are now made (see Fig. 892) in which a very hot glowing fire can be kept up, by means Grilling—continued. of which grilling is much simplified. • In a large range the stove of a fire can be prepared for grilling by spreading over it a thick layer of charcoal and cinders. Grilling in front of the fire requires a hot fierce glowing fire in front, and then some such apparatus as shown Fig. 893. Reversible Adjustable Grii.ler (James Dickson). in Figs. 893 and 894 answers admirably. The first (Fig. 893) is a reversible griller, so constructed that the article cooking can be turned either side to the fire without unhinging the grill. The second (Fig. 894) is that mostly in use in large kitchens—the broiler turns round upon a spindle. Both of these can be placed, by a sliding movement, as near or far from the fire as desired. Whether grilling over or before the fire, the first great principle is to get as close to the glow as possible. In this the British grill cook differs from the foreigner; Fig. 895. Beef-steak Tongs. and, secondly, let the grilling meat be turned as often as possible—this the English cook regulates by counting ten, and then turning, whereas the French cook declares that the meat shouid only be turned once, in which he decidedly is in error.