537 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Dumplings —continued. (4) Peel and chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with three slices of finely-chopped fat bacon, and fry over a gentle fire. When the onion is soft, take the pan from the fire, and mix in 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of flour, powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir sufficient beaten egg into the mixture to bind it, then turn it on to a dish, and leave until cold. Divide and shape the mixture into small balls, plunge those into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes. Fry the required quantity of slices of bacon, and poach as many eggs as slices. When the Dumplings are cooked, drain them, arrange in a group on a hot dish, garnish with the eggs and bacon, and serve. (5) Mix 2oz. of butter with jib. of grated breadcrumb, and season with salt and a good supply of thyme ; then mix in the yolks of three eggs beaten up with 1 teacupful of cream, and sufficient flour to make it consistent. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the above. Thickly butter a baking-dish, put in the mixture in small rocky lumps, and place in a moderate oven to bake until delicately browned. When cooked, arrange the Dumplings on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Hal’d Dumpling's.—Mix a small quantity of salt with 41b. of flour, and make it into a paste with cold water, keeping it rather firm. Divide the paste into small portions, roll into balls, plunge these into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Do not lift the lid of the saucepan till the Dumplings are done. Take them out of the saucepan, put them on a hot dish, pull them apart in the centre, and serve with preserves, butter and sugar, or gravy. Indian Dumplings.—Skin and finely chop jib. of beef-suet, dredge it well with flour, add 1 saltspoonful of salt and lj pints of corn-meal, and mix all well; then add sufficient milk to form a stiff dough, knead well, and divide into equal portions. Form these on a well-floured paste-board into balls not larger than an orange, beat them with a rolling-pin to make them light, and then tie them up loosely in small cloths dipped into boiling water, wrung dry, and well floured. Plunge them into boiling water, keep boiling incessantly for two hours, take them out, and dip for an instant into cold water before untying the cloths. Serve them hot, with boiled meat, treacle, or butter and sugar. Norfolk Dumplings.—Divide about lib. of light bread-dough into small pieces, mould these with the hands into balls, drop them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil quickly for a-quarter-of-an-hour without taking the lid off the pan. Take them out, drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve hot, with wine sauce, sweetened butter sauce, or butter. Oxford Dumplings.—Grate sufficient crumb of stale bread to fill a breakfast-cup, put it in a basin, and mix with it jib. of well-washed and dried currants, jib. of finely-chopped beef- suet, 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and 4 teaspoonful of allspice. Beat two eggs with i pint of milk, add 1 pinch of salt, and stir them in with the other ingredients. When thoroughly incorporated, divide the mixture into several equal-sized portions, roll them into Dumplings, and fry in plenty of butter in a deep frying-pan. When browned, drain, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. Suffolk Dumplings.-—Prepare lib. or so of light bread-dough with yeast, and milk instead of water, and add a small quantity of salt. Cover the dough with a cloth, and stand it in front of the fire for an hour to rise ; then shape it into balls or Dumplings, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Stick a clean fork into one of them: if it comes out clear, they are done. Then drain, put them on a hot dish, tear them asunder with two forks, and serve with meat, gravy, or sugar and butter. As these Dumplings will be heavy if not served directly they are cooked, they should be put on to boil only just twenty minutes before they are wanted. Vienna Dumplings.—Cut four or five slices of bread, remove the crusts, and cut the crumb into small squares; fry these till browned in boiling fat or butter; then drain, put them in a stewpan with j pint of boiling milk, put on the lid, and boil slowly by the side of the fire. When the milk For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Dumplings—continued. has soaked well into the bread, add 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of raw ham cut in small pieces, dredge in a small quantity of flour, season with salt and pepper, and pour in two or three well-beaten eggs. Stir the mixture by the side of the fire till thick, turn it on to a plate, and leave till cool. Divide the mixture into small pieces, shape them round, and plunge them into boiling salted water; move the pan to the side of the fire, and keep the water simmering for ten minutes. Put 6oz. of butter into a stewpan and melt it, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and fry them for a few minutes. Drain the Dumplings, put them in with the butter and crumbs, toss them about for a few minutes over the fire, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. DUMFODE.—Probably a corruption of the Persian word dcim-puJcht, which signifies slowly cooked or stewed. See Ducks and G-eese. DUN-BIRDS.—These birds are so-called from the colour of their backs, which are of a dusky dun. They are a species of wild duck, allied to the Poachard, and although not very often seen on British tables, they are sometimes found in the kitchen, or perhaps substituted for the red-headed, or some other kind of duck or widgeon. Dun-birds are best roasted as follows: Prepare and truss the birds, cover them with sheets of oiled or buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire; remove the paper a few minutes before they are taken up, so as to brown them lightly. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour rich brown gravy round them, garnish with quarters or slices of lemon, and serve. DUNDEE CAKE.—See Cakes. DURAND GARNISH.—See Garnishes. DURHAM PUDDING.—See Puddings. DURIAN. — Although this fruit has not found its way into British markets in any very large quantities— due in a measure to the difficulties attending its pre- servation — it is nevertheless quite familiar to those Europeans who have travelled in tropical regions, in Malayan districts, or along the Bay of Bengal. It is an oval or globular fruit, larger than a cocoa-nut, attaining some 8in. or lOin. in length, with a hard prickly shell outside, and containing inside a soft creamy pulp and Fig. 680. Dorian (Dorio zibethinus). seeds (see Fig. 680). The plant which bears it is known as Durio zibethinus. The pulp is considered to be by many the most delicious fruit in the world, but the smell of it is most offensive, resembling, according to some experiences, that of rotting onions. The seeds are roasted and eaten like chestnuts. When unripe, the fruit may be salted and added to pickles; but the strong smell is against its use as a pickle in civilised countries. DUTCH CHEESE.—See Cheeses. Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. umiv t rsi r y L i 6 R A R Y