558 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see tender their special heads. Eggs —continued. mixture on a dish, make a bay in the centre, pour in the Egg mixture, and over these the remainder of the nouille mixture. Smooth the surface with a knife or spatula, sprinkle with a little finely-grated Parmesan cheese, then pour over a small quantity of melted butter, bake for a-quartcr-of-an-hour, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of three Eggs in a basin; mix in 1 tea- cupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, a little parsley, one shallot, and one anchovy, all chopped very fine, also salt and pepper to season. Put a little butter in a warm dish, pour in the mixture, and place in an oven until lightly browned; then put six Eggs, broken separately in a cup, on top, and bake again for two or three minutes, until the whites are set. When done, take it out, and serve. (3) Mix together in a bowl 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, three chopped, boned anchovies, 1 pinch of parsley, 1 pinch of chervil, one chopped shallot, the yolks of three Eggs, salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg. Turn the mixture into a baking-dish, with loz. of butter spread at the bottom, set it on a slow fire for two minutes, break over six Eggs, and cook for five minutes in a hot oven. Remove it from the oven, lay the dish on top of another, and serve immediately. A silver dish should be used if possible. (4) Boil some Eggs till hard, and when cool, peel them and cut them in slices. Thickly butter a dish, lay the slices of Egg on it, and strew over them grated Parmesan cheese; season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and cover with a layer of breadcrumbs; put a few small bits of butter on the top, and set the dish in the oven. When well browned on the top, serve in the same dish. Egg'S with Gravy.—Peel six or eight hard-boiled Eggs, put them in a saucepan, cover with highly-seasoned broth, and simmer for five minutes. Have ready six or eight slices of toasted bread, put them on a dish, stand the Eggs on them, pour a little of the gravy round, and serve. Egg Gruel.—Beat the yolk of an Egg in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of sugar; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stir it over the fire till thick, but not boiling, and flavour with grated lemon or nutmeg. Beat the white of the Egg to a stiff foam, mix it in with the gruel, and serve immediately. Egg Hot.—Pour 1 pint of light dinner-ale into a perfectly clean saucepan over the fire, and boil it. Beat two Eggs with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and mix in 1 wineglassful of rum and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the Eggs are well beaten, whisk in gradually the boiling ale, and serve. Egg Jelly.—Put loz. of gelatine into 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand for an hour to dissolve ; then put it into a saucepan with the thin yellow rind of one lemon and 4oz. of loaf sugar. Let it get very hot, but not quite boiling, and add the well-beaten yolks of five Eggs, and the strained juice of one lemon. Stir well, and strain through a piece of muslin into a mould damped with cold water. Put it away till quite cold, and turn it out on a glass dish before serving. Fig. 702. Eggs in Jelly. Eggs in Jelly.—(1) Boil ten or a dozen Eggs until hard, peel them, and cut them lengthwise into halves. Damp with cold water as many patty-pans as there are halves of Eggs, put half an Egg in each pan, and pour over sufficient savoury jelly to cover it; lay a thin slice of ham on the top of each, and leave them till quite cold and the jelly set. Turn the jelly out on to an ornamental dish, garnish with a few sprays of parsley, and serve. Eggs —continued. (2) Boil hard twelve or fourteen Eggs, peel off the shells, arrange them in a mould, fill up with any rich jelly, let it set, turn out on to a dish-paper on a fancy dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 702. Eggs with. Kidneys.—Butter a dish, and break into it twelve fresh Eggs; or, if preferred, use six small dishes, breaking two Eggs into each one ; then cook them on the stove for two minutes. Cut six sheep’s kidneys in halves, and broil or stew them, according to taste; then add them to the Eggs, and serve with pint of hot perigueux sauce poured over. Egg Lemonade.—Put the strained juice of half a lemon into a tumbler with loz. of powdered white sugar, the white of one Egg, and a small quantity of crushed ice. Stir well for two or three minutes, add a little ice-water, and drink at once through straws. The well-beaten yolk cf the Egg may also be added with the white. Egg Marmalade.—(1) Chop ilb. of citron, put it in a basin with 1 teacupful of orange marmalade, jib. of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded with a few drops of rose-water, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and stir the mixture until quite smooth. Beat the yolks of ten Eggs with the whites of four, stir them into the mixture, sweeten with caster sugar, pour it into a saucepan, and stir it over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but without letting it boil, or the Eggs will curdle. Turn the marmalade into a dome-shaped mould, and stand it in a cool place or on ice until quite cold. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, then turn the contents on to a fancy dish, and garnish with bunches of fresh or preserved fruits. (2) Put jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in an enamelled saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil until reduced to a moderately thick syrup ; then take the pan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Separate the yolks and whites of ten Eggs; stir the yolks gradually, without beating, in with the syrup, set the pan over the fire again, and stir the contents until boiling and thick; then add a few drops of orange-flower water. Turn the marmalade into a mould, and keep it on ice or in a cool place for several hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a glass or fancy china dish. Egg-and-Milk Pudding.—Beat four Eggs with 1 pint of milk; stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a thin batter, and add a small quantity of salt. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a shallow stewpan, make it hot, then pour in the batter. When it begins to set, break it into small pieces, let it set again, and continue frying it until lightly browned ; then turn it on the other side. When the batter is browned on both sides, turn it on to a dish, garnish with a salad of vegetables, and serve. Egg and Milk with Hum.—Beat an Egg till thoroughly mixed but not frothed, then stir in gradually with it 1 pint of boiling milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, and 1 wine- glassful of rum. Serve very hot. This will be found both agreeable and comforting, and an effectual cure for a cold. It is sometimes known as hen’s milk. Egg Mincemeat.—Boil six Eggs till hard ; when cold, peel and cut them into small pieces, mix with them double their quantity of finely-minced beef-suet, lib. of well-washed and dried currants, the grated peel of one large lemon, ^lb. each of finely-shred candied orange- and citron-peel, sugar to taste, and a small quantity each of mace, nutmeg, and salt. Moisten the mixture with 3 wiueglassfuls of sweet wine, stirring well; then pack it into small jars, cover these tightly, and stow away in a cool cupboard. Eggs and Minced Meat.—(1) Pound 8oz. of cold cooked chicken, ham, or veal to a smooth paste, add 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter and a little chopped parsley, moisten with beaten Egg, taking care not to have it too soft to shape, put it in a frying-pan, and warm. Form the mixture in a flat circle on a hot dish, and keep it hot in the oven. Poach four Eggs, put them in the centre of the dish, and garnish with toast cut into triangular shapes. (2) Prepare a larger quantity of the minced meat as for No. 1, put a round lin. deep on a dish, over that a smaller round, then hard-boiled Eggs (with half the whites cut off, leaving the yolks intact in the other halves) round the edge,