677 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Gin—continued. two lemons, lj gills of syrup, and lqt. of seltzer water. Mix well, put it on ice, and let it remain for an hour or so. (3) Bub off the rinds of twelve lemons with lib. of loaf sugar, pound it in a mortar, add the strained juice of the lemons, pour over 1 pint of boiling water, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. In the meantime, infuse 4oz. of tea and 1 dessert-spoonful of coriander-seeds in 1 pint of boiling water in a closed vessel for twenty minutes. Strain this liquor and add it to the lemon-juice, pour in lgall. of Gin, let the mixture get cold, and bottle. It must be kept in a cool place until used. (4) Drop six drops of essence of lemon on 2oz. of sugar, grind it in a mortar, then add \ pint each of lime-fruit syrup and maraschino, and stir them well together; now pour in 1 pint of old Gin, and set it on ice to get cold; then pour it into a cold punch-bowl, pour over all two bottles of lemonade, and serve. Gin Sling.—(1) Put 2 teaspoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar into a glass, stir in J wineglassful of water, and when the sugar has dissolved, add 1 wineglassful of Gin; then put in a lump of ice, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve. (2) Pour a liqueur-glassful of maraschino into a large tankard or glass, half fill with small pieces of ice, put in a few pieces of the outer rind of a lemon, and as much unsweetened Gin as is required; over this pour a bottle of soda-water, and stir well until mixed. It should be drunk through straws. A very small quantity of borage may be added to improve the flavour. (3) Put a little grated lemon-peel in a large jug with a good teaspoonful of sugar, three or four leaves of mint, 1 wineglassful of Gin, and 1 liqueur-glassful of maraschino; pour in a bottle of lemonade, or if preferred a bottle of seltzer water, add plenty of crushed ice, and serve. Gin Smash..—Put 1 dessert-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar into a i-pint glass, pour in 1 dessert-spoonful of water, and stir round until the sugar has nearly or quite dissolved ; then pour in 1 wineglassful of old Gin, put in a few lumps of ice, and give the glass a shake; then fill up with more ice, put a few thin slices of orange on top, and serve with straws. GINGER (Fr. Gingembre; Ger. Ingwer; Ital. Gen- giovo; Sp. Gengibre).—This is described in the British Pharmacopoeia as the scraped and dried rhizome (root- stock or underground stem) of Zingiber officinale. Black or East Indian Ginger is the unscraped rhizome prepared by scalding; white, or Jamaica Ginger, is the scraped rhizome dried in the sun. Cooley tells us that the best Ginger is that known in commerce as “unbleached Jamaica Ginger,” which is an uncoated pale variety, occurring in large, bold fleshy pieces, which cut soft, bright, and pale-coloured. The inferior varieties occur in smaller pieces, and are dark coloured, flinty, and shrivelled. The dealers frequently “ dress up ” the common dark-coloured Gingers by washing them in water, drying them, and then “rouncing” them in a bag with a little calcined whiting or magnesia, and this they term “washed Ginger or they bleach them by dipping into a solution of chloride of lime, or by exposing them to the fumes of burning sulphur, which they then style “bleached Ginger”; or they dip them into a milk formed of quicklime or whiting and water, and call this very appropriately “white- washed Ginger.” The latter has a peculiar chalk-white surface which cannot be mistaken for the natural one. Powdered Ginger is very rarely, if ever, quite pure, being commonly adulterated with wheat-flour or arrowroot, and sometimes plantain-meal, but these adulterants are easily detected by dissolving in hot water, and tasting. Fresh green Ginger is now sometimes imported from the East Indies. Ginger is much used by confectioners, as the following receipts will show: Essence of Ginger.—(1) Put lib. of bruised white Jamaica Ginger into a jar with lqt. of over-proof spirit, and let it remain for fully three weeks, giving the jar a shake daily. Strain and filter. The jar should be kept in a temperature of 70deg. during the infusion. Ginger—continued. (2) Pour lqt. of brandy into a largo bottle, add 2oz. of very thinly-cut lemon-peel and 3oz. of ground Ginger, and give the bottle a shake daily for a fortnight. Strain through a very fine cloth, and bottle. Gingerade.—Put jib. of ground Ginger in a saucepan with Jgall. of water, and boil for half-an-hour; strain it through a cloth, put it into another saucepan, add 31b. of sugar, and boil it to a syrup (see Syrups), skimming it occasionally so as to have it quite clear. When it is cold, stir in loz. of citric acid, and put it into bottles. Two table-spoonfuls in a tumbler of water, with a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it, makes a pleasant summer drink. Ginger Beer.—(1) Steep 3oz. of pounded Ginger in 4galls. of boiling water, and when cold strain it through flannel. Dis- solve in the liquor 51b. of loaf sugar, put in ^ pint of yeast and 2j0z. of cream of tartar. If the weather is cold, stand the cask near the fire, so as to excite brisk fermentation. As soon as this subsides, rack off the clear liquor, wash the cask, put the liquor in again, and allow it to work for two or three days. Draw it off, bottle, and cork tightly, fixing the corks down with wire or string. (2) Tie up in a muslin bag loz. of sliced Ginger and Joz. of dried orange-peel; put them in a pan with lgall. of water, and boil for an hour. Take the bag out, and mix with the liquor foz. of tartaric acid, 20 drops of essence of lemon, and ljlb. of loaf sugar. When cool, add i teacupful of fresh yeast. When the beer has worked for twelve hours, bottle, and cork down tightly. Tie the corks down with wire or string, and store in a cool place. (3) Put in a large copper pan 31b. of loaf sugar, 2joz. of bruised Ginger, and 3.jgalls. of water. Boil for twenty minutes; take it off the fire, stir in the juice and rind of two lemons, and loz. of cream of tartar. When cool, pour in 1 pint of fresh yeast, cover over, and let it work for three days, skimming occasionally. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into a cask, pour in J pint of brandy, and fix the bung down tightly. It will be ready for bottling in two or three weeks’ time. (4) Put in a saucepan over the fire l|galls. of soft water, 3oz. of powdered Ginger, foz. of cream of tartar, three large lemons sliced, and 31b. of loaf sugar broken small. Let this simmer over a slow fire for half-an- hour. Take it from the fire then, and when nearly cold stir in 3 or 4 dessert-spoonfuls of yeast. When it has fermented, bottle it for use. (5) Pour 4galls. of boiling water over 41b. of brown sugar, 3oz. of ground Ginger, and 3oz. of cream of tartar. When well stirred and mixed, put it into a small cask, add to it, when cooled to milkwarm, 1 pint of good yeast. Stop the cask close, shake it well, and in twenty-four hours the Ginger beer will be fit to bottle. Three or four lemons cut in slices and added are a great improvement. Cork the bottles well, and in ten days’ time it will sparkle and be fit for drinking. (6) Bruise coarsely in a mortar 6oz. of Ginger, and put it into a tub with 51b. of loaf sugar and four sliced lemons ; pour in 7galls. of boiling water and leave it until nearly cold. Next put in 3 table-spoonfuls of yeast, stir the mixture thoroughly, and let it ferment for twenty-four hours. Dis- solve about -goz. of isinglass in a small quantity of vinegar, and stir it into the beer when fermentation ceases. Leave the beer for two days and nights, then skim it well, and bottle, being careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. Cork the bottles tightly with corks that have been steeped in boiling water for ten minutes, tie them down with twine or wire, and pack away in a cool cellar. (7) Put 2oz. of root Ginger into a pan with 2galls. of cold water, and boil it for fifteen minutes ; then turn it into a tub, put in 21b. of loaf sugar, loz. of cream of tartar, and two thinly-sliced lemons. Leave it until nearly cold, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast spread on a piece of toast. Cover the tub and let the contents work for twenty- four hours, then skim off the yeast, and bottle, being very careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom ; cork and wire the bottles securely, and in two days’ time the beer will be ready for use. (8) Indian.—Put loz. of well-bruised peeled Ginger into a saucepan with loz. of cream of tartar, lib. of loaf sugar,