542 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes? Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. for a few seconds on a gridiron to set the meat. In the meantime, chop two onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter or oil, fry to a light colour, add ^ pint each of vinegar and water, also a little parsley, peppercorns, cloves, bay-leaf, thyme, and salt, and boil for seven or eight minutes ; then put in the Eel. The amount of liquor in the pan should be enough to cover the fish. When it commences to boil, move the pan off the fire to the side where it will boil gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then take it off, and let the Eel remain in it for an hour. Take it out, drain on a sieve, and let it get quite cold. Dip a paste-brush in oil, rub it all over the Eel, dust it over with salt, pepper, and dried parsley, and roll in breadcrumbs. Place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and warm for forty-five minutes. Serve on a dish with mayonnaise or tartar sauce. (3) Clean some Eels, wash them well, hut do not skin them, and cut into pieces about 4in. long. Beat up the yolks of one or two eggs; season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with minced parsley and sage, and a little salt and pepper. Boll the Eels in the beaten egg, and coat them well with the seasoned breadcrumbs. Bub a gridiron over with a little fat, lay the pieces of Eel on it, and place it over a clear fire, turning the Eels occasionally until cooked and browned ; then put them on a hot dish, over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (4) Skin and clean a couple of medium-sized Eels, cut off their heads and the very thin part of the tail, score or crimp them across at equal distances all along their whole length, powder the cuts well with chopped parsley and chives, and fasten the two fish into rings. Put into a stewpan a few slices of carrots and onions, a sprig or two of parsley, a bay- leaf, and a good-sized lump of butter. When these vege- tables have cooked for a short time, add a little salt, a few peppercorns, and a small quantity of white wine and water. When the liquor is cooked enough, strain it, return it to the stewpan, put in the Eels, and boil them till half done; then take them out, and let them cool. When they are quite cold, wet them with a little tartar sauce, roll them in sifted bread- crumbs, brush over with beaten egg, and again roll them in breadcrumbs. Broil them on a hot gridiron over not too hot a fire. Serve on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. (5) Skin, clean, and well wash an Eel, cut it up into rather large pieces, put these into a saucepan with a little butter, and brown them. Place the pieces in a dish, dredge them over with a seasoning of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, cover them with finely-chopped shallots, onions, mushrooms, and sweet herbs, and pour over a little olive oil to moisten. Let them remain in this for three or four hours; then roll them well in breadcrumbs, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them for about twenty minutes or so. When done, put the pieces on a dish, and pour over rich piquant sauce; or serve with anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Skin, clean, and bone an Eel, and cut it into fillets or pieces. Dip these in oiled butter and then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. When done, arrange them in a circle on a dish. Mix a few chopped capsicums in some Spanish sauce, fill a sauceboat with it, and serve with the Eel. (7) Skin and clean an Eel, cut it up into pieces about Gin. long, put them together with the blood taken from the back into a saucepan, add one or two carrots and onions cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and salt, two cloves, and sufficient white wine to moisten. Place the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the pieces of fish are done; take them out, drain them, roll them first in fine breadcrumbs, dip them into yolk of egg beaten up with a little warmed butter, then roll them again in the breadcrumbs, put them on a warm gridiron over a clear fire, and broil to a fine colour. When done, put them on a dish, pour over hot tartar sauce, and serve. Collared Eels.—(1) Choose large Eels, clean and bone, but do not skin them. Season the flesh interiorly with a mixture of finely-chopped parsley, sage, and mixed spice. Bind them up tightly with broad tape, put them in a saucepan with a bay-leaf, cover with salted water, and boil for three-quarters- of-an-hour. When cooked, drain the Eels and hang them up to dry in a warm place for several hours. Mix 1 pint of vinegar with the liquor from the fish, also a bunch of thyme Eels—continued. and a few peppercorns, boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then move the liquor away from the fire. When the Eels are quite dry, unbind them, cut into slices, and put them in the liquor ; warm them, turn on to a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Clean two or three large Eels, dry them well, and bone but do not skin them. Mix together finely-powdered mace, allspice, cloves, salt, and pepper. Finely-powdered dried herbs are also an improvement, and parsley, knotted marjoram, savory, and a little sage and thyme, all rubbed very fine, may be mixed with the powdered spice. Lay the Eels out flat on the table and rub the powdered spices over the insides, roll them up tightly, and bind firmly with strong twine or tape. Boil them in salted water, and put them in vinegar to cool. Keep them in the vinegar, and when required for use they may be served either whole or cut into slices. Eels a la Minute.—Skin and clean two or three Eels, chop them up into pieces, put them in a saucepan of salted water, and boil for about fifteen minutes. When done, put them on a dish, pour over boiling maitre-d’hotel sauce with a little lemon-juice in it, and serve. Boiled potatoes, without their skins, may be used for a garnish. Eel a la Suffren.—(1) Skin and clean an Eel, put it into a saucepan, with a few fillets of anchovies and slices of gherkin over it, pour over sufficient rich stock to cover, Fig. 688. Eel a la Suffren. and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Eel is done. Place it carefully on a dish so as to keep it whole, pour over hot tomato sauce mixed with cayenne, and serve at once. See Fig. 688. (2) Skin and clean an Eel, lard it with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, curl it in a saucepan, pour over fish sauce or stock, and cook it until done, placing hot ashes on the lid. Put it on a dish, and serve as for No. 1. Eels in Aspic Jelly.—Skin the Eels, remove their heads and tails, wash them in salted water, cut them into pieces about 2in. long, and put in a stewpan, with a bay-leaf, a small bunch of parsley and sage, a clove of garlic (or if preferred a shallot), a wineglassful of white wine, half that quantity of vinegar, and a small quantity of water. Season with salt and pepper, put on the lid, and stew the Eels gently at the side of the fire until quite tender; Fig. 689. Eels in Aspic Jelly. when cooked, remove from the fire, and leave the Eels in the stewpan until quite cold, keeping them covered. Put the pieces of Eels round the sides of a mould with their ends towards the centre, fill up between them with liquid aspic jelly, cover them with a layer of the dissolved jelly, and place the mould in a cold place. When the jelly has set, turn it out of the mould on to a dish covered with a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, and serve. Garnish with parsley and chopped aspic. See Fig. 689.