594 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads\ For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pish. —continued. gently for ten minutes. Put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and fry them until crisp and brown. When cooked, drain the quenelles, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the butter and crumbs over, and serve hot. (2) Eemove the skin and bones from about fib. of uncooked Fish of any kind, finely mince the flesh, and mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced pork. Put 3oz. of butter into a stewpan with a finely-chopped shallot, and fry it until lightly browned; then put in f teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, f teacupful of cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir the egg mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but without letting- it boil, then turn it out on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Mix all the ingredients together with 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, using only a small quantity of the latter. When well worked, divide the mixture into small quantities with a table-spoon, giving each an egg shape, which is done by leaving the impression of the spoon on it. Plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, drain, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Pish Rissoles.—Make a puff paste, roll it out very thin, cut some rounds out of it with a 3in. fluted cutter, put a small piece of Fish forcemeat on each round, and fold one half over the other, moistening the edges of the paste so that they may stick together when pressed. Put some clarified butter in a frying-pan, and when hot fry the rissoles in it; when done, drain, dish them on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pish Salad.—(1) Pub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a powder, add by degrees and mix in smoothly 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, 1 saltspoonful each of pepper and made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and when these are well mixed add by degrees Fig. 750. Fish Salad. If g-ills of vinegar. Cover this dressing- as soon as it is mixed. Then take about lib. of cold boiled Fish, cut it into narrow pieces about lin. long, and wash and cut up small two heads of lettuce. Mix the Fish and lettuce in a fancy dish, pour the dressing over, garnish with rings of hard- boiled white of eggs (see Fig. 750), and serve whilst fresh. (2) Eemove the skin and bones from any cold boiled Fish, flake the flesh, and mix it with a green-lettuce salad; pour over it a salad dressing, pile it on a dish, and arrange round it slices of beetroot and hard-boiled eggs alternately, gar- nishing further with thin slices of lemon and a few sprigs of parsley. (3) Eemove all skin and bones from any kind of cold boiled Fish, and divide it into flakes with two forks ; pile the Fish in a salad-dish, and strew over it a moderate quantity each of finely-minced chervil, tarragon, and parsley. Mix 1 table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar with 1 teacupful of olive oil, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over. Garnish round the dish with a circle of rounds of beetroot, and then a circle of halves of hard-boiled eggs. Wash some anchovies, remove the bones, and divide each Fish into four fillets. Arrange the fillets in a fancy design on the top of the salad, and serve. Pish Sandwiches. — Clear out the bones and skin, cut up the flesh very fine, season with a sprinkle of pepper and salt. To every breakfast-cupful of Fish add 1 table-spoonful Fish.—continued. of essence of anchovies, and pound together in a mortar. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter ; put a layer of the prepared Fish on half of the slices, and a few coarsely- chopped sprigs of cress or lettuce on the Fish. Cover with the remaining halves, arrange them transversely on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. A table-spoonful or two of veloute sauce may be added to the Fish to make it soft and creamy. Fish Soup.—Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan on the fire, put in a couple of sliced carrots and a sliced onion, and fry them brown; then add lqt. of water, a sprig of thyme, two or three laurel-leaves, three or four cloves, 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and f pint of shrimps; boil till the carrots are quite soft, then add any cold Fish, with the bones, and boil for twenty minutes. Toast some small pieces of bread, and put them in the tureen; add half a glass of white wine to the soup, strain it over them, and serve. Pish Soup a la Gironde. — Put lqt. of green peas, two chopped lettuces, and a handful of chervil into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for thirty minutes. Take them all out, drain well, pound the peas to a pulp, put them all into a basin, and mix in a handful of chopped sorrel fried in butter and 4oz. of breadcrumbs soaked in broth, and rub through a fine sieve. Prepare six or eight cods’ liver quenelles, flavoured with essence of mushrooms. Cut a slice of salmon into small pieces, sprinkle over with salt, let them remain for an hour, wash off all the salt, and cook in butter. Cut off two small slices from the thick end of the tail of a codfish, salt them, wipe them dry, and boil in water for about twenty minutes, or until the bones will easily leave the flesh. Separate the flesh into flakes, put them at the bottom of a tureen together with the quenelles, which should have been poached in broth, then the pieces of salmon, and lastly two or three dozen fried button-mushrooms. Add about 2qts. of boiling soup to the puree of vegetables, pour the whole over the other ingredients in the tureen, and serve. Pish Soup en Melange. —Prepare about 2qts. of vegetable soup. Put 1 pint of chick-peas into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them soak until the skins will easily come off. Take them out, shell and drain them, put them into a saucepan with about 2 pints of rich consomm^, add a large sausage and a clove of garlic, and boil slowly for about two hours, keeping the peas whole. Cut a slice of salmon into small pieces, and cook them in a saucepan with a little butter. Cut an eel into slices in a slanting direction and about lin. in width, and cook them in f pint of Madeira wine and a little stock, adding a bunch of sweet herbs to season. Take them and the pieces of salmon out when done, add both of the liquors to the consomme, and skim well. Arrange the sausage, cut into slices, and the salmon and eel at the bottom of a tureen; add the vegetables taken from the soup and cut up into pieces, remove the clove of garlic from the peas and put them next into the tureen, pour over the soup, and serve very hot. Fish Soup (Ouka). — In Eussia this soup is served in the same way as turtle-soup in England, and may be prepared with any kind of Fish in season. Put a knuckle of veal into a saucepan or stockpot together with two roasted fowls, and add more than sufficient beef stock to cover ; boil well for an hour or so, and skim. Then add two each of onions, carrots, and turnips, a head of celery, and a bunch of leeks; boil for five hours, adding more beef stock as it reduces, skim off the fat, and strain the liquor into a saucepan to keep hot. Cut off all the flesh from a perch and a brill or plaice, chop it in pieces, put them into a basin together with an eel cut up into pieces, dust over with salt, leave them for an hour, and then wash them well. In the meantime prepare some whiting- quenelles, mixed up with a little puree of mushrooms. Cut a sole into quarters, put it into a saucepan with the trim- mings of the Fish, and add 2qts. or 3qts. of mushrooms, two sliced carrots and onions, a few sprigs of parsley, a piece of bay-leaf, a little each of thyme and basil, two cloves, and grated nutmeg and pepper to taste ; pour over 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of stock, and simmer gently for an hour. Squeeze the liquor through a cloth into a saucepan containing the cut-up Fish, boil gently for about twenty minutes, strain the liquor into the saucepan containing the soup, reduce it by about one-third, add to it a little blanched sorrel and