612 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. side. Prepare six small toasts on a hot dish, arrange the chickens over, spread | gill of maitre-d’hotel butter on top, and decorate with six thin slices of boiled bacon. They are then ready to be served. Broiled Fowl Cutlets.—Cut off the larger fillets of four Fowls, without injuring the small fillets, cut the merrythoughts in halves, take off the small fillets, remove the skin, and make them into the shape of hearts, sticking the merry- thoughts into the ends or points, so as to make them look like cutlets. Sprinkle them with plenty of salt and pepper, brush them on both sides with egg, and cover with bread- crumbs ; next dip them into melted butter, then into crumbs again, smooth them over with a knife, and broil over a g-ood fire until of a light brown. Pour some Spanish sauce on a dish, put the cutlets on it, and serve. They may, if pre- ferred, be fried in butter. Broiled Fowl with Tarragon.—Clean a couple of young birds, truss them with their legs in, and put them into the stockpot for five or six minutes to let the flesh set. Take them out, drain them, and cut them lengthwise in halves down the back. Eemove the backbone from each half, dust them over with salt and pepper, and roll them into well-clarified butter, then dip them into breadcrumbs, and place them on a gridiron over a good fire to broil for twenty minutes, turning them occasionally. When done, put them on a dish with a little good gravy and tarragon mixed with it poured over the bottom, and serve very hot. Broiled Legs of Fowls.—Take the legs of some cold Fowls, remove the skin, cut the flesh on both sides of the bone, and spread over them a preparation made of teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, a little cayenne, Joz. of warmed butter, and 1 saltspoonful of essence of anchovies, all well mixed. When this is rubbed into the meat, especially in the cuts, place them over a rather slow fire on a gridiron, and broil them for about ten minutes, turning them occasionally. They are then ready to be served. A little cooked bacon should be served with them. The anchovy mixture may be dispensed with by putting the legs in melted butter, and then dusting them over with salt and pepper before cooking. Capilotade of Fowl.—(1) Cut any remains of cold roasted Fowls into pieces ; put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed ; then put in a few chopped herbs and some mushrooms that have been scalded and cut up into small pieces, and fry them; when browned, pour over § pint of white wine and an equal quantity of broth, and boil them gently for twenty minutes. Put the pieces of Fowl into the sauce and stew them gently for about fifteen minutes. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Cut a cold roasted Fowl into small pieces, trimming them neatly. Peel and chop three or four shallots, and chop a few mushrooms and a small bunch of parsley. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; then put in the mushrooms, shallots, and parsley; pour in 1 pint of stock and an equal quantity of red wine, and boil them until the liquor has reduced one- third. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, put in the pieces of Fowl, and stew them gently until hot through, which will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. When ready, put the Fowl on to a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Chartreuse of Fowl.—To fib. of cold cooked chicken-meat add 2oz. of cooked lean ham (or the meat of two sausages), and chop all very fine ; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of capers or chopped parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice or vinegar, two well- beaten eggs, a little cayenne, and sufficient stock to make it quite moist, also a seasoning of salt and pepper. Butter a mould inside, pack the meat in very closely, leaving about fin. from the the top to allow for it to swell; place the mould on a trivet in a saucepan of water and steam it for one hour. Let it remain in the mould to cool, and when wanted, turn it out on to a dish, by dipping the mould into warm water and easing the sides with a knife. Garnish with mushrooms and other vegetables, and serve. Chartreuse of Fowl with Macaroni.—Singe, draw, and boil till tender a Fowl weighing about 51b. When done, Fowls—continued. take off all the skin and fat, and cut the meat in thin pieces. Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of gelatine for two hours in 1 teacup- ful of cold water; then strain it, and dissolve it in pint of the boiling broth in which the Fowl was boiled, add i pint of cream, and season with pepper and salt. Boil 14oz. of macaroni in sufficient water to cover it, drain off the water, put the macaroni on the table, let it cool, and cut into pieces a little over fin. long. Butter very thickly a 2qt. oval charlotte-russe mould, and stick the macaroni all over the inside; put the Fowl-meat in lightly and evenly, and add the sauce very gradually. Stand the mould in a large sauce- pan, pour boiling water round, taking care it does not reach to the top of the mould, and steam for one hour. Take the mould out, put a dish on the top, with a quick movement of the hands reverse the positions, turn out, and serve. Chaudfroid of Fowl.—(1) Divide three roasted Fowls (rather underdone) each in five pieces, two wings, two legs, and one breast piece; remove the skin and some of the bones. Put i pint of yellow sauce in a saucepan, warm it, and warm also half the quantity of aspic jelly ; stand the pan on ice, and stir with a spatula till the sauce thickens ; then take the pan off, dip the pieces of Fowl one by one in the sauce, and arrange Fig. 770. Chaudfroid of Fowl. them on a baking-sheet. Dip some slices of truffles in the sauce, with these decorate the sides of a plain border-mould, fill the mould gradually with sauce, surround it with ice, and let it set. Wipe round the mould, turn the jelly out on a dish, and fill the hollow of the border with a wooden support, having previously covered it with white paper; trim the pieces of Fowl, mask them with a layer of jelly, dish them on the support, and serve. See Fig. 770. (2) Prepare and truss three Fowls as for roasting, cover them with buttered paper, and roast, without browning them; when cold, cut them up, take off the skin, mask each piece with chaudfroid sauce, and let them cool. Make a border of aspic jelly in a border-mould, putting a piece of decorated fillet in each flute of the mould; when the jelly is set, turn the border out on a dish. Fry in butter a piece of bread 3in. high and lfin. in diameter; when pale brown, drain it, and put it in the middle of the dish on which the jelly border is set; dip the pieces of fowl in some more sauce; stand the legs round the bottom of the bread, put the three right-hand wings on the legs, place the other three wings round, then the three pieces of breast; ornament the top with a large cock’s comb and truffle stuck on a silver skewer, and serve. (3) Skin two chickens, and cut them into small pieces as if carved for serving; wash these, put them in a stewpan with enough white stock to cover them, one large onion, one clove, half a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and \ table- spoonful of salt. Let this boil; then skim it carefully and set it back where it will simmer for an hour. Take out the chicken, and set the stewpan where the stock will boil rapidly so as to reduce it. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying- pan, and when it melts stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook until smooth, but not brown. Stir this into the stock, of which there must be not more than a pint, add 4 table- spoonfuls of glaze, and boil up at once. Taste to see if it is seasoned enough; if it is not, add more salt and pepper. Now add i breakfast-cupful of cream, and boil up once more. Place the chicken in a deep dish, pour the sauce on it, and set away to cool. When about to serve, have large slices of cold boiled potatoes, fried brown in butter, arranged on a warm dish; on them place the chicken, which must be very cold; on each piece of the meat put a small teaspoonful of Tartar sauce, heap the potatoes round the edge of the dish, garnish with parsley, and serve.