THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 679 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. (3) Put lib. of treacle and 6oz. of butter into a saucepan, and beat it oyer a gentle fire until the butter is melted. Mix jib. of sugar with 21b. of sifted flour, stir in the melted butter-and-treacle with 1 teacupful of cream, and mix the whole smoothly. Butter some sheets of white paper and line a cake-tin with them, pour in the mixture, put it into a slow oven, and bake for an hour. Take the cake out of the tin when cooked, and remove the paper. (4) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar, molasses, sour cream, and warmed butter in a basin, and add three eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Stir these well together, and work in with a spoon sufficient flour to make it a light paste, so that the spoon will almost stand upright in it. Pour it into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven until done. A little ground cloves and cinnamon may also be added if desired. (5) Put lib. of flour and fib. of butter on to a board, work them well together, and add fib. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and 2oz. of ground Ginger. Mix these thoroughly, working them with the hands. Make the paste up into one lump, and divide it into four parts. Roll these out to about -Jin. in thickness, and with a tin cutter cut them into shapes. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and place in the oven to bake. When about half done, brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle over some sugar, and let them finish baking, when they should be a light golden colour. (6) Take 3oz. of ground Ginger 'and sprinkle it into .j pint of water in a saucepan. Put the pan on the fire and boil for a few minutes, remove it to the side, and let the liquor cool. Pile ljlb. of flour on a paste-board, make a bay in the centre, and rub six pieces of candied orange-peel through a sieve into it, and mix in witli the Ginger-water to form a stiff paste; roll it out to fin. thick, and cut it into shapes with a biscuit-cutter. Dock them all over, and set in the oven to bake. (7) Put fib. each of treacle, moist sugar, and butter into a lined stewpan, and stir them at the side of the fire with a wooden spoon until hot and mixed; then turn them into a basin, and stir in ljlb. of sifted flour mixed with 1 heaped table-spoonful of ground Ginger and 3 teaspoonfuls of bicar- bonate of soda. Beat four eggs, and mix them with the other ingredients, working the whole into a smooth dough, adding, drop by drop, 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Butter a baking-tin; pour the mixture on to it, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooke 1, cut the cake into squares or diamonds, and when cold put it in tins where it will keep dry. (8) Rub fib. of butter in lib. of sifted flour until quite smooth, then mix in with it 1 heaped table-spoonful of ground Ginger, 2oz. of moist sugar, fib. of treacle, and 1 table- spoonful of cream. Beat two eggs well, and stir them in with the mixture, add also about f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of warm water. Butter some small tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. When cooked and cold, keep them dry in tins. (9) Beat 3oz. of butter to a cream, work in 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, beating vigorously for a few minutes; add one egg, beat again, sift in 8oz. of flour with foz. of ground Ginger mixed with it, and form the whole into a paste with milk. Roll this out rather thin, cut it into rounds with a biscuit- cutter, put the cakes on a baking-sheet (not greased), and bake in a quick oven. Take them out, and use when cold. (10) Work fib. of butter into lflb. of flour until quite smooth, then add fib. of caster sugar, If table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; beat two eggs well, stir them into the above ingredients with a sufficient quantity of warm milk in which a very small piece of ammonia has been dissolved, and form the whole into a stiff paste. Roll it out to about fin. in thickness, and with a round tin cutter, 2in. in diameter, cut the paste into cakes. Lay them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, let the cakes get cold, then put them into biscuit-tins. Ginger Candy,—(1) Boil lib. of sugar with 1 breakfast-cupful of water in a sugar-boiler until it comes to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Stir in 1 table-spoonful of essence of Ginger, and then work the sugar against the sides of the pan with Ginger—continued. a spatula or smooth piece of wood until it granulates or turns white. Have ready some oiled tins, put them on the stove,- pour in the syrup, and let it get cold. A little vegetable yellow should be added whilst the syrup is boiling, to give it a good Ginger colour. (2) Put 3oz. of coarsely-powdered Ginger into If pints of boiling water, and let them macerate in a warm temperature for two hours ; strain, add 51b. of moist sugar and 51b. of lump, and boil to a candy (see Sugar-boiling). (3) Grate foz. of Ginger, put it into a preserving-pan over a slow fire with fib. of powdered white sugar and just enough water to melt the sugar, keep stirring till the sugar boils, add another fib. of sugar, and stir till it thickens; take it from the fire, drop it on earthenware plates, and set in a warm place to dry. The pieces of candy should be white, hard, and brittle. (4) Put loz. of grated Ginger into a sugar-boiler with lib. of crushed loaf sugar and sufficient water to dissolve it. Stir the contents of the pan over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil, then mix in another pound of crushed loaf sugar, and continue stirring until thick. Take the pan off, and drop the candy in small cakes upon earthen dishes. Put the candy in a warm place till it dries hard and white, when it may be taken off, and put by for use. Ginger-Candy Tablets.—Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with only just sufficient water to dissolve it, and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Add a few drops of acetic acid and 1 dessert-spoonful of essence of Ginger. Rub a little of the sugar against the sides of the boiler with a spatula, to whiten it, and pour into small square tins or moulds slightly smeared over with oil of almonds. Place the moulds in a screen to dry, and let them remain for thirty minutes, when the candy should be perfectly hard. A little orange sugar or wet gamboge may be added when boiling to give it a good colour. Ginger Cordial.—(1) Cut 8oz. of Ginger into small pieces or bruise it in a mortar, put it into a pint bottle, and fill it up with brandy. Let it remain in this for a month, shaking frequently; then strain off the brandy into another bottle, let it stand to get clear, and it is ready for use. A little of this cordial is very nice in 1 wineglassful of syrup, or it makes a good stomach tonic by putting 1 teaspoonful into a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira. Gin is sometimes used to make the cordial instead of brandy. (2) Macerate 20oz. of bruised Jamaica Ginger in a jar with 2qts. of white-wine brandy, and add the rind of ten lemons, cut very fine. Shake the jar every day, and after ten days strain it. Pour 2 pints of boiling water over 2Hb. of loaf sugar to form a syrup, and when it is cold add it to the brandy ; filter the whole through filtering-paper, and it is then ready for use. (3) Bruise jib. of whole Ginger and put it in a basin; remove the stalks from 21b. of red currants, and put them in with the Ginger, also add 1 table-spoonful of blanched sweet almonds, the juice of two small lemons, and the thinly-pared rind of one. Pour in igall. of whisky, put a plate over the basin, and stand it in a cool temperature. In about twelve days’ time, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan, put in 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and stir the whole over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Take the pan off the fire and leave the cordial until quite cold. Pour it into bottles, and cork tightly. (4) Crush and mash 41b. of white or red currants, strain the juice out through a coarse straining-cloth, wringing it well; add to the juice 21b. of loaf sugar broken small, and stir till it is quite dissolved ; put it into a stone jar with the strained juice of two lemons, 4 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and 1 pint of whisky. Let it stand in a cool place for a week, keeping the jar well corked and shaking well every day. Then strain and bottle it, cork well, seal and wire the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides in a cool dry place. Two table-spoonfuls of this Ginger cordial in a tumblerful of iced water makes a refreshing summer drink. (5) Pick the stalks off 81b. of white currants, bruise them, put them in a large crock with the thinly-pared rinds of eight large lemons, 4oz. of ground Ginger, and lgall. of brandy or whisky. Let the mixture remain in the crook for twenty*