484 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Crumpets—continued. when sufficiently done on one side, remove them from the rings, and they will soon he done and ready for use, either hot, cold, or toasted. Crumpet Cake with Clotted Cream.—(1) Dissolve \ tea- spoonful of salt and a small piece of German yeast in 1 pint of water, and pour this into lib. of the best white sifted flour; add sufficient water to form a nice dough, knead it well, then place it in a warm temperature to rise, covering it with a cloth. When risen to almost double its original size, make it into rounds about the size of a small dinner plate, and bake them. When done on both sides put one of the Crumpet- rounds into a circular baking-tin, the same in diameter as Fig. 591. Crumpet Cake with Clotted Cream. the Crumpet; over the first Crumpet spread a thin layer of clotted cream, and dust it with caster sugar ; put in another Crumpet, cover that also with clotted cream and caster sugar, and proceed in this way until the baking-tin is full, putting a layer of cream on the top. Put fib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 pint of water and 3oz. of butter, and stir it over a gentle fire until dissolved; then pour it over the Crumpets. Put the baking-tin in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes, then turn, place the Crumpet cake on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 591. (2) Put about half-a-dozen Crumpets in a deep baking- dish, dusting each with caster sugar, pour | pint of milk over them, then spread a layer of clotted cream over the top one. Put four Crumpets on the top of the cream, dusting each one with caster sugar, and pour over another % pint of milk. Stand the pan over a gentle fire, boil the milk until the clotted cream shows signs of melting, then take it off. When almost cold, arrange the Crumpets on a dish, sift vanilla-flavoured caster sugar over all, and serve. Crumpets made with Hominy.—Mix and beat well together fib. of flour, nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled hominy, salt to taste, 1 pint of milk, and 2oz. of butter warmed till very soft. When all these are well mixed, stir in 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar mixed with 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Set the batter in a warm place for six hours, and when well risen stir in J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water; put the batter into crumpet- rings, let them stand for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and then bake in a hot oven. Serve hot with butter. Crumpets made with Rice. — Mix and beat well together fib. of flour, nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of thoroughly-boiled rice, salt to taste, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter warmed very soft, and 1 pint of milk ; when all this is well mixed, stir in 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Set the batter in a warm place for six hours. When well risen, stir in ^ saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, put the batter into Crumpet- rings on a baking-sheet, let them stand for a-quarter-of-an- hour, then bake in a hot oven. Serve them hot, well buttered. Flannel-Crumpets.—Put lib. of sifted flour into a pan, mix into it 1 saltspoonful of salt, and put it in front of the fire. Warm £ pint of milk, and with it mix the flour into a smooth batter. Beat up two eggs well and stir them into 3 dessert- spoonfuls of fresh yeast, or 4| dessert-spoonfuls of dissolved German yeast. Beat the mixed yeast-and-eggs into the batter. If the batter is stiff, add a little more milk. Cover over the pan and set it near the fire till the batter rises Crumpets—continued. well; then pour a ladleful of the batter on a hot and greased baking-iron, and let it bake slowly. When one side is done, turn it and do the other. Butter the Crumpets, cut them across, and serve hot. Fried Crumpets in Turkish Style.—(1) Put lib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it until reduced to a syrup. Dip the required quantity of Crumpets in beaten eggs ; put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the Crumpets and fry them on both sides until nicely browned. Drain the Crumpets, steep them in the boiling syrup, take them out, arrange on a hot dish, and sift ground almonds over them. Flavour a teacupful of water with a few drops of essence of rose-water or orange-flower water, pour it over the Crumpets, stand them in a slow oven for a few minutes until they have absorbed this, and then serve hot. (2) Blanch and skin 2oz. of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar, adding a few drops of rose-water to prevent them oiling. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the Crumpets and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, sift the pounded almonds and caster sugar over them, and serve. Pistachio-kernels do well instead off the almonds. CRUFNIC SOUP.—A Polish dish described under Soups. CRUSADES.—This is merely a fanciful name given to fried bread croutons hollowed out and filled with apricot, orange, or other marmalade. Cut some slices Jin. thick off a tin-loaf, and with a round paste-cutter, 3in. in diameter, cut out a dozen rounds or so, according to the number required. With another round cutter, l|in. in diameter, cut half-way through the rounds of bread. Fry them in butter to a golden brown, drain, and then, with the point of a knife, lift out the centre piece, and hollow the bread out as deeply as possible without penetrating the thickness. Fill these with marmalade, press the lid on to the marmalade, dust over all with almond, vanilla, or lemon-flavoured sugar, and put them in the oven to warm. Serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin. CRUSTS.—In this one word the British cook embraces a variety of productions. It includes the French Croustades and Croutons ; it is described also as the hard exterior or surface of bread, or a piece of bread become dry or hard, the cover or case of a pie, as well as the dough of which puddings are made. As far as possible the term has been qualified when used in this Encyclopaedia, and only used when no more suitable term could be found. As applying to the outsides of loaves of bread, it can only be said that they should not be thrown away, for, however stale, after a few minutes drying in the oven they can be grated, or pounded in a mortar to a very fine powder, which is useful for many culinary purposes, described under various headings. The deposit of tartar on the inside of wine-bottles is also termed “ crust,” and the wine “crusted” accordingly. See Pastes, Wines, &c. CRUSTAS.—See American Drinks. CRYSTALLISING. — This is one of the simplest and most useful processes known to confectioners, for by it little or no art is required to produce exquisite results that are the foundation of ornamental confectionery. Fruits, confections, and flowers can lie crystallised, as illustrated in some exquisite arrangements depicted among the coloured plates, and described under their various headings. In this article we have to deal with the principle of crystallisation only, and this can be readily understood and accomplished. The first thing that will be necessary to procure is a crystallising-tin (see Fig. 592). This consists of a tin box filled with wire gratings, or trays (see Fig. 593), so arranged that they can be let into the box in even stages, one above the other. This will suggest that the trays should be fitted with four legs, so ordered that the legs of the second tray