671 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Garnishes—continued. Parisian Garnish (a. la Parisienne).—This consists of Madeira, mushrooms and truffles, prepared as follows : Put § wineglassful of Madeira into a saucepan with six sliced mush- rooms and three sliced truffles, and cook for four minutes ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful cf Madeira sauce, cook for five minutes longer, and use as required. Paysanne Garnish (a la Paysanne).—This is made up of carrots, cucumbers, and smoked sausages, prepared as follows : Peel some large carrots, cut them into slices about Jin. thick, and blanch and braise them. Have ready also some small broiled sausages and cooked stuffed cucumbers, all cut into thickish slices. Arrange the slices alternately, overlapping one another round the dish. Provencal Garnish (a la Provenpale).—(1) Prepared with cooked mushrooms and stuffed tomatoes arranged round the dish in alternate groups. This Garnish can be served with almost any entree, and should be accompanied with Madeira sauce. (2) Or it is made of small onions, garlic, and cheese, cooked ' as follows : Peel and chop two small onions, put them in a saucepan of boiling water for five minutes to prevent them getting brown, drain, put them in a saute-pan witli loz. of butter, and cook for five minutes. Add a very little white wine, a small quantity of crushed garlic, 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 gill of bechamel sauce, and season with salt and pepper. Stir well until it comes to the boil, and then put it away to cool before using. Providence Garnish (a la Providence).- This is made up of cooked mushrooms, small truffles, fowl quenelles, and rounds of goose’s fat liver, also stoned and blanched olives. Put them, when ready, into a saute-pan with Madeira sauce, and stir over the fire until thickened. The Garnish is then ready for use. Reform Garnish (a la Reforme).—This is made up of shred cooked ham, boiled carrots in slices, truffles, and white of hard-boiled egg, and is attributed to the celebrated Soyer. Regency Garnish (a la Regence).— (1) This' consists of fish quenelles, truffles, crayfish-tails, cocks’ kidneys, and mush- rooms, as follows: Prepare some large fish quenelles deco- rated with truffles, also some cocks’ kidneys and crayfish- tails. Cook some mushrooms, mask them with sauce a la Regence, and glaze some whole truffles. Arrange in separate heaps round the dish. (2) Or it is made up of German sauce, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, sweetbreads, and cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys, prepared as follows: Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of hot German sauce into a saucepan, and keep it on the side of the fire. Cut six mushrooms into large pieces, peel two truffles, prepare six godiveau or fowl quenelles, and have ready a few pieces of sweetbreads and six each of cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys. Put them all into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine seasoned with salt and pepper; cook for six minutes, add them to the sauce, cook for three minutes longer, and the Garnish is then ready for use. Rouen Garnish (a la Rouennaise).—This Garnish is com- posed of turnips, seasoned and cooked with Spanish sauce, as follows : Cut three turnips into six pieces each with a vege- table-cutter, put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, put on the lid, and cook in the oven for ten minutes, shaking the pan frequently. Moisten with 1 pint of Spanish sauce, add salt and pepper to taste, cook for twenty minutes longer, skim off the fat, and use when required. St. Nazaire Garnish (a la St. Nazaire).— This Garnish, usually served with fish, is made up of fine herbs cooked as follows: Put 3 table-spoonfuls of court bouillon into a sauce- pan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 1 table-spoonful of cooked fine herbs, 1 breakfast-cupful of German sauce, salt and pepper to taste, and warm them. Pour the sauce over the fish it is to be served with, and garnish with six hot clams. Scarlet Garnish (a l’Ecarlate).—This consists of ox-tongue cooked in tomato and Spanish sauces, as follows : Pour 1 breakfast-cupful each of tomato and Spanish sauces into a saucepan, adding a little finely-chopped cooked smoked ox- tongue ; cook for about six minutes, and use as required. Garnishes—continued. Soubise Garnish (a la Soubise).—This is made up of onions prepared in broth and bechamel sauce as follows: Cut up three onions, put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, £ breakfast-cupful of white broth, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 level saltspoonful of white pepper, cover the saucepan, and cook for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bechamel sauce, and boil for five minutes longer. Strain through a cloth, pour it back into the saucepan, add more seasoning if necessary, also a little grated nutmeg, and a little warm milk should it be too thick ; warm up again, and use as required. Supreme Garnish (a la Supreme).—This is made up of rice, fowl, and truffles, seasoned and cooked as follows : Well wjish 2oz. of rice, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white broth or stock. Pound the flesh from the wing of a cooked fowl in a mortar, add it to the rice, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of white pepper, and cook on a moderate fire for thirty minutes ; strain through a fine sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, add Joz. of butter and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and warm slowly on the stove without boiling. Arrange this Garnish in an artistic crown-shape round a hot dish, place the supremes in the centre, and ornament the garn'shing with thin slices of truffles ; with a light hair brush drip a little meat glaze over it, and serve. Supremes of partridges, quails, or sweetbreads can all be served with this Garnish. Toulouse Garnish (a la Toulouse). — (1) This consists of goose’s fat liver, mushrooms, sweetbreads, sheep’s kidneys, and truffles, prepared as follows : Cut some slices from a cooked goose’s fat liver, having them of uniform size and shape, keep them hot over the fire in a buttered saute-pan, and before using slightly glaze them. Cook some mushrooms in butter and lemon-juice, braise some sweetbreads, and poach (or cook in water) some sheep’s kidneys, masking all of them, when ready, with veloute sauce. Trim some truffles as round as possible, boil them in wine and a small quantity of meat or fowl glaze, and afterwards brush them over with butter. A tureenful of Toulouse sauce should accompany. (2) Or it is composed of collops of goose’s fat livers, truffles, whole mushrooms, cocks’ combs and livers, and lamb’s sweet- breads. The collops are made from previously cooked fat livers; the truffles being boiled in glaze and white wine, the mushrooms blanched with butter and lemon-juice, the cocks’ combs trimmed, washed, and boiled until they are blanched, the livers boiled, and the lamb’s sweetbreads fried. All these ingredients are placed round the dish, the fat livers slightly glazed, the cocks’ combs, mushrooms, livers, and lamb’s sweet- breads covered with veloute sauce, and the truffles strongly glazed. Turtle Garnish (a la Tortue).—(1) This is made up of mushrooms, truffles, brains, ox-palates, olives,, gherkins, and chicken quenelles, as follows: Prepare and cook some mush- rooms, large whole truffles, and brains, also small rounds of ox-palate, chicken quenelles moulded with teaspoons, stoned olives, and small balls of gherkins, cut out with a cutter. Put the mushrooms, truffles, ox-palate, quenelles, and olives into a saute-pan with a little of the liquor from the turtle it is to be served with, let it thicken over the fire, and it is ready for use. The brains and gherkins are arranged on the top of the other ingredients. (2) Or it is made of chicken livers, olives, truffles, mush- rooms, and sweetbreads, prepared as follows : Boil three cleaned chicken livers in water for three minutes, let them get cool, cut each one into three pieces, put them in a sauce- pan with six stoned and blanched olives, two truffles, four mushrooms, and a sweetbread, all cut up into dice ; add 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cook for five minutes, then put in ^ pint of Madeira sauce, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve with six croutons of fried bread and six fried eggs. Valencia Garnish (a la Valencienne).—This is made up of a truffle, mushrooms, ox-tongue, and rice, prepared as follows: Cut a truffle, three mushrooms, and a very little cooked ox-tongue into shreds, add 3 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, put them all in a saucepan with 3 table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, j table-spoonful of salt, 1 level teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of grated cheese. Boil for five minutes, and use when required.