THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 647 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fricandeau—continued. to the same series, and applied especially to a dainty dish of veal, which was invented by one of the cooks of Pope Leo X.” Perhaps this is about the best definition that can be given to it; but it is difficult to connect this word with the Fricassee. Receipts for its preparation will be found under Veal and Turkeys. FRICASSEE. — A sort of stew, the word being- derived from the French fricasser—to waste or stew down. Fricasseur is a term of contempt for a bad cook. Numerous receipts for Fricassee will be found under special headings. FRIEDRICHS HALL.—The name of certain famous mineral waters supposed to be obtained from a spring at a place of that name. See Aerated Waters. FRIJOLES.—The name given in Central America to black beans, which form a very important article of food amongst the inhabitants. See Beans. FRITTERS (Fr. Beignets ; Ger. Krapfen ; Ital. Fritelle; Sp. Fritillas).—The English term is evidently derived from the French frire—to fry, hence it is only correct to assume that all Fritters are necessarily fried. They are described as a sort of pancake, containing fruit, sweetmeats, poultry, meat, or fish; but modern customs have extended the signification almost indefi- nitely. Numerous receipts for these will be found under special headings. Aiguebelle Fritters. - Peel and boil five large potatoes, put them into a basin, and mash them with 8oz. of butter, a little Gruyere cheese, salt and pepper to taste, and work all into a paste by adding ten well-beaten eggs. Form the mixture into round flats like biscuits, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Baked Fritters with Custard. -Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of potato-flour in a basin, and mix slowly with it 1 pint of milk ; beat up the yolks of six eggs, stir them in with the milk, sweeten with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring. Stand the basin in a stewpan containing boiling water, and stir the contents over the fire until thickened. When ready, move the custard from the fire, and leave it until cold. Mix gradually with 1 pint of boiling water in a saucepan over the fire as much flour as will make a thick paste, stirring it continually with a wooden spoon; add saltspoonful of salt, loz. of butter, and sugar to taste, also the grated peel of one lemon. When well thickened, remove the paste from the fire, and leave it until a little cooled ; then work in gradually four well-beaten eggs. Thickly butter a baking-dish, drop the paste on it in small quantities, leaving a short space between them, and put them in a moderate oven ; when browned, take them out, dust them over with caster sugar, and return to the oven for a minute or two to glaze. When ready, make an incision under each Fritter, insert in it some of the custard, pile them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Bell Fritters.—(1) Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with Goz. of sugar ; mix with them about ^ saltspoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and lqt. of milk; then beat in, in small quantities and alternately, Jib. of self-raising- flour and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth; continue beating for three or four minutes after all the ingredients are mixed. Drop table-spoonfuls of this batter into boiling lard, fry them brown, drain on a warm sieve, and when all arc done put them on a hot dish and sift powdered sugar over. Serve hot with lemon sauce. (2) Set 1 pint of water over the fire with ^oz. of butter, and stir into it gradually ^lb. of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt. When stirred quite smooth, pour it into a bowl and let it cool. Beat six eggs very light, yolks and whites separately, and work them into the paste. Make the paste up into small balls, drop them into plenty of boiling lard, and fry a light brown. Serve hot. Berryville Fritters.—Mix together ooz. of flour, lqt. of milk, eight well-beaten eggs, and four large apples, peeled, ' Fritters—continued. cored, and chopped fine. Fry in table-spoonfuls in plenty of boiling lard. Serve very hot with powdered white sugar. Break-of-Day Fritters.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour to a paste with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet wine and 1 table- spoonful of brandy. If the wine and brandy are not sufficient to mix the flour, add some warm milk. Mix into this paste a little chopped candied orange- and lemon-peel and citron, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Beat these well into the paste, drop it in lumps through a wide tin funnel into boiling lard, and fry. Serve with powdered white sugar sprinkled over. Danish Fritters.—Thoroughly beat five eggs; put 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 table-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and 2oz. of finely-shred mixed candied peel; then stir in the beaten eggs and sufficient milk to bring it to the consistency of a stiff batter. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt it slightly, move the pan about to well cover the bottom with it, then put in the batter, and cook it over a slow fire, occasionally passing a knife between the batter and the pan to prevent it sticking. Take the paste out of the frying-pan, put it on a plate, cut it into 3in. lengths, then cut them across at each end to make them rise when fried ; put a large lump of butter in the frying-pan, put in the pieces of paste again, and fry them till lightly browned. When cooked, drain the Fritters, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, dust over caster sugar, and serve. EligTish Fritters.— Beat seven eggs and stir in by degrees i pint of milk; throw in 1 saltspoonful of salt and work in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, or use a smaller quantity of flour and some cold stewed apples. A table-spoonful of yeast is an improvement. When the batter is mixed, let it stand for at least an hour. Fry in lumps in plenty of boiling- lard, and serve hot with wine and sugar. French Fritters.—(1) Mix lib. of sifted flour to a paste with 1 pint of milk. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, and as soon as it boils mix it with the paste of flour and milk ; stir it over the fire till it boils, let it boil ten minutes, stirring constantly, pour it then into a good-sized bowl, and let it cool. Beat the yolks and whites of ten eggs separately till very light (the whites should be a stiff froth), add and stir them into the batter when it is cool, 1 table- spoonful at a time, stirring in also 1 teaspoonful of salt. Take for each Fritter nearly 1 table-spoonful of batter, drop them into boiling lard sufficient to cover them, and fry to a light brown. Lift them out with a skimmer, and drain on hot paper in a colander. Serve hot with sweet sauce. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan with the grated rind of a large lemon, 2oz. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a small quantity of salt. Place the saucepan over the fire, and when the water boils stir in gradually with a wooden sjpoon sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Remove the paste from the fire, let it cool a little, then mix in the yolks of six and the whites of three well- beaten eggs. In a few minutes’ time stir in the remaining whites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and let the batter rest for two hours. Next put a large piece of lard into a flat stewpan over the fire, and when boiling drop the batter into it in dessert-spoonfuls; as each Fritter is browned, take it out of the fat and put it on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an