553 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. of butter broken into small pieces in with the milk, add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the sauce until the butter is melted, then put in the sliced Eggs and the strained juice of a lemon. When the Eggs are hot, turn them on to a dish, garnish with small croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (4) Boil the required quantity of Eggs till hard; when cold, peel and cut them in slices, being careful not to damage them. Prepare a white sauce, and mix with it J table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of finely- minced shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the slices of Eggs in the sauce and let them slowly get hot again. When ready, pile the Eggs on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Egg's a la Parisienne.—Take a little warmed half-glaze and pour it into as many dariole-moulds (which have been set on the ice) as may be required, and mask the whole of the insides of them with the glaze. Make a mince of equal parts of truffles, ham, or tongue, sprinkle it over the insides of the moulds so as to adhere to the glaze, and break an Egg into each one, taking care not to damage the yolk ; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put them in a low saucepan with boiling water to half their height; place the pan in the oven for five or six minutes to poach the Eggs, turn them out on to a dish, pour a little gravy seasoned with chopped parsley over them, and serve. Eggs a la Paysanne.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream into a dish, and place it on the fire; when its contents boil, break in twelve Eggs, season with salt and twelve whole peppers, and cook for ten minutes; then set it in the oven for three minutes, so that the Eggs get a golden colour, taking care that they do not harden. Remove them from the oven, place the dish on another, and serve. Eggs a la Polonaise. — Cut twelve hard-boiled Eggs in halves, separate the whites from the yolks, and pound the latter in a mortar, adding about loz. of butter, and salt, ground spice, and grated nutmeg to taste, also the yolks of five Eggs ; when well blended, without any lumps, strew over J table- spoonful of very finely-chopped parsley, and work in the whites of the five Eggs well beaten. Garnish the bottom of a baking-disli with this, laying it in about Jin. thick; also fill the whites of the hard-boiled Eggs with a part of it, and put them together, giving them the appearance of whole Eggs. Arrange these tastefully on top, set the dish in the oven, and brown slightly for about five minutes ; remove from the oven, lay the dish on another one, wipe the sides, and serve very hot. Eggs a la Post.—Well wash and scrape one carrot, and with a vegetable-cutter scoop out twelve round pieces ; place these in a saute-pan with 1 gill of white broth and 1 teaspoonful of butter, and cook them on the hot range for twenty minutes. Put twelve roasted and shelled chestnuts into the pian with the carrots, and boil. Remove the skin from two uncooked sausages, make twelve equal-sized balls out of the meat, place these on a tin plate, and bake in the oven for four minutes. Remove them, add to the carrots and chestnuts, season with salt and red pepper, add 1 gill of Madeira sauce, and cook for two minutes longer. Place J pint of hot puree of chestnuts in the centre of a large dish, arrange twelve fried Eggs over this, and equally divide the carrots, chestnuts, and sausage-balls in clusters round the dish. Pour the sauce with a spoon round the Eggs, but not over them, place on top of each Egg one thin slice of truffle cut with a tube, put the dish in the oven to heat for one minute, take it out, and" serve. Eggs a la Poulette.—Boil 4 pint of milk with a little chopped parsley, a small lump of butter, and 1 pinch of pepper and salt. Peel and cut in slices six hard-boiled Eggs, and put them in with the milk, also a few button-mushrooms. When the Eggs are hot, arrange them on a dish; thicken the sauce with arrowroot, pour it over them, and serve. Eggs a la Princesse.—Boil six Eggs for seven minutes, then plunge them into cold water for five minutes, shell them, and put them on a plate. Mince very fine half a small tin of pre- served mushrooms with two sprigs of parsley and one medium- sized shallot. Put loz. of good butter in a saucepan on the Eggs —continued. hot stove ; when melted, add the mushroom mixture, and cook rather slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; add J pint of Madeira sauce, season with salt and pepper, and cook again slowly for ten minutes. Strain the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and set it aside to keep warm. Cut the six hard-boiled Eggs in halves, remove the entire yolks, and mash them thoroughly in a bowl, adding Joz. of butter and J pint of sweet cream. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, mix well together, and with this fill the twelve pieces of Egg-white. Lay them on a lightly- buttered dish, pour over the sauce, and put them in the oven for eight minutes before sending to table. Eggs a la Regence.—Cut ljoz. of salted pork or ham into five pieces, also cut one onion into small squares, and six medium-sized mushrooms, all of equal size; moisten with 1 table-spoonful of gravy, and cook for five minutes. When done, reduce the liquor after adding 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup. Break twelve Eggs into a dish, with loz. of warmed butter spread over the bottom, and set it in a moderate oven for five minutes; pour over the mushroom mixture, take off the fat, wipe the sides of the dish, and add six drops of tarragon vinegar. Place the dish on another, and serve. Eggs a la Reine.—Put eight Eggs into a stewpan of boiling water, and boil gently for five minutes ; take them out, strip off the shells, and plunge them into cold water. Put the flesh from a cooked fowl in a mortar, and pound it well, adding 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, rub this through a sieve into a saucepan, warm it, and if it is too thick, add a little cream. Put it on a dish, place the Eggs on it in a circle, with a small piece of tongue or truffle between them, and garnish the dish with croutons of fried bread. A rice border may be used, with the puree piled in the centre and garnished with the Eggs. Eggs au Soleil. -Break twelve Eggs into a frying-pan on the fire with 2 table-spoonfuls of lard, dropping them in carefully one by one, and cook for two minutes ; then take them up with a skimmer, and lay them carefully on a dry cloth. Have ready some frying-batter ; cut a piece of half- cooked bacon into small square pieces of about tin., mix them up with the batter, dip in the Eggs, one after the other, taking up with each one a piece of the bacon, and with the fingers drop them into very hot fat in a pan, and cook for two minutes. Take them up with a skimmer, lay them on a dry cloth to drain,' sprinkle over a little salt, place them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Eggs a la Sultana.—Put the yolks of three Eggs in a basin with 1J table-spoonfuls of olive oil and 1 table-spoonful of chutney, beat well, and turn it out on to a dish. Break six Eggs, one at a time, into a teacup, put them separately on the sauce, and set the dish in a moderate oven until the Eggs are set, but not over-done. Serve very hot on the same dish. Eggs a la Turque.—(1) Blanch and pound 4oz. of pistachio- nuts in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of milk to keep them from oiling, and put them into a lined stewpan with 1 dessert-spoonful of ground rice and the yolks of eight Eggs, adding also Jib. of caster sugar and a piece of stick cinnamon. Beat lightly until all are well mixed, pour in gradually lqt. of cream, and stir the mixture over the fire until thickened. Pour some syrup into a flat stewpan, break carefully a dozen new-laid Eggs in it, and poach them. Take the cinnamon out of the mixture, pour it on to a dish, place the poached Eggs round, garnish with macaroons soaked in brandy, and serve very hot. (2) Cook twelve Eggs, as for Eggs with Kidneys. Finely mince six fowl’s livers, toss them very gently but rapidly in a saucepan over a brisk fire for three minutes, with loz. of butter to moisten them; then with a spoon remove all the butter from the saucepan, and season the livers with salt and white pepper, adding J wineglassful of Madeira wine. Reduce the liquor to about one half, then add 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce, warm up again, pour over the Eggs, and serve. Eggs a la Valencienne.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of hot boiled rice into a saucepan, with J pint of hot tomato sauce, two mushrooms, one truffle cut into small pieces, and 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with