601 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Flukes—continued. desired, making’ a little compact roll of each one, and place them side by side in an earthen dish which will just contain them. Season them highly with salt and pepper, put a pat of butter on each one, and bake them in a hot oven until the flakes begin to separate. Serve them at once in the dish in which they were baked. See Pig. 757. Fluke Soup.—Cut one-fourth of the flesh away from the bone and skin, reserving' the rest for other dishes, and boil it in boiling salted water until the flakes begin to separate. Then drain it and rub it through a sieve. To make 2qts. of soup, put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and set it over a gentle fire ; stir constantly until the butter and flour are smooth, then gradually stir in 2qts. of hot milk, adding ^ breakfast-cupful at a time, and stirring one lot in smoothly before putting in more. When all the milk is mixed with the flour and butter, season the soup with 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and J saltspoonful each of white pepper and grated nutmeg. Next, put in the fish, and stir the soup with a whisk until it boils; then serve it hot. FLUMMERY.—This term is of Welsh origin, and is derived from the word llymrig, meaning harsh, raw, or crude. Flummery was originally made by steeping oatmeal in water, and leaving it to get sour by fermen- Fiu. 758. Flummery-bowl (Old Style). tation. It is also described as a sort of pap for children, made of Hour and milk. The following receipts show that it is capable of many variations and improve- ments upon the original. It was usually served in a large special bowl (see Fig. 758). American Flummery. —Boil £ pint of milk with Goz. of caster sugar, a very small pinch of salt, and the rind of half a lemon. Mix 9oz. of cornflour with 1 teacupful of cold milk till quite smooth, then add it to the boiling milk, removing the lemon-peel; whip it well for a minute, take it off the fire, and continue stirring till thick and smooth. Blanch 3oz. of sweet and l-^oz. of bitter almonds, pound them together with a little sugar, then mix them with the corn- flour, put it over the fire again, and stir it till it begins to boil; then move it off, and mix in the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Rinse out a large mould with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and pack it in ice till firm. Prepare a puree of raspberries or strawberries, leave it till cold, then turn it on to a fancy dish. Pour the Flummery out of the mould on to the strawberries, or whatever fruit has been prepared for it, and serve. Chocolate Flummery. —Put 3oz. of cornflour and ljoz. of chocolate into a basin with 1 teacupful of water, and mix well; put it into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar and If pints more water, boil for eight minutes, stirring continually, and turn it into a mould damped with water. It should be served cold, with milk or cream. Dutch Flummery.—(1) Put 2oz. of isinglass into a saucepan with 1J pints of water, and boil very gently for half-an-hour. Flummery—continued. Add 1 pint of sherry, or raisin wine, the juice of three lemons and the peel of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon, to extract the essence, adding more sugar to taste. Beat well the yolks of seven eggs, mix them with the other ingredients, and give the whole one scald, stirring all the time. Pour it into a basin, and stir it till about half cold. Let it settle, pour it into a mould that has been oiled, or laid in water for a short time, and put it in a cold place to set. It is better made the day before using. (2) Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a small quantity of boiling water, then put it in a saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and 1 pint of white wine; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and boil. Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs; put the yolks in a basin and beat them well, then pour in the boiling wine, stirring rapidly all the time. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then move it off the fire at once. Stir the Flummery until cold, then turn it into a mould packed in ice. When set, turn it on to a dish, and serve. English Flummery. -Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine in li- pints of boiling water, and sweeten to taste; when cold, add 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, the juice of three lemons, and 1 pint of well-whisked double cream. Rinse out one large or two small moulds with cold water, pour in the Flummery, and lot it stand in a cold place (in ice if possible) till the following day. Before serving, dip each mould into tepid water to loosen the contents, turn the Flummery on to a fancy dish, and stick blanched almonds (that have been shredded lengthwise) and halves of preserved cherries in alternate rings round the Flummery. Flummery Melon in Jelly. — Blanch and chop 2oz. of sweet almonds, pound them in a mortar, put them in a stewpan with joz. of isinglass, ^ pint of cream, and sufficient spinach- juice to tinge it pale green. Stir all over the fire till thick, then turn it into a melon-shaped mould, rinsed out with a little cold water. Get a plain mould also, holding about lqt., pour in 1 pint of clear calt’s-foot jelly, and let it stand till set. Turn the melon-shape out of its mould into the one con- taining the set jelly, fill it up all round with half-melted jelly, and leave it for some hours. When the jelly has quite set, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Flummery -witli Raspberries.—Put lib. of fresh or preserved raspberries in a saucepan over the fire with J pint of vinegar, let it boil for four minutes, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Put loz. of isinglass to soak in J pint of water. Strain the liquor from the boiling raspberries and vinegar through a hair sieve, pressing the raspberries well to get all the juice. If the isinglass is not quite dissolved in the § pint of water, put it over the fire and stir till it is quite melted; then dissolve in it Jib. of powdered white sugar, add the strained raspberry-juice, stir till it boils, then strain it through muslin, and pour it into a mould wetted inside with cold water. When perfectly cold, dip the mould into boiling hot water for an instant, and turn the Flummery out on a glass dish. Flummery witli Rhubarb.—Cut up 21b. of rhubarb into small pieces, put them into a basin with water to nearly cover them, cover over the basin, and set it in a moderate oven until the fruit is quite soft. Take it out, squeeze all the juice into a saucepan, add Joz. of gelatine soaked in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of water, and stir well over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Rub the rhubarb through a sieve into a basin, mix in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream and sufficient sugar to sweeten, and then add the gelatine mixture; warm up, without boiling, stirring con- stantly, turn it into a basin or mould, and let it set firm. Turn it out on to a dish when cold, and serve with custard. French Flummery.—Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan with lqt. of cream, and beat them well together ; place tbe pan on the side of the fire, stir frequently, and boil slowly for fifteen minutes. Take it off, add sugar to taste, and mix in 1 table-spoonful each of rose- and orange-flower water; pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and when it is quite cold turn it out.