THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 523 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Dishes—continued. ingenuity lias so greatly improved upon the original dish, that, excepting in name and use, there is scarcely any analogy. For instance, the hot-water Dish (see Fig. 651. Hot-water Carving-Dish (Adams and Son). Fig. 651), used for serving a large joint or bird, and keeping it hot during carving, is of comparatively modern invention. Its value is indisputable, and where it has been used the dinner has gained much repute through its influence. The Dish proper is sometimes of china or earthenware, and sometimes of metal—the china being preferred for its appearance, although the metal Dish is a better conductor of heat. This upper Dish is set in a large deeper one, which holds as much hot water as can conveniently be poured in through a tube fitted with a screw cap. The upper Dish is also fitted with a gravy- well. which is very convenient, and receives through specially-made channels the gravy that runs from all well-cooked joints after cutting. All cooks are agreed that a dinner to be successful must be served hot—this applying as much to one class of food as another. But although use, which is second nature, may accustom the less fortunate diners to eating semi-hot dinners with some sort of relish, this cannot be said of those gourmets who can appreciate entrees, Fig. 653. Dish for Handing Vegetables (Adarus and Son), those gems of artistic cookery. These must be hot, there- fore a Dish, based upon the same principle as the liot- water Dish previously described, has been prepared for Dishes—continued. them (see Fig. 652). Vegetables also, especially as served at large dinners, require some method of keeping them warm during a long service. This can be excellently brought about by hot-water Dishes, or small metal Dishes containing only a small quantity of vegetables at a time, kept very hot in a hot closet, and served only as required, being replenished from the hot stock at will. For this purpose an electro-plated Dish, well covered, with a nearly horizontal handle of ivory, or hard wood, is of great utility (see Fig. 653). When breakfast, luncheon, or supper savouries are served, the best Dishes are of metal, with tightly-fitting Fig. 654. Dish for Breakfast Savouries (Adams and Son). covers. The usual shape is oval (see Fig. 654) or eliptical, but round ones are also much used, and very effective. Numerous other kinds of Dishes will occur to the reader, most of them being so familiar as to require no special comment. DISH-COVERS.—No well-regulated cook would think of sending a hot dish to table without a cover. The style Fig. 655. Dish-cover (Adams and Son). more generally used is shown in Fig. 655 ; but there are “ improvements ” advocated even in Dish-covers, and of these none are more practical than those dishes fitted with revolving covers (see Fig. 656). In this case the cover disappears under the dish, which has in some respects a great advantage over those from which the cover has to be lifted; the difficulty being to know what to do with the cover, from which the steam condensed into water drips freely. These revolving covers are very strongly