THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 563 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. Eggs, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, and with it fill some small cups. Stand them in a stewpan, pour round boiling water to half their height, put the lid on the pan with some live embers on it, and set it over a slow fire. When cooked, turn the cream out of the cups on to a hot dish, and serve. Eggs with White Sauce.—(1) Put Joz. of butter into a small saucepan over the fire ; when melted, mix in loz. of flour, pour in gradually 1 gill of cream and 2 table-spoonfnls of milk, stir it till it boils, and then boil it for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Wash and peel one dozen button-mush- rooms, put them in a pan over the fire, with Joz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of cold water, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a small quantity of chopped parsley, and salt to taste. Bring it to the boil, then pour it in with the white sauce, and stir over the fire for a minute. Cut six hard-boiled Eggs in quarters, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. (2) Boil four Eggs till hard, peel them, cut off the whites, chop these into small pieces, put them on a hot dish, strew a small quantity of minced veal or ham over, and cover with white sauce. Bub the yolks of the Eggs through a fine hair sieve over the whites, and serve very hot. Egg Wine.—(1) Beat the yolks of three Eggs in a bowl, add 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and work well; then add sugar to taste, beat again, and pass the mixture through a sieve into a saucepan; set the pan on the side of the fire so as to warm the contents without boiling, and stir continually; when warm enough, return it to the bowl, add 1 wineglassful of sherry and a little grated nutmeg, and serve. (2) Break four Eggs into a basin, put in 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cloves and nutmeg, and beat well. Put f pint of sherry in a saucepan with J pint of water, or in equal quantities, boil up once, stir in the Eggs, pour the mixture backwards and forwards from saucepan to basin, or stir it by the fire, ceasing at once when sufficiently thick. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Put Jib. of loaf sugar into a lined saucepan with lin. of stick cinnamon and 1 teaspoonful of crushed vanilla, pour in three bottles of red wine, and place the pan over the fire. Whisk nine Eggs to a stiff froth with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 wineglassful of wine, pour them in with the sugar mixture, and whisk over the fire until on the point of boiling; then take the pan off immediately, whisk it for a few minutes longer, and serve. (4) Put 4oz. of lemon-flavoured sugar in a casserole, with about 1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon and the strained juice of one lemon. Beat five Eggs, pour them in the casserole with 1 pint of white wine, and whip the whole over the fire until very hot. It must on no account boil, or the Eggs will curdle and spoil the effect. Serve hot. (5) Whisk eight Eggs to a stiff froth along with 2oz. of caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg; pour in gradually lqt. of red or white wine, and serve quickly. (6) Mix 1 table-spoonful of cold water with a well-beaten Egg; put in a saucepan 1 wineglassful of white wine, half that quantity of water, a very little grated nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten, bring it gently to the boil, stir it in with the Egg, return the whole to the saucepan, stir in one direction over the fire for a minute (no longer, or the Egg will curdle), and serve with sippets of dry toast. The wine can be made with- out warming up when the Egg is added, but it will not have such a pleasant taste, although it will be easier of digestion. Egg-and-Wine Custard.—Put 1 pint of white wine in a saucepan with a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and mace, and boil. Beat the yolks of three Eggs, stir them in quickly, moving the saucepan off the fire, for if the Eggs are boiled they will curdle. Turn the custard into a basin, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and whisk to a stiff froth. Serve in small glasses. Forcemeat of Hard-boiled Egg's and Parsley.—Pound the yolks of six hard-boiled Eggs in a mortar with a little finely- minced parsley, cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and salt and pepper to taste; add sufficient Egg to make it of the required consistence, roll the forcemeat into balls, and boil these in stock or water for two minutes before being used for garnish or otherwise. Eggs —continued. Fricassee of Eggs.—(1) Put about 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, place it over the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon until the milk is thickened with the bread; then move it off the fire and mix in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and six Eggs, adding the latter one at a time. Season to taste with salt and pepper; put the saucepan over the fire again, and stir the contents until on the point of boiling; then move it off at once, or the Eggs will curdle. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, squeeze over a small quantity of lemon-juice, and serve. (2) Boil twelve Eggs till hard, peel, and cut them into quarters. Pour J pint of gravy into a saucepan with the grated peel of a lemon, J table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of thyme, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; put in the Eggs with loz. of butter worked up with a little flour, and stir the whole gently over the fire until the sauce is thickened. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish, garnish with sliced and fried artichoke-bottoms and chopped hard-boiled Eggs, and serve. Fried Eggs. — (1) Put 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil in a frying-pan on the hot range, heat it well, break into it one Egg, being- careful not to injure the yolk, with the aid of a knife fold the white over the yolk, and cook for a-quarter-of- a-minute ; turn the Egg over with a skimmer, and cook for a-quarter-of-a-minute on the other side; lift it out with the skimmer, and place it on a hot dish with a folded napkin. Proceed in the same way with eleven more Eggs, and they will then be ready to be served. Mix 1 pinch of salt with J pinch of white pepper, and as soon as the Eggs are dressed on the dish, season each one evenly with it. Special care must be taken to cook the Eggs separately, and for no longer than a-quarter-of-a-minute on each side. (2) Usually ham or bacon is fried as an accompaniment for Eggs, and they are cooked in the pan after the ham is done ; bnt they can be fried in dripping, lard, or butter. Have ready in the frying-pan sufficient fat to half cover the Eggs; break these in separate cups or saucers, and slip them into the hot fat; but if to be cooked hard, either pour the hot fat over them with a spoon, or turn them entirely over in it without breaking the yolks. When they are cooked to the desired degree, take them out, dust over with pepper and salt, and serve. (3) Put jib. of butter in a frying-pan, and when melted put in one dozen Eggs, broken in a basin, with the yolks intact, and sprinkled with pepper and salt, and fry till firm. Take them out with a slice, drain, arrange them on a dish, pour over a little vinegar, and serve. Fried Eggs a la Provenpale.—Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of oil or warmed butter into a frying-pan on the fire; when heated, break an Egg into a cup, season with salt and pepper, drop it into the oil, baste it with the oil, turn it over, and when of a good colour on both sides, take out, and drain on a wire sieve. Cook twelve Eggs altogether, allowing two minutes for each. When all are done, trim them, and serve on a dish with pieces of fried bread between them. Pour over J pint of reduced Spanish sauce, with the zest of a lemon and six sliced mushrooms added to it, and serve very hot. Fried Eggs ■with Bacon.—Break a dozen Eggs separately in cups without damaging the yolks. Put some slices of fat bacon in a frying-pan, fry, take them out, boil the fat, put in the Eggs one at a time so that they will be able to be taken apart, and fi'y them well but not to be too much done. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over, and place care- fully on some slices of bacon on a dish, or they may be put in the centre of the dish and the slices of bacon put round as a garnish. Should there not be enough fat in the pan, add more. Although this is a very ordinary dish, it requires care in preparing. Fried Eggs with Black Butter.—Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, and make it hot without browning. Break twelve Eggs into cups, slide them carefully into the pan, season with salt and white pepper, and cook slowly for three minutes. Have ready a hot flat dish, slide tho Eggs gently on to it, without turning them over, taking care not to break them, and set the dish in a warm place. Put 2oz. of butter in the saucepan, place it on the hot stove again, 2 y 2