TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 566 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. parsley, and a little pepper and salt; add J teacupful of milk and grayy mixed. Pour the mixture into a flat disk, bake till the Eggs are set, and serve hot. Scalloped Eggs.— (1) Peel six hard-boiled Eggs, take out the yolks, and chop the whites very fine. Put a layer of breadcrumbs mixed with a little melted butter in a buttered scallop shell or dish, then a layer of the chopped whites, a layer of finely-minced cooked poultry, ham, or fish, a layer of white sauce, seasoned to taste, and the yolks of the Eggs, and so on until the dish is full. Cover the top with buttered crumbs, and bake. When the crumbs are brown, serve. (2) Moisten some fine breadcrumbs with a little milk ; then butter a dish, and spread a layer of the breadcrumbs on it. Boil two Eggs hard, peel them, cut them into slices, dip each slice in thick (reduced) white sauce, arrange them on the breadcrumbs, put another layer of moistened breadcrumbs on the top, and sprinkle breadcrumbs, dried in the oven, over all. Bake to a light brown, and serve while hot. (3) Boil hard half-a-dozen Eggs; when cold, peel and chop them up coarsely, and mix with them a few table-spoonfuls of white sauce. Thickly butter the inside of a scallop shell, and strew some finely-grated stale breadcrumbs in it; put in a layer of the chopped Eggs, cover with a layer of bread- crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, then another layer of Eggs, and so on until the shell is full, the last layer being of breadcrumbs and butter. Put it in the oven, and bake until lightly browned on the top ; when ready, spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pdace the shell on it, garnish round with parsley, and serve. Scotch Eggs.—(1) Put a little less than 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and boil until the mixture becomes quite smooth ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-chopped lean part of ham, a little cayenne, 1 saltspoonful of made mustard, and one Egg, and mix well. Boil six Eggs until they are hard, let them cool, and then take off their shells ; spread the mixture over the Eggs, plunge them — using the frying-basket -— into boiling fat, and let them remain for two or three minutes. Drain them, and serve with a garnish of parsley. (2) Boil six Eggs till hard, and take off the shells ; mask each Egg with raw forcemeat, roll them in grated ham or tongue, press with the hands to make it adhere, roll each Fig. 707. Eggs and Forcemeat. Egg in very fine breadcrumbs, and fry them in fat to a yellow colour. Put them on a dish, and pour sharp sauce or plain gravy over them; or cut them in halves and place them round on a plain lettuce salad (see Fig. 707). Scrambled. Eggs.—(1) Beat up four Eggs, and add 1 pinch of salt. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, pour in the Eggs, and stir quickly over a brisk fire for one minute. Toast and butter some slices of bread, put them on a dish, pour the Eggs over, and serve piping hot. (2) Break four Eggs in a basin, add 1 pinch of salt and pepper, beat lightly with a fork, and then add slowly 1 teacupful of milk, still beating. Melt a piece of butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the beaten Eggs, and stir quickly over the fire till cooked. Chopped parsley or minced meat may be mixed with the Eggs before cooking. Serve very hot on hot buttered toast. (3) Melt 3oz. of butter in a saucepan, break in twelve Eggs, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix thoroughly without ceasing for three minutes, using a spatula or knife, with the pan on a clear fire. Turn the Eggs into a warm tureen, add a little verjuice or lemon-juice, and serve. Eggs —continued. (4) Melt 3oz. or 4oz. of butter in a frying-pan, and break in as many Eggs as it will conveniently hold ; when the whites have set, stir them from the bottom of the pan to the centre till all are done, seasoning with salt and pepper, and adding a little more butter if required. Toast some slices of bread, cut off the crusts, butter the slices, grate cheese over, arrange on a dish, pour over the scrambled Eggs, sprinkle a little cayenne on the top, garnish with parsley, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus-tops.— Prepare as for Scrambled Eggs (No. 3). After the Eggs have been mixed with the butter in the pan, add a sufficient quantity of boiled asparagus-tops. Scrambled Eggs with Broth.—Put about 1 table-spoonful each of broth and milk in a small saucepan, add a small lump of butter, season with pepper and salt, break in two Eggs, and stir quickly over the fire till the Eggs begin to thicken; then take them off the fire and continue stirring till the Eggs are done. Have ready several thick slices of bread toasted and well buttered, put some of the Egg mixture on each piece, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Cream and Mushrooms. •— Beat four Eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Put ^ gill of cream and a small lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt the butter, pour in the beaten Eggs, and stir quickly over the fire for three or four minutes. Before cooking the Eggs, chop up some mushrooms, and lightly fry them in butter. When the Eggs are done, dish, mix the mushrooms with them, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Endive.—Blanch a head of endive for fifteen minutes, then drain, and cut it into lin. lengths. Put these in a saucepan on the fire with loz. of butter and one minced onion, fry, then moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, and add salt and pepper to taste. Continue to cook until all the liquor has evaporated, which should take from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Break twelve Eggs into another saucepan, add the endive and loz. more of butter, scramble or mix with a spatula for four minutes, and serve with croutons of fried bread placed round the dish for garnish. Scrambled Eggs with Goose’s Fat Liver. — Mask six pieces of toast with goose’s fat liver, and cover over with twelve scrambled Eggs; place them on a dish, pour round 2 table-spoonfuls of half-glaze, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef.—Fry 2oz. of finely- chopped smoked beef in a sa.ute-pan for one minute. Scramble twelve Eggs (as for No. 3), mix them with the beef, and serve with any kind of garnish. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles.—Put four sliced truffles in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to about half its original bulk, which will take about two minutes ; add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and season with salt and pepper. Break twelve Eggs into the saucepan, and mix well with a spatula or knife for three minutes on a quick fire without ceasing. Turn into a hot dish, and serve. Shanklin Eggs.—Boil six Eggs until hard, put them in cold water, peel them when cold, and cut a small piece off the top of each. Scoop out the yolks, being as careful as possible so as not to break the whites, put them in a mortar with ten olives, and pound them to a smooth paste. Season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, fill the whites with the mixture, and put the tops on again. Cut six rounds of bread about lin. in thickness, and cut a small circle half-way through the centre of each. Put a lump of clarified fat or lard in a stewpan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises, put in the rounds of bread and fry them a pale golden colour. Drain the rounds, and cut out the bread where the circle is marked, thus leaving a hollow place deep enough to stand one of the Eggs in. Fix the Eggs in the pieces of bread, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish tastefully with parsley, and serve. Shirred Eggs.—Butter the inside of a deep plate, break into it as many Eggs as will cover the bottom, shake a little pepper and salt over them, place bits of butter all over, put them into a moderately hot oven, and in five minutes they will be done.