560 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs—continued. boil continually for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Turn the pudding- out on to a dish, pour over white wine or sweet sauce, and serve. Egg Puffs.—Soften 1 table-spoonful of butter to a creamy consistence by working it with a fork ; then add three Eg-gs beaten to a froth, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 6 table-spoon- fuls of flour. Beat all these ingredients together until they foam, then put them into buttered earthen cups or small tin pans, and bake in a hot oven for about half-an-hour, or until they are cooked through and browned. Serve hot for breakfast or luncheon. Egg Punch.—See Punch. Eggs with Robert Sauce.—Peel two onions, take out the insides or hearts, cut these into slices, put them with 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan over a sharp fire, and brown; add 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, season with salt and pepper, and reduce for about ten minutes. When about to serve, cut eig-ht hard-boiled Eggs into slices, mix them in with the broth, and warm up without boiling for two minutes ; lastly add 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, and serve. ®gg Salad.—(1) Boil six Eggs until hard, and leave till cold. Peel and cut them lengthwise into halves, then dust a small quantity of salt, pepper, and cayenne over each half °f Egg, and pour over it a few drops of oil and vinegar. Chop together in equal quantities, chervil, chives, and tarragon-leaves, place them in the centre of a dish, and arrange the halves of eggs round this. Wash, drain, and chop a few young lettuce-leaves, place them round the Eggs (see Pig. 704), and serve. (2) Cut into lin. lengths two stalks of the white part of celery, put them in a salad-bowl, then sprinkle over the finely-chopped whites of three hard-boiled Eggs. Scrape the skin off some sardines, split them down the middle, remove the bones, and put them on the salad, with their tails pointing upwards, seasoning with salt and pepper. Put the yolks of the hard-boiled Eggs in a mortar with 1 teacupful of cream, and pound them to a smooth paste. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, mix vinegar with it to make it thinner, then pour it over the other ingredients. Garnish the salad with some young and green celery leaves, and serve. (3) Cut off as many slices of beetroot as required, over these put slices of pickled Eggs, cover with slices of pickled cucumber, sprinkle over a little vinegar, and serve with mayonnaise dressing poured over all. Egg Salad, a l’ltalienne.—Boil six Eggs till hard, leave till cold, then peel and cut them crosswise into halves. Remove the yolks, taking care not to break the whites, put them in a mortar with 3 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and pound them to a smooth paste. Mix with the yolks 2 table-spoon- fuls of boned and minced anchovies, 1 table-spoonful of minced onion, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, fill the halves of whites with the mixture. Wash the white leaves of two heads of endive, put them in a basin with some oil and vinegar mixed in equal quantities and seasoned with salt and pepper, and toss them about. Cut off the ends of the Eggs so as to make them stand, put them in the centre of a round flat dish, arrange the endive-leaves with some red radishes round the Eggs, and serve. Should any of the yolk mixture be left over after the Eggs are stuffed, it can be I spread over slices of buttered bread cut into shapes, such as ' Eggs —continued. squares, triangles, and diamonds, and put round the border of endive-leaves. Egg Sandwiches.—(1) Prepare 1 pint of cream sauce, and at the same time boil half-a-dozen Eggs for fifteen minutes. Cut six thin slices of bread from a household loaf, trim off the crusts, toast the slices, and put them on a dish. Pour the sauce over, arrange the whites of the Eggs cut into small strips on top, and sprinkle over with the yolks rubbed through a fine sieve. Put two slices together to form a sandwich, and set them in a quick oven for two or three minutes to heat through. Garnish with a little parsley, and serve. (2) Cut several thin slices of bread, and spread anchovy butter over them ; cut five or six hard-boiled Eggs in slices, lay them between two of the slices of bread with a little chopped watercress sprinkled over, and serve. Egg- Sauce.—(1) Boil six Eggs in a saucepan of water for six minutes. Remove the shells, let them cool, and cut up into little squares; melt 8 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan on the stove, add 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and a little salt and pepper, and boil for five or six minutes. Put in the Eggs, and shake the pan over the fire until the Eggs are hot, then add 2 table-spoonfuls more butter, and shake again until it is melted. Pour the sauce when ready into a sauceboat, and serve as required. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of cream and milk into a saucepan with 2oz. of grated vanilla-flavoured chocolate, sweeten with sugar, and set the pan on the fire; when its contents boil, take it off the fire, put in the yolks of four Eggs, and whisk well to a froth; return the pan to the fire, and continue stirring until the sauce is thick. Put the whites of the four Eggs, with 3oz. of sugar, into a basin, whisk to a stiff froth, add to the other mixture, stir well, and serve hot. Care must be taken not to let the mixture boil after the yolks have been added and whisked. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of veal broth into a saucepan, and add ljoz. of flour and 2oz. of butter to thicken it. Boil and add three hard-boiled Eggs, the yolks and whites minced separately, also a little lemon-juice, cayenne, and finely- chopped parsley. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in 1 teaspoonful more of butter, and the sauce is ready for use. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, flavoured with vanilla, into a saucepan, with sugar to taste, and set it on the fire ; when about to boil, add 1 table-spoonful of flour and the yolks of three Eggs, and stir until it begins to get thick. Add the whites, well whisked with a little sugar, just before pouring into the sauceboat. (5) Put | pint of water and 1 teacupful of vinegar into a saucepan with four shallots, a little each of allspice, mace, and garlic, and boil quickly so as to reduce the quantity to 1 breakfast-cupful ; strain, and let it get cold. Add the yolks of three Eggs, 2oz. of butter in one lump, and season with salt; set the pan over a slow fire, and stir continually. When thick, add a little finely-chopped tarragon, and use as required. (6) Heat 1 pint of Dutch sauce, and when about to serve, sprinkle in two chopped hard-boiled Eggs and 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. (7) Beat the yolks of three Eggs in a saucepan with 1 tea- spoonful of flour, then pour in gradually f pint of water and 1 teacupful of vinegar; add loz. of butter, and season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over a brisk fire till on the point of boiling', then move it to the side and stir for five or six minutes longer, adding a few small pieces of butter. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. Egg Sauce a la Maltre cl’Hotel.—Put 1 dessert-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, set it over the fire to melt, add a little flour to thicken, moisten with 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and season with pepper and salt; next add 1 dessert- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, two chopped hard-boiled Eggs, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when the sauce is quite hot serve. Egg Sauce for Fowls.—Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, melt it without browning, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix until smooth. Pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boil- ing water, adding a little at a time, and stir quickly till