706 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes,'Utensils, Sauces, tie., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. pack in ice, and when quite cold and set it is ready to be r turned out and served, either with or without whipped cream. See Fig. 870. Fig. 870. Gooseberry Shape. Gooseberry Souffle.—Scald the required quantity of Goose- berries, sweeten to taste, them pass through a sieve into a tart-dish, and let them get cold. Cover over to 2in. in depth with rich custard, then with the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, piling it in lumps, dust over with caster sugar, and bake in a very slack oven for a few minutes. Gooseberry Tart.—(1) Pick over lqt. of green Gooseberries, removing the tops and stems, wash them in cold water, and drain. Make a good paste and line a deep earthen pie-dish about tin. down the sides; then put in the Goose- berries mixed with 1 teacupful of Sultana raisins and lib. of sugar; cover the tart, wetting the edges of the paste to make them adhere, pressing the finger, slightly curved, all round the top of the tart, just inside the edge of the crust, to form a groove; in this groove make three or four cuts with a small, sharp knife, and then bake the tart until the crust is evenly browned. Serve it hot or cold, with plenty of powdered sugar. Whipped cream may be served with this. (2) Put a flawn-ring on a baking-sheet, lay a thin covering of short-crust over it, and fit it carefully inside the ring; cut it evenly all round the edge, fill the hollow with uncooked rice or flour to keep the paste in its place, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Cut the tops and stalks off the required quantity of Gooseberries, put them in a saucepan, pour in a little water to keep them from burning, and sweeten with moist sugar; when boiling, drain off the syrup, take the Gooseberries out, put the syrup back in the j saucepan, and boil it for ten minutes; then mix in the Gooseberries, turn the whole on to the tart crust, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve. (3) Put li pints of Gooseberries into a basin with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix together. Line a pie-dish with rich paste, spread over this a little apple sauce, and place the Gooseberries on the top of that. Moisten the edge of the tart with beaten egg, put a rim of paste round, brush over with more of the egg, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes or so. Take out the tart, sprinkle over powdered sugar, melt or glaze this in the oven, spread over a few ounces of sweet jelly, and serve. Gooseberry Tartlets.—(1) Cut the tops and stalks off the re- quired quantity of green Gooseberries, put them in a saucepan with boiling water, and let them bubble for two or three minutes ; then put them in a basin, sprinkle caster sugar over, and let them cool. Bub fib. of butter in lib. of flour, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt; beat together the yolks of three eggs and a little water, and with them mix the flour to a smooth paste. Line about fifteen buttered tartlet-moulds with the paste, take the Gooseberries out with a skimmer, and put some in the centre of each tart. Put the liquor from the Gooseberries in a saucepan, pour in a little syrup, and reduce till quite thick. When cold, pour a little over each of the tarts, arrange them on a dish, and serve with a little whipped cream on the top of each. (2) Mix 1 pint of ripe Gooseberries in a basin with 2oz. of powdered sugar. Line six fluted tart-moulds with ^lb. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, equally distributed, place the Gooseberries on top, and dust them Gooseberries—continued. over with more sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, then sprinkle the edges with more of the sugar, melt it in the oven for two minutes, take out the tarts, and cool them. Turn them out carefully, cover with a slight coating of apricot or apple jelly, place them on a napkin, and serve. Gooseberry Trifle.—(1) Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, then mix with it the well-beaten whites of two eggs, 1 wineglassful of raisin wine, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Set this in a cool place, and- leave it until the following day. Cut the heads and tails off lqt. of green Gooseberries, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently until tender; then strain and rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Spread the pulp at the bottom of a dish. Beat the yolks of the two eggs with 1 pint of milk, sweeten with caster sugar, turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until on the point of boiling ; then move it off directly, or the eggs will curdle. When cold, pour the custard over the Gooseberries, cover with the whipped cream, and serve. (2) Snip the tops and stalks off a quantity of Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew them. When tender, pulp the Gooseberries through a fine hair sieve, sweeten to taste, grate in a little nutmeg, and add a small quantity of brandy. Spread the Gooseberry pulp in a thick layer at the bottom of a dish. Put | pint each of milk and cream and the beaten yolk of one egg in a saucepan, and stir over the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil; sweeten with sugar, and leave till cold. Spread the thickened milk and cream over the Goose- berries, using a spoon, cover with whipped cream, and serve. Gooseberry Vinegar. -Select if possible red and green hairy Gooseberries picked when quite ripe; put them into a tub and mash them; then stir in 21b. of lump sugar to each 41b. of Gooseberries, and let them remain for a couple of hours. Now turn all into a preserving-pan, and make the juice quite hot ; then strain it through a jelly-bag into a jar, and mix in 1 pint of plain spirit to each gallon of liquor. Add next an equal quantity of white-wine vinegar, and bottle. Gooseberry Wine.—(1) Pick off the tops and stalks of the Gooseberries, and bruise them in a large crock. For each pound of fruit pour over lqt. of cold water, and leave for three days, stirring two or three times a day. Then strain the liquor, and for every 4galls. mix in 121b. of loaf sugar and a bottle of French brandy. Turn the wine into a barrel that will just hold it, and suspend through the bung-hole a small quantity of isinglass tied up in a piece of muslin. Back the wine in six months’ time, and if the sweetness is suffi- ciently gone, pour it off into bottles, cork tightly, and pack them away in a cool dry cellar. (2) Crush 121b. of Gooseberries in the hands, put them in a tub, pour over 8 breakfast-cupfuls of cold spring water, stir well, and leave for twenty-four hours. Strain into a cask, add 8 breakfast-cupfuls more water, with 41b. of sugar dissolved in it, and leave it for twenty-four hours longer. Skim well, putting the scum into a flannel bag, and returning the liquor that runs from it to the wine. Leave it for two or three days, bung down securely, and bottle off in four months’ time. In drawing off, the sediment must not be disturbed. (3) Spring water should be used if possible. Put 12qts. of it into a saucepan, boil up, and let it get cold; pour it into a large tub over 4qts. of crushed Gooseberries, leave it for two or three days, stirring frequently, strain through a flannel, and add lib. of coarse moist sugar for every gallon of the liquor. Pour it into a cask, put in a piece of toast smeared with yeast, cover over the bung-hole, place the cask in the sun or in a warm temperature, and leave it for several days, giving the cask an occasional shake. It is ready for bottling when clear. (4) Take some fresh-gathered ripe yellow Gooseberries, mash them well in a wooden tub with a wooden pestle, and add to each gallon of Gooseberries lgall. of water; stir well together, and let them stand for three weeks, stirring thoroughly two or three times every day. Strain the liquor through a hair sieve, and to every quart add jib. each of treacle and moist sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of fresh yeast. Beturn the liquor to the tub it was in