THE encyclopedia of practical cookery. 539 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eclairs—continued. and stir briskly for two minutes. Stand the pan on a table> break in one egg, mix sharply for two minutes, break in a second egg-, mix sharply again, and repeat with a third and fourth egg. Put a small tube into a pastry-bag, press out upon a baking-sheet fifteen Eclairs, each one 3in. long, and bake these in a hot oven for twenty minutes; then remove them and let them cool. Open each Eclair on one side with a pair of scissors, and with a spoon fill the interiors with cream (No. 1 or 2). Take the Eclairs one by one, with the hand dip them into icing- (Nos. 1, 2, or 3), lay them on a strainer, let them cool for five minutes, dress them on a dish with a folded napkin (see Fig. 681), and serve. (2) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 5 pint of water, and set it over the fire until boiling; then throw in Jib. of flour and 1 level teaspoonful of moist sugar, and stir it vigorously with a wooden spoon. When thoroughly mixed, take the saucepan off the fire, and stir for two or three minirtes longer; leave the paste for five minutes, then stir in four eggs one at a time. Turn the paste out of the saucepan on to a dish, and leave it for lialf-an-hour. Butter a baking-tin; stir the paste again, then put it into a biscuit-forcer and squeeze it out in small cakes at a little distance apart on the tin, and put this in a brisk oven to bake. When the Eclairs are done, take them off the tin and lay them on a dish until cold. Fill them with cream (No. 3), mask with icing (No. 4), and serve cold. (3) Cocoa-nut.—Prepare a couple of dozen very light puffs, bake them, and roll in a mixture of grated cocoa-nut and sifted sugar, giving them a good coating-. Set them in a hot closet to dry, and they are ready for use. Desiccated cocoa-nut may be used if preferred, but if used must be mixed up with syrup. Ellie’s Eclairs.—Make a sponge cake of lib. of eggs weighed in their shells, lib. of sugar, and 9oz. of flour ; flavour with the grated rind and strained juice of lemon, and bake in six tins. When baked it should not be quite lin. thick. Put lqt. of fresh milk over the fire, boil it, pour it gradually over the yolks of four eggs well beaten with 4oz. of powdered white sugar, mix well, return to the saucepan, set it over the fire again, and stir in lioz. of cornflour blended with a little cold milk ; con- tinue stirring till thick, then remove it from the fire, and stir into it while hot a flavouring of vanilla. Put a layer of this custard over three of the sponge cakes, and cover with the others. Make an icing of 6oz. of powdered white sugar, 3 table- spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh cream, and about Joz. of butter; put this icing over the fire, let it simmer for a few minutes, and then spread it over the Eclairs. Sprinkle them over while hot with white sugar. Icing- fox’ Eclairs.—(1) Put into a saucepan ljlb. of granulated sugar and 1 gill of cold water, set it on the stove, and with a spatula mix well until the sugar is thoroughly melted; when boiling, remove from the stove, pour it gradually on a marble slab, spread it about 3ft. square, and let it cool for ten minutes. Put loz. of coffee into a saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful of cold water, boil till reduced to about 2 table-spoon- fuls, strain through a cloth, and let it cool. With a spatula begin working the sugar that is on the slab as rapidly as possible in every direction until it begins to whiten ; add the coffee essence, mixing it thoroughly until it becomes hard; remove the spatula, detach the preparation quickly from the slab with a knife, put it into a vessel, cover with a damp cloth, and let it rest for half-an-hour. Place half of it in a saucepan on the hot stove, and with the spatula mix thoroughly and slowly until it is lukewarm, meanwhile adding 1 teaspoonful of E clair s—continued. cold water. The rest of the preparation, if laid aside in a cool place and properly taken care of, will keep good for a fortnight, but this quantity is best to be made up at one time. (2) The same as No. 1 ; but the coffee essence may be omitted from the icing-, and 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of vanilla used instead. (3) Melt 2oz. of chocolate in small pieces on a plate, set it in a moderate oven, and substitute it for the essence of vanilla of No. 2. (4) Put loz. of chocolate into a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, and stir over the fire until melted ; then add 2oz. of sugar, and continue stirring the mixture until thick enough to spread over the cakes. (5) To J pint of made coffee add sufficient icing sugar to make it thick; warm up on the hot stove, and use as required. ECONOMY IN THE KITCHEN. — This is a subject that requires very little treatment, because it follows as a matter of course that a good cook is economical. The entire work of this Encyclopaedia is inclined towards Economy; that is to say, the instructions given are of such a simple character that no more expense is incurred in producing even the most elaborate dishes than is absolutely necessary for the elaboration of that dish. A scientific and artistic cook allows no waste— every scrap is used up so long as it has any nutritive or culinary value left in it, and not until then is even a bone allowed to enrich the pig-tub. It is a very mistaken notion that artistic cookery is extravagant; for as every artistic cook knows, some of the very tastiest dishes are made from what in some kitchens would be wasted. Urbain Dubois, whose ex- perience entitles him to make the remark, has said that lie believes there is more actual waste in a small private kitchen than in all the kitchens of a royal palace. That many dishes given in this Encyclopedia are costly cannot be gainsaid; but the bulk of them are not, and a large majority of the receipts given are not only in- expensive, but based upon the very essence of Economy. The object of this work throughout is to teach good cooking, cooking founded upon the best principles of science; some of the receipts are suitable for a royal table, some for noblemen, some for the middle classes, and many for the poor; but whether these receipts cost much or little iu their preparation, they are economical—that is to say, the cost of a dish may be very great and yet its mode of preparation economical; and, on the contrary, a dish may be ever so cheap in its actual cost and yet very wasteful in proportion to its value. Again, stinginess in the kitchen is not Economy, for it is an old saying that when a cook cannot get lard he will use butter. A clever manager will so arrange that there shall be plenty of everything for the cook to use, and yet allow no waste, or even liberal extravagance. The cook’s delight should be to make the best return for the smallest outlay consistent with the work done, and the employer should see that the wages of the cook do not necessitate a back-door trade with the scavenger. See also Accounts. ECKEVISSES.—Fr. for Crayfish. EDDOES.—The tubers of a species of Taro (Colocasia escidenta) held in great favour as a vegetable in tropical countries where they are grown (see Eig. 682). There are some other varieties of Eddoes which are also used as food: G. antiquorum is cultivated in Egypt and India for the sake of its leaves, which, although unpalatable before cooking, may after boiling be eaten as spinach. They are sometimes prepared as follows: Boil some Eddoes until they will leave tlieir skins readily. Put into a stewpan some fillets of tckad (a kind of salted herring) and enough butter, when melted, to cover the bottom of the pan lin. deep. Season with black pepper and a sus- picion of powdered mace, and toss this over the fire until the fish is cooked. Pile the tchad in the centre of a flat