562 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. mixture into a stiff hard ball, grate this on a coarse grater, spreading it all over a paste-board, and then put it in a warm place where it will dry. Put 3 pints of clear soup into a saucepan, set it over the fire until boiling, then sprinkle in the grated Egg-paste, with a small quantity of grated nutmeg and finely-chopped chives. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread separately. (4) Put a good-sized lump of butter in a saucepan, melt it, put in 21b. of breadcrumbs, and toss them about for a few minutes over the fire ; mix in 1 pint of clear, well-flavoured stock, | pint of raisin wine, and three well-beaten Eggs, and stir at the side of the fire until on the verge of boiling; then turn it at once into a soup-tureen, and serve. Eggs dressed in Spanish Fashion.—Put a slice of bacon- fat into a frying-pan over a brisk fire, and when the fat is melted, stir in 1 teaspoonful of honey, break in half- a-dozen new-laid Eggs, being careful not to break their yolks, and fry slowly. When cooked, take them carefully up with a slice, place them on a hot dish, strew sliced pickled red and green capsicums over, and serve. Egg Tablets.—Beat the yolks of eight Eggs with Goz. of powdered white sugar for half-an-hour; beat the whites also for half-an-hour in a separate basin; then mix them together, and add and stir in by degrees Goz. of sifted flour. When this is well mixed, add £ pint of orange-flower or rose-water, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. Butter some flat tins, fill a pastry-bag with the paste, and push it through the tube on to the buttered tins. Bake in a hot oven. Egg Toasts.—Beat together one Egg, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and 1 pinch of salt; soak in this six small slices of stale bread, and when soft put them on a well-buttered griddle and brown both sides. These make a very good dish for tea, served hot, and eaten with butter. Eggs on Toast.—(1) Toast six or eight pieces of bread without crust, cut square, butter them, and put them on a dish. Place a poached Egg on each, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and serve hot. (2) Mask the bottom of a large flat dish with white sauce or gravy (poultry for preference), and have ready as many slices of bread fried in butter as Eggs used; put the dish over a saucepan of boiling water, and when the liquor and bread are quite hot, put an Egg on each, and cook until they are set. (3) Nearly fill a frying-pan with salted water, and when it boils carefully break in a cup as many Eggs as required, and slip each one separately into the boiling water. When firm, take them out one at a time with a perforated slice, drain them, and trim the edges; put each one on a little square of hot buttered toast, pour a thin cream sauce round them, and serve. (4) Put loz. of butter on a plate and melt it in the oven; break eight Eggs, one by one, on to the plate, and cook them slowly in a moderate oven. When done, serve on slices of hot buttered toast. A little finely-chopped fried parsley sprinkled over improves this dish. (5) Pour 1 pint of tomato sauce into a saucepan on the fire, add two peeled and cut-up sweet peppers, and fry for two minutes with 1 table-spoonful of butter, adding 1 tea- spoonful of chopped chives; then reduce it gradually to about half its original quantity, which will take about ten minutes. Poach and trim six Eggs, place six slices of hot toast on a warm dish, arrange the Eggs carefully on top, and pour over the tomato sauce. Serve at once, or the effect will be lost. (6) Make as many small slices of toast as there are Egg's, lay them on a dish, butter them, and on each one put an Egg, first broken into a cup. Set the dish before the fire, where the heat will strike the Eggs, and let them cook. When done, squeeze over the juice of a sour orange, season lightly with salt and cayenne, and serve hot. (7) Make a large round of toast, remove the crust, put the toast in a dish with a few lumps of butter on it, and place it in front of the lire. Break eight Eggs, put them on the toast when the butter is melted, pour over a little orange- or lemon-juice, and dust with grated nutmeg. Hold a hot salamander over the Eggs until they are set, and then serve. Eggs —continued. (8) Toast several thick slices of bread, trim off the crusts, butter the slices, place a poached Egg on each, put them on separate plates, pour 1 teacupful of boiling milk over every one, and serve one to each person. Eggs with Tomato Sauce.—(1) Boil three Eggs till hard, peel them, out the whites into strips, put these over the fire with tomato sauce, and let them get quite hot. Put a layer of this on a hot dish with pieces of fried bread all round. Chop the yolks of the Eggs, put a layer over the sauce and white of Egg, then more tomato and more chopped Egg, and so on till the yolks of the Eggs and tomato sauce are all dished, having a layer of the yolks on top. Serve as hot as possible. (2) Cut some hard-boiled Eggs into quarters, and put them on a dish; pour over tomato sauce, garnish with parsley, and serve. Eggs as Tripe.—(1) Boil a dozen Eggs until hard, and when cold, peel and cut them into slices. Peel some small pickling onions, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry over a slow fire ; dredge over with flour, pour in J breakfast- cupful each of stock and cream, and stew gently until tender, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. When the onions are ready, put in the Eggs, and leave them until hot, moving the stewpan to the side of the fire. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve at once. (2) Peel and chop four onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry; dredge over 1 table- spoonful of flour, pour in 1 teacupful each of milk and cream, and stir the sauce over the fire until boiling and the onions quite tender; then move the pan to the side, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cut eight or ten hard-boiled Eggs into slices, put them in the sauce, and set the pan over the fire until hot. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put two medium-sized sliced onions in a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry, but not sufficiently to brown them; mix in | table-spoonful of flour and 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, season with salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg, and cook for eight minutes, stirring constantly with a spatula or wooden spoon; add twelve sliced hard-boiled Eggs, and heat together thoroughly for two minutes without letting the mixture boil again. Turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Eg'g’-and-Truffle Omelets.—Cut a small quantity of truffles into thin slices, put them in a stewpan with a little brown sauce, and boil very gently. Make a sufficient quantity of plain Egg omelets, spread the truffles over them, and fold them up. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the omelets on it, garnish with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Egg Vermicelli.—Boil three Eggs for twenty minutes, peel, separate the yolks and whites, and chop the whites finely. Have ready four slices of bread toasted, and cut them into 2in. squares, after trimming off the crusts. Mix 1 teaspoon- ful of flour with 1 teacupful of milk, season with 1 tea- spoonful of salt and pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter; put this to cream in a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked; then add the chopped whites of Eggs, and stir two or three minutes longer. Arrange the squares of toast on a dish, pour over the mixture, and let it set. Bub the yolks through a fine strainer and pile on the top of the toasts. Cut some slices of toasted bread into triangles, garnish the dish with these alternately with sprigs of parsley, place a small bunch of parsley in the centre, and serve hot. Eggs softened in Vinegar.—Take two or three Eggs (those having' clear white shells for preference), put them into a basin of vinegar, and leave in it for a day or so for the shell to soften; then put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for seven or eight minutes, when they will appear as if poached, preserving an oval, disc-like shape, and the soft shell can easily be stripped off after. Serve as for poached Eggs, or in any other convenient manner. Egg-and-Watev Cream.—Put 1 pint of water in a saucepan with 2oz. of sugar, a small quantity of coriander and cinnamon, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and boil. Remove the pan from the fire, beat in the yolks of eight