TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 486 •s, 1be., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cucumbers—continued. a saute-pan with i pint of boiling bechamel sauce, Joz. of butter, a little nutmeg, and 1 gill of milt. Cook all together for fifteen minutes, pour the whole on a hot dish, and serve. Cucumbers a Blanc.—Peel and cut three Cucumbers into pieces about 2in. long, leaving the seeds ; put the pieces in a saucepan with 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, loz. of butter, and one or two chopped shallots; turn about over a moderate fire for ten minutes, without breaking the Cucumbers, and keeping them qrrite white. Cover with a little white broth and simmer till tender ; take the Cucumbers out with a large spoon, and drain them on a sieve. Put in the stewpan it pint of bechamel sauce and f pint of white broth ; skim off the butter, reduce till rather thick, add 5 teacupful of cream, season with salt and pepper, put in the Cucumbers, warm up, and serve. Cucumbers a la Blanquette.—Peel some small Cucumbers. Take some white thickening, made by melting butter with flour over the fire, mix with it a little chicken broth (not making it too thin), and boil with a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and some green onions. Skim, and strain it through a sieve or conical strainer; pour it into a stewpan with the Cucumbers, and let them stew a short time. Take them out, drain them, and reduce the liquor; thicken this with the yolks of four eggs, pour the sauce over the Cucumbers, and serve. Cucumbers a la Fran9aise.—Peel a green Cucumber, slice it very thinly, put it in a basin with Joz. of salt, and pickle for four hours. Drain well, and arrange the slices on a dish, with pepper, oil, vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped herbs, such as parsley, chervil, tarragon, and burnet, put over the slices. Cucumbers a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peel two or three Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and cut into pieces about 3in. long. Plunge the pieces into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until done and tender; then take them out and drain. Put them into another saucepan with a little butter kneaded with flour, and add a small quantity of chopped onion and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss the pan over the fire for about five minutes, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—(1) Peel and slice some Cucumbers, soak them for half-an-hour in salted vinegar, and drain on a cloth. Put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry over a brisk fire, but do not brown them. Sift over a little flour, and moisten with a little broth. Skim oft' the butter, reduce the broth, without breaking the slices of Cucumber, add a little chopped parsley and sugar, thicken with three or more eggs, according to the quantity of Cucumbers, and season with salt and pepper. Serve while hot. (2) Peel three medium-sized Cucumbers, cut them length- wise into quarters, and scrape out the seeds. Cut the Cucumbers into pieces 2in. long and lin. thick, and put them into a large saucepan with loz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 2qts. of water. When they are tender, which can be ascertained by passing a trussing-needle into them, di'ain on a cloth. Pour over the Cucumbers 1 pint of poulette sauce, and serve. (3) Peel three large Cucumbers, blanch them in boiling salted water for five minutes, drain, and cut them into slices lin. thick. Put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, sprinkle over them 1 pinch of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 break- fast-cupful of white broth, seasoning with salt and pepper. Stir irntil it boils, and reduce the whole for fifteen minutes, adding 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little nutmeg, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet cream. Cook again for three minutes without letting it come to the boil, and serve. Cucumbers served like Cardoons.—Quarter some Cucumbers lengthwise, scrape out the seeds, and slit the outsides so that they may resemble cardoons. Blanch them in boiling water, stew in strong broth with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce in it, and boil over a sharp fire. Should the broth taste bitter, put in a little piece of sugar. Serve hot. Cucumbers stuffed with Forcemeat.—(1) Select Cucumbers of an equal size ; peel them, cut off one end, and scoop out the seeds. Lay the Cucumbers on a sieve, dredge them with Cucumbers—continued. salt, and let them drain. Prepare a sufficient quantity of cooked veal or chicken forcemeat, highly seasoned, and stuff the Cucumbers with it. Lay them in an enamelled saucepan, cover with sour cream, and boil slowly. When the Cucumbers are tender, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the remains of their cooking-liquor over them, and serve. See Fig. 596. (2) Peel some Cucumbers, cut off the stalk ends, scoop out the seeds, and fill up the hollows with a stuffing composed of minced cold veal, a small quantity of breadcrumbs, an egg, and some finely-chopped lemon-peel. Wrap some more stuffing up in vine-leaves, tying each up separately with a thread. Put a piece of butter at the bottom of a sauce- pan, lay the rolled vine-leaves and the stuffed Cucumbers side by side, add chopped onions, pepper, and mace, cover with good broth, and let them simmer gently till done. Carefully take out the Cucumbers and vine-leaves and put them on a dish; reduce the liquor in which they were boiled to half its original quantity; then pour it over the Cucumbers and vine-leaves, and serve. (3) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them into 2in. lengths, blanch them in boiling water, take them out, scrape out the seeds, and fill the hollows with quenelle forcemeat mixed up with a few table-spoonfuls of fine herbs. Spread some pieces of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the Cucumbers, moisten them with broth from which the fat has not been skimmed off, season with salt and spices, and cover them with buttered paper; place over a slow fire and braise. When done, drain the Cucumbers and dish them. Thicken the liquor in which they were cooked with a little sauce, flavour it with lemon, add a little chopped parsley, and pour it over the Cucumbers. (4) Cut four Cucumbers in the shapes of curls (see Crulls). When the outsides are cut, empty the insides with a scooper, blanch them in boiling water, then rinse in cold water; drain them, take a little quenelle forcemeat and fill the hollows of the Cucumbers with it. Put a layer of bacon in a stewpan, then the Cucumbers; cover with another layer of bacon, add pepper, salt, and broth, and let them stew gently in this, but not too long, or the Cucumbers will become pulpy. When done, drain them on a cloth, and serve with Spanish sauce, which should have been reduced almost to a glaze. (5) Peel six small Cucumbers, cut off the ends, and with a vegetable-scoop extract all the seeds. Place the Cucum- bers in slightly acidulated water, rinse well, boil in boiling water for three minutes, take them out and put in cold water. Drain and stuff them with cooked fowl force- meat. Line a saute-pan with slices of pork-skin ; put in the Cucumbers, season with salt and pepper, add a bouquet garni, 1 wineglassful of white wine, two cloves, and 1 table-spoonful of dripping from any kind of roasted meat. Cover with buttered paper, and place in a slow oven to cook gently for twenty minutes. When done, put on a hot dish, free them entirely from fat, pour over a breakfast- cupful of Madeira sauce, and serve. (6) Put two large Cucumbers into a saucepan of water, boil for ten or twelve minutes, then take them out and drain. Cut them lengthwise in halves, scoop out all tbe seeds, and fill the cavity with any rich forcemeat. Tie them in their original shape, sprinkle over with flour, put in the oven or a Dutch oven before the fire and brown them, basting frequently with hot butter. When they are done (they should not take longer than twenty minutes), put them on a dish, carefully remove the string so as not to part the halves, pour round hot rich gravy, and serve.