G03 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. mces, it'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fondues—continued. the cheese, and also the well-whipped whites of the six eggs. When smooth, fill small paper cases, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Put the yolks of eight eggs into a stewpan, wliisk them for a few minutes, then put in fib. of butter, broken in little pieces, 1 pinch of pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Set the stewpan over a slow fire, and stir the contents till they begin to thicken, then add I lb. of grated Gruyfn’e cheese; continue stirring the mixture over the fire until the cheese is quite dissolved, then place the stewpan in the bain-marie. Blanch three or four handfuls of shred nouilies, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; stir them over the fire for a few minutes, and gi’ate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese over. Mix 1 teacupful of rich cream in with the Fondue, turn it into the centre of a dish, lay the nouilies round it, and serve. Fondue a la Neapolitaine. Put Jib. of flour and ilb. of butter in a stewpan, beat them well together with a wooden spoon, and add rather less than lqt. of milk ; stir over the fire and boil for twenty minutes; put in Ilb. of macaroni that has been previously boiled for ten minutes, also fib. of grated Parmesan and fib. of grated Gruyere cheese; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Whip the whites of ten eggs, stir them in with the mixture, fill a croustade with the preparation, and bake for one-hour-and-a-lialf in a moderate oven. Dish the Fondue, when cooked, on a folded napkin spread on a dish, and serve. Fondues made with Italian Paste.—Steep Jib. of Italian paste in boiling water for ten minutes, then drain it on a fine hair sieve till dry. Mix 1 table-spoonful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in a stewpan, and stir in gradually f pint of boiling milk ; stir over the fire till thick, then put in the Italian paste, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer; cut ilb. of Stilton cheese into small dice, and mix with the rest, also ilb. of grated Parmesan; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, add the yolks of six eggs, and continue stirring till the eggs are partially set. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and mix them with the other ingre- dients as soon as they are cold. Fill some small paper cases with the preparation, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-kour in a moderate oven. They should be served very hot. Fondue with Truffles.—Soak Jib. of Gruyere cheese in milk for two or three hours. When ready, drain off the milk, cut the cheese in dice, and put it in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk ; strain the prepara- tion through a sieve into an earthen pan. Put the saucepan containing the cheese and milk over a slow fire, and stir till quite melted; mix with it the beaten yolks, and continue stirring till of the consistency of cream, but do not let this boil; put in a pat of butter and two or three sliced white truffles, dust well with pepper, pour the Fondue in a deep dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. FOOD.—In a physiological sense this word may he taken to signify all or any material that is taken up by the body, and assimilated for the purpose of renewing tissues. In a culinary sense the application is principally to those things which are good to eat or drink, and are of animal or vegetable origin. Professor Tnson describes Food as anything which feeds or promotes the natural growth of organic bodies by supplying them with mate- rials which, by assimilation, may be converted into the substances of which they are composed; or which, by its decomposition or slow combustion, maintains the tem- perature, or some other essential condition of life, at the proper standard. The numerous articles employed as Food are all compounds, and in many cases they consist of mechanical mixtures or chemical combinations of two or more compounds. Organised matter, or that which has possessed either animal or vegetable life, or which has been produced by living organisms, seem to be alone capable of assimilation, to any extent, by the animal system; and hence it is from the organic kingdom that our foods are necessarily derived. Water, iron, earthy phosphates, chloride of sodium, and other salts, which form the inorganic constituents of the body, though not For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Food—continued. of themselves nourishing, are also assimilated when taken in conjunction with organic aliments, and then contribute essentially to nutrition. In the animal and vegetable substances employed as Food, these inorganic compounds are provided in small but sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of the healthy body, and in this state of combination alone can they be regarded in the light of aliments. A complete consideration of this subject embraces not only all the substances used as Food, but also those things which when taken with them improve their flavour, promote their digestion, and render them more wholesome and nutritive; and also their preparation for the table in its various relations with health and disease. This necessarily extends over such vast fields of infor- mation that it would require some volumes to treat the subject completely. The following Act of Parliament is however worthy of introduction as showing the pro- tective influences that regulate our markets, and thus ensure for our use good and sound Foods, their prime- ness of quality being left to the cook to decide for himself. Copious information will be found on all these points in these pages. See Digestion. “ Any medical officer of health or inspector of nuisances may at all reasonable times inspect and examine any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk, exposed for sale, or deposited in any place for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale, and intended for the Food of man, the proof that the same was not exposed or deposited for any such purpose, or was not intended for the Food of man, resting with the party charged; and if any such animal carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk appears to such medical officer or inspector to be diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the Food of man, he may seize and carry away the same himself or by any assis- tant, in order to have the same dealt with by a justice. “ If it appears to the justice that any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk so seized is diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the Food of man, he shall condemn the same and order it to lie destroyed, or so disposed of as to prevent it from being exposed for sale, or used for such Food ; and the person to whom the same belongs or did belong at the time of sale, or of exposure for sale, or in whose possession, or on whose premises the same was found, shall be liable to a penalty not ex- ceeding £20 for every animal, carcase, or fish, or piece of meat, flesh, or fish, or any poultry or game, or for the parcel of fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, or flour, or for the milk so condemned, or at the discretion of the justice, without the infliction of a fine, to imprisonment for a term of not more than three months. “The justice who, under this section, is empowered to convict the offender may lie either the justice who may have ordered the article to be disposed of or destroyed, or any other justice having jurisdiction in the place. “Any person who in any manner prevents any medical officer of health or inspector of nuisances from entering any premises and inspecting any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk exposed or deposited for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale, and intended for the Food of man, or who obstructs, or impedes any such officer or inspector, or his assistant, when carrying into execution the provisions of this Act, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding £5. “ Any complaint made on oath by a medical officer of health, or by an inspector or other officer of a local au- thority, any justice may grant a warrant to any such officer to enter any building or part of a building in which any such officer has reason for believing that there is kept or concealed any animal, carcase, meat, poultry,