TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 583 tfcc., referred tot see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Figs —continued. mass by working in three or four eggs, pour the batter into a mould, buttered and dusted with coarse moist sugar and decorated with Figs cut into strips (see Fig. 734), put a piece of buttered paper over the mould, place it in a Fig. 734. Fig Pudding. saucepan of boiling water to three-parts the height of the mould, bring the water to the boil again, remove the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three- hours-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve hot. Tig Roly-Poly Pudding.—Make a pudding-crust with lib. of flour, 6oz. of beef-suet, 1 teaspoonful each of baking- powder and salt, and a sufficient quantity of water to form a paste, then roll it out to about jin. in thickness. Cut some Dried Figs into slices, and cover the surface of the paste with them, roll the paste up, making a long roll of it, moisten the edges with water, and press them together. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil for four hours, adding more boiling water as the quantity becomes diminished. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Pig Shape.—Put lib. of Dried Figs into a saucepan with a little lemon-peel and 2oz. of sugar, pour over sufficient claret or water, or both in equal proportions, to cover, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Figs are soft and the liquor absorbed, or nearly so. Put the preparation into a mould, squeezing it down tightly, let it get cold, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with custard or well-whipped cream. After the Figs have been cooked they should form a stiffish paste, and if they should still be lumpy they must be rubbed through a fine sieve. Frozen Fig Pudding.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar into a saucepan without any water over a moderate fire, and melt it until it becomes like molasses ; add 1 teacupful of water, and boil up until the sugar is all dissolved. Put Iqt. of milk into a basin, add 14oz. of sugar and the yolks of eight eggs; strain the caramel or boiled sugar into it, and put all into the freezer. Finely chop lib. of Dried Figs to about the size of sultana raisins, and add them. When they are well mixed in and the pudding frozen a little, put it into a mould, and pack the mould in pounded ice and salt for two hours or so until stiff and set. Turn it out on to a cold dish, and serve. A teacupful of curaijoa instead of the water may be added to the melted sugar if preferred. Stewed Figs. -Put 4oz. of sugar into a lined stewpan with the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon and 1 pint of cold water; stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, then move the pan to the side, add lib. of Dried Figs, and stew very gently for from two hours to two-hours-and-a-half. When the Figs are quite tender, mix with them 2' wineglassfuls of port wine and the strained juice of a lemon, let them get cold, turn them with their syrup on to a glass dish, and serve. Stuffed Figs.— Make a thin syrup of 1 pint of water and jjlb. of loaf sugar; when skimmed and boiled clear, put into it one dozen large whole Dried Figs, and let them get hot through. Remove the pan from the fire, and then let the Figs soak in the syrup for twenty-four hours. Put 6oz. of loaf sugar, 5 saltspoonful of cream of tartar, and 5 teacupful of cold water into a saucepan, and boil it till, when a little of it is tried in cold water, it forms a soft jelly; take it from the fire, let it stand closely covered for ten minutes, Figs —continued. and then beat it to a smooth cream with a spatula. Have ready |lb. of sweet almonds, blanched, thoroughly dried, and grated, stir them into the creamed syrup together with a small quantity of essence of almonds and a little finely-cut citron ; cut a slit in the side of each Fig’ and stuff this paste into them, lay them on a dish, and dredge with sugar. Let them stand in a warm place for a few hours to dry slightly, and they are ready for use. FIG-PECKERS (.Fr. Becfigues; Ger. Feigenschnep- fen; Ital. Beccafici; Sp. Becafigos).—These birds (Sylvia or Curruca hovtensis), although European, are comparatively unknown in this country. They are very small, not being much bigger than nightingales, and feed on figs and grapes, which give to their flesh such a delicate flavour that a gourmet remarked of them—if they were only as big as pheasants they would each be worth an acre of land. Small as they are, they admit of some very artistic treat- ment, as shown by a receipt contributed to culinary literature by the famous Urbain Dubois. Bakecl Fig-peckers with. Mushrooms.—Select two dozen plump birds, pluck them, remove their gizzards, chop off their necks and legs, and singe them. Cut off the stalks of two dozen good-sized mushrooms, wipe well, but do not wash them, and put them on a wire sieve in a moderate oven to dry. Take the best of the stalks, pick, wash, and then chop them up. Cut an onion into small pieces, and fry it in a saucepan with a little oil; add the pieces of stalks and a small clove of garlic bruised. When the moisture has evaporated a little, dust over a handful of breadcrumbs, remove the pan from the fire, and put in 1 teacupful of raw ham, cut in small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of finely- minced parsley. Take a little of this mixture out with a teaspoon, and put it into the hollow part of the mushroom, Fig. 735. Fig-pecker on Mushroom. place one of the birds on each (see Fig. 735), brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in oil, and dust them with chopped parsley. Place them on a baking-sheet, baste with oil and the juice of two lemons, place the sheet in a hot oven, and bake for from twelve to fifteen minutes. Take out the birds, baste them over with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Fig-peckers in Cases. -Prepare as above as many Fig- peckers as required. Have ready as many paper cases as birds, mask them with perigueux sauce, and put in the birds, making a hole in the sides of the cases to let the heads through. Set them in a quick oven to cook, or brown them with a salamander, as they require but very little cooking. Put them on a dish moistened with a few drops of hot perigueux sauce, and serve at once. FILBERTS (Fr. Avelines; Ger. Lambertsnusse; Ital. Avellane; Sp. Avellanas).—How it lias come to pass that the cultivated hazel-nuts, called Filberts (Corylus Avel- lana), should obtain such an extraordinary name there seems to be no reliable record to show. It has been suggested that they were so called after a St. Pliillibert, whose day (August 22nd) fell about the commencement of the nutting season. The German name, Lamberts- nusse, or Bartnuss, refers apparently to their long beards. There are numerous varieties of Filberts, which differ principally in the shape of the nuts and length of the