638 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. stewpan with some chopped vegetables, cover with stock, and simmer gently. Care must be taken that they do not boil fast, or the forcemeat will burst the skins of the Fowls, and so look unsightly when served. Dish them up with an ornamental croustade of fried bread in the centre of the dish, garnish with quenelles of Fowls, both red and white, [ glazed truffles, cocks’ combs, crayfish-tails, and button mush- rooms, and on each side of the croustade put a larded j sweetbread. Serve with Cardinal sauce, and garnish with ornamental silver skewers set in the croustade. Stewed stuffed Fowls a la G-odard.—Clean and prepare | two Fowls, stuff them with forcemeat, truss them, put them into a saucepan of white stock, and boil till tender. Place [ a croustade of fried bread in the centre of a dish, untruss the Fowls, and put one at each end of the dish, leaning I against the croustade; garnish with truffles, cocks’ combs, and button-mushrooms, glazing the tr-uffles and washing the | cocks’ combs and mushrooms with white sauce reduced with mushroom liquor. Put three attelettes, decorated with | truffles, mushrooms, and a cock’s comb, in the croustade, and | serve. See Fig. 789. Stewed Fowl a l’lndienne.—Put Jgall. of good veal broth J into a saucepan with a Fowl, singed, drawn, and trussed as [ if to be boiled, and add Joz. each of cinnamon and coriander- seeds, half that quantity each of cloves, mace, peppercorns, | and allspice, and forty or fifty cardamom-seeds all tied up in a muslin bag. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan with lib. of well-washed and dried rice, and fry gently till j of a slight brown colour. Place the pan containing the j Fowl on the fire, and when partly done put in the rice, and cook gently for half-an-hour, or until done. Put the Fowl in the centre of a dish, cover it with rice, and garnish with three onions, cut into slices, sprinkled with flour, and fried to a light brown in boiling fat without breaking the circles or rings, also with six slices of fat bacon rolled and grilled, and two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Place this gar- nish alternately round the dish, that is to say, first egg, then bacon, and then a slice of onion, and serve hot. Stewed Fowl a la Matelote.—Singe, draw, and cut up a Fowl, rub it with butter and flour, and brown it in an , oven. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and | in it fry a carrot, a parsnip, and onion, all cut in slices. Place the Fowl in a stewpan with the vegetables and lqt. of white stock. In the butter in which the vegetables were fried, brown 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir this in with the Fowl; mash the liver and add to the Fowl, with 1 table-spoonful of capers, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour, add Jib. of mushrooms cut into small pieces, and simmer for a-quarter- of-an-hour longer. Dish, garnish with a border of mashed potatoes, and serve. Stewed Fowl a la Milanaise.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Fowl, remove the bones, and dust it over inside with a little salt and pepper. In the meantime, prepare a stuffing as follows : Chop the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs, and mix them with Goz. of minced and pounded raw, lean ham and ljoz. of pork, and pass the mixture through a coarse sieve ; add two shallots, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, a little thyme Fowls—continued. and bay-leaf, all finely chopped, and 2oz. of breadcrumbs; make this into a paste with two eggs, and add a dozen uncooked oysters. Sew the Fowl up to prevent the stuffing from coming out, tie it up in a well-buttered cloth, put it in a saucepan with sufficient boiling stock to cover it, and cook gently on the side of the fire for thirty minutes or so, according to the size of the Fowl. Take it out, and when it is cool remove the cloth, roll the Fowl in flour, dip it in beaten egg, cover it with breadcrumbs, put it in a saucepan with enough boiling- fat to cover it, and fry it for about ten minutes. Put it on a dish with a garnish of fried parsley, and sex-ve with a little veloute sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Fowls a la Regence.—Prepare a stuffing as follows: Wash and peel twelve large truffles, and put them into a saucepan with the cover on. Put half of the trimmings of the truffles into a mortar with Jib. of rasped bacon-fat, pound it well, rub it through a sieve, and mix with it three small truffles, peeled and cut into quarters. Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, stuff them with the mixture, truss them with their legs in, and tie slices of bacon over them. Line the bottom of a stewpan with pieces of bacon, vege- tables, and sweet herbs, put in the Fowls, pour in clear broth to about three-fourths their height, place the pan on a quick fire, and boil for fully five minutes; then move the pan to less heat, and let the Fowls cook thoroughly. Take them out when done, take off the bacon, and place them in another stewpan. Strain the liquor, skim off the Fig. 790. Stewed Fowls a la Regence. fat, reduce it to half-glaze, pour it over the Fowls, and brown them over the fire, basting frequently; when done, take them out and untruss them. Pour 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine over the truffles, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Take out the truffles, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add double its bulk of the Fowl stock or glaze, put in the remainder of the truffle trimmings, and reduce to half-glaze ; add a little brown sauce, strain into another saucepan, and keep it hot. Heap a puree of potatoes in the centre of a dish, and arrange the Fowls leaning against it; garnish an attelette with a mush- room and truffle, place it at the top of the puree between the Fowls, garnish the dish with the truffles (see Fig. 790), and serve the sauce in a tureen. Stewed Fowls a la Heine.—(1) Prepare and truss a couple of Fowls as for roasting, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and flour over them. Put three slices of pork at the bottom of a saucepan, add two carrots and one large onion cut into slices, and stir over the fire till they begin to brown ; then put in the Fowls with two or three slices of pork over them. Put the saucepan in a hot oven for twenty minutes, then take it out, add about 2qts. of white stock, and cook for two hours in the oven, basting every fifteen minutes, and at the expiration of an hour turning the Fowls over. When done, dish, and serve with the sauce strained over. (2) Clean two chickens, wash them well, truss them for boiling, rub half a lemon over to keep them white, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient stock to cover; add a carrot, an onion with three or four cloves stuck in it, and a little parsley, and simmer for half-an-hour; then take them out, and drain upon a napkin. Take out the skewers, set the chickens side by side in opposite directions on a dish, cover them with supreme sauce, and serve.