616 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. time, clip them into hot chaudfroid sauce, and put them on a baking-sheet at a little distance from one another. Let them get quite cool, remove the superfluous sauce, cover them first with breadcrumbs, then dip them into egg, and then crumbs again. Put a few of them at a time into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and as soon as they are of a fine colour take them out, and put them in a circle on a folded napkin on a dish, placing a little parsley, slightly fried, in the centre. Fillets of Fowl with Asparagus. — Select two fat birds, and cut them up so that the breast and breast-bone will be one piece, and the back and legs another. Put the back parts into a saucepan with lgall. of water, and when it boils add the breasts; when these have boiled for an hour or so, and are quite tender, take them out, and let them cool. Put a few vegetables in the liquor, and boil fast until it is reduced to one-half its original bulk ; then strain it through a cloth into another saucepan, and add 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour, previously worked together in a pan over the fire, to thicken it, and put the pan on the side of the fire where its contents will simmer gently. Skim frequently, and when the liquor is reduced to lqt. or so, pour in a little mushroom liquor, made by boiling button-mushrooms in stock. Reduce again, and when it is less than lqt. and getting thick, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, a little lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne. In the meantime, have 1 breakfast-cupful of cream boiling, add it to the liquor in the other pan, a little at a time, to make it of the required consistence, and then pass all through a strainer. Cut the meat away from the breast-bones and trim it into shape, plunge the pieces into boiling chicken broth to get thoroughly warmed through, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Cut some asparagus- heads from the stalks, boil them like peas in salted water, take them out, drain them, shake them in a pan with melted butter, and put them on the dish with the fillets. Fillets of Fowl with Aspic Jelly.—Take half-a-dozen good fillets of Fowls, cut off the minion fillets and the thin skin of the larger fillets, cut these to equal shapes, and put into a saute-pan with a little butter, giving them a slightly curved inclination when in the pan, pour over a little more butter, cover them with paper, and cook them until quite done. Take the minion fillets, trim them, and contise them with a few small pieces of ox-tongue; put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them, giving them likewise a curved shape in the pan. In the meantime, put a circular rice socle on a dish, mask it with Montpelier butter, and again on its centre place a smaller socle 2in. in diameter and 3J-in. in height, and mask this again with Montpelier butter. Take the fillets out of the pan when done, place them on a strainer to drain, and put them when they are perfectly cold into hot chicken chaudfroid sauce, and then when they are cold put them on the dish on the larger rice socle, leaning against the smaller one, with a truffle, cut tjin. thick and of the size of the end of the fillets, placed between them. Garnish the top of the socle with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Fillets of Fowl with Green Peas.—Cut off the fillets from three Fowls, trim them, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and dip them first into egg and then breadcrumbs. Arrange them in a saucepan with a little melted butter, put the Fig. 773. Fillets of Fowl and Green Peas. pan on the fire, and cook them till they are of a light-brown colour, but are still underdone. Turn them, so that both sides will be cooked a little. Take them out, and place them on a dish, leaning against a pile of green peas (see Fig. 773) Fowls—continued. that have been previously boiled of a good green colour, and tossed in the pan with a small piece of clarified butter. Serve hot. Fillets of Fowl as cooked in Java.—Soften five or six edible birds’ nests in cold water, clean them thoroughly, and put them into chicken broth to poach. In the meantime cut off as many fillets from a good Fowl as are required, dust them over on both sides with a little salt and curry-powder, put them in a saute-pan with butter, and cook them. Take them out, let them drain, pare them, dip them in veloute sauce, sprinkle cayenne over them, and return them to the pan to be warmed again. Take out the nests, drain them, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, put them into the saute- pan, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and warm them. Put the fillets on a dish, in a circle, over a thin layer of cooked forcemeat, and place the nests in the centre of the circle. Pour a little veloute sauce over the fillets, and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Fillets of Fowl with Mushroom Puree.—Prepare and roast three Fowls, keeping them a little underdone, remove them from the spit, let them get cold, and then cut off the fillets from the backs, the legs, and the breasts, trimming them and taking off all the skin. Put 3 teacupfuls of yellow sauce into a pan with 1|- teacupfuls of aspic jelly, both slightly warmed, place the pan on the ice, and stir until moderately Fig. 774. Fillets of Fowl with Mushroom Puree. thick; then remove the pan from the ice, dip the pieces of Fowl singly in the sauce, covering them entirely, and arrange them side by side on a baking-sheet. Fill a border mould with cooked rice, let it set, turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre with a puree of mushroom, heaping it up, arrange the fillets round on top of the border (see Fig. 774), and serve. Fillets of Fowl with Quenelles.—Cut off the fillets of two young Fowls, and detach the small fillets from the large ones; beat one of the small ones flat, then lay another on the top of it, thus making two large fillets of four small ones; pare the skin off the large fillets; put 2oz. of butter in a deep frying-pan and melt it, then put in the fillets, dust them over with salt and pepper, and squeeze lemon-juice over them. Cut the meat off the legs of the birds, chop and pound it well, then pass it through a fine hair sieve; pound half the quantity of panada with loz. of scraped fat bacon and 2oz. of butter, put the meat in again, and pound all well together; then season the mixture, and mix in four eggs, one at a time. Mould the forcemeat into six flat quenelles, using two table-spoons for the purpose, put them in a stewpan with sufficient boiling stock to cover them, and poach them. Fry the fillets over a moderate fire, turning them when cooked on one side, and finishing the other. They should be kept very white, and not overdone, while, as the smaller fillets will be done before the large ones, they must be taken out and kept warm. Arrange the fillets and quenelles alternately on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour a thin puree of cucumbers in the centre, and serve. Fillets of Fowl Sautes.—Cut off nine fillets of Fowls, pound them lightly with a vegetable masher, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover them well with flour. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter for each fillet into a frying-pan; when it is quite hot put in the fillets and fry them for twenty minutes, turning them so that both sides will be browned. Take them out and put them in front of the fire to keep warm. To every 6 table-spoonfuls of butter used, add two more to the pan, and when it is melted mix in 1 table-