THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 613 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Chicken Country Captain.—Cut up a fat chicken into small pieces, and remove all the bone. Put an onion, cut up into very fine slices, into a frying-pan with Jib. of butter, and fry until it is a light brown. Take the onion out, put it on a baking-sheet, and place it in the oven to get crisp. Put a salt- spoonful each of finely-ground turmeric, coriander-seeds, and green chillies into the frying-pan in which the onion liquor has been left, add a little salt, and warm up for a minute or two; then put in the pieces of chicken and three more onions finely sliced, place the pan on the fire again, and stir constantly until the chicken-meat is quite tender. Place it on a dish, garnish with the crisp onions, and serve. Chicken Custard.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of chicken stock and cream into a saucepan, and boil; then pour them over the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, put them into the bain-marie, add a little salt, and cook until the mixture thickens a little. Let it get cold, put it into custard cups, and serve. Chicken-and-Ham Sausages.— Cut off all the meat of a cooked Fowl, mix it with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and put it in a basin. Take 8oz. of lean ham, scrape it, and put it into the chicken-meat, with thyme, pounded mace, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Work these well together, and make them into a thick paste with the yolk of an egg and a little milk. Form the mass into shapes like sausages, fry them in butter until they are quite brown, and serve. Chicken Olives.—Cut the legs of a cold cooked chicken in halves, dividing them at the joint, and chop off the drumsticks. Take four very thin rashers of bacon, sprinkle them with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs mixed with 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, an onion chopped very fine, and some mixed herbs; lay a joint of the chicken in each, roll it up in it, fasten it securely, and fry them. Serve hot on pieces of fried bread. Chicken Ragofft.—This dish is greatly used by Italian gourmets, and, in fact, luncheons are not considered complete without it. Cut off the pinions from half-a-dozen fat pullets, singe them, and remove half the bone, pressing the flesh into the hollow or cavity of the bone. Put them into a saucepan, with a little butter and finely-chopped onion, set the pan on the fire, and fry them a light colour ; then sprinkle them over with a pinch of flour, and pour in sufficient white wine and highly- coloured gravy to moisten them. Boil until they are all done, add twelve small lamb’s sweetbreads, scalded and trimmed, two or three amourettes of veal, blanched and cut into pieces, one- and-a-half-dozen cooked white cocks’ combs, and lastly 2 or 3 teacupfuls of green peas. Let them cook gently, and a few minutes before serving add eighteen or twenty blanched cocks’ kernels. Turn the preparation out on to a dish, place croutons of puff paste round it, and serve. Chingara Fowl.—Singe and clean a Fowl, selecting one as white-fleshed as possible, divide it into four equal parts, and trim them; cut some thin slices of ham, put them in a buttered stewpan, then put in the four quarters of Fowl; stand the stewpan over red-hot ashes, and cook the Fowl gently. When cooked, drain off the fat, dust a small quantity of pepper and salt over the Fowl, and arrange it on a hot dish, with the ham and four slices of fried bread. Stir some Spanish sauce in with the glaze in the stewpan; when hot, pour it into a gravy dish, and serve with the Fowl. Cold Fowl Rechauffe with Rice Cream.—Cut the meat from the breasts of two or three cold boiled chickens, trim off the skin, chop the meat, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Pour 5 pints of milk into a saucepan, and set it on the fire until boiling. Put a little less than Jib. of ground rice into a basin, and stir in gradually sufficient milk and water to make a smooth batter; mix this in with the boiling milk, and stir it over the fire until smooth, but not too thick. Put the pounded chicken-flesh and Jib. of caster sugar in with the rice, flavour with a few drops of rose-water, stir it over the fire until thick and _ gummy, then stir it for a few minutes off the fire. Rub the interior of a dome-shaped mould with almond oil, turn the mixture into it, and set it in a cool place or on ice for two or three hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the cream at the sides, wipe it with a cloth, turn it quickly over on to a dish, and dust it over with a small F owls—con tinned. quantity of powdered cinnamon. To prevent the chicken smelling’ too strong in the rice, it would be as well to rinse it in cold water before pounding it. Creased Fowl.—Pluck and clean two chickens, split them, remove all the bones, and cut the flesh into small pieces, but without separating one piece from another; rub them well with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and then with raw onion juice, and leave them for a few hours, so that they may become well incorporated with the flavourings. Pass some iron skewers through the pieces of meat, place them in front of a clear but moderate fire, and turn them continually till cooked. When the meat begins to brown, baste it with warmed butter. When cooked, put the chicken on a hot dish, and serve quickly. The onion juice greatly improves the flavour, and will not be found offensive, as the smell disperses in cooking. Croustades of Fowls.—(1) Remove the skin from a roasted Fowl, cut the flesh up into small squares, dust them over with salt and pepper, put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of gravy, and simmer gently for five or six minutes. Have ready some fried bread croustades, fill them with the mixture, put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The croustades are formed out of halves of French rolls. The crumb is scooped out of the crusts, and the latter are fried, and then what little crumb remains is taken out. (2) Fry six bread croustades, each one 4|in. long by 3in. in diameter. Take fib. of white, cooked chicken meat, without bones, cut it into Jin. pieces, add to them J pint of d’Uxelles sauce and J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and cook for four minutes. Fill the croustades with this, arrange them on a hot dish over a folded napkin, and serve. Curried Fowl.—(1) Select a couple of Fowls of medium size, and cut each of them into five parts, not counting the body- bones and pinions. Put a little butter into a flat saucepan, and put the legs, pinions, and body-bones into it; place the pan on the fire, turn the legs, &c., frequently, and when they are of a light brown and only half-cooked add the fillets and pieces cut off the breast; sprinkle them over with salt, and cook them until they are all quite done. Take the pieces of meat out of the pan, put them into another pan, and keep them covered over and quite warm. Put three or four finely- minced onions in the saucepan with the bones, stir them constantly, and let them fry, but only to a light golden colour ; add next 8oz. of streaky bacon, cut into thin slices and then again into small squares. When the bacon is slightly cooked, add 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, lightly dusted in and mixed with a very little flour, place the pan again on the fire, and boil for two or three minutes ; take out the bones, then add a wineglassful each of rich gravy and white wine, and boil for five minutes longer, stirring continually; next put in the pieces of chicken, and remove the pan to the side of the fire so that the meat will be thoroughly warmed without boiling the liqour again. Place the meat on a dish, add the juice of a lemon to the liquor, mix well, and pour it over. Serve with a dishful of boiled rice. (2) Cut up a chicken at the joints, remove the breast- bone, wipe the flesh dry with a cloth, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and flour, and put it into a frying-pan with a little boiling butter, and fry it to a light brown ; then put it into a saucepan. Cut a large onion into thin slices, and fry in the butter in which the meat was cooked, but it must not be coloured; add this to the other ingredients in the saucepan. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of curry powder into the frying- pan with the butter, and place it on the fire; when the flour is brown, add J pint of stock or water and a sour apple finely chopped, or J pint of chopped-up tomatoes without the seeds, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce into the saucepan containing the chicken, place it at the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour or so until tender; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling cream or milk, boil for another minute, and turn it out on to a dish with a border of rice round the edge. (3) Cut up a Fowl into pieces, wash them well, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and add a couple of onions cut up small; place the pan over a clear fire, and fry until they are all of a light-brown colour; then add J pint of broth, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of