THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 545 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. over with salt and pepper, dip each piece into well-beaten egg, then into cracker-meal or breadcrumbs, taking care to cover it; when all are done, plunge them into a frying- pan of boiling lard, and fry for five minutes. Put them on a dish, garnish with plain or fried parsley, and serve. Galantine of Eel.—Eemove the backbone of a large Eel and clean it. Make a mince of the thin rind of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful each of parsley and sweet herbs, and a little ground mace, cayenne, and salt; spread this over the inside of the Eel, and roll it up, commencing from the head paid. Tie the fish up in a cloth, and boil it in equal parts of water and vinegar until it is quite tender. Let the stock and the fish get quite cold, take out the fish, remove the cloth, and serve. Galantine of Eels en Bastion.—A very elaborate dish has been prepared by Gouffe in the following manner :—Skin a couple of large Eels, open them down the belly, and remove the bones without splitting the fish in halves. Prepare a force- meat with a mixture of tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, and spread each of the Eels inside with a layer of it. Place | the fish back into their original shapes, roll them in small cloths, tie up with string in three different places, put them in a fish-kettle, pour in sufficient mirepoix to cover, and simmer on the side of the fire until they are quite done. Eemove the cloths, tie them up again in clean ones, put them back into the liquor, and let them remain for twenty minutes to cool. Take them out, remove the cloths again, and cut the fish into pieces about 4in. in length. Glaze four of these with fish glaze, and cut off another piece about 3Jin. long, and glaze that. Put a neatly-made rice socle on a dish, mask it with Montpellier butter, stand four of the pieces on the socle on their ends; take the fifth piece, which should be unglazed, place that in the centre of the others, and stick the other pieces to it with a little of the Montpellier butter. Put a little more of this butter on top of the fifth piece, and put a smaller piece crosswise on the top. Put a layer of the butter about £in. thick on a baking-sheet, and place it on the ice; when it is quite stiff cut it into four lengths, 4in. by l|in., place one on the side of each piece of fish stand- ing- on the socle ; cut off some more slips lin. long, put them round the bottom of each piece, and then put another jin. wide slip on the top of each piece of fish. Put some fillets of soles into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them; when they are cold, cut them up in the shape of battlements, and put them on the top of each piece of Eel over the narrow strip of butter, and then the pieces of fish will represent the fort or bastion. Cut out some small rounds of slices of the white of hard-boiled eggs, and stick on the Eels, to appear like the loop-holes under the battle- ments. Garnish the dish carefully with aspic jelly chopped up in small pieces. Galantine of Eel with Cucumber.—Prepare a galantine of Eel, cut it into slices, cover each with chervil- or tarragon- leaves, mask them with aspic, and set them on the ice. Put a dozen or two slices of cucumber on the ice also to keep Fig. 690. Galantine of Eel with Cucumber. cool. Pack a plain border-mould in ice, and arrange some pieces of gherkins, cut in triangles, round the sides, dipping each piece into aspic to make it stick to the mould. When these are arranged, fill the mould with aspic jelly, and let it Eels—continued. remain for an hour or so on the ice. Turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre up with a mixture of minced vegetables, with a little mayonnaise sauce to thicken it, forming a pyramid ; put the slices of cucumber round this in a circle, having dipped them in jelly to fix them in their places ; then arrange the slices of galantine glazed with aspic jelly over the vegetables, and serve. See Fig. 690. Matelote of Eels. — (1) Skin two large Eels, cut them as they are—without opening the belly—into pieces, thrust a knife-blade into each piece, and twist it round to remove the inside. Wash them well, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock and f pint of claret, adding a clove of garlic, a whole pepper, a sliced onion, a bay-leaf, thyme, cloves, parsley, and a little salt, and boil gently until done. Take out the pieces of fish, strain the liquor, and add a liqueur- glassful of brandy to it. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour to thicken, add it to the sauce, and boil. Place croutons of fried bread in a circle on a dish, arrange the fish in the centre, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Skin and clean ljlb. of Eels, cut them into pieces 2in. in length, wash them well, put them in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of butter, and fry them for two minutes ; add 1 wine- glassful of red wine, a little each of nutmeg, salt, and pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 tumblerful of fish stock or white broth, and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor; add six small glazed onions and six button-mushrooms. Cook for thirty minutes, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of white roux, stir well for five minutes longer, and serve with croutons of fried bread. (3) Skin two Eels and cut them into pieces about 2in. long, roll them in flour, and fry them in butter until lightly browned. Put ilb. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the fire ; then stir in J pint each of claret and stock freed from fat, add a bunch of sweet herbs, two shallots, a few cloves and peppercorns, salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne; boil the sauce for fifteen minutes, then strain it, return it to the saucepan with the Eels and a few button-mushrooms, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour longer; at the end of that time, mix the strained juice of a lemon with the Eels, turn them on to a hot dish with the sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Matelote of Eels a la Normande.—Cut ljlb. of Eels into pieces, put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and fry for two minutes; add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, season well with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cook for ten minutes longer; add % pint of veloute sauce, six mushrooms, twelve blanched oysters, six fish quenelles, and six small cooked crayfish-tails, and continue the cooking for five minutes. When ready to serve, beat in the yolks of three eggs, remove the pan from the fire, and serve with a garnish of croutons of fried bread. Matelote of Eel and Carp.—Clean an Eel and carp of equal weight, scale the carp, and cut both fish into 2in. pieces. Fry twenty small blanched and peeled onions in a large stewpan with 2oz. of butter, sift in 1 teacupful of flour, and stir over the fire for ten minutes; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one clove of garlic, a saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lqt. of red wine, and simmer for ten minutes longer, keeping the stewpan covered; then put in the pieces of Eel, and in fifteen minutes add the pieces of carp and i breakfast-cupful of brandy, and simmer for ten minutes, seasoning to taste. Dish the pieces of fish, garnish with the onions, strain the sauce over the fish, and serve. Mayonnaise of Eels.—Pick out an Eel of about 21b. or 2Jlb. in weight, clean it, remove the head and skin, and cut it'up into pieces about 21in. in length; plunge these into salted water for a short time, take them out and wipe them dry, put in layers in a dish, sprinkle spice over each layer, pour over a little vinegar and water, with 1 teaspoonful of isinglass dissolved in the water, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the pieces of Eel out of the dish, put them into another one, when cold pour over a little mayonnaise sauce, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Porcupine Eel (Anguille piquee).—Select a large live Eel, kill it, hang it on a nail, cut the skin near the gills, and pull it off. Clean the fish out at the gills, flatten the head, lard the back with long strips of bacon, fix it in such a way with