THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 575 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sa^lces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Epigrammes—continued. dessert with an epigramme. The financier went home to his cook and asked him, “ How comes it that you never send any Epigrammes to my table P ” On the following day the cook sent up what he entitled “ Epigrammes of Lamb,” and the name remains.—See Fowl, Partridges, Pigeons, Rabbits, Roebucks, &c. EFINARD.—Fr. for spinach. EQUIVALENTS. —In some kitchens where there are no scales or measures it is usual to express quantities by what are termed Equivalents. Thus, half-a-pint may be roughly described as a breakfast-cupful, and a gill is equal to a teacupful of fluid measure. With dry measure a similar scale is used, and these have been most care- fully arranged, and a reliable scale drawn up and issued under the Tables of Weights and Measures. ERGOOS.—The name of a common Turkish and Egyptian drink made from liquorice, and sold in the streets like sherbet. ERYNGO.—A plant of the genus Eryngium, com- monly known along the coasts as Sea Eryngo (Eryngium maritimum), or Sea Holly. It has short, rigid leaves and stems, and tliistle-like blue flowers. The roots are fleshy and cylindrical, and used for preparing a sweetmeat called candied Eryngo root, or Eryngo candy. The leaves, when quite young, are sometimes pickled in vinegar and used to garnish salads. The Eryngo of the United States is fetid and unfit for food. ESCABESCIA. — This is taken from the Spanish escabeschar■—to pickle, or souse. It is a mode of preparing certain meats, such as fish, game, or poultry. ESCALLOPS.—See Scallops. ESCARGOTS.—Fr. for edible snails. ESCAROLE—See Endive. ESCULENT. — A word often applied to vegetables and other things, signifying that they are edible. ESPAGNOLE.—Fr. for Spanish, as sauce a l’Espag- nole. ESSENCES.—Under this heading are included those productions which may be said to contain in a concen- trated form all the particular virtues belonging to that from which they are obtained. Vegetable Essences are generally prepared from the essential oils, by dissolving a certain quantity in a fixed proportion of spirits of wine. The cookery Essences are prepared by boiling down or reducing, as in Essence of beef, chicken, &c. Essences used for flavourings are as numerous as the flavourings themselves; but they require very careful preparation, lest in the reduction the flavour should be altered by heat. At one time it was necessary for cooks and confectioners to prepare their own Essences; but this is now entirely obviated by such excellent prepara- tions as the herb and fruit Essences prepared by Messrs. Langdale and other manufacturers. Meat Essences are of more recent introduction, and several have been rendered famous by publicity, those generally favoured being Brand’s Essence of Beef, Mutton, Chicken, or Yeal, Edge’s Essence of Beef and some others described under Extracts. ESSEX PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. ESTURGEONS.—Fr. for sturgeons. ETHER.—A light, volatile, mobile, inflammable liquid of a characteristic aromatic odour, obtained by the distillation of alcohol with sulphuric acid, and hence called also sulphuric Ether. It is not much known in cookery, excepting as the results of various distillations, and other processes from which characteristic odours are produced. EUCALYPTUS, — A tree (Eucalyptus globulus) of the myrtle species, which is found growing to extra- ordinary height in the forests of Australia; the leaves are aromatic, and from them a pleasant liqueur can be prepared as follows: Put 21b. of dried Eucalyptus-leaves into a jar, with 8oz. of orange-flowers and 5oz. of juniper-berries, pour over lgall. of pure spirit, cork securely, give the jar a shake daily for a week, and then let it stand for another week. Strain and filter, add 2qts. of clarified syrup, and bottle. EVERTON TOFPY.—See Toffy. EVE’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. EXTRACTS.—There is very little difference, practi- cally speaking, between Extracts and essences. The former should signify that the active principle has been extracted, and the latter that it has been produced in a high state of condensation. But a want of appreciation of this subtle distinction has eventuated in the indis- criminate use of the two terms. “ Essence of meat ” and “ Extract of meat,” such as Liebig’s Extractum Carnis, are one and the same thing. Extracts of coffee, which have found much favour, are merely condensations of the infused liquor, and upon the same principle condensed milk might be termed Extract or essence, according to fancy. Extracts worthy of special notice are described under special headings. FADGES.—These are not now very generally known in England, although at one time they were favourite provincial cakes or loaves. In Ireland they still seem to keep up a desultory reputation. They are there made as follows : Pour ^ pint of new milk into a saucepan on the fire, add 3oz. of butter, and melt it, shaking- the pan continually, one way, so that it may not burn. Sift lib. of flour and a little salt into a bowl, make a bay in the centre, pour in the milk, and stir to a paste. Put it on a board, flour a roller, and roll the paste out to about fin. in thickness. Cut it into cakes, lay them on a griddle over a clear fire, and cook, turning them frequently to prevent burning. FAGOTS.—The origin of this term is possibly derived from the Greek phakelos—a bundle, which would thus plainly indicate that the word should be spelled with one “ g ” only, not with two, as is generally done in culinary literature. The application in cookery is somewhat varied and uncertain. At one time it was customary for the cook to speak of a Fagot of parsley, a Fagot of herbs, and so on; but foreign introductions have caused con- fusion, Continental cooks styling them “bouquets,” and qualifying them according to the use to which they are adapted; thus, bouquet for mirepoix, bouquet for ravi- gote, &c. This, modern cooks have still further confused by the additional terms, bouquets garnis and fine herbs. We have here endeavoured to establish some sort of classification based on modern practices. Bouquets garnis are used for many purposes, and are described under their own head, and may be considered peculiar to French cooks. Other Fagots are as follow: Fagot cl’Uxelles (Fine Herbs).—This consists of equal weights of mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, minced and fried for five or six minutes with rasped bacon, pepper, and salt. Truffles are sometimes added. Fagot of Mirepoix.—Chop up together finely two carrots, two onions, two shallots, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, Ub. of fat bacon, and £lb. of ham. Toss them in butter for a few minutes and sprinkle over pepper and salt. Fagot of Parsley.—Tie together two or three sprigs of parsley and half-a-dozen spring onions. Used for flavouring a variety of dishes. Fagot of Pot Herbs (Fr. Poele).—This is a mixture of vege- tables and sweet herbs, and usually consists of two carrots, two onions, two cloves, and a Fagot of sweet herbs, all minced