567 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, etc,, referred to, sec under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eggs —continued. Sliced Eggs.—Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying- pan, melt it, put in a heaped teacupful of breadcrumbs and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and stir them over the fire until crisp and browned; then stir in 1 teacupful of sour cream and a small quantity of salt. Peel and cut the requisite quantity of hard-boiled Eggs into thin slices, lay them side by side in the frying-pan with the crumbs and cream, and fry them, stirring gently for two or three minutes. Arrange the Eggs on a hot dish, pour the cream over, and serve. Spanish. Eggs.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed rice into a saucepan with igall. of boiling milk, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil until done. Strain the rice, drain on a colander, and put it in a basin ; then add 2oz. of butter, mix well, and spread it evenly on a dish. Cut six hard-boiled Eggs into slices, arrange these on the rice, and serve. Spun Eggs for Garnishing Ham.—This very high-class garnish requires skill and special apparatus to prepare. Slightly beat the yolks of fifteen Eggs, and pass them through a sieve. Boil some light syrup in a sugar-pan, then pour the beaten yolks through a wide-mouthed colander (pierced at the bottom with five or six small tin pipes of the diameter of vermi- celli, and soldered outside in relief) in the boiling syrup. When set, drain the spun Eggs in a sieve, sprinkling a little cold water over to prevent them sticking to each other. Put the ham on a dish, with a frill on the bone, garnish with the Eggs, and serve. Steamed Eggs.—Break in separate cups as many Eggs as are required to cover the bottom of a shallow dish the size of the steamer. Butter the dish, slip the Eggs on to it, put a small piece of butter and a little salt and pepper on each, and set the dish in the steamer for three minutes or longer, until the Eggs are cooked. A colander set over a kettle of boiling water will serve for steaming the Eggs, if it can be closely covered. Stewed Eggs.—Cut four moderate-sized Spanish onions into slices, put them in a stewpan with butter, and fry until brown ; mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir until blended with the butter, then mix in gradually about J pint of milk, season- ing to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; put in four hard-boiled Eggs cut in slices, and stew the whole at the side of the fire until hot. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve very hot. Stewed Eggs and Asparagus.— Cut off sufficient of the green tops of asparagus about jin. long to fill a breakfast-cup, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until tender; then turn them into a colander and drain. Lightly beat ten Eggs, put them into a stewpan, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, add 1 table-spoonful of warm water, and stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until they begin to thicken ; then put in 6oz. of butter, and stir until the butter is dissolved. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the asparagus, and simmer for about five minutes, stirring occasionally. Turn the Eggs and asparagus on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Fig. 708. Stuffed Eggs. Stuffed Eggs.—(1) Peel off the shells of twelve hard-boiled Eggs, cut them transversely in halves, remove the yolks, and put these in a mortar. Take eight anchovies, skinned and boned, a small lump of butter, some breadcrumbs moistened with a little milk, and pound them with the yolks of three raw Eggs, seasoning to taste. Fry in a stewpan 2 table- Eggs —continued. spoonfuls of chopped onions till brown, add 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms, season with powdered sweet herbs, and sprinkle over breadcrumbs and chopped parsley; when cool, mix them with the pounded preparation. Fill the whites of the Eggs with this. Melt some butter in a sautt'-pan, put in the Eggs, the cut side uppermost, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with the butter. When the Eggs are done, put two halves together, arrange them in a circle on a dish with sprigs of parsley in the centre and round the base of the Eggs, and serve. See Fig. 708. (2) Boil the Eggs till hard, cirt them lengthwise in halves, take out the yolks, and mash them to a paste with sufficient finely-powdered crackers and softened butter to make the paste hold together, adding and mixing in salt, pepper, powdered celery-seed, and mustard to taste. Fill the empty whites with this paste, and bake them a light brown. Arrange on a dish, and serve with any kind of garnish. (3) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped cooked ham in a mortar, with 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies and a small quan- tity of cayenne, and pound it to a paste. Boil some Eggs till hard, put them in cold water, and peel off the shells ; chop off thin slices from one end of the Eggs, cut them transversely in halves, and take out the yolks. Put the yolks in a mortar with a third of their quantity of fresh butter, pound them, mix the pounded ham with them, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, and grate in a little nutmeg. When smooth, stuff the halves of the Eggs with the mixture, put two together, and arrange them on a fiat dish, the pointed end upwards, with a border of well-washed young lettuce-leaves round them for garnish. Serve with mayonnaise salad dressing. (4) Boil eighteen Eggs till hard, remove their shells, and cut them in halves. Scoop out the yolks, put them in a mortar with Jib. of butter, mix in a little grated nutmeg, cream, salt and pepper to taste, and pound well for thirty minutes or so ; then add two Eggs to bind the forcemeat. Scoop out a little of the white, leaving sufficient thickness on the outside, so that when the stuffing is put in it will not break. Take half the halves, and fill them with the forcemeat; fill the other half with more of the forcemeat mixed with a little chopped parsley. Pile a little of the forcemeat on a dish, arrange the stuffed Eggs all round, place the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and serve quite hot. Stuffed Eggs with Bacon.—Boil hard eight Eggs, peel and cut them in halves, scoop out the yolks, and put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped cooked veal or chicken, one chopped shallot, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and two boned anchovies. Pound these ingredients together to a smooth mass, mix with them 4oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and a small quantity of powdered allspice. Bind the mixture with beaten Egg, fill the halves of the whites with it, brush them over with beaten Egg, arrange in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and turn them occasionally until browned. Fry some rashers of bacon, arrange them on a hot dish, stand the halves of Eggs on I them, and serve. Sunset Eggs. -Put one dozen Eggs into an omelet-pan with a little warmed butter, dust over with salt, and fry for three minutes ; turn up the sides to prevent them from spreading too much, and when they are done, take them out, dust over with pepper, mask with tomato sauce, and serve. Surprise Eggs.—(1) Break the required number of Eggs into a pan of boiling water to poach, but without cooking them hard; take them out, put them in a basin, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, finely-chopped parsley, and salt, and steep for several hours ; take them out again, drain, put them into a batter, then into some bread- or biscuit- crumbs, and fry them one or two at a time in boiling fat until done to a light brown. Put some sprigs of parsley on a dish, put the Eggs on the parsley, and serve. (2) Take six Eggs, and with a very sharp knife and a file remove one end of the shells, and pour out the contents into a saucepan, with 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, 2oz. of butter, a little cream, cayenne, sweet herbs, and salt ; whisk well, put the pan on the fire, and stir until the Eggs begin to set. Fill up the Egg-shells with this, replace the piece that was filed off, and serve the Eggs in cups. Great