606 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Forcemeats—continued. with cayenne, salt, and pepper, and add one egg to bind it into a mass. It will then be ready for use. Forcemeat for Roasted Turkey or Veal.—Take 2oz. each of breadcrumbs and beef-suet finely minced, which should be sufficient to stuff a turkey, and add any seasoning required, such as sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, parsley finely chopped, &c., and a little salt and pepper ; moisten with egg well beaten to make it into a mass, and it is ready for use. Forcemeat Toasts (Italian).—Cut some slices of bread about |in. thick, fry them crisp in salad oil, lay them on paper for a minute to drain them from the oil, and then spread over any savoury forcemeat; place them in a hot dish, pour over a sauce suitable to the Forcemeat used, and serve hot. FORKS (Fr. Fourchette; Ger. Garbehi; Ital. For- clietta; Sp. Horcas).—That “fingers were made before Fig. 761. Pointed Stick. Forks ” is so well understood that one looks back with something like familiarity to those times when Forks were unknown, and the foods were eaten with the fingers instead. It was not until the seventeenth century that Fig. 762. Norman Stale. Forks were invented, it being customary before then to pick the bits of meat off the plate with the fingers; ancl etiquette even in those barbarous times existed to such an extent as to prescribe certain rules for per- Fig. 763. Roman Iron Two Prongs. forming the delicate operation. Three fingers alone were to be used, and they were not to be kept too long- in the platter. The fingers again were not to be licked, nor allowed to remain greasy : they were to be wiped Fig. 761. Steel—Three Prongs. frequently upon the tablecloth. Many very amusing stories are related of the forkless customs of our ancestors, to whom much credit must be due for their j cleanly habits at table under very rude circumstances. Fig. 765. Modern. The first Fork was probably nothing better than a piece of pointed stick or bone (see Fig. 761); then followed the Norman Style (see Fig. 762) and, in order, the two- 1 Forks—continued. pronged Fork of the Romans (see Fig. 763), the three- pronged Fork (see Fig. 764) and, lastly, the four- pronged Fork (see Fig. 765), which is said to be of French origin. There are all sorts of Forks made now, having different uses. Some of these are described under special headings. FOUR.—Fr. for an oven. From this dishes have been styled, according to their size, Grands Fours or Petits Fours. FOWLS {Fr. Volailles; Ger. Vogel).— Under this heading we approach the most fertile subject known to modern cooks. Fowls seem to permeate so many branches of culinary preparations that it becomes a question of great moment as to what a cook would do without them. Together with veal, they form the very keystone of Continental cookery, but in this country their prices keep them somewhat more in the back- ground, reserving them chiefly for the tables of the wealthy. In France, Fowls are especially plentiful and cheap, for which reason, possibly, French cooks are very particular concerning their classification of the birds. In Engl and we recognise capon, Fowl, and spring chicken; but in France it is, according to age, Poulet a la reine, or spring chicken ; Poulet de grain, cockerel; Coq (vierge), cock; Poularde, fat young hen; Poulette, very young- hen; Cliapon, capon; Volaille, Fowls generally, and so on, classifying them also according to the province in which they were bred. In spite of this, it is doubtful if any cook or epicure could distinguish the kind of bird by the quality of its flesh, excepting as regards age. Dork- ings are the favourite British Fowls, because they grow with full breasts, and fatten readily without becoming coarse or greasy. They may be known by their feet, which have five toes. For roasting, the game Fowl is decidedly preferable; but for boiling, a bird with a whiter skin should be selected. A cross-bred bird between a Cochin China and a game Fowl makes a good all-round cooker; but the ordinary barn-door Fowl is that which mostly finds its way to our open markets. Bantams, especially of the game variety, are very fine flavoured, but are rarely, if ever, bred for killing. When choosing a Fowl, if a cock or cockerel, examine the spurs, which should not be more than lin. long. The breast-bone should be flexible; in old birds this bone gets very hard and tough, and is sometimes smashed down by beating, to give the bird the appearance of having a full chest. This practice is easily detected by the fingers, and as it is done to deceive, should be dis- countenanced. A Fowl with its breast-bone smashed is only fit for making broth or forcemeat, and bad for the latter; it cannot be carved satisfactorily, and the breast- fillets are lost. The following instructions are given for cleaning a Fowl: Lay the bird on its back with its tail towards you, cut a circle round the vent to free the bowels, then turn the bird about so that the breast is towards you, and the head and neck hanging over the edge of the table. Open the neck at the back, cutting lengthwise along the bone; and when this incision is long enough, draw the skinned neck in a loop through the incision. Chop off the neck at the base, and then cut through the skin of the neck across the slit, so as to leave a flap about 2in. long. Next insert the fingers through the opening in the neck and draw out the entrails, taking every care not to break them. If they should be burst by any accident, the interior of the carcase must be washed out and dried. If the entrails are sound, the inside may be dried only by wiping out with a cloth. Singe the Fowl, and the legs especially, until the skin will peel off by drawing a cloth along them. Shorten the toes and spurs by clipping them, and the Fowl is then ready for trussing. Some cooks cut off the feet just below the joint where the feathered legs commence: for boiling- it is as well to do this, but for roasting- it is not necessary.