546 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. skewers and string that the pieces of bacon are outside and on the top, and put it in the oven to hake. Cut a carrot and a few small onions into slices, put them into a saucepan with loz. or 2oz. of butter, a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, mixed spices, garlic, salt and pepper to taste, and set the pan over the fire ; when the onions and carrots are browned, add a little white sauce and broth, and boil for an hour; then strain it well, put it back in the saucepan, make it hot again, and pour it over the Eel, already laid on a dish. Serve with a little tomato sauce. Potted Eels.—(1) Clean the Eels, cut them into 3in. lengths, bone them, season well with salt, black pepper, Jamaica pepper, and a small quantity of mace, pack them closely in jars, and leave for a few hours; then cover them with a plain water paste, and bake in a moderate oven. In about an hour the Eels will be cooked. Take them out of the oven, and leave until cold; then take off the paste, and pour a few table-spoonfuls of clarified butter over them. (2) Young silver Eels are the best for this. Take them by the head in the left hand and pass them through a cloth covered with salt held in the right hand, squeezing them so as to get the salt well into the skin; then put them into cold salted water, and leave them for an hour to soak. Take them out, clean well, chop them up into 2in. lengths, put them into an earthenware jar or pot, dust over with allspice, salt, and pepper, moisten with a little vinegar and water, cover the pot, and set them in the oven to bake until tender. They are then to be served in a pie-dish with mashed potatoes, or cold with salad and cucumber. Raised Eel Pie.—Skin and clean a large Eel, cut it into pieces 2in. long, put them in a stewpan with a few sliced onions, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, one bay-leaf, and a clove of garlic, and cover with Madeira wine. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side, and simmer till the Eel is done; drain, and put the pieces of fish in a saute-pan. Strain the liquor, put it in a stewpan, add some Spanish sauce, and reduce; when thick, strain it, pour some of it into the saut6- pan with the Eels, and boil for two or three minutes. Have a pie-crust ready baked, put in the Eels, place a circle of oooked mushrooms roitnd the top, put some carp or other soft roes in the middle, pour the remainder of the sauce over, and serve while hot. Roasted Eel.—(1) Pull off the skin from a large Eel, clean and wash it, lard it with strips of fat bacon, put it in a baking- dish, dredge over a seasoning' of finely-minced sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, pour over sufficient rich broth and vinegar in equal proportions to moisten it, and let it soak for about three hours. Take it out, drain it, wrap it round with well- buttered paper, fix on a spit, and roast it slowly in front of a clear fire for from thirty to thirty-five minutes, basting frequently with a little white wine and its own liquor. About five minutes before it is done, remove the paper to let the Eel brown well. Place it on a dish when quite done, and serve. (2) Skin and clean a large Eel, put it into a marinade for fish, and turn it frequently for an hour or so ; then take it out, wipe it, and truss it with skewers to form a circle. In the meantime, fry in butter over a slow fire four onions and two truffles cut into slices, a scraped parsley-root, two cloves, and a seasoning of bay-leaf, thyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Let this get cold, with it cover four sheets of paper, place the Eel on them, tie it up, fix it on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for an hour. Remove the papers, herbs, and skewers, put it on a dish, and serve with mushroom or other sauce poured round. Savoury Eel Saveloys.—Clean a large Eel, put half of it cut in pieces into a basin with a small handful of chopped pistachio-kernels, a rasher of bacon blanched and cut in dice, a few raw pickled truffles also cut in dice, and a small piece of preserved tunny-fish; sprinkle over spice, salt, and cayenne, add 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and thicken with grated bacon and raw pike quenelle forcemeat. Clean some pig’s intestines, fill them with the mixture, secure both ends, roll them round in cloths, tie them tightly, and boil for an-hour-and-a- half in fat broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in also j 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine. When done, take them out, [ drain them, take off the cloths, dip the cloths in the liquor again, roll the sausages in them, and let them cool. Cut them E els—continued. in slices, arrange in a circle on a dish, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. Smoked Eel Salad.—In Sweden this process is carried out somewhat as follows: Skin some large Eels, cover them with salt, and leave them to macerate for a few hours. Take them out, wipe dry, and hang' up by their heads on hooks in a tun or cask with one side taken out. Raise the tun on three bricks, and place it over a small wooden fire (one that is nearly, but not quite, out will be sufficient), supplying this at intervals with small pieces of resinous wood. Leave the Eels like this for five or six hours, by which time they should be both cooked and thoroughly smoked. Cut them up, remove the skin, put them into a basin, and baste with a little vinegar and oil. In the meantime, make a salad of boiled potatoes, carrots, beetroot, celery, gherkins, pickled mushrooms, and salted cucumbers, all chopped up small, with a few whole capers; season well, put it into a basin, baste with a little more oil and vinegar, and let it remain for a couple of hours. Put this into a border-mould, press it down slightly, turn it out on a dish, place the fish in the centre, pour over the oil and vinegar, and serve. Spitclicocked Eels.—(1) Skin the required quantity of Eels, slit them down the back, take out the bone, cut them in pieces 3in. long, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs seasoned with sweet herbs and white pepper, and broil them over a clear fire. Dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with lemon in slices. See Fig'. 691. (2) Take two or three Eels, open them on the under-side, clean them thoroughly, and wipe quite dry, but do not skin them. When they are cleaned and well dried, cut them into pieces about 3Jin. long, brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle them plentifully with a mixture of chopped parsley, a very small quantity of chopped sage, pepper, salt, and a very little powdered mace. Lay the fish on a well- greased gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire. Lay them on a hot dish, put on each a bit of butter, with a little anchovy sauce rubbed or pounded into it, and serve very hot. Spitchcocked Larded Eels.—Skin and clean a large Eel, lard it with narrow strips of bacon, roll it in salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, put it in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful each of broth and vinegar, and let it steep for two hours. Take it out, drain, fold in buttered paper, skewer it round, fix it on the spit, and roast for half-an-hour, basting con- tinually with Madeira wine and dripping. Take off the paper, sprinkle over a little flour, baste well, and brown it, still on the spit in front of the fire, for five minutes. Dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Eels.—(1) Clean an Eel weighing about lib., cut it up into pieces 3in. long, roll these in flour, season them with a little pepper and salt, and fry in a frying-pan of boiling fat until they are, brown; then put them on a strainer in front of the fire, and leave for a time. Take them away again, and let them get cold; then put them into a saucepan with beef broth, and put in also the head and tail of the Eel; add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Pour into a hot dish, and serve. (2) Clean two or three largo Eels, cut them into small pieces about 2in. long, and marinade them in salted vinegar. Put a little butter and flour into a saucepan with a few slices of onion ; when the onion is brown, add the Eels and sufficient broth and wine to cover them, also a bunch of sweet herbs, a little whole pepper, a few strips of lemon-peel, two or three cloves, and a- pinch of salt. Set the pan on the fire, and stew gently until the fish is quite done, but not long enough