TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 636 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Roasted Fowls a la Neapolitaine.—Draw and truss two Fowls for roasting, coyer the breasts with buttered paper, and | tie them round with string; set them on a spit, neck to neck, and bind the legs tightly round with string. Make two | banks of charcoal, leaving a short space between them (this I should be done on the hearth) ; put some live coals on the | banks of the charcoal, and when it is thoroughly ignited, fix one end of the spit in the wall at the height required, and in such a way that the Fowls will come immediately over the gap between the charcoal ; rest the other end of the spit on a fire-dog with hooks. Baste the Fowls with butter, and turn the spit occasionally. When the Fowls have gradually roasted, dish, and serve with a rich brown gravy. This method of roasting Fowls, an authority tells us, is almost unknown in England, but in Naples it is commonly practised. Roasted Fowl a la Turque.—Pluck and draw a Fowl, rub it over with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and leave it for an hour or two. Put it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Dust over a small quantity of flour, and baste occasionally with the drippings in the pan. When it is nearly cooked, wrap a sheet of thin paper round it, and place it in front of the fire again for fifteen minutes. Put it on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of gravy round, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Roasted Fowl with Chestnut Stuffing'. — Dress a small Fowl, and boil it gently in sufficient water to cover it until it is tender; while it is being boiled, either boil or roast enough chestnuts to fill it. If the nuts are roasted, make a cross cut on each to prevent the bursting of the shell. Remove the shells and skins of the chestnuts, fill the chicken with them, and brown it quickly, either before an open fire or in a hot oven, basting it every five minutes with butter, salt, and pepper, mixed together. Serve as soon as it is brown. Roasted Fowls with Cream Sauce.—Draw two birds, clean them thoroughly, stuff them, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. When they are nearly cooked,- remove them from the spit, rub them well with butter, and roll in plenty of grated breadcrumb. Lay the chickens on a baking-dish, cover them with thin rashers of bacon, and finish cooking them in a brisk oven. Put the birds on a hot dish, garnish them with the rashers of bacon, and serve with a sauceboatful of thick cream sauce. Roasted Fowl with Garlic Sauce (Roumanian).—Put a well-crushed and beaten clove of garlic into a saucepan with | 4oz. of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper, and stew. Cut up a roasted chicken, put it on a hot dish, pour over the garlic mixture, and serve. Roasted Fowl and Oyster Sauce. — Pluck and draw two Fowls ; finely chop a sufficient quantity of oysters with truffles to fill them, season with chopped parsley, spices, salt, and pepper, and stuff the birds with the mixture ; then truss them, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Blanch twenty or thirty oysters, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, a few table-spoonfuls of chopped herbs, and a small quantity of olive oil, and toss them about over the fire for nearly twenty minutes. Mix 1 wineglassful of white wine and about 1 teacupful of stock with the oysters, put in |oz. of butter kneaded with table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until thick. When the chickens are cooked, remove them from the spit, untruss them, place them on a hot dish, arrange the oysters round with slices of lemon, pour the sauce over, and serve. Salmagundi of Chicken (Spanish).— Cut a cold boiled chicken into joints or pieces, and dip them in a basin with about § teacupful of olive oil, previously mixed with ground spice and salt to taste ; then put them into a saucepan, add a little chopped onion (or garlic) and parsley, pour over sufficient weak stock or liquor from the boiled chicken to slightly moisten, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer until hot, taking care that the liquor does not evaporate so that the meat will be dry. Add to the liquor the yolks of one or two hard-boiled eggs and a little mixed spice; let these simmer for a few minutes with the chicken, then turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Fowls—continued. Sandwiches of Cold Roasted Fowl.—Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, trim off the crusts, spread a layer of thinly-carved cold roasted Fowl on half of the slices, and sprinkle a little salt over ; lay the remaining slices of bread over, cut them in threes, and pile them on a folded napkin. Scalloped Fowl.—Put a layer of cold cooked chicken into a shallow dish, then a layer of boiled rice or macaroni and a little tomato sauce, and so on until the dish is full. Sprinkle breadcrumbs over the top, put the dish in the oven, and bake until brown. Serve hot. Smothered Fowl.—For this a Fowl that is too old for cooking any other way can be used. Chop it down the back, put it into a saucepan breast upwards, and pour J pint of boiling water over it ; cover the pan quickly to retain the steam, and place it over a good fire. When it has been cooking for thirty minutes, baste it, rub it well over with warmed butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Baste frequently, covering the pan as soon as done, and con- tinue to boil until quite tender and of a yellow and not of a brown colour. Add a little flour to thicken the gravy, also a little finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Put the Fowl on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Smothered Fowl stuffed with Oysters.—Take a young fat Fowl, singe and draw it, stuff it with oysters, and place it in a covered earthenware jar. Place this jar in a saucepan of warm water on a moderate fire, and cook very gently until done; then take it out, and put the contents on a dish. Beat in a little cream and egg with the gravy, and thicken it with butter and flour; boil it up once more, and pour it over the Fowl. Souffles of Fowl.—(1) Cut off about lib. of cold roasted Fowl, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve, and mix with it 1| breakfast-cupfuls of reduced bechamel sauce ; when cold, add the yolks and whites of five eggs beaten separately, Fig. 787. Souffle of Fowl. and a little grated nutmeg. Fill some paper cases with the mixture (see Fig. 787), and bake them for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a hot oven. When done, take them out, arrange on a dish, and serve. (2) Bone two Fowls, remove all the flesh from the skin, and pass it through a mincing machine two or three times ; then rub it through a wire sieve. Use all the meat from the inside of the machine as well, and do not waste any. Put the remainder of the Fowls into a stewpan, just cover with white stock or water, and simmer for some time. Strain off, and then reduce the stock again to about i pint. Put into a mortar a piece of bread panada about the size of an orange and mix the stock with it, also adding the chicken- meat which has been rubbed through the sieve, then four yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a little grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne and salt. Mix all well together, and try a little by putting a piece about the size of a walnut into boiling stock to see if it will set and is tastily seasoned. If this is right, whisk up six whites of eggs to a stiff froth in a basin, and add lightly to the chicken, mixing it well at the same time. It is then ready to serve.