THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. G62 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. or animals which are most prized for the table. Correctly j speaking, the term Game should be applied to all wild J animals, wild birds, and fish; but at present in England 1 rabbits are not reckoned Game ; sea-fisli are exempt from the title, and so also are a number of wild birds that are quite entitled to the name if their being shot for sport is of any consequence at all, very few of them being shot for any other purpose. What is strictly speaking Game is defined by the Game j Laws, without regard to culinary merits; but, as before explained, it is to their culinary merits that certain kinds of Game owe their prominence in the laws made for their protection, hence we are not surprised to read in the pages of a severely technical Cyclopedia that, “ The flesh of Game is believed to possess strengthening qualities superior to that of poultry (or other birds). It also con- tains less fat. Game is tender and easy of digestion, and it has a delicate and marked flavour. It forms a valuable diet for the invalid, by reason of its easy diges- tibility.” It is evident that the writer uses the term Game as applied to a select few, rather than in a general sense of sport, and this has become the order of the day, the sense of taste having influenced the laws of the country to narrow the intention and signification of an English word until its application has become more select than accurate. For any further description of Game, the times when they are in season, and their culinary preparation, refer- ence must be made to special headings; but there are so many receipts in which any kind of flesh with a gamy flavour can be used that it has been found advisable to give them under this heading. Those celebrated Game pies, for instance, which are so justly famous all over the civilised world, contain all sorts and conditions of Game, hence they cannot possibly claim to come under any special heading. They are usually put into ornamental crusts ; but as the crust is not always eaten with the meat, a clever inventor has manufactured earthenware Fig. 820. Fire-proof China Game Pie-Moulds with Loose Covers (Temple and Crook). dishes (see Fig. 820) to resemble pie-crust, in which the Game can be cooked almost as a galantine. These are really excellent imitations, and cause much amusement when the guest attempts to cut through the “crust” rather than lift the lid. But the cook should be careful to point out the deceit to the host or hostess, that the pie may not be discarded and the cook discredited. Modern Continental cooks are very fond of using what they term “ fumet de gibier” (flavour of Game); and so important does this fumet appear to be that they have extended the application almost indefinitely. See Fumet. Game fumet may be of either partridge, pheasant, hare, or venison, and it would require a very delicate sense to distinguish one from the other, seeing that until cooked Game has little or no flavour and not much smell; but when cooked what is termed the Game flavour is to be distinguished, modified according to the style of cooking. Moreover, the strength of the Game fumet depends upon the advance of decomposition, so that a good “ fumet de gibier ” may safely be obtained from any Game available. Game—continued. Bouchees of Game.—Put 2\ breakfast-cupfuls of Game sauce into a stewpan with the flesh of any cold cooked Game cut up small; stir them over the fire till hot, season with salt and a small quantity of sugar, then move the pan to the side. Roll out lib. of puff paste to fin. in thickness, cut out some rounds with a fluted tin cutter about l|in. in diameter, sprinkle water over a baking-sheet, lay the rounds on it, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. With a plain tin cutter, a size smaller than the one previously used, mark a ring on the top of each piece of paste, dipping the cutter into hot water every time. Bake the paste in a quick oven for twenty minutes, keeping the oven-door closed. When cooked, take the bouchees out of the oven, and with a sharp-pointed knife lift off the lids as carefully as possible so as not to break them ; scrape out the soft paste, thus leaving a hollow, fill them with the Game, put on the lids, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve. Cliaudfroid Game Sauce.—Boil 1)- pints of Spanish sauce with £ breakfast-cupful of essence of any Game. When stiffly reduced, mix with the sauce 2 table-spoonfuls of brown aspic jelly cut up into small pieces, stir the sauce till the jelly is dissolved, then strain it through a silk sieve, and it is ready for use. Cream of Game.—Chop and remove the skin from about 21b. of any boiled Game ; pound it to a paste in a mortar, then put it into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, a bunch of sweet herbs, a dozen peppercorns, three or four cloves, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and 3 pints of broth. Boil for half-an-hour, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and mix 1 teacupful of cream with it. Serve in a tureen with about 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked Game cut into small pieces. Devilled Game.—(1) Clean and prepare any Game in season, and half roast it. Mix equal quantities of salt, cayenne, and curry powder, and then add double this quantity of powdered dried truffles. Put the entrails and brains of the bird in a mortar, crush them well, and add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, the grate 1 rind of a lemon, 1 dessert-spoonful of chutney, a little soy, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 wine- glassful of Madeira, and the juice of half an orange or lemon. Dust the bird over with the powder, put it in a dish with the brain mixture, place the dish over a spirit-lamp, cover tightly, and cook until the flesh is thoroughly incorporated with the mixture. Now add a little salad-oil, let it get hot, turn out on to a dish, and serve as soon as possible. (2) Any kind of Game, such as snipe, wild duck, woodcock, &c., can be used. Mix 1 teaspoonful of salt with 1 dessert- spoonful of cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, and sufficient made mustard to form a paste. Split the bird, and cover it with the mustard paste. Take out the brains of the bird, put it in a mortar, and make it into a mass by adding the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, half a blade of mace, 1 salt- spoonful of grated lemon-peel, also a little essence of anchovies, ketchup, or any other flavouring; then add 1 wineglassful of wine, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne, 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, and the juice of a lemon or orange. Put this mixture into a dish, place the bird on it, add a small lump of butter well rolled in flour, put a cover over the dish, and shake it over a very slow fire or lamp until the greater part of the sauce is absorbed. Place the bird on a dish, pour round the sauce, and serve. Fillets of Game in Cases.—(1) Make some cases of white paper, butter them, and put a piece of bacon-fat in each. Cut any cold roasted Game into slices, put them in the cases, place a little bacon-fat over each, strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and bake them in a brisk oven until browned. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, arrange the cases on it, placing here and there small bunches of fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut into fillets as much cooked Game as is required ; put them separately into cooked paste cases, lay them in pyramid form, sticking them together with glaze, decorate with shapes of different coloured aspic jelly, and serve. (3) Cut the flesh of any Game into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over the fire until half cooked ; then take them out and let them get cold. Grease some sheets of paper with butter or