578 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fat—continued. may be used instead of suet, ov for frying, for which latter purpose it is most serviceable. Concerning Fat for frying, the following very useful observations have been contributed by a chef of great repute: There are several kinds of Fat suitable for this purpose, such as butter, lard, a mixture of lard and suet in equal proportions, dripping, and oil. If suet alone is used the material fried in it must be cooked quickly, as the suet soon cools, and then has a tallowy taste. Dripping should j be clarified and freed from water, or the articles cooked will | soak, or stew in the fat. Lard with a little suet or dripping mixed with it is generally used. The lard should be clarified by putting slices of potato in it, and heating until it becomes quite still. Olive oil is the purest and best fat, and in some j cases cotton-seed oil is used, but it has a very peculiar odour, and is therefore not recommended. When the Fat or oil becomes too brown for frying potatoes, use it for croquettes, and then it can be used for nothing else but j for fish and fish balls. The Fat should always be strained after using, so that any small pieces that may have come off the substance fried, or dropped in, may be removed. Fat is also used by artistic cooks for making orna- mental stands for cold dislies. It is then specially prepared as follows, or may be purchased ready for use under the name of stearine: Put the Fat from a sheep’s kidney into cold water with a few table-spoonfuls of citric acid, and leave it to soak for j twenty-four hours (the skin and veins should be removed before putting the Fat into the cold water). When the Fat is cleaned, take it out, drain, and put it in a saucepan over a moderate fire, cover over the pan, and stir well to prevent its burning or sticking- to the pan. Put it in a cloth and strain it into a basin, let it remain for a few minutes to settle, and then pour off into another basin. Kend down 3qts. of hog’s lard from the Fat of fresh pork, and when it is about the same consistence as the kidney Fat mix them together, and stir with a wooden spoon until the whole becomes quite smooth and frothy; add a few drops of a strong solution of citric acid, and it is then ready for use. If the Fat is required to be very firm do not use quite so much lard, as too much will make it soft. It should be used as soon as possible, and beaten with a spoon to make it white. It may be coloured if desired. When required for modelling figures it is usual to prepare it as above, with this exception, that as soon as it is melted pour it into a basin without working it, and allow it to get quite cold; then turn l it gently out of the basin and scrape the top off in thin j shavings with a knife, rub it well in a damp cloth, and spread it on a table or board. It should then be perfectly j smooth. When wanted for use it must be worked, and not before, as it soon becomes dry and hard. A little white wax may be added while the Fat is hot to give it greater consistency. FATTENING.—It cannot be said that the processes adopted for fattening animal life for food are of any very great moment to the cook, although there may be some interest in the following remarks : At one time the plan adopted was to prevent the animals taking exercise, whilst at the same time they were gorged with fat-forming foods. It has been found by experience that the fat thus accumulated was de- ficient in quality. The system pursued by modern and enlightened farmers, instead of tying up their fattening animals, is to put two or three together in small yards, with sheds attached, in which they can run about, eat J when they choose, and take shelter from the rain, cold, or sun. Pigs and spring lambs are far better treated in this way. Poulti-y are no longer confined in coops and crammed by stuffing them with balls of fattening food; they are allowed to take exercise in fields sown with various herbs, which impart a fine flavour to the flesh. Rabbits are fattened in miniature warrens, wherein they can disport themselves as they will; but the poor unfor- tunate goose which provides foies gras to the gourmet is not so well favoured. It is nailed by its feet to a Fattening—continued. plank, crammed with food, deprived of drink, and placed near a large fire in an unnatural warmth. In this way the liver, which is considered such an extraordinary luxury, becomes infiltrated with fat, and assumes out- rageous proportions. Let the devourers of pate de foie gras think of the terrible life that goose has endured in his service! Will such a reflection render the dainty less toothsome ? FAWN (Fr. Faon; Ger. Hirschkalb; Ital. Cervietto).— The young of the deer does not often find its way into the kitchen; hence cooks are not very profuse as to its mode of treatment. When very young the suspicion arises rather too naturally that it has not been specially slaughtered for the occasion, and this idea creates a prejudice against what is otherwise a very savoury dish. It must be skinned and dressed as venison, but should not be kept longer than is absolutely necessary, as the flesh deteriorates very quickly. Barbecued Fawn.—Select a very young Fawn, skin and clean it, truss in the same way as a hare, and stuff with highly-seasoned forcemeat. Sew it up, put it on a spit or in the oven, and roast until done, basting it frequently with its own liquor mixed up with a little butter. Fifteen minutes or so to each pound should be quite sufficient to Fig. 726. Barbecued Fawn. cook it, but the heat to which it is exposed will vary the time. The Fawn may also be covered with thin slices of fat bacon and then cooked, removing- the bacon five minutes or so previous to serving, so as to brown the meat. When it is done, place it on a dish, garnish with potato croquettes and Brussels sprouts (see Fig. 726), and serve. A Fawn may also be cut into quarters, and then roasted. Roasted Saddle of Fawn.—Lard the fillets and thick part of each leg of a saddle of Fawn, put it into a large bowl with a few sliced onions, a bunch of parsley, and plenty of salt, pepper, and spices ; cover with vinegar, leave it in the pickle for three days, turning it constantly each day so that it may be well seasoned on all sides, then drain and roast. Prepare the following- sauce : Peel and cut into small pieces one carrot, two or three shallots, and a few parsley-roots, put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped ham, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, half a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, six peppercorns, and a small quantity of allspice. Stir the ingredients over the fire with a wooden spoon until browned, then pour in 1 tea- cupful of white vinegar, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and continue stirring till the moisture has almost reduced to a glaze. Mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce and 1 teacupful of broth; boil the sauce for a few minutes, keeping it well skimmed, then season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. When cooked, place the Fawn on a hot dish; strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve it in a sauceboat. FEASTS {Fr. Fetes; Ger. Feste).—Derived as this word undoubtedly is from the Latin festum—a merrymaking, the reader is led thereby to look back upon the days of Rome’s imperious sway, when luxurious living was the rule, and a Feast in his honour was considered the usual reward of a successful warrior or politician. The practice