TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 707 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. before (after it has been well washed), and let it work for three or four days; then run it into an iron-hooped cask, and let it stand twelve months before bottling. Preserved Gooseberries.—(1) Put 51b. of Gooseberries into a preserving-pan with lib. of sugar dusted over them, and set the pan on the fire ; when the juice commences to come out, take off the pan. Repeat this process for two days more ; then take the Gooseberries out of the syrup, drain them on sieves, and place them to dry either before the fire or in the sun, the latter for preference. After being taken out of the pan, they may be dipped in fine sugar and packed away in boxes. (2) Put a layer of rough-skinned dry ripe Gooseberries at the bottom of a preserving-pan, put over a layer of sugar, and continue in this way until sufficient fruit is used. Pour in a little water to moisten, and boil quickly until clear; then take out the fruit, and pack in jars. Boil the syrup until thick, pour it over the fruit, cover over with brandied paper, and then with parchment, and keep in a dry cupboard. (3) Snip the snuffs and stalks off some large green Goose- berries, prick them with a needle in two or three places, and cover with cold water. Place a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, put in the Gooseberries, and when they rise take out and put them in cold water with a little salt mixed in to make them a brighter green. Take out of the cold water, and put them in a preserving-pan with syrup that has been boiled to the small thread degree (see Sugar - boiling), boil them for a few minutes, and skim off the scum that rises. Pour the Gooseberries into another pan, and keep them covered for twenty-four hours. Drain the syrup into the preserving-pan, mix some more syrup with it, and boil to one degree more; then put the fruit in and boil again. This operation must bo performed daily for four or five days, adding a little more syrup each time, which must be boiled one more degree each day till it reaches the large pearl (see Sugar-boiling). When it reaches that degree, do not boil any more, or it would candy the fruit. The scum should be removed as it rises. Turn the fruit into jars, cover them with wet bladder, and tie down. Gooseberries—continued. (see Fig. 871). When cold, oover as for jams, carefully excluding the air. (5) Pick the Gooseberries when the weather is quite dry and they aro full-grown, but not ripe. Cut off the tops and tails, but be v&ry careful that the skin is not broken at all, or they will not keep. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles, cork loosely, put thorn in a slack oven, and leave until shrunk. Afterwards take them out of the oven, fix the corks in tightly, and resin them over. They should be kept in a dry cupboard well secluded from the air. The Goose- berries should be gathered while the seeds are small. GOOSE PUDDING. — In some parts of England, especially in Yorkshire, the people prepare a pudding which they term Goose Pudding, to be served with Goose. It is made in a variety of ways according to means and circumstances, but the following receipt will be found equal to any: Soak four slices of bread until soft in sufficient water to cover them, then drain off the superfluous water, and beat the bread to a pulp with a wooden spoon. Trim off the skin and discoloured parts of 3oz. of beef-suet, and chop it as finely as possible. Mix the suet with the bread, also 3 table- spoonfuls of cooked and finely-chopped onion, J teacupful of milk, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of powdered sage. Mix these ingredients well together, then turn them into a pie-dish, and bake for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. This pudding is generally served hot with roasted Goose. GORGONZOLA CHEESE.—See Cheese. GOTHAM PUDDING.—See Puddings. GOTHIC SAUCE.—See Sauces. GOURAMI.—Au East Indian fresh-water fish (Osphro- menus gorami), which is reared in private fish-ponds in tropical countries and used extensively as a food. It grows to a prodigious size, and often weighs more than a hundred pounds. All efforts to introduce this fish into English water have hitherto proved unsuccessful. Fig. 871. Preserved Gooseberries (Whole Fruit). (4) The Gooseberries must be quite sound and ripe. Pick the stalks and tops off, wash and dry them, then weigh, and to each pound of Gooseberries allow lib. of sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, adding for every pound 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil till clear, taking off the scum as it rises; then put the Gooseberries into an earthenware bowl, and pour tho boiling syrup over them, laying a plate on the Gooseberries to keep them under the syrup, and letting them stand all night. In the morning, empty the bowl of Gooseberries and syrup into a preserving- pan, set it on the stove, and let it boil gently till the Goose- berries look clear; then take the pan off the stove, let it cool a little, and turn tho preserve into large glass jars GOURDS. —This is the name given to a very ex- tensive tribe (Cucurbita) of fruit, which numbers in its ranks some of the most delicious, largest, and most useful natural growths in existence. Cucumbers, melons, pump- kins, and vegetable marrows are all Gourds; and so, too, are others which, when emptied of their seeds and pulp, scraped and dried, form cups, bowls, spoons, and other useful vessels, and the natives of the places where they are grown expend much time and labour in carving and painting them with elaborate devices. Gourds may be classed as those which are edible and those which are not, the former class being described under their various headings. The growing tops of all edible Gourds form a capital vegetable when boiled, pressed, and served with lemon-juice and butter. GOURMANDS and GOURMETS. — For conve- nience sake these two words are grouped together, not because they by any means correspond in their modern signification, but because they are in a sense antitheses and yet boast of a common parent—the love of eating and drinking. Gourmands are literally gormandisers, or gluttons; Gourmets, on the other hand, are epicures and refined judges of good eating and drinking. Gourmets are gentlemen as compared with Gourmands, and this difference is more correct than at first sight appears, especially as by the ignorant the two terms are frequently confounded. Gourmands derive their appellation from the provincial French gourmer—to sip or lap up, the first syllable having for its progenitor the Icelandic gormr—mud, mire. In some parts of this country the term gorm is used for to smear. Gourmet, on the other hand, is sup- posed to be the diminutive of groom—the r having met with a not uncommon transposition. “ The word,” says