THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 619 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, t(c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fowls—continued. add two onions and carrots, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, a few cloves, and half a grated nutmeg, and boil until the birds are tender; then remove the skin, gristle, and sinews, and chop the meat as fine as possible. Put lib. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for a few minutes, add i pint of the liquor the Fowls were cooked in, and 1 pint of rich cream, and boil for eight or ten mintes, stirring constantly. Remove the pan from the fire, season with salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, and a little powdered sweet marjoram, add the chopped meat, and stir well; now add the yolks of four eggs, stir them rapidly in, place the saucepan on the fire for a minute, stirring well, turn the mass on to a dish, spread it out, and let it get cold. Cover the hands with flour, form the mass into shapes, dip them into egg beaten with cream, then in sifted breadcrumbs, and let them stand to dry for an hour or so; then plunge them into boiling lard, and fry them a delicate colour. Take them out, drain them, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. The remainder of the chicken stock may be used for making consomme or soup. (2) Select a pair of Fowls weighing 121b. the pair. Boil a sweetbread for three minutes, put it into cold water, take it out in an hour, and drain it. Boil a calf’s brain, and set it aside to cool; boil also J pint of cream with 1 breakfast- cupful of sifted breadcrumbs. Put the Fowls into a saucepan with water to cover them, and boil until tender; take them out, skim the fat from the liquor, pour off the clear portion, and boil it dowrn to | pint. Skin the Fowls, reject the brown flesh, tendons, and gristle, and chop up all the white meat, together with the sweetbread and brain, adding 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, 1 teaspoonfal of salt, and half the quantity each of powdered mustard, mace, and white pepper. Cut up two shallots and one onion, put them into a frying-pan with 4oz. of butter, and fry them; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, | stir briskly until well mixed, turn it into a saucepan, add the chopped meat, the jelly from the broth, and the soaked breadcrumbs, and stir well over the fire until hot; add the yolks of four eggs, stir well again, remove from the fire, and let it cool. When cool enough to be handled, pound it in a mortar, spread it on a dish, set it away in an ice-box to | stiffen, and let it remain for two or three hours; take it out, mix thoroughly, form it into shapes, rolling them slightly in cracker-crumbs, dip them one at a time into beaten egg, then into sifted breadcrumbs, and let them stand for an hour ; then roll them again, and set them away in the ice-box until wanted. Plunge them into a frying-pan with a good supply of boiling fat, and fry to a golden colour, turning them to keep them in shape and uniform in colour. Take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley and watercress. The best shape to form these croquettes is like a sugar-loaf or a roll, and not flat. One table-spoonful of the mixture should be used for each. (3) Use cold roasted or boiled chicken, chopped not too fine, and fib., or half a can, of mushrooms cut into small dice. Put into a saucepan 1 teaspoonful of grated onion and 1 table- spoonful of butter, and let them begin to brown ; then stir in 2 piled table-spoonfuls of flour and f pint of chicken broth or water, or of water mixed with the liquor of the canned mushrooms ; then add the chopped chicken and mushrooms, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and 1 wineg'lassful of sherry or Madeira wine; stir the mixture until it begins to boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in [ the yolks of four eggs. After the eggs are added, pour the mixture upon an oiled dish, and let it cool. Have ready a deep bowl containing two beaten eggs, a large plateful of cracker-dust or fine breadcrumbs, and, over the fire, a frying- pan half full of fat. Wet the hands with cold water, form the croquettes like large corks, handling them very lightly and quickly, and roll them in crumbs; then dip them in the beaten eggs, again roll them in crumbs, and fry them golden brown in the smoking-lxot fat. When they are done, take them out of the fat with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, arrange them in a pile on a dish, and serve them hot. The shaping of the croquettes requires a very light, deft touch, because, to be good, they should be very soft. A little practice will enable any careful cook to make them successfully. Fowls—continued. (4) Bone a cooked chicken, cut it into small, square pieces, put them in a saute-pan with two truffles cut the same way, add J pint of strong veloute sauce, and cook for ten minutes ; then stir in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir briskly, and then put it away to cool in a flat dish. Divide the mixture into six parts, lay them on a slab, sprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs, roll them into oblong shapes, dip each one into beaten egg, and roll again into fresh breadcrumbs; fry to a light brown in hot fat for four minutes, drain thoroughly, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating with a little green parsley. '(5) Mince the flesh of cold cooked Fowl, also one-foui’th of the quantity of ham; chop very fine two shallots, and mix them writh the meat. Put the mixture over the fire in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, add a seasoning of pepper and grated nutmeg, and shake the pan over the fire for five or ten minutes; then stir in gently the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of cream, and mix for two minutes ; then take it from the fire, and let it cool. When sufficiently cold, make it up into balls about the size of eggs, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them a good brown in boiling oil or butter. Lay them in the middle of a hot dish, surround them with a border of boiled rice or mashed potatoes, and serve with mushroom or truffle sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Cut off the meat from the breasts of two or three Fowls, mince it, add to it a few cooked Fowl’s livers, some ham and a few mushrooms, all finely minced; add to this some chicken forcemeat, 1 teacupful of melted glaze, and a little grated nutmeg; when well mixed, divide into several pieces of an equal size, roll them on a table sprinkled with breadcrumbs, dip them in beaten egg, roll them again in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat till brown; drain them, dish in pyramids on a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (7) Chop 8oz. of cooked chicken-meat very fine, and season it with 1 pinch of cayenne, 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, i teaspoonful each of celery salt and salt, 1 teaspoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and lemon-juice, and a few drops of onion-juice. Take 1 pint of cream, put it into a saucepan, and scald it. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into another pan, and melt it; when it begins to bubble, add 2 table- spoonfuls of cornflour, and stir well. Pour in one-third of the hot cream, and stir continually as it boils and gets thick ; add the remainder of the cream in the same way, seeing that as every fresh lot is put in, the mixture is quite smooth. When all the cream is added and the sauce is quite thick, like batter, add ^ teaspoonful each of salt, celery salt and pepper, a little cayenne, and one egg well beaten, put in the meat, using only such a quantity as will make it soft and easy to handle, and spread it on a plate to get cold. Make it into shapes like rolls, dip them first in breadcrumbs, then in egg, and then breadcrumbs again, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry for a minute. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, and serve with some thin cream sauce in a tureen. (8) Cut the flesh of a cold roasted Fowl into very small pieces. Thicken pint of gravy with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine, the juice of one lemon, and a small quantity of dissolved gelatine, season to taste with salt and cayenne, stir over the fire, and boil for a few minutes; then remove it to the side, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix the Fowl with the sauce, and leave it until cold. Divide the mixture into small, equal-sized quantities; strew grated breadcrumbs over the table, roll them on this to the shape of small sausages, and dip them in beaten egg, then in grated bread and Parmesan cheese. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, put in the croquettes, and fry them until equally and delicately browned. Place them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. If they are intended for garnish, they should be made small. Fowl Croquettes a la Perigourdin. — Prepare some cro- quettes,. composed of chicken, mushrooms, two truffles cut into small square pieces, and loz. of cooked smoked tongue in small pieces. Fry them for four minutes, and serve. Make hot J- pint of Madeira sauce, add to it one chopped truffle