THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 711 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under tlieir special heads, Grapes—continued. mix in 31b. of moist sugar ; then pour it into a vessel, and keep in a temperature of 60deg. When fermentation com- mences, pour the wine into a cask. If the fermentation is scarcely perceptible before the wine is turned into the cask, mix a small quantity of yeast with it. When fermentation has ceased, clear away all impurities from around the bung- hole, fill up the cask, and drive the bung in tightly. The vent-peg should be put in loosely for a few days to allow the carbonic-aeid gas to escape. When the hissing noise has stopped, drive the peg in tightly. In about six months’ time the wine may be drawn off and bottled. A lump of sugar put into each bottle makes the wine sparkle. (2) The Grapes should be gathered when full grown and beginning to change colour. Bruise them in a tub, pour in lqt. of water to every quart of Grapes, and leave for three days, stirring each day; then pass the liquor and the fruit through a coarse cloth. Let it stand until settled, then pour it carefully off the sediment, and mix with it 31b. of loaf sugar for every gallon of juice. Pour it into a cask and leave until it has finished working (it will take about three weeks). Dissolve in a little of the liquor foz. of isinglass for every 5galls. of the wine, mix it with the wine, and stir every day for three days; then pour in 1 pint of brandy to every 2Jgalls. In about four days bung the cask down tightly, and leave it untouched for six months, when it may be drawn off into bottles and corked securely. Green Grape Sauce.—Scald about 1 breakfast-cupful of sour Grapes, and remove the stones. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a very small quantity of flour, a small piece of butter, 1 teaspoonful or so of finely-chopped parsley, and a good seasoning of cayenne ; turn all into a saucepan with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and boil for a minute; then put in the Grape pulp, and warm without boiling, stirring continually, wheu it will be ready for use. It should have a very sharp taste, and be highly seasoned. Pickled Grapes.—(1) Cut into small bunches large but not ripe Grapes, and fill a stone jar with them, putting vine- leaves between the bunches ; dissolve lib. of bay-salt and a little common salt in lqt. of cold water, put it into a copper pan, boil it, and remove the scum as it rises to the top. When it has boiled for a-quarter-of-an-liour, let it stand till cool. Pour the liquor over the Grapes, put more vine-leaves on the top, and tie down with a folded linen cloth. Boil 2qts. of vinegar together with lqt. of water and lib. of brown sugar for a few minutes, skim, and let it stand till quite cold; strain the Grapes. Dry the jar,eput fresh vine-leaves at the bottom, between the layers of the Grapes, and on the top, and pour the clear pickle over all. Tie a thin piece of board in a piece of flannel, lay it on the top of the jar, cover it with bladder and then with leather, and tie it down tightly. (2) Select 51b. of Grapes, not too ripe. Boil lqt. of vinegar in a pan with 21b. of brown sugar; in ten minutes put in the Grapes, and simmer for half-an-hour. Strain the Grapes, place them in a jar, and put the syrup in the pan again with 1 table-spoonful of mixed cloves, allspice, and mace, tied up in a piece of muslin; boil for ten minutes, then pour it over the Grapes in the jar. In two days strain off the syrup, boil it again for ten minutes, then pour it over the Grapes. Cover the jar with bladder, tie it down, and keep in a cold dry place. (3) Pick out the best from several bunches of black and white Grapes. Squeeze the bruised ones, pass the juice through a fine hair sieve into a perfectly clean stewpan, and boil for a few minutes. Wash the selected bunches, lay two or three of them in a jar, sprinkle over some mustard-seed, then put in more Grapes, then seed, and so on until all are used; pour the boiled juice over them, and cover the jar tightly to exclude the air. In a month the Grapes will be fit for use. They will have an agreeable acid taste, will be found very refreshing, and keep for a consider- able time. Preserved Grapes.—(1) The Grapes must be ripe and quite sound. Pick the stalks from the fruit, and weigh it, to every pound of Grapes allowing lib. of sugar. Squeeze the pulp out of the skins, putting the pulp into one bowl and the skins into another. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with Grapes—continued. 1 breakfast-cupful of water to each pound, and let it boil till clear, taking the scum off as it rises. When it !is quite clear put the pulp of the Grapes into it, and boil for two minutes ; then turn it out into a hair sieve, and rub it through with the back of a wooden spoon to get the pips out. Put it back into the preserving-pan without the pips, add the skins, and boil for two or three minutes, or till the skins fill and look plump ; then let it cool, and put it into jars, covering so as to keep out the air. (2) Select close and not over-ripe bunches of Grapes, lay them in a jar, sprinkling over a good supply of crushed white sugar-candy, fill up the jar with brandy, tie down tightly, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted. Before the Grapes are put in the jar, each one should have three or four small holes made in it. In this way Grapes can be kept from autumn until after Christmas, and will form an excellent dessert-dish. (3) Pick the stalks from 61b. of unripe green Grapes, put the Grapes in a preserving-pan with 4qts. of water, and stand the pan over a slow fire, but do not let the water simmer; when the Grapes turn yellow take them out with a skimmer, and put them into a basin of cold water; when cool, slit them slightly with the point of a sharp knife, then pick out the seeds with the point of a quill, dropping each Grape as it is done into the pan containing the water in which they were scalded. Set this pan over a very slow fire, and let the Grapes heat gently, so that they may become green again. Take the Grapes out, put them in a cool place, and cover with vine-leaves. On the following day boil some syrup, made with 51b. of sugar, to 22deg. (see Sugar-boiling) ; drain the juice of the Grapes (verjuice), mix it with the syrup, put in the Grapes, and simmer; take the pan off, cover it with vino-leaves, and let it remain till the next day. Put the pan over the fire, let the contents simmer again, take out the Grapes, drain, and put them into jars or bottles; boil the syrup to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), skim it, pour it over the Grapes, and let them stand till cold; then cover the jars with bladder, and tie down tightly. Grapes pre- served in this way are generally used for decorating pastry and confectionery. (4) Swiss Style.—Arrange several lines of pack-thread or fine string not far from the oeiling of a cool room. Cut off the bunches of Grapes before they are quite ripe, remove all the unsound ones, taking care that their juice does not touch the others, seal the ends of the stalks with beeswax to prevent them drying, and hang up the bunohes on the thread. In this way they will keep for several months. GRAPE - FRUIT . — See Shaddock. GRATERS.—A very useful, almost indispensable, article for kitchen use is the Grater, espe- cially one of those which combines two or more varieties in one (see Fig. 877), such as a large coarse grain for bread and cheese, and a finer grain for nutmeg, ginger, and other spices. Some other varieties of Graters are manu- factured, all acting more or less upon the same principle; but that shown in the illustration is inex- pensive, and answers every pur- pose that can be required of it. GRATES.—See Stoves and Ranges. GRATIN.—The literal signi- fication of this French word is the scraping of a dish or saucepan, and therefore the culi- nary term “ au Gratin ” is applied to certain dishes which admit of tasty morsels being scraped from the dish. In Kettner’s description of au Gratin this peculiarity is entirely lost sight of, and the au Gratin is considered to apply to grated breadcrumbs. Fig. 877. Combination Grater.