THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 624 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. 1 teacupful of mushroom liquor. Shape some of the force- meat into quenelles by moulding it between 2 table-spoons, and poach them in boiling salted water ; when they are firm, take them out, drain, and place them on a towel for a few minutes to dry. Poach the remainder of the forcemeat, and make a border with it on a dish, arrange the quenelles in a circular form on the border, put in the centre some white button mushrooms and cocks’ combs, mask with the sauce, and serve. Fowl Rissoles.— (1) Make a well-flavoured mixture of pickled tongue, mushrooms, and the meat of a cold Fowl, all cooked, thicken it with a little bechamel sauce reduced with glaze, and set it in a basin to cool. Prepare fib. of puff paste, and roll it out into long thin strips, with the edges trimmed, then with a small spoon take a little at a time of the mixture and place it at intervals on the paste, leaving about lin. clear from the edge. Wet the edge of the paste and fold it over so as to completely cover in the chicken mixture; then with a channeled paste-cutter cut the paste out into rissoles, having the meat in the centre of the cutter ; roll out the rest of the paste, and continue until all the rissoles are made. Dip each one separately into well-beaten egg, and put them in a frying-pan of fat over a slow fire. When done, take them out, put them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (2) Cut some rounds of puff paste with a 2-Jin. fluted cutter, put a small piece of Fowl forcemeat on each round, fold over the paste to cover, and damp and press the edges to make the paste stick. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Remove the skin from some pieces of cold cooked Fowl, and mince them very finely; also chop up finely an equal quantity of ham and a small quantity of truffles. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the mince with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley; dredge lightly over with flour, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the whole over the fire until well mixed and very hot, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and leave it until cold. Prepare some good puff paste, and proceed as for No. 1. Fowl Salad.—(1) Cut the flesh of a cold roasted Fowl into slices; trim off the outside leaves of one or two lettuces, wash the remainder thoroughly, dry them on a cloth, cut them up or pull them to pieces with the fingers, and put them in a salad bowl with the pieces of Fowl. Skin and bone three anchovies, cut them into thin strips, and lay them over the pieces of Fowl, &c. Beat an egg, and mix with it 1 heaped teaspoonful of dry mustard, and a sufficient quantity of salad oil and vinegar. Season the dressing to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar, and pour it over the contents of the salad-bowl. The salad should be served directly the dressing is poured over. (2) Remove the skin and fat from a boiled chicken, and cut all the meat from the breast into dice. It should be cut with a knife, not pulled or chopped. The brown meat can | be used for other purposes. Mix up with the meat an equal bulk of tender, crisp, inner stalks of celery, give them a good coating of mayonnaise sauce, and toss the whole gently with a fork. Cover the bottom of an oval-shaped dish with the blanched inside leaves of a lettuce, placing the light-coloured green leaves round the dish for a border. Place the salad j in the centre, pour over sufficient of the sauce to well cover it, smooth the surface with a knife, garnish with thin slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. (3) Boil a chicken of 2Jib. weight in stock for one hour; when cooked, let it get thoroughly cold. Bone the Fowl, cut it up into small pieces, and put them into a deep dish, seasoning with salt and pepper, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and six leaves of chopped lettuce, or a few chopped white sticks of celery in preference. Mix well, place it in a salad- bowl, cover with J breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise dressing, decorate the top with chopped hard-boiled egg, 1 table- spoonful of capers, twelve stoned olives, also with quarters of two hard-boiled eggs and six small white lettuce-leaves placed round the dish, and serve. (4) Cut the meat of a small chicken into little squares, removing the skin. Take half a head of celery, well washed, and cut it into very small pieces. Put into a bowl the yolks Fowls—continued. of two eggs; take 1 gill of the best salad-oil and let it fall, drop by drop, into the bowl with the eggs, beating well all the time with a wooden spoon till it is a thick cream, and add to this 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the chicken and celery into a salad-bowl, pour over them the beaten yolks of eggs, oil and vinegar mixed together, sprinkle in 1. table-spoonful each of salt and ground white pepper, with hardly as much cayenne as will lay on the point of a small knife, and with a silver or wooden fork mix well together. Have ready washed a lettuce, arrange its leaves round the edge of the bowl, sprinkle on top of the salad 1 table-spoonful of capers, and stick some of the celery-tips in the centre. (5) Cut a dozen fillets from three young Fowls, and let them be of an equal size, remove the wing-bones, take off the skin and beat the fillets, sprinkle salt over them, and poach them in boiling butter ; when done, take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and stand a heavy weight on them. When the fillets are cold, mask them with hot ravigote sauce, and lay them on a dish till the sauce is cold. Pour some melted jelly on a dish, and mask the fillets with some of it; and when that on the dish has set, arrange the fillets in a circle on it. Make a salad of green asparagus heads and cooked truffles, cut in large pieces, put these in the centre, and serve. (6) Old Style.—Cut off the flesh of two cooked Fowls, take off the skin, cut the meat into little pieces, put them in a basin, and add salt, pepper, a pinch of chopped tarragon-leaves and a little oil and vinegar. Mix with some mayonnaise sauce 1 teacupful of cold but liquid aspic jelly. Fill a pyramid-mould, in alternate layers, with the Fowl and some of the mayonnaise, sprinkling on the top of each layer a pinch of capers and a few pickled olives without kernels, embed the mould in pounded ice, and leave it one hour. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, turn the preparation on to a hot dish, spread a coating of the prepared mayonnaise over it, smooth it evenly with the flat part of a knife, stick on the top a head of lettuce, decorate the salad with fillets of anchovies, chopped gherkins, capers, &c., and arrange round the base some hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters and masked with half-set jelly, inter- mixing with lettuce-hearts cut in quarters (see Fig. 776). An extremely pretty supper dish. Fowl Sauce.—Boil 3 pints of veloute sauce with f pint of essence of Fowl till stiffly reduced. Take the sauce off the fire, thicken it with yolks of eggs, and strain it through a fine silk sieve. Return the sauce to the stewpan, mix in with it 1 teacupful of clear aspic jelly cut into small pieces, and stir it lightly near the fire till melted, but do not boil it again. It is then ready for use. Fowls Sautes.—(1) Dubois had a method of preparing this dish which may be described as follows : Peel some truffles, put them into a saucepan with a wineglassful of wine and a little salt, place the (pan on the fire, and boil, doing so only just previous to using them. Put an equal quantity of mushrooms in a saucepan and boil them, adding a little butter and the juice of a lemon. Select a couple of fat Fowls, singe, draw, and cut off their claws and pinions, and