628 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. slightly, trim, and form them into rings; place a thin circle of ox-tongue with white of egg on the top of each, and put them in a buttered saute-pan. Press the breast fillets on the table, skin and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon, and put them in another saute-pan with thin layers of fat bacon on the top ; egg-and-breadcrumb the legs, and fry them in hot fat; cook the remainder in their respective pans, and glaze the fillets in the oven. Put a croustade border, about 3in. hig-h, round a dish, put the backs and pinions of the Fowl in the form of a square in the centre, lean alternately the legs and larded fillets against the sides of the square, put the smaller fillets on the top, and a large mushroom in the centre, pour over a little German sauce, and glaze the larded fillets. Mix some mushrooms with more German sauce, pour it in a sauceboat, and serve with the fricassee. (3) Disjoint two Fowls, put them in a saucepan, cover them with warm water, and add salt and peppercorns; when it boils, move it to the side of the fire, and let it remain for twelve minutes. Take out the fillets and breasts, rinse and trim them, and put them in another stewpan. Let the legs continue cooking, and when they are done, trim and put them in the saucepan with the fillets. Mix ilb. of butter with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour; moisten it with some of the Fowl liquor, put it in a saucepan, stir over the fire till boiling-, and then stand it at the side; add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, some pieces of ham, a few mushrooms, and one small onion stuck with two cloves, and simmer for twenty minutes, then skim and reduce. Strain it over the chicken, boil for fifteen minutes, and thicken with the yolks of three eggs, beaten with a little milk. Dish the Fowl; stir a piece of butter and the juice of one lemon in the sauce, strain it over the Fowl, and serve. (4) Singe, draw, and disjoint a Fowl, put the pieces in a stewpan, cover them with white veal stock, and boil; when tender, take out the pieces. Boil an onion, a piece of lemon-peel, and a sprig of thyme in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; when reduced to half its original quantity, mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a little cold milk, add it to the boiling milk, and stir over the fire till thick; then put the pieces of Fowl in, and when they are hot, dish up, and serve. (5) Singe, draw, and cut two Fowls at the joints, and put them in cold water for twenty minutes. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, cover them with broth, add a carrot, sliced up, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew till the pieces of Fowl are tender. Take them out, strain the broth, reduce it to half its original quantity, add 1J pints of velout6 sauce, reduce, thicken with a liaison of eggs, and strain through a fine hair sieve into a bain-marie pan. Put the pieces of Fowl in a saucepan, pour in enough sauce to cover them, and let them warm gradually through. Dish them, pour over some of the sauce out of the bain-marie, and serve. (6) Singe and draw two Fowls, cut each into five pieces, take out the spongy substance that is within the loins, blanch the pieces of Fowl, put them with a lump of butter in a stewpan, and fry till brown, then sprinkle a little flour, salt, and pepper over them, dilute with chicken broth, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take out the pieces and put them in another stewpan; skim the sauce, and reduce it; strain it over the Fowl, thicken the fricassee with the yolks of four eggs beaten in a little cream, dish, and serve. (7) Singe, draw, and cut up a Fowl; put the pieces in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 pinch of pepper, and simmer. When tender, take out the Fowl, remove the large bones, and sprinkle the meat with salt, pepper, and flour. Melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the pieces of Fowl till brown. Skim and strain the liquor, add 1 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil; take it off, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of butter mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, add salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and stir in a beaten egg. Dish the Fowl, pour the sauce over, and serve. (8) Put a Fowl, singed, drawn, and trussed, into a sauce- pan, cover it with highly-seasoned broth, and simmer over Fowls—continued. a moderate fire till tender. Take out the Fowl, strain the broth, and put it back into the saucepan; cut the Fowl into eight pieces, put them in with the broth, add the liver and gizzard (having previously blanched them), two dozen crayfish-tails, one cooked sweetbread, cut in slices, and 1 handful of morels. Boil these at the side of the fire, with some mushroom trimmings and a bunch of parsley, for half-an-hour. Take the Fowl out, skim, strain, and thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs beaten with a little cream. Arrang-e the Fowl on a dish, pour the sauce over it, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the Fowl, and serve. (9) Draw and wash two Fowls, and dissect them in the following manner: Cut the wings off at the second joint and the legs at the bend of the first joint, next cut off the thigh, then the breast along with the pinion on either side ; then divide the back and breast, cut them, and trim without any waste. Put into a stewpan a carrot and onion sliced, a few bits of celery, two or three cloves, half-a-dozen peppercorns, and a little parsley, pour over these 3 pints of white stock, and put in the pieces of Fowl; let the whole simmer gently until done, which will be about half-an-hour, then strain through a sieve, collecting the liquor in a basin. Trim the Fowls and throw them into cold water, wash them, and drain on a sieve. Put into a stewpan 3oz. of butter, let it melt, add 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix well together, stirring over the fire for three or four minutes so as to cook it; next add the liquor from the Fowls, a little at a time, until all is worked in, then the trimmings of the Fowls and three mushrooms chopped small, and continue boiling for about ten minutes; skim well during that time, and add £ pint of cream. When it is reduced to a creamy consistency, strain it through a tammy-sieve into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Fowls, some button-mushrooms, ham cut up in diamond shapes, and sliced truffles. Cut out some croutons of bread, fry them to a light brown, and put them round the dish, with the fricassee in the centre. It is well just to boil it up for a few minutes before serving, so as to ensure it being quite hot. (10) Pluck and singe a Fowl, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it carefully, and cut it into joints. Cut ^lb. of salted pork into Jin. dice, and peel and chop a medium-sized white onion. Put the chicken, pork, and onion into a sauce- pan, cover them with boiling water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and j saltspoonful of white pepper, and stew the chicken gently until it is tender. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, add it to the fricassee, and let it boil for two minutes; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and serve at once. (11) Cut a Fowl into joints, and soak them for an hour in cold water, which must be changed two or three times; then drain and dry them carefully in a cloth, and put them into a saucepan of water. As soon as this begins to boil, remove the pieces of Fowl, and pass the liquor through a tammy. Put a lump of butter, some scraped bacon, and a slice of ham in a saucepan over a slow fire ; when quite hot, add the pieces of Fowl, and as soon as they begin to stiffen, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour; take the saucepan off the fire, moisten the fricassee with equal quantities of stock and the liquor in which the Fowl was boiled, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs and an onion stuck with cloves, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then remove the onion and herbs, and if the sauce is sufficiently reduced, stir in the yolks of one or two eggs. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Fricassee of Fowls a l’Americaine.—Boil two Fowls, cut them into twelve pieces, put them into a saucepan with eight minced mushrooms, loz. of cooked salted pork cut into small squares, and ^ pint of German sauce. Warm thoroughly without boiling, and serve with any desired garnish. Fricassee of Fowl a la Bonne Fenune.—Prepare a Fowl, and cut it up as for a fricassee ; cut an onion and a carrot in slices, put them in a large stewpan with 6oz. of butter, and fry for five minutes, stirring continually. Put in the Fowl and 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and stir over the fire for five minutes longer ; then work in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir for two or three minutes, put in