THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 696 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. the bottom. Cut a calf’s foot in pieces and place it round the bird, with a bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, onions, and carrots, cut in slices, a few blades of mace, and a little salt and pepper; add 1 pint each of water and stock, 1 liqueur- glassful of brandy, and 1 wineglassful of wine. Close the lid tightly with paste, and stew slowly for five or six hours. Place it on a dish with the calf’s foot, bacon, &c., and serve hot. (3) Half roast a Goose, then take it from the fire and skin it. Put it over the fire in a stewpan with a few leaves of mint and one or two leaves of sage chopped fine, a little chopped onion, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and 1 pint of beef gravy; cover the stewpan closely, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Skim it quite free from scum, and put in about lqt. of green peas ; cover the pan again, and simmer for twenty minutes; then stir in a piece of butter and sufficient flour to thicken, boil it gently for ten minutes longer, and serve hot with the peas laid round the bird and the gravy poured over. (4) An old Goose does well for this. Lard the breast with strips of bacon rolled in chopped parsley, thyme, sage, and bay-leaf, tie it up in a good shape with thick tape, put it into a saucepan that will only just hold it, cover with a few slices of fat bacon, season with salt and pepper, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of cold water and wine, and 1 wineglassful of brandy, cover over the pan securely, and stew slowly for fully four hours. It may be served either hot or cold. If in the former way, the liquor should be poured over ; and if in the latter, the liquor should be clarified with beaten white and shell of egg, boiled up after the bird is taken out, skimmed, strained until clear, and allowed to get cold to form a jelly; then cut into pieces or shapes, and the dish garnished with them. Stewed Goose with. Sour-crout. — Take a middling-sized Goose, pick, singe, draw, and truss it as if for boiling, and put it in a saucepan. Plunge 41b. of sour-crout into boiling water, and let it blanch for ten minutes; when cold, take it out, drain, squeeze out all the water, and put it into a lgall. saucepan with lqt. of broth, 1 pint of fat skimmed off the top of the stockpot, and a little pepper ; cover, the pan, close it all round with paste, put it over a slow fire, and simmer gently for eight hours. Put the Goose in this with jib. each of fat streaky bacon and uncooked Bologna sausage, and one onion with a couple of cloves stuck in it; place the pan on the fire, boil up, and then remove it to the side where it can simmer for two hours. When the bacon and sausages are done, take them out; remove the rind from the bacon, cut it into slices ljin. long, lin. broad, and iin. thick ; cut the sausages up into slices of a similar thickness, and put them on one side until wanted, but still keeping them hot. As soon as the Goose is cooked, take it out, and cut off the string with which it was tied. Put the sour-crout in a colander and squeeze it dry; place it on a dish with the Goose, and garnish with the slices of bacon and sausage alternately. Goose Fat should not be thrown away, as it may be clarified as follows, and used for many purposes: Take all the fat that has been stripped off the intestines of the Goose, and any superfluous fat from the inside, put it into a basin of cold water, and leave until the following day, changing the water occasionally; then drain the fat, cut it into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with two peeled and sliced juicy apples, put the stewpan over a slow fire, and melt the fat. Strain it through a fine sieve into a jar, stir in a small quantity of salt, and leave until cold. Fasten a stout piece of paper over the jar, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Goose’s Giblets.—For cleaning and preparing them, see Giblets. They are considered very delicious dressed as follows: Forcemeat of Goose’s Liver. — Put 2oz. of finely-chopped onions into a basin, and pour boiling water over them ; cover the basin, and let them stand for a few minutes ; then pour off the water, and add to them their weight of breadcrumbs, a parboiled Goose’s liver, and five or six clean sage-leaves, sprinkling in a little cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste. Some cooks prefer the onions to be boiled, but this is con- Goose—continued. sidered to be a mistake, as it takes off the freshness of the flavour. A little butter may be used with the forcemeat, but it is not compulsory, as the Goose’s liver has generally fat enough of its own. Goose’s Giblets stewed, with Apples.—Clean the giblets thoroughly, cut them up, put them in a stewpan with an onion stuck with three cloves, a small bunch of parsley, and a small quantity of water ; dust in salt and pepper, and stew them gently. Peel six apples, cut them into quarters, and core; put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, a slice of lemon-peel, brown sugar to taste, and cook them gently until soft, but without breaking. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until brown; then mix in a small quantity of the cooking-liquor of the giblets. Strain the syrup off the apples, mix it in with the sauce, and stir over the fire until thick and smooth. Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of currants, and put them in boiling water until plump. Remove the onion and parsley from the giblets, pour the sauce in with them, and colour darkly with caramel; mix the currants, previously draining them, and the quarters of apples in with the giblets, and make all hot together. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Goose-Giblet Gravy for Roasted Goose.—Skin the head and neck of the Goose, remove all pin-feathers from the tips of the wings, scald and scrape the legs and feet, after cutting off the claws, clean the heart and gizzard, and cut away the gall from the liver. Put them all into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover, with salt and pepper in a palatable quantity, and boil until the Goose is nearly done. Remove all the bones from the giblets, and chop them all up small. Save the water in which they were boiled. Put over the fire in a saucepan 1 piled table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until they are brown, gradually stirring in the chopped giblets and broth. If there is not enough broth to make a gravy of the proper consistency, add a little boiling water, season with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and it is ready for use. Goose-Giblet Hotch-potch. —Clean some giblets, scald them in boiling water, refresh them in cold water, then drain and wipe them. Put the livers on one side ; skin the necks, put them with the other pieces in a saucepan with some clarified fat, and fry over a brisk fire till coloured; dredge in a small quantity of flour, stir them over the fire for a minute or two longer, then pour in gradually, while still stirring, plenty of rich broth. Add a bunch of parsley, and when the liquor boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering'. Cut 7^1b. of streaky bacon into small squares. Peel and wash some young carrots, turnips, and onions, and if very large cut them into halves or quarters, and scald them in boiling water. When the giblets are about half cooked, add the other ingredients to them ; ten minutes later, put some small peeled potatoes in, and finish cooking. Wash a small cabbage, trim off all the outside leaves, cut it into quarters, scald it in boiling water, then drain and braise it. Cut the livers into moderate-sized pieces, and cook them with the g'iblets for ten minutes. When cooked, put the giblets in the middle of a hot dish, place a group of the cabbage on each side and at the top and bottom, putting the other vegetables in groups between the cabbages, remove the bunch of parsley, pour the cooking-liquor over the giblets, and serve. Goose’s Giblets stewed with Pears.—Clean and wash a set of Goose giblets; put three or four thin slices of freshly-pickled pork in a saucepan, add the giblets, pour in sufficient cold water to cover them, and season with salt and pepper. Place the saucepan over the fire until the water boils, then move it to the side, and let it simmer until the giblets are tender. When they are cooked, strain nearly all their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan; mix with it a few cloves and a small quantity of ground allspice, then put in lib. or more of pears that have been peeled, cut into quarters, and cored. Stew them gently until tender, stir in a small quantity of sugar, and colour the sauce a rich brown with caramel. Put the giblets and slices of pork on a hot dish, arrange the pears in a circle round them, pour the sauce over the top, and serve hot. Goose-Giblet Pie.—Singe and scald the wings and head of a Goose, cut off part of the beak, and remove the eyes