698 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. over Europe tlie glory of its name, it resigns itself to its fate, and suffers not a tear to How.” Pates do foies gras are imported in terrines for keep- ing purposes; but it is generally admitted that the real paste pates imported fresh in October and November are incomparably superior. The livers are also preserved plain in tins for culinary use at a distance, in which state many cooks prefer to receive them, believing, as they have every right to do, that many of the so-called pates de foies gras contain fat livers that are quite foreign to the Strasburg goose. As the pies are well seasoned witli truffles, and truffles are very abundant in Perigord, the names are sometimes associated. Some very excellent dishes besides pies can be pre- pared from Goose’s Pat Liver, of which the following selected receipts are evidence. Very good imitation Goose’s Pat Liver can be prepared, it is said, by stewing pluck, fowl, rabbit, pork, or even lamb’s liver in pork-fat or beef-marrow. Attereaux of Goose’s Fat Liver. Take half of a cold, cooked fat liver, divide it into Jin. squares, Jin. thick; put them into a kitchen basin, add an equal quantity of same- sized squares of cooked pickled ox-tongue, season, sprinkle over 1 handful of minced truffles, and pour over a few table- spoonfuls of hot villeroy sauce. Roll them in this sauce until they are thoroughly masked with it, and then let them cool. Thread the squares of liver and tongue alternately upon Fig. 859. Attereaux of Goose’s Fat Liver. small Avooden or metal skewers (see Fig. 859), and roll them in breadcrumbs; dip into beaten eggs, roll in breadcrumbs again, then plunge them into plenty of boiling hog’s lard, and fry to a bright brown colour. Remove, drain, and serve on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, with lemon cut into quarters set all round. Baked Goose’s Fat Liver. -Take a large liver (without being put into water), cut off the gall and parts surrounding it if at all green, and cloute or lard it in the inside and underneath with small pieces of truffles. Sprinkle over with salt and pepper, place it in a basin, and cover with 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion into a frying-pan with some rasped bacon and a few mushrooms also finely chopped, and fry them until their moisture is reduced. Add two or three truffles also chopped, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, remove the pan from the fire, and when the mixture is cool add half its bulk of raw ham cut up into small pieces or squares, an equal quantity of bacon as of the mushrooms, onions, &c., also cut up small, and a little grated nutmeg and finely-minced parsley. Spread the preparation on the bottom of a gratin-dish, then place the livers on the top of it, put a layer of thin slices of fat bacon on this, cover over with a piece of buttered paper, and place the dish in a moderate oven to bake for forty-five minutes or so. It will require to be basted, and the fat that comes from it will be sufficient for the purpose. Pour off the fat when the liver is done, remove the bacon, and glaze it with a little thick Madeira sauce. Chaudfroid of Goose’s Fat-Liver Cutlets.—For this dish a jar of Strasburg fat livers will be required; remove the fat, and keep it on ice for a few hours. When quite firm, divide the preparation into three equal portions, trim, and cut them crosswise into slices, giving each the shape of cutlets as nearly as possible. Coat the cutlets .with transparent chaud- froid sauce, and leave them till it has cooled. Fix a support of fat in the centre of a pain-vert, and surround it with chopped aspic jelly. Trim the cutlets, fix some paper frills ■on the thin ends, and arrange them in an upright circle on the pain-vert, supported by the chopped jelly. Decorate the top of the support with an ornamental attelette, or fix the For details respecting Culinary Processes,' Utensils, Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. pain-vert on a dish, having previously garnished it with a fine border of fat. Forcemeat of Goose’s Fat Liver.—Put lib. of fat liver into a mortar with 3oz. of boiled and cooled calf’s udder and 7oz. of bread panada, and pound them well together; add a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Return it to the mortar, pound it again, and add the yolks of five eggs, one at a time, taking care to mix one in thoroughly before another is added. The forcemeat should then be put in a basin in a cool place until wanted for use. Fried Collops of Goose’s Fat Liver.—(1) To the Alsatians the following- receipt is attributed by Dubois: Take a small fat liver and cut it transversely into slices, sprinkle these over with salt and pepper, dust with flour, place them in a sauce- pan with a little butter, and fi-y them, turning them so as to have both sides browned. When cooked, take them out with a fork, and place them on a dish. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and onions into the saucepan in which the fat livers were cooked, and fry them until done ; add five or six chopped mushrooms, and cook until they are dry ; sprinkle them over with a little salt and pepper, add 1 table-spoonful of Madeira and 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and place the pan again on the fire. Boil for a few minutes, replace the fat livers in the saucepan, and warm them through. Arrange them on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Separate a Goose’s fat liver into two parts, and cut them into slices of equal size and thickness. Beat them slightly with a rolling-pin, trim them into regular shapes, and sprinkle over with flour, salt, and pepper. Place them in a flat saucepan with a little warmed butter, and fry over a good fire until they are done, turning them frequently so as to cook on both sides. Take them out, drain off the fat, place them on a dish in a circle, and serve with a little brown sauce poured over them. Fried Collops of Goose’s Fat Liver with. Game Puree.— Cut some fat livers into collops, trim them to an equal size, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, dust well with flour, place them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until well cooked. Prepare a border of chicken forcemeat, place it on a dish, put the collops on it, decorate it with a few cooked truffles, fill the centre of the border with game puree, and serve. Fried Collops of Goose’s Fat Liver with Truffles.— These are prepared the same as for Fried Collops op Goose's Fat Liver (No. 2), with the exception of mixing them (after draining) with a little Madeira sauce and some sliced truffles, and serving on a crouton of bread placed on a dish. Fried Goose’s Fat Liver served with Truffle Sauce (a la Perigueux).—Take a large liver, and without steeping it in water cut it up into slices as near of a size as possible. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, dip them into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. Put Fig. 850. Fried Goose’s Fat Liver served with Truffle Sauce. Jib. of butter into a flat saute-pan; when it is warm, add the slices, and fry them over a brisk fire, turning them over so as to cook on both sides. When done to a light brown, take them out, drain, put them in a circle on a dish, and stand a boat of perigueux sauce in the centre. Garnish with slices of lemon (see Fig. 860), and serve hot. Goose’s Fat Livers in Aspic.—Sprinkle over the required number of fat livers a little cayenne and salt, roll them up luces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.