THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 493 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Curapoa—continued. Shake them all well together, and let the mixture stand till clear, then bottle it. This liqueur is improved by keeping. Curapoa Cordial.—Macerate for ten days 4 drachms of fresh Seville orange-peel cut thin, 30 grains of bruised cinnamon, and 20 grains of bruised cloves, in 2} pints of proof spirit. Filter the spirit, and add to it 2\ pints of equal parts of simple syrup and water. This will bear keeping, and vastly improves with age, provided it is well bottled, corked, and capsuled. Curapoa Cream Ice.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream and the strained juice of a lemon into a basin, and pour in 3 wine- glassfuls of Curapoa. Mix well, turn the mixture into the freezer, freeze, put it into a mould packed in ice, let it set firm, and it may he turned out at pleasure. Curapoa Jelly.—Mix with 1 pint of clear filtered jelly f wine- glassful of Curapoa and a little syrup, pour it into a jelly- mould previously packed in ice, and let it remain for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, and turn the jelly out on a small round gum-paste stand ; surround it with angelica points and crystallised apricots and oranges (see Fig. 600). This forms a remarkably pretty and effective supper dish. Curapoa Sauce.—Boil pint of water and stir in 1 table- spoonful of cornflour and 1 teacupful of caster sugar, having previously mixed them, and add two or three slices of lemon. Simmer till clear, then stir in 1 teacupful of Curapoa, remove from the fire, and it is ready for use. This sauce should be of a rose colour. Essence of Curapoa.—Put in a magnum bottle lqt. of spirits of wine, the dried rind of six sweet and six bitter oranges, six lemons, R>z. of cinnamon, and loz. of coriander-seeds; cork the bottle tightly, and keep it in a warm place for ten days. Decant the essence into smaller bottles, with tight- fitting stoppers. CURATE’S PUDDING—See Puddings. CURDS (Fr. Caillebottes; Ger. Milcliklumpen; Ital. Latte rappreso; Sp. Cuajadas). — This term refers to the parts of milk which coagulate when a vegetable or mineral acid is added to it and heat applied. Other substances — notably rennet — produce the same effect. Curds are principally used for making cheese, but are also served fresh-made with or without the whey, and generally eaten with sugar or preserved fruit of some kind. The word “ Curds ” seems to lie derived from the Gaelic gruth; the Irish word for “ hard ” is cruadh, which would also seem to have some affinity to it. Technically, Curd is described as casein, the basis of cheese, charged with the oil globules of the milk which it has involved in its formation. The remaining liquor is called whey, and the two together form a very pleasing delicacy, which it is customary in some country places to supply to guests as a sort of bonne bouclie. The Curd strained from the whey, sweetened, and covered with rich cream, is a famous Devonshire dish, known as Devonshire Junket. See Cheese, Milk, and Rennet. Curd is prepared as follows : Pour lqt. of milk into a perfectly clean saucepan, and place it over a moderate fire until it begins to bubble; Curds—continued. then turn it into a basin. When cool, put 1 table-spoonful of old Curd in the milk and stir it well with the handle of a wooden spoon. Stand the basin on straw in a warm cupboard, cover it over with a thick piece of flannel or blanket, and leave it for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time the Curd should be well set and the top covered with a thick layer of cream. It can be served in cups (see Fig. 601) or glasses for breakfast or luncheon. For wholesale purposes rennet is universally used ; but when the whey containing the infusion of the rennet is to be consumed, rennet should not be used, as it gives a displeasing taste to the whey. In Italy, an infusion of the gizzards of poultry is used, which rather adds to the delicate flavour, and is there styled Gallino, as referring to Gallina, a hen. The following receipts are useful applications of Curd to cooking purposes: Curd Blanc-mange.—Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, and while the milk is boiling add four well-whisked eggs. When the milk curdles, add sugar to sweeten it and a little wine. Continue to boil until the Fig. 602. Cued Blanc-mange. whey is separated ; then pour it all in a colander and leave the Curd until it is cold and all the whey drained off. Turn it out and send it to table with custard poured round it (see Fig. 602). Curd Cakes.—Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin with the whites of two eggs and 1 pint of Curds, and beat them well; then mix in 4oz. of sugar, sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; beat the ingredients until well mixed. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until hot, then drop in small quantities of the mixture at a time, and fry them until lightly and equally browned. When cooked, place the cakes on paper to drain in front of the fire, then arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Curd Cheeses.—See Cheese. Curd Cheese-cakes. — (1) Warm fib. of butter, thoroughly incorporate lqt. of Curd with it, add also half-a-dozen crushed macaroons, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Sweeten to taste, sprinkle in a little salt and grated lemon-peel, and pound all well together in a mortar. Line some tartlet-pans with puff paste, put in the mixture, set them in the oven, and bake quickly. Several additions in the way of flavourings may be made with currants, candied-peel, noyeau, orange-, or rose-flower water, &c. (2) To lqt. of fresh milk add a little rennet to turn it, re- move the whey, and add about 2oz. of butter beaten to a cream. Squeeze it through a sieve and add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the same of washed and dried currants, the finely-cut peel of a lemon, twelve sweet and two hitter almonds blanched and pounded, and two well-whisked eggs. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them three-parts full, and bake in a rather quick oven for twenty minutes. (3) Put the well-beaten whites of five eggs and the yolks of four into a saucepan with 2qts. of cream, and boil them gently ; drain off the whey, and mix with the Curd 4oz. of caster sugar, 4oz. of pounded biscuits, 4oz. of butter that has been beaten until creamy, 4oz. of well-washed currants, and a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg ; add also 1J