THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 6 22 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Tjtensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. White Chicken, preparing the nouilles as follows : Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, 5 table-spoonfuls of flour, a large piece of butter, and a little salt, and moisten it with a little water, but let the paste be quite thick ; work it well with the hand, and then roll it out on a board. Sprinkle the board with flour, and roll the paste out into long thin strips. Plenty of flour is required to prevent the paste sticking. Place these nouilles in salted water to blanch, take them out, drain well, refresh them in cold water, put into a saucepan with a little broth, and cook until they are done; then take them out, drain, put them into German sauce, and toss well. Place the Fowls on a dish, and serve with the nouilles for garnish. Fowl Fatties.—(1) Line some patty-tins with puff paste, and bake them a light brown. Take any remains of cold, roasted Fowls and their stuffing, put bones and stuffing into a sauce- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and stew slowly. Mince very fine the meat of the chicken. When the gravy made of the bones and stuffing’ is reduced to i pint, strain it, put it on the fire again, add to it 3 table-spoonfuls of milk, loz. of butter rolled in flour, and a little pepper and salt. Let this boil for a few minutes, stir in the minced chicken, and let it get very hot, but after the chicken is added do not let it boil. Turn the paste out of the tins, arrange them on a hot dish, and fill them with the minced chicken, taking care that it is thoroughly stirred. Serve hot. (2) Cut up the flesh from one or two boiled Fowls into small pieces, so as to provide about pint of meat, put it into a saucepan with cayenne, salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, and loz. of butter ; pour over 1 pint of rich cream sauce, and place the pan on the side of the fire where it will simmer gently until required for use. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them with the chicken mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until done. The sauce must be thick so that it will not run when put in the patties. Serve hot. Fowl Fie.—(1) Prepare two Fowls, divide them into four pieces each, and sprinkle them with flour, salt, and pepper. At the bottom of a pie-dish put some slices of raw ham, a small quantity of minced onion and mushrooms, season with pepper and salt, put in the pieces of chicken, pour over a little cold water, damp the edges of the paste, put round a thin strip j of puff paste, cover with a round of puff paste, ornament j the top with leaves, and bake for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Prepare a Fowl, disjoint it, and boil for three-quarters- j of-an-hour, with two onions stuck with four cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme, six thin slices of bacon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 3 pints of water. When the pieces of Fowl are j done, take all the meat off the bones, put it in the broth again, and reduce to f pint by boiling fast. Put three slices of the bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish, put in the meat of the Fowl after draining it, intermixed with veal-and-ham force- meat balls, and put the other slices of bacon on the top. Skim the gravy, season with pepper and salt, pour it in the pie, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven till done. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Draw and clean a Fowl, put it in a saucepan with salted water to cover it, and boil till tender; drain, and leave the Fowl till cold, then pick all the meat off the bones, and finely mince it. Peel and finely chop two onions, put them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry till browned, but take care not to burn them. Mix the fried onions with the minced Fowl, and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Butter a baking-tin, lay in it ten thin flats of paste, one over the other, and moisten each with warmed butter. Spread the minced mixture all over the paste, then cover it with ten more thin flats of paste, basting each with butter as before, and pouring warmed butter over the top. Put the pie in a hot oven, and bake till browned. When cooked, cut the pie into quarters, | and serve. (4) Cut a Fowl into six pieces, first dividing it in halves I through the back and breast, put the pieces in a saucepan | with the heart and gizzard, cover with water, and boil till nearly done. Put in one large potato cut in pieces, and when it is cooked, thicken with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed with a little water, then adding a little chopped parsley. Put all into a large baking-dish, sprinkle a little Fowls—continued. pepper, flour, and salt over the top, cover with a good pie- crust, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Singe, draw, and clean a Fowl, cut it into pieces, put them in a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling water, 1 table- spoonful of salt, a little pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When it comes to the boil, skim and move to the side of the fire, and simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Take out the pieces of Fowl, and put them in a deep pie-dish. Boil the liquor for fifteen minutes. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a frying-pan; when melted, add 3_ table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir until smooth, but not brown. Skim, and take out the herbs from the liquor in which the Fowl was boiled, stir in the flour and butter, and boil for ten minutes. Beat two eggs with a little milk, and add it gradually to the gravy; turn the sauce into the pie-dish, and set it away to cool. Cover the pie with a good crust, bake for an hour in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. (6) Clean a Fowl weighing about 2Jlb., bone it, lard it with seasoned strips of bacon, and spread a layer of veal forcemeat over it. Line an oval pie-dish about 8in. long with short-paste, cover the paste with forcemeat, lay the chicken in it (skin upwards), put a layer of forcemeat on the top, put some thin slices of bacon on the forcemeat, and a bay-leaf on the top of that. Put a paste cover on, damping the edges to make the paste stick, and make it even all round. Roll out some more paste to make a second cover, damp it underneath to fix it on the pie, egg the top over, cut a pattern on it with the point of a sharp knife, and make a hole in the top. Bake in a slow oven for two hours. Serve either hot or cold. The second crust may be omitted if the first top crust is thick. (7) Skin a Fowl, cut it into joints, put these into a deep pie-disli over a few thin slices of salted pork, pour over just enough water to cover, lay another dish on top of the pie-dish to keep in the steam, and put it in a moderately hot oven towards evening, letting it remain there all night. Next day line a pie-dish with short-paste, put in the Fowl, pork, and several slices of hard-boiled eggs, add salt and pepper to taste, cover with more paste, and bake for about an hour. (8) Pluck, singe, and draw a Fowl, put it into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover, place the lid on the pan, and stew for an hour. Take out the bird, cut it up into moderate-sized pieces, wrap each one round with bacon cut into thin slices, put them in a pie-dish, intermixing with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and season with about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in as much of the stock as the dish will hold, cover over with a light crust, put the pie into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Fowl Fie a la Francaise.—Make 21b. of flour into short-paste, knead it well, cut a piece off and lay it aside for the cover of the pie. Knead the rest of the paste into a ball, press the thumb into the middle of it, and by degrees work it into a hollow oval or round about 5in. high; stand it on a sheet of floured paper, fill it with bran, roll out the piece of paste laid aside for the purpose, and cover the pie with it. Trim the edges and pinch them together, ornament the top with some of the same paste cut into flowers or any other fancy shapes, brush the sides and top of the pie with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it brown in not too quick an oven. When sufficiently baked, cut off the top carefully, take out the bran, and fill the pie with fricassee of chicken. Put the cover on again, lay a napkin on a dish, place the pie on it, and serve. Fowl Filau.— (1) Put 1 pint of cold chicken-meat cut in small pieces into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and warm it until the flesh is very tender. Take out the meat, add to the liquor 1 pint of tomatoes passed through a sieve, salt, pepper, an onion finely chopped, and a little chutney sauce or curry to season it, and place it again on the fire ; when it is boiling, add * pint of well-washed rice, and boil for twenty minutes, or until the rice is soft; then put in the pieces of chicken and 1 teacupful of cream or butter, and make it all hot. Garnish a dish with three- cornered pieces of toast, turn out the pilau, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets of two Fowls in pieces, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till lightly browned.