637 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. (3) Trim off any skin, sinews, &c., from some cold cooked Fowl, mince tlio meat, put it in a stewpan with 1| breakfast- cupfuls of white sauce, salt and pepper to taste, and stir it over a moderate fire until boiling ; then move it to the side, and stir in lightly the yolks of three eggs whipped to a froth. Thickly butter the interior of a plain mould, strew it with finely-grated breadcrumb, and shake out all that does not adhere to the butter; then pour the mixture into it, leaving room for it to rise, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, pour a white sauce round it, and serve. Stewed Fowls.— (1) Cut the feet off two chickens, beat the breast-bones until flat, but without breaking the skin, and dredge them over with flour. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan and make it hot; then put in the chickens and fry them until browned. Cut lib. of gravy-beef and lib. of beef-steak into thin slices, drain the butter out of the pan containing the birds, and cover them with the slices of beef; put in a few slices of carrot and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, a small piece of mace, a dust of pepper, pour over lqt. of boiling water, cover the stewpan closely, and stew the contents for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take out the chickens, but continue boiling the meat until a rich brown gravy is formed. When this gravy is ready, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan again with the chickens and about 1 teacupful of red wine, and keep it over a slow fire until the chickens are hot through again. A few mushrooms may be added if liked, but they must be put in after the gravy is strained. Boil some thin slices of ham until slightly crisped. Put the chickens on a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, garnish with the ham and cut lemons, and serve. (2) Cut a Fowl into convenient pieces, put them in a stewpan with two or three sliced onions and a lump of butter, and fry them until evenly browned ; next put in a few button- mushrooms cut in halves, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, and sufficient stock freed from fat to make the gravy. Season to taste with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of powdered spices, and keep the whole boiling gently at the side of the fire. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Pluck, draw, and singe a Fowl, no matter how old, cut it up into joints, but without removing the skin, put it into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, season with onions, salt, and any other desired flavourings, cover- over the pan, and stew for fully five hours. Turn the whole out into a deep dish, taking care that the meat is well- covered with the liquor, let it remain for a couple of days, and it is then ready for use, such as for curry or hash. (4) Take the skin from a Fowl and cut it into joints; lay the pieces in a stewpan with only enough water to cover, and let them stew slowly till the meat can easily be taken from the bones. Five hours is usually sufficient, but should the Fowl be very old it will take longer. When it is cooked enough, take the meat off the bones, chop it very fine, and add to it a moderate quantity of grated lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and cayenne; put it with the broth back again into the stewpan, stir it well together, and simmer for five or six minutes. Pour it into a bowl only just large enough to hold it; when perfectly cold, turn it out on a dish, and garnish with parsley. (5) English Style.—Pluck, draw, and singe two fat Fowls, truss them, tie slices of fat bacon over the breasts, put them in a saucepan over pieces of bacon and sliced vegetables, pour over white broth to nearly cover them, place a sheet of buttered paper over all, put on the lid, and cook until the birds are quite done. Boil two ox-tongues in water, and when done, skin them. Place a croustade of fried bread in the centre of a dish. Take out the Fowls and untruss them, arrange one at each end of the dish, leaning against the croustade, arrange the tongues at the sides, fill up the cavities between j the Fowls and tongues with boiled French beans, place boiled potatoes round the dish, and garnish the top of the croustade with an attelette decorated with a truffle and mushroom (see Fig. 788). Strain and thicken the Fowl stock, and serve it in a tureen. (6) German Style.—Clean and prepare two chickens, and cut them into quarters. Put a lump of butter in a lined Fowls—continued. saucepan, melt it, sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir for a minute or two ; then place the pieces of chicken on top, brown them slightly on all sides, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of rich stock, and add a bay-leaf, a shred of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Continue to stew until the chicken-moat is quite tender, and then add the strained juice of a lemon; turn the whole on to a dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (7) Hungarian Style.—Pluck, draw, and singe a Fowl, cut it into joints or pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient milk and water in equal parts to moisten, and stew until the flesh is quite tender. In the meantime put 2 break- fast-cupfuls of sweet cream into a saucepan, bring it gently to the boil, and season with J teaspoonful of red pepper and a very little salt. Take the joints or pieces of chicken out of their liquor, drain them as dry as possible, put them into the cream, warm them up, and serve. (8) Scotch Style.—Clean two chickens, cut them up, put them in a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover them, a handful of chopped parsley, and a small piece of mace, and place them over the fire until boiling. Beat six eggs, pour them over the birds, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep them boiling gently until tender. When cooked, arrange the pieces of birds on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor over them, and serve. (9) Spanish Style.—Cut three young birds into joints, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew until the meat easily leaves the bones, adding before cooking six green pepper-pods, a large onion sliced, and a g-ood- sized slice of boiled ham. When done, take out the meat, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, add lqt. of tomatoes, season with salt and cayenne, place the pan on a quick fire, and boil until it is greatly reduced. Boil lqt. of peas and keep them quite hot. Pour the tomato mixture over the Fowls, sprinkle the peas over all, and serve. Stewed stuffed Fowl.—Pluck and draw a Fowl, rub it well with salt, and leave it for a few minutes. Wash the heart, liver, and gizzard of the bird, finely chop them, and put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter. Wash £ break- fast-cupful of rice, put it in with the liver mixture, add i teacupful of pistachios, the same quantity of well-washed currants, salt and pepper, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then moisten it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and continue stirring until the moisture is all absorbed, and the rice partly soft. Stuff the Fowl with the mixture, sew it up, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned; then drain off the butter, moisten to height with clear chicken broth, and keep it boiling gently at the side of the fire until the bird is tender. When cooked, place it on a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Fowls a la Cardinal.- Soak two Fowls in a basin of cold water for about an hour, take them out and let them drain, then lift up the skin from the breasts and legs as much as possible without tearing it, and fill the cavity with forcemeat of Fowl, coloured with lobster spawn to a deep red. Having done this, truss the Fowls as for boiling, cover them with thin layers of fat bacon, put them in a