THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 625 Foi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. remove tlieir legs, cut the breast up so as to have two fillets and a breast-part, chop the bones of the body in halves, and with a knife break the thick bones of the legs and take them out. Place the legs in a saute-pan with a little butter, arrange them at the bottom, next put in the necks, pinions, and bones from the body, season them with salt and pepper, and place the pan on the fire so that they may fry slowly. When they are about half-cooked, put in the fillets and breast-parts, also a little parsley, sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic ; when the meat is set, remove it from the pan with a skimmer, put it into another saute-pan, and stir in the truffles. Remove the fat from the first saute-pan, put in the truffle-trimmings and a wineglassful of white wine, boil for a few minutes, and then add twice its bulk of brown sauce and the liquor in which the truffles were cooked Boil this sauce quickly for ten minutes or so, remove the fat, and pass it through a fine sieve on to the chicken- meat. Warm the meat, taking care not to let the sauce boil again. Put a croustade of fried bread in the centre of a dish, place the pinions and bones from the body round it, then place the fillets and leg’s round that again, and the parts of the breast on the top. Garnish the base with some truffles and mushrooms, put a few cocks’ combs here and there, remove the fat from the sauce, pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. (2) Cut all the meat off a large Fowl, either cooked or uncooked, and carefully remove all skin, bone, or gristle. Cut the meat into fillets or small collops as nearly the same size as possible. Put a slice of fat bacon and 1 teaspoonful of butter into a saute-pan, and fry until the bacon is cooked; then put in the chicken-meat, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper to season. Place the pan over the fire, turning frequently, and in about ten minutes the Fowl will be ready for serving. It should be cooked quite slowly; or if it has already been cooked, merely warming up will be sufficient. Place it on a dish, shake a little pepper over, and garnish with boiled bacon, mushrooms, artichoke-bottoms, egg-balls, and fried parsley. (3) In Spain, Dubois informs us, it is usual to saute Fowls in this way: Chop two Fowls into pieces, and sprinkle them over with salt and red pepper. Put the legs of the Fowls into a saucepan with £lb. of melted lard, and turn them fre- quently; when they are half-done, put in the breasts and wings, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and two medium-sized onions chopped fine; when these have cooked for about eight minutes, put in a little more than Jib. of ham (uncooked) cut into small squares. When all are cooked, take them out, add to the sauce in the pan four large tomatoes with the seeds taken out and cut into squares, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and boil on the fire until the moisture from the tomatoes is reduced ; then put in the meat again, pour a few table-spoonfuls of glaze over, warm them up, put them on a dish with the tomatoes for garnish, and serve. Fowl Saute a la Boliemienne.—Prepare two chickens as for a la Regence; put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook on a brisk fire for six minutes, turning the pieces frequently with a fork ; moisten with -V wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, and add 1 pint of Spanish sauce. Cook for ten minutes longer, add y pint of cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, and cook again for another ten minutes. Arrange the chicken on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and fill six bouchees with the macaroni taken from the stew, also a little grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over. Garnish the dish with the bouchees, decorate the ends of the chicken legs with paper ruffles, and serve hot. Fowl Saute a la Bordelaise. — Singe and draw two chickens, cut them into twelve pieces each, put them into a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil and one chopped shallot, and let them brown well for five minutes ; then moisten with i wineglassful of white wine, adding three artichoke-bottoms, each one cut into four pieces. Season with salt and pepper, put on the lid, and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes ; when about to serve add 1 teaspoonful of meat glaze, the juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley. Dish up the pieces, decorate with paper ruffles, and garnish with the artichoke-bottoms in clusters, and twelve cooked potatoes. Fowls—continued. Fowl Saute a la Clief de Cuisine.—Select two Fowls of about 21b. weight each; singe, draw, wash thoroughly, and wipe very dry. Cut each into six pieces, season with salt and pepper, place the pieces in a saute-pan with f-oz. of butter and y table-spoonful of sweet-oil, and set it on a very hot stove. Chop one shallot and one green pepper very fine, and when the pieces of Fowls are of a light brown add the shallot and pepper, stirring well for one minute ; then add 1 wineg’lassful of white wine, and reduce to one quarter the original quantity, which will take about six minutes. Pour in 1 gill of tomato sauce and lj gills of Spanish sauce, and cook rather slowly for ten minutes longer, stirring occasionally. Dress the chickens and sauce on a very hot dish, arrange paper ruffles on the ends of the legs, and decorate the dish with the following garnishing: Take six tinned artichoke-bottoms, and spread 1 table-spoonful of d’Uxelles sauce in the centre of each. Empty the interiors of six medium-sized green peppers cooked in the oven for five minutes, stuff them with d'Uxelles sauce, and arrange them on top of the arti- chokes, their thin part uppermost, so as to give them a pyramidal shape ; lay them on a buttered tin plate or dish, and set them in a slow oven to bake for five minutes, then remove them. While they are baking, cut six round pieces of bread -.jin. thick by 2jin. in diameter, place them in a frying-pan on a hot stove with J table-spoonful of butter, and let them get a light brown. Arrange the six artichokes and peppers on top of the pieces of bread placed round the dish, and serve. Fowl Saute a la Belmonico. — Pluck two Fowls, singe them over alcohol poured on to a plate, draw them, wash them well inwardly, and wipe dry with a cloth. Cut each one into six pieces, place them in a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, season with salt and pepper, set the pan on a brisk fire, and cook for about ten minutes, or until the pieces assume a light brown colour, stirring them lightly meanwhile. Chop up one shallot, and cut one g-reen pepper into small dice- shaped pieces, also the end of a- medium-sized carrot; place all these with the Fowls, and cook for a-minute-and-a-half; then add 1 wineglassful of white wine, and reduce the liquid to one half, which will take ten minutes, stirring it occasion- ally. Now add 1 gill of Spanish sauce, 1 table-spoonful of tomato sauce, the juice of a good-sized lemon, and yoz. of butter, and cook for ten minutes longer, stirring lightly with a spoon. Plunge three artichoke-bottoms (tinned will do well) into hot water, lift them up immediately with a skimmer, wipe them thoroughly dry with a napkin, and cut each one into quarters; slice three medium-sized truffles, and add all these to the Fowls two minutes before serving. Turn the Fowls and sauce on to a very hot dish, adjust paper ruffles to the ends of the legs, garnish the dish with the artichokes, place a slice of truffle in the centre of each artichoke, and a very small round slice of green or red pepper on top of each truffle, and serve very hot. Fowl Saute a la Hongroise.—Singe and draw two Fowls, cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of clarified butter, adding one finely-chopped onion and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cook slowly, without browning, for five minutes on each side ; then moisten with y pint of bechamel sauce and y breakfast-cupful of cream, and cook again for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, and serve with six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Fowl Saute a la Marengo.— Singe and draw two Fowls, cut them into six pieces each, lay them in an oiled saute- pan, and brown slightly on both sides for five minutes, season- ing with salt and pepper; when of a golden colour, moisten with y pint of Spanish sauce and y breakfast-cupful of mush- room liquor; add twelve button-mushrooms and two truffles cut in thin slices, also y wineglassful of Madeira wine, cook for twenty minutes, and serve with six fried eggs and six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Adjust paper ruffles on the ends of the wings and legs of the chickens, and dress them on a dish, with the garnishes round the edge. Fowl Saute a la Parmentier. — Singe and draw two chickens, cut them into twelve pieces, put them in a saute- pan with loz. of butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook on the stove for five minutes on each side, turning the pieces over with a fork. Moisten with y pint of Spanish sauce, also with y breakfast-cupful of mushroom liquor and 3 c