For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. lastly, 8oz. of sifted flour. Stir well until quite smooth, turn it out on to a slightly-greased baking-sheet, rolling it out very thin, put it into a slow oven, and bake. Take it out, cut it into squares while still hot, and roll them into shapes. Let them get cold. Wellington Gingerbread.—Sift lib. of flour into a basin, and mix in an equal quantity of moist sugar, half the quantity of warmed butter, and loss, each of ground ginger and cinnamon. Stir well with a spoon, then add 4oz. of chopped mixed candied peel, 1J wineglassfuls of brandy, and 2 fluid ounces of treacle. Form the whole into a stiff paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into shapes with a small round biscuit-cutter. Put them on a baking-sheet slightly dusted with flour, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out, and use when cold. White Gingerbread.—(1) Put Jib. of honey in a stewpan with Jib. of caster sugar, and stir it over a slow fire until dissolved ; then take it off and leave it until slightly cooled. Stir slowly into the honey lib. of finely-sifted flour, 2oz. each of powdered ginger, powdered almonds, and finely- [ shred candied peel, J teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little | milk. Stir the mixture until quite smooth. Cut some strips of wafer-paper about 4in. long and 2in. broad, cover each | with a thin layer of the mixture, and lay them on baking- tins. Bake the Gingerbreads in a moderate oven, keeping them a pale colour. When cooked, leave the Gingerbreads until j cold; then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in [ thin icing, and dry them in a cool oven. (2) Bub 2oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, and mix in ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar, Joz. of volatile salt, Joz. of ground j ginger, -Joz. each of ground mace, nutmeg and cinnamon, and j Joz. of caraway-seeds. Make a bay in the centre, pour in ! 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and work the whole into a dough. Let it stand for several hours, until next day if possible, form it into cakes, and bake in a moderate oven on tins. Take them out when done, and use cold. (3) Put lib. of flour in a basin and mix with it lib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred candied peel, and 1 table- spoonful of ground ginger. Beat one egg well with J tea- spoonful of essence of lemon and Joz. of volatile salt. Warm Jib. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix it in J with the flour, and add the beaten egg. Work all the ingre- dients together until thoroughly blended. Butter a baking- sheet, and with a table-spoon drop the mixture on to it in small quantities. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven. When cooked, let them get cold before serving or packing them away in tins. The following receipts are entitled Gingerbread, although no ginger is used in their composition. They answer more correctly to the French pain d’epice, or spiced loaf. Imitation Gingerbread. — (1) Cut into thin slices 4oz. of almonds, but they should not be skinned; also cut into thin shreds Jib. of mixed candied peel and the peel of one lemon. Put 1 pint of honey into a saucepan with fib. of sugar, and place it over the fire ; when boiling, put in the almonds, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for five minutes. Mix the shredded peels with the honey, also | half a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small quantity of powdered cloves. When the honey mix- ture has cooled, mix in with it ljlb. of sifted flour in which 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been mixed, stir it thoroughly with a wooden spoon until quite smooth, then mix in 1 wineglassful of rum. Dredge flour on to a paste- board, roll the dough out on it as thinly as possible while it is still warm, and cut it into strips between 4in. and 5in. long and 2in. and 3in. broad. Butter baking-sheets, lay the strips on them, and leave all night in a cool place. On ( the following day bake the strips in a brisk oven, but without allowing them to get too brown. When cooked, take the strips of Gingerbread off the baking-sheets and leave them to get cold. Boil moist sugar to the thread degree (see Sugar- boiling), and glaze the strips of Gingerbread on one side only with it. Dry them in a cool oven. (2) Sift lib. of flour into a basin and mix in Joz. of carbo- nate of magnesia; add 6oz. of melted butter, lib. of treacle, j Joz. of tartaric acid dissolved in water, and any desired | spices. Knead well to form a dough and let it stand for I about an hour. Make it into cakes, bake in a moderate oven, take them out when done, and use hot or cold as desired. After the dough has been made, it should not be allowed to stand more than three hours at the most before being baked. (3) Put 1J pints of honey in a stewpan over the fire, and dissolve in it Jib. of fine moist sugar. When the honey has slightly cooled, stir in gradually 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, a small quantity of powdered cloves, 4oz. of finely- shred mixed candied peel, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, cut them into thin fillets, and mix them in the dough. Dredge flour on a paste- board, put the dough on it, and roll it out to about Jin. thick. Cut the dough into fancy shapes with small tin cutters, lay them on floured baking-tins, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, the cakes should not be too much coloured. Keep them crisp in tin canisters. (4) French.—Make a bay in lib. of finely-sifted Vienna flour on the table. Peel and chop finely 5oz. of almonds, put them in the bay, with 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, the same quantity of ground cloves, 4oz. of powdered sugar, and 7oz. of honey. Knead the ingredients well for five minutes, then mix into the flour; work the preparation with the hands for thirty minutes without ceasing, and finish by forming it into a ball. Lay this on a dish, cover it with a napkin, and place it in a temperature of about 60deg. for six hours. Lay the paste on a floured table, and roll it out 18in. long by 12in. wide. Well butter a baking-sheet, lay the paste on, and put it in a very slow oven to bake for forty-five minutes. Eemove, lay the baking-sheet on the table, cut the cake immediately into small lozenge-shaped pieces, ljin. long by lin. wide, or any other shape desired ; let them cool thoroughly for about twenty minutes, place them in a glass bowl, and serve. The cakes can be glazed with a thin syrup, and served in the same way. (5) German.—Put 21b. of treacle, or treacle and honey, in a saucepan with Jib. of moist sugar, and put it over the fire until it commences to boil, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Take the treacle off the fire and stir in Jib. of butter; when the butter has dissolved, mix in slowly 21b. of flour, J table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small quantity of powdered cloves. Blanch and cut into thin fillets 6oz. of almonds, thinly shred the peel of a lemon and 4oz. of mixed candied peel, blend all the ingredients with the dough, and at the last mix in 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of water. Let the dough stand in a cool place for twelve hours, then knead well, put it on a floured paste-board, and roll it out to about Jin. thick. Dredge a baking-sheet with flour, put the dough on it, and bake slowly, if possible in an oven in which bread has just been baked. When cooked, brush the Gingerbread over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and cut it into squares. (6) Blanch and cut into thin fillets Jib. of sweet almonds ; then mix them with lib. of sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred candied peel, the grated peel of one lemon, half a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Put 1 pint of honey into a small lined saucepan, place it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then pour it in with the other ingredients. Work in slowly ljlb. of flour, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and knead the whole thoroughly. Boll the dough out as thinly as possible, and with a small round tin cutter cut it into cakes. Butter some baking-sheets, lay the cakes on them, leaving a short space between, and bake them in a slow oven until lightly browned. Prepare a glazing with beaten whites of eggs and caster sugar, and when the cakes are cooked brush them over with it. Leave them on the tins until cool, then keep dry in canisters. Imitation Gingerbread Cake.—Slightly warm fib. of fresh butter, and beat it well with Jib. of moist sugar; then mix in while still beating 2qts. of treacle, 4 table-spoonfuls of caraway-seeds, Jib. of finely-shred candied orange- and lemon- peel, four well-beaten eggs, J table-spoonful of pearlash, and sufficient flour to form a stiff batter. When well worked, cover the mixture with a cloth, and leave it until the follow- ing day. When ready for baking, stir the mixture up again, turn it into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Imitation Gingerbread Nuts.— Put Jib. of treacle in a saucepan with Jib. of butter, and place it over the fire until 688 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Gingerbread—continued.