TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 597 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Pish—continued. Vol-au-Vents of Fish Forcemeat.—Roll out some puff paste about ljin. thick, cut it into rounds with a 3in. diameter cutter, then take a smaller cutter, about half the size, and cut half-way through the middle of the paste rounds. Put them on a greased baking-sheet, and bake till lightly coloured ; Fig. 752. Vol-au-Vent of Fish Forcemeat. brush them over with beaten egg, lift out the small centre rounds, taking care not to break the edges, and fill the cavities with Fish forcemeat. Put the vol-au-vents on a napkin neatly folded over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 752. Vol -au-Vents of Fish Roes.—Prepare a puff paste, with -fib. each of butter and flour, giving it seven turns; roll it out Pin. thick, cut out fifteen rounds of paste with a channeled tin cutter, then with a smaller plain cutter cut out the centre of the rounds of paste, leaving rings. Gather the trimmings of paste together, and roll it out very thin; cut out of the flat of paste with the channelled tin cutter the same quantity of rounds as there are rings. Put the rounds on a baking- sheet at a little distance apart, brush them over lightly with a paste-brush dipped in water, put a paste ring on each round, press them slightly to make them adhere to each other, brush over with beaten egg, and bake, and when cooked lightly press the centre of each of the rounds. Blanch some soft roes of any Fish, such as carp, in boiling water, made slightly acid with vinegar or lemon-juice; leave them till cool, then cut them into thick pieces, and put them in a stewpan. Boil a little white sauce till reduced, thicken it, and mix a little anchovy- or crayfish-butter with it; pour the sauce over the roes, and warm them without allowing the sauce to boil. Fill the vol-au-vents with the mixture, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, and serve without delay. FISHERMAN’S SALAD.—See Salads. FISHERMAN’S SOUP.—See Soups. FLAGEOLETS. — The French term for kinds of haricot beans. See Beans. FLAM AND.—Fr. for Flemish. This is also the name given to a very rich cake, of which it may truly be said a little goes a long way. It is made as follows: Pound in a mortar ^ pint of blanched almonds, adding a little white of egg to prevent the almonds from oiling; when sufficiently fine, work in Jib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and eight well-beaten eggs. Line a flawn mould with tart-paste, mask the bottom of it with apricot marmalade, sprinkle it over with fib. of chopped candied fruits, pour the almond paste over, and set the flawn in the oven. When done, ice it over with vanilla sugaring, and sprinkle over all chopped pistachio-kernels. FLAME CAKE.—See Cakes. FLAMUS.—This is the name given to very savoury provincial French biscuits or cakes, which are considered a very nice substitute for the usual course of cheese savouries. They are made as follow: Work up lib. of Camembert or Brie cheese with lib. of butter until they are thoroughly incorporated. Make a stiff paste with eight eggs, a very little water, and sufficient flour. Roll out the paste, and use the cheese mixture to Flamus—continued. spread smoothly over it, as though it were butter only and being used for making puff paste. Give this paste three turns, and then roll it Jin. thick, and cut it into little sticks the size of an ordinary finger. Lay these upon a buttered baking-sheet, bake to a light brown, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan along the top of each whilst it is still hot, and serve on a folded napkin (see Fig. 753). FLANNEL CAKE.—See Cakes. FLARE.—See Lakd. FLASH.—This name is given to a very pleasing drink, an especial favourite in some hot climates, such as the West Indies, where it is very popular. It is made as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of lemon water-ice into a large glass, mix in 1 wineglassful of Jamaica rum, pour over a bottle of iced ginger-beer, stirring all the time, and drink while effervescing. FLAT CAKE.—See Cakes. FLAVOURINGS.—These are correctly described as those things which are added to foods to give them character and taste, or zest. As may be imagined, this carries us over a very vast field, which it is unnecessary to enter here, the subjects being treated separately under special heads. The cook uses Flavourings in all kinds of stews, soups, and sauces, and in many other preparations, and these are either made up of herbs, vege- tables, spices, or other things blended with scientific taste, or purchased ready made as bottled sauces, &c. The pastrycook and confectioner use Flavourings which are commonly known as essences or extracts, and all writers upon the subject are most emphatic in their recommendation to avoid purchasing inferior and, there- fore, possibly deleterious Flavourings. In support of this argument a great authority writes: “ It is indis- pensable that they should be pure, fresh, and of the very best quality.” To obtain these properties, they must be procured from a factor who studies the confectionery business and has a solid reputation for them. It is a well-known fact in the trade, that when essential oils are old or adulterated they lose all their agreeable flavour, and taste of turpentine, which renders them particularly unpleasant. FLAWNS (Fr. Flans; Ger. Fladen; Itcd. Fiadoni).— These are flat pies or tarts, generally made by lining Fig. 754. Flawn-'RING or Mould. broad, shallow rings (see Fig. 754) with paste, and filling the interior with custard or fruits. A very large variety