548 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Eels—continued. onion in a little butter or oil; when slightly cooked, put in the pieces of Eel, sprinkle oyer with salt and pepper, and toss them over a good fire until the flesh begins to get j firm; then add a bunch of parsley, 1 pint of green peas, and a little more salt and pepper, place the lid on the pan, remove it to the side of the fire, cover the lid with hot coals or wood j embers, and stew gently until the peas are done. Remove the parsley, add a little kneaded butter to thicken the stew, | and serve. This is a very delicious dish. Stewed Eel and Rabbit.—Skin and clean an Eel and a rabbit, cut them up into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little brown sauce mixed with a few small onions and mushrooms, and brown them. When the pieces are of a good colour, pour in a little white wine and a good supply of rich stock, and add a seasoning of parsley, chives, thyme, salt, and pepper, and cook for a few minutes; then take out the pieces of Eel and onions, and cook until the rabbit is about two-thirds done. Replace the Eel and onions, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the whole is well cooked. Skim off all the fat, turn the contents of the pan out on to a dish, and serve with small pieces of toast for garnish. Stewed Eel with Tartar Sauce.—(1) Skin and clean a good-sized Eel, steep it in boiling water for two or three minutes, and then rub off the second oily skin; if this does not come off easily, steep it again. Chop off the fins, cut the Eel into 3in. pieces, put these in a saut6-pan, add 1 pint of court bouillon, and simmer for twenty minutes. When done, let it cool in the liquor for half-an-hour. Beat two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of water; drain the pieces of Eel, dip them in the egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry brown in a frying-pan with butter. Put a folded napkin on a dish, arrange the pieces of Eel on this, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. (2) Skin and wash an Eel, chop off the head and tail, cut it in 2in. pieces, put these into a flat stewpan, season with a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and a little salt, and cover with white wine. Boil g-ently, and when done, leave the pieces of Eel to cool in the liquor. Take them out, trim the edges of the bones, drain them, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and powdered herbs over them. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little oiled butter, roll the pieces of Eel in it and then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, turning and basting them with butter. Dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. Conger Eels.—These cannot be cooked in the same manner as silver Eels, as they require some less refined process, and the addition of flavourings that would he quite unnecessary for the sweeter and more delicate river Eel. Baked stuffed Conger Eel.—Cut off a piece about 1ft. long from the thick end of a large Conger Eel, stuff it with highly- seasoned breadcrumbs, put it into a baking-dish, pour over 1 pint of water, sprinkle over a little flour, place small lumps of butter all over it, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, or until done, basting frequently with the liquor. Put it on a dish, thicken the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Boiled Conger Eel.—Clean and wash 21b. of Conger Eel, bind it round with string to keep it in shape, blanch it in boiling- water for ten minutes, drain, and put in a saucepan holding- about 4qts.; add sufficient water to cover it, also two sliced onions, a handful of chopped parsley, one clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, loz. of salt, joz. of whole pepper, and | pint of vinegar, and simmer for half-an-hour. Take the Eel out, drain it, put it on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with Dutch or melted-butter sauce. Broiled Conger Eel.—(1) Clean and draw a Conger Eel, cut it in pieces, and partially boil it in salted water with sweet herbs. Take the pieces of fish out of the water, wipe them, and broil them over a clear fire; baste with butter and sprinkle a few powdered sweet herbs over the slices. When one side is partly done, turn them, and when both sides are quite done, dish them up and serve with a thin white sauce. (2) Fillet a thick piece of Conger Eel, clean and cut the fillets transversely into thin slices, and soak them for one hour in salted vinegar. Drain, dry them on a cloth, season, roll them For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eels—continued. in oil and then in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a moderate fire. When done on both sides, dish them, and serve with piquant sauce. Conger-Eel Forcemeat Balls.—Pound lib. of Conger Eel in a mortar, add lOoz. each of butter and bread panada, mix in two eggs and 1 pint of reduced veloute sauce, made without meat and thickened with three eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, form the forcemeat into small balls, and poach them. Dish on a folded napkin, or use for garnish. Conger-Eel Pie.—Skin and clean a moderate-sized Conger Eel, cut it into pieces, and remove the bones; put these into a saucepan with the trimmings, add a little each of spice, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, a small onion cut in slices, pour over lqt. of water, and simmer gently until done and the liquor will jelly when cold. Sprinkle the pieces of Conger with salt and pepper, roll them in a mixture of finely-chopped sage and parsley, put them at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour over the strained liquor, put fifteen or sixteen oysters with their liquor on the top, cover over with a good paste, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour or so. Take the pie out when done, and serve cold. Conger-Eel Soup (Jersey Style).—Put 41b. of Conger Eel in a saucepan with 3qts. of salted water, and boil gently for one hour; then strain off all the water through a fine sieve, retm-n it to the saucepan without the Eel, put in 1 pint of green peas, and boil them for ten minutes; add gradually a little each of finely-chopped parsley, thyme, borage, leek, chives, and marigold flowers, and boil until the peas are quite tender. Knead 2oz. of flour with 2oz. of butter, mix it smoothly in a basin with a small quantity of the soup, then pour it in with the soup, and stir until thick. Pour in gradually lqt. of milk, and boil for five minutes longer. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread separately. Fried Conger Eel.—Clean a Conger Eel, cut it up into slices about 1 jin. thick, dip these into beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light colour. When done (they should not take longer than twenty-five minutes), take them out, put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve with a sauceboatful of any fish sauce. Roasted Conger Eel.—Take a good-sized piece out of- the middle of a Conger Eel, skin it, and let it soak for a few hours in vinegar and salt mixed with sweet herbs. Stuff the fish with veal stuffing, bind it round with tape, fix it on a spit or bottle-jack, and roast in front of the fire, Fig. 692. Roasted Conger Eel. dredging with flour, and basting continually. When the fish is done, take it off, strain the gravy, put it in a stewpan with a little flour and vinegar or anchovy sauce, make it hot, pour it over the fish, and serve with quarters of lemons on a separate plate (see Fig. 692). Stewed Conger Eels (Italian Mode).—Clean thoroughly two or three Conger Eels, rubbing well with salt, and rinsing in plenty of water. Dry them, put them in a bowl, pour over- oil and vinegar, and let them marinade for an hour. After- wards drain, put them in a stewpan with a dozen cockles, 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, and just sufficient water to cover, season highly with black pepper and whole sweet spices, and stew gently until tender. Boil jib. of macaroni until tender, drain it, and lay it over a hot dish. When cooked, drain and skin the Eels, and cut them lengthwise into halves, remove the bones, and lay them on the macaroni. Boil the Eel cooking-liquor until reduced to about half its original quantity, strain it through a fine hair sieve over Sauces, <i-c., referred to, see iinder their special heads.