552 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. the fire for a few minutes until browned, then put in the Eggs, with nearly a breakfast-cupful of stock, season to taste with salt, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. When ready, turn the curry on to a hot dish, place the onions on the top, garnish with small squares of fried bacon, and serve. Devilled Egg's.—(1) Boil hard a sufficient quantity of Eggs; when cold, peel them, dip them first into beaten raw Egg, next into oil, and roll them in salt and a small quantity of cayenne. Make a little tray by twisting up the corners of half a sheet of oiled writing-paper, place the Eggs in it, put it upon a gridiron over a clear fire, and shake it about until the Eggs are quite hot. Meanwhile, make hot equal quantities of olive oil and chutney sauce. Place the Eggs on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Boil the Eggs till hard, peel off the shells, cut them in halves, and take out the yolks carefully without spoiling the whites. Lay the whites aside, and mash up the yolks to a smooth paste with creamed butter, salt, pepper, made mustard, and a very small quantity of vinegar. Fill the empty whites with the yolks, stand them in a baking-dish, and brown in a hot oven. Eggs a 1’Annecy.—Peel twelve hard-boiled Eggs, cut them in halves, and remove the yolks. Put 4oz. of chopped mushrooms in a stewpan with ^ table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion and about 2oz. of butter, and fry them until tender; then chop the yolks of the Eggs, and add them, also i table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two Eggs, moving the stewpan to the side of the fire. Cut six slices of bread without crusts to about -|in. in thickness, and again into two squares, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry a golden brown. Drain them, pile the mixture over, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Eggs a l’Aurore. — (1) Boil one dozen Eggs until hard, take off their shells, cut them in halves, remove the yolks, and rub these through a fine sieve. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan, with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and set it on the fire; simmer gently without boiling until thick, then throw in the whites of half the Eggs, previously chopped fine, and stir well. Put the remainder of the whites on a dish, pour over the mixture, put a little butter on this, and melt it with a salamander. When the butter is quite melted, serve, taking care to keep it very hot. (2) Peel twelve cold hard-boiled Eggs, cut them into halves, take the yolks out carefully so as not to break the whites, pound them, and mix with them three raw yolks, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, stir in sufficient cream to make it a stiff paste, and fill the whites of the Eggs with it. Butter the bottom of a baking-dish, spread a thin layer of the stuffing over it, arrange the whites on this with the rounded parts downwards, and put it in a moderate oven till hot. Brown under a salamander, dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Boil twelve Eggs until hard, and let them cool; then peel, and separate the yolks from the whites. Put the yolks into a mortar, add loz. of fresh butter, a seasoning of salt, nutmeg, and ground spice, and three raw yolks, and pound all together. Mince the whites, put them in a saute-pan with 1 pint of reduced bechamel sauce, and cook without boiling, but let them get firm. Place them on the dish, lay the pounded yolks on top, garnish with sippets of bread dipped in beaten Egg, put them in the oven to brown for about four minutes, and then serve. Eggs a la Bonne Femme.—(1) Peel two onions, slice them, fry brown in butter, then mix in 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Butter a dish, spread the onions over it, break over them the requisite number of Eggs, and place them in a bi’isk oven. When the Eggs are cooked, cover them with a layer of breadcrumbs fried in butter, and serve. (2) Cut two large onions in slices and fry them in 2oz. of butter, stirring frequently, so that they will not burn ; dredge in a good pinch of flour, moisten with | pint of cream or milk, and season with salt, pepper, and grated mitmeg. Break six Eggs, put the whites into a basin, and froth them; mix the Eggs —continued. yolks with the onions, and then add the whites, stirring well. Lay two pieces of white paper on the bottom of a baking- dish, butter them thoroughly, lay the Eggs on top, and set in the oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn them on to a hot dish, remove the papers, add to the Eggs 2 table- spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and serve. Eggs a la Bourgeoise.—Cut some thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, lay them on a thickly-buttered dish, and cover them with thin slices of cheese. Beat well sufficient Eggs to cover the bread, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and pour them over the slices. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake till the Eggs are set. Serve while very hot, in the same dish. Eggs a la Creme.—Chop some cold chicken very fine, season to taste, put a little over the bottom of each com- partment of a poacher, depress it in the centre, break one Egg into each, and poach in water until quite set. Put them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve with thick cream sauce. See Fig. 699. Eggs a la Ducliesse.—Put 4oz. of powdered sugar in a sauce- pan with | pint of water, a little lemon-peel, and a small stick of cinnamon, adding J teaspoonful of orange-flower water, and mix together. Beat the yolks of twelve Eggs with 1 pint of milk or cream, add this to the syrup with a very little salt, transfer the whole to a baking-dish, place it on the hot stove, and cook the contents for ten minutes, stirring briskly. When it forms a cream, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, remove the dish from the fire, place it on another dish, and serve. Eggs a l’ltalienne.—Boil some Eggs till hard, cut them in halves, take out the yolks, weigh them, put them in a mortar with an equal weight of butter, and pound along with a little breadcrumb soaked in milk or cream, chopped parsley, one anchovy, a little chopped onion, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put the mixture into a saucepan and cook to a thick paste, adding a little cream or gravy. Fill the cavities of the whites with this, and serve cold with a salad or hot in sauce, or on a puree of vegetables. Eggs a la Lyonnaise.—Put half-a-dozen Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil until hard. Peel and finely chop two moderate-sized onions, put them into a stewpan with butter, and fry until browned. Pour J pint of broth over the onions, season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, boil gently, and stir occasionally until reduced to a rather creamy thickness. Peel the hard-boiled Eggs and chop the whites. Put the latter into the sauce, boil up once, and then turn the whole on to a hot dish. Garnish with the yolks of the Eggs and small baked puff-paste cakes, and serve very hot. Eggs a la Maitre cl’Hotel.—(1) Boil six Eggs till hard, peel and cut them into quarters, arrange them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, put in some pieces of butter, sprinkle a little chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, pepper, and salt over them, and set the dish in a moderate oven till the butter is melted; turn the Eggs, and cook a few minutes longer, then take them out, and serve. (2) Make a white sauce with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and a small lump of butter; stir this over the fire till it boils, then add three sliced onions, and season with salt and pepper. When the onions are done, add more butter, the juice of one lemon, 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and six hard-boiled Eggs cut in slices. When the Eggs are hot, dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; then mix in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, and simmer by the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Boil six Eggs till hard, then peel and cut them into slices. Put jib.