593 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special head: Fish—c ontinued. onion in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and stew it till soft, but without letting it brown. Put the Pish in with the onion, add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-mashed potatoes, season with salt and pepper, add more butter if required, and stir over the fire until hot and well mixed. When ready, pile the Fish on a hot dish, strew over with breadcrumbs, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brown under a sala- mander. Serve very hot. (3) Carefully pick lib. of cooked Fish, put the bones in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and boil for half-an-hour. Strain oil about 1 teacupful of the liquor, and when it is cold stir 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into it until smooth. Put this into a small saucepan, and warm it over the fire till thick, stirring continuously ; add a lump of butter, and continue stirring- till that is also mixed in. Stand the saucepan on one side, and mix in one beaten egg, 1 dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence, i saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice; line the bottom of a pie-dish with mashed potatoes, mix the sauce with the Fish, put it in the dish, and cover with another layer of mashed potatoes. Decorate the top over with a fork, put it in a quick oven, and bake for twenty minutes, or until the potato crust is brown. Serve very hot. (4) Take some cold boiled Fish, pick it free from bone and skin, pull it to pieces with a fork, add some melted butter sauce, a little anchovy sauce, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When well mixed, put into a pie-dish, and cover with a layer of mashed potatoes mixed with a little butter and moderately seasoned with pepper and salt. Put a cover over the dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. When it bubbles, take the cover off and let it brown. (5) Almost any kind of Fish can be used. Clean and scale it, and cut it into small pieces. Butter a pie-dish, line it with paste, put in the pieces of Fish, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of bruised spices, and salt; put a layer of butter on the top, cover with a flat of crust, trim round the edges, and moisten and pinch them together. Put the pie in the oven and bake it. Meanwhile, prepare the following ragout : Put loz. of butter into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until lightly browned, then jsour jn gradually j pint of sherry and an equal quantity of broth ; put in a few mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of salt. Boil the sauce slowly for half-an-hour, then add to it two or three partially-boiled soft roes of carp, and stew gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. When the pie is cooked, take it out of the oven, lift the upper crust, turn the ragout into it, replace the crust, and serve. (6) Remove the skin and bones from a piece of firm, white- fleshed Fish, and cut the flesh into pieces; then strew some finely - chopped parsley, powdered marjoram, and salt and pepper over them, dip each piece in warmed butter, and lay them in a pie-dish. Beat four eggs with J pint of milk ; put halves of oysters in with the Fish, and pour the beaten egg over them. Cover the pie with a light puff paste, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Cover the pie with a sheet of paper to prevent it getting too brown. Serve hot. Fish. Pie a la Russe.—(1) Bone and skin lib. of any kind of Fish, and chop it finely. Boil lioz. of rice in water until quite dry. Put |lb. of flour on a paste-board, and make a bay in the centre; mix 1 teaspoonful of yeast powder and 1 salt- spoonful of salt; put them in the bay, and stir in the beaten white of one egg- and sufficient water to make a light dough. Dredge some flour over the paste-board, and knead and roll the dough out as thinly as possible. Spread loz. of butter over it, fold it in three layers, and roll out again very thinly; spread l-|oz. more of butter over it, then fold and roll again, and spread another l|oz. of butter over it, making 4oz. of butter in all. Fold the dough, roll it out into a square-shaped piece, put the boiled rice in the centre, and flatten it down; over this put two hard-boiled eggs, and then the Fish. Dredge over all a small quantity of salt and pepper. Brush the edges of the crust with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and fold them over. Brush the surface of the crust over with yolk of egg, lay it on a buttered baking-disli, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the pie on it, and serve. Fish—continued. (2) Remove all the skin and bones from some cold boiled Fish, and flake the flesh with a fork; put the trimmings and bones in a stewpan with f pint of milk, and let it simmer gently until well flavoured, then strain it. Mix a small quantity of flour and butter in a stewpan, pour in the strained milk, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of anchovy sauce, and stir until boiling. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of the Fish, cold boiled rice, and slices of hard-boiled eggs, and pour the sauce over the whole. It will, perhaps, be better to pour in a little of the sauce after every two or three layers. Strew some finely- chopped capers over the last layer, which should be of eggs, and lay on the top loz. of butter cut in thin slices. Put the dish in the oven until the contents are very hot. When ready, serve the Fish in the same dish. Fish. Pilau.—Clean any kind of Fish, wash it and rub it well with salt. Put G table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a saucepan, place it over the fiie until it commences to boil, then pour in lqt. of water, and add a little salt. Wash 11b. of rice in several waters, put it into the liquor when it boils, lay the Fish on the top, place the lid on the pan, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer until the rice and Fish are tender and the liquor absorbed. Move the saucepan back on to the fire, and leave it for ten minutes. Arrange the pilau tastefully on a hot dish, and serve. Fish in a Potato Border.—Remove the bones and skin from some cold boiled Fish; flake it, and mix with it a little hot white sauce. Mash some boiled potatoes with a little pepper, salt, and butter, till quite smooth; make a border with them on a dish, put the Fish into the centre, sprinkle some breadcrumbs, moistened with liquefied butter, over the top; put the dish in the oven, and bake till the crumbs and potato are brown. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Fish Puddings.—(1) Either fresh or previously cooked Fish can be used; shred it finely, put it in a stewpan with a good- sized lump of butter, and stew it gently by the side of the fire. Put the crumb of a French roll in a basin with sufficient milk to cover, and leave it until soaked. Afterwards mix the Fish and roll together, and beat them well. Season the mixture with a small quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms, and salt and pepper to taste, and beat three eggs in with it. Butter a few small cups, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Turn them out on to a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (2) Pound some cold boiled Fish in a mortar, put it into a saucepan over the fire with an equal quantity of bread- crumb soaked in milk, and stir it till it is as thick as dough. To fib. of Fish stir in loz. of butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, a little chopped parsley and chopped onion, a very little cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg, stirring in lastly the whites of two well-whisked eggs. Put this mixture into a buttered mould, cover well, steam for one hour, turn the pudding out on a hot dish, pour white sauce over, and serve. (3) Remove the skin and bones from some cold cooked Fish, and flake the flesh with two forks. Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a basin with loz. of butter, pour about breakfast-cupful of boiling milk over them, put a plate on the top, and leave them until they have absorbed the milk. Mix the Fish with the crumbs, and stir in three or four well-beaten eggs; season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a pudding-mould, fill it with the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top. Stand the mould in a stewpan with boiling water to two-thirds its height, and steam it for a little over half-an- hour, pouring- in more boiling- water as the quantity becomes reduced, but be very careful it does not enter the top of the mould. When the pudding- is cooked, turn it carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Fish. Quenelles.—(1) Trim off the skin and bone from any kind of boiled Fish, finely mince the flesh, and mix with it a small piece of butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley, as much grated breadcrumb as there is Fish, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered ginger. Bind the ingredients together with beaten egg, work the mixture well, then divide and shape it into small quenelles. Put these into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil 3 A