For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, sec under their special heads. DUTCH OVENS.—Tin screens of various shapes, such as round or angular, used for cooking small articles before a fire, or open range. See also American Ovens. DUTCH SAUCE (a la HoLLANDAiSE).^See Sauces. D’UXELEES.—This term is now more commonly written Duxelles, and it is generally supposed to have some reference to mushrooms. Kettner assures us that the combination of mushrooms, parsley, and shallots in Duxelles sauce was due to La Yarenne, chef to the Marquis d’Uxelles in 1650, or thereabouts, and thus in honour to the employer the sauce was given this name by his cook. This unfair arrangement evidently did not meet the approval of Beauvilliers, for he wrote the word Ducelle, and Viard improved upon that by making it Durcelle. Modern gourmets complain that when, as is usual, an equal quantity of parsley and shallots are used with the mushrooms, the flavour of the' mushrooms is overburdened, and the finesse of the combination destroyed. See Fine Herbs and Sauces. DYSPEPSIA BREAD.—See Bread. EAHS (Fr. Oreilles; Ger. Ohren).—To all culinary intents and purposes the Bars of any animal would appear to offer the very least temptation. As a matter of fact they are neither digestible nor nutritious, consisting almost exclusively of gristle, covered with skin and small quantities of fat. In spite of this, the artistic cook finds a mode of softening and dressing them so that they become quite a dainty dish to those who prefer flavour to nutrition. Even in that case it is not the Ears so much as the sauce and garnish that are the attraction. Numerous receipts for their preparation are given under their special headings, such as Calf’s Ears, Pig’s Ears, &c. EAST-XNDXAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. EASTER EGGS.—These are described as painted or coloured Eggs, used as presents at Easter; hence a variety of imitation Eggs in sugar or other material have been manufactured for various purposes as being appro- priate presents at this auspicious season. “ Gebeline informs us,” says Brand, “ that this custom of giving Eggs at Easter is to be traced up to the theology and philosophy of the Egyptians, Persians, Gauls, Greeks, Romans, &c., among all of whom an Egg was an emblem of the universe, the work of the Supreme Divinity. Eggs were held by the Egyptians as a sacred emblem of the renovation of mankind after the deluge.” A writer in the Gentleman’s Magazine for July, 1783, supposes the Egg at Easter to be an emblem of the rising up out of the grave, in the same manner as the chick, entombed as it were in the Egg, is in due time brought to life. Le Brun, in his “Voyages,” tells us that the Persians, on the 20th of March, 1704, kept the Festival of the Solar New Year, which, he says, lasted several days, when they mutually presented each other with, among other things, coloured Eggs—yellow, sometimes sky-blue, and sometimes red. To colour Easter Eggs red, put them when well washed into a saucepan of water with a little cochineal, carmine, or logwood, and boil for ten minutes. When done, leave them in the coloured fluid for five minutes longer; then take them out, wipe dry, and rub them over with an oiled cloth. Other colours may be used, such as spinach for green, saffron for yellow, or by tying the eggs up in outside skins of onions a very pretty maize may be attained. A very pretty disli of Eggs prepared specially for Easter is given hereunder: Pour 1 pint of cold water over loz. of gelatine, and let it steep for four hours; add to it lib. of sugar and 3 pints of boiling milk, and stir over the fire till sugar and gelatine are quite dissolved; then strain it, and divide into four parts. Stir into one part 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet vanilla- Easter Eggs—continued. flavoured chocolate, into another the beaten yolks of two Eggs, into the third a little prepared cochineal or very red fruit syrup, and leave the fourth white. Flavour the white with rose-water, the red with essence of almonds, the brown with vanilla, and the yellow with essence of lemon. Put the yellow portion over the fire and let it heat long enough to cook the Eggs, stirring it constantly. Have ready a dozen Egg-shells, emptied through a very small hole made at one end of the shell, and rinsed well in cold water, using several waters, but do not drain or dry them, as the insides must be wet when they are filled. Fill three shells with each of the mixtures, stand them upright as they are filled in a pan of flour or finely-powdered salt, and let them remain all night. Next day three-parts fill a glass dish with white-wine jelly cut or broken in pieces, and on this arrange the Eggs, first peeling off the shells. Scatter candied orange- and citron-peel cut in thin shreds over and amongst them. EAU SUCRE.—See Sugar. EAUX.—See Cordials. ECARXiATE, A LA.—A French culinary term used to signify a mode of cooking by which the red colour, as of meat, is preserved. ECHAUDES.—French for a sort of cakes resembling simnels. They are usually manufactured as follows: Sift half a quartern of flour on to a paste-board, make a bay in the centre, put in 5 table-spoonful of salt dissolved in a small quantity ^f water, -Jib. of butter, and ten eggs. Work the eggs and butter together, and when they are well mixed, work in the flour, using the hands for the purpose. If the paste is too firm more eggs can be used. Dredge flour over a cloth, lay the paste in it, and keep it in a cool place for twelve hours. Cirt the paste into small pieces, dredge over with flour, put them into a saucepan of very hot, but not boiling, water, and shake them about. When they rise to the top and are firm, take them out of the saucepan with a skimmer, throw them into cold water, and leave for two hours; then put them on a wire sieve to drain for about three hours, lay them on a baking-tin, and bake for twenty minutes. ECLAIRS.—French pastrycooks have been very happy in the names they have given to some of their productions. “ Flashes of lightning ” would give one to understand that cakes named thus would be keenly delicious and exceedingly transient. From the following receipts it will lie seen that Eclairs are made of such light materials as to be of very small consideration when masticated and swallowed. Cream for Eclairs.— (1) Bub smooth 2 table-spoonfuls of corn- flour with a little milk, and add to it whilst stirring 1 pint of boiling milk. Whisk three eggs, add to them 6oz. of sugar and the boiling milk, pour all into a double boiler, and cook for five minutes ; then add 1 teaspoonful of butter and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Let it get cool, and flavour with almond, lemon, or vanilla. (2) Put 1 pint of cold milk into a saucepan, and place it on the stove. Mix 2oz. of powdered sugar with loz. of wheat- flour and loz. of cornflour, break in one egg and four or five yolks, and beat well with a whisk for two minutes. When the milk is boiling, add it to the flour mixture, stir for one minute, put it into another saucepan, place it on the stove, and beat well until boiling ; then remove from the fire, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring that may be desired. Mix thoroughly again for one minute, pour it into a bowl, and let it get cool before using. (3) Beat the yolks of four eggs with 3oz. of sugar and 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; then stir in 1 pint of milk, turn the mix- ture into a saucepan, and stiv it over the fire with a wooden spoon until rather thick; but take it off before it boils, or the eggs will curdle. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of chocolate in J teacupful of boiling milk, stir it into the cream mixture, and let it get cold. Eclairs.—(1) Coffee or Chocolate.—Put 2 gills of milk into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, set it on the fire, and stir with the spatula; when boiling, add Jib. of well-sifted flour 538 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY.