For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dbc., referred to, see under their special heads. DORSE, DORSCH. — Common names for Gadus callarias, a variety of cod, found in tlie Baltic, and believed by some authorities to be the young of the cod; whereas others are disposed to class them amongst haddocks. Dorse are cooked like Haddocks. DOTTERELS.—European birds (Charadrius mori- nellus) of the plover family. They are so tame that they may be sometimes caught with the hand. They are in season during October, November, and December, and are cooked like ordinary Ploveks. DOUBLE BOILER.—Sec Boilers. DOUCETTE.—Fr. for a plant called Corn-Salad. DOUGH.—This word is derived from the Old English dagli, anything kneaded, which the modern baker main- tains with unerring fidelity. There are several formulas for making Dough, which will be found under Biscuits, Bread, and other headings. Dough Cakes.—(1) Dissolve loz. of dry yeast in 1 breakfast- cupful of warm milk; put lib. of flour into a basin, make a bay in the centre, pour in the milk, and work in with it a part of the flour, leaving a wall round it of the remaining flour. Cut about 6oz. of butter into slices, lay these on the top of the dry flour, cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place for the contents to rise. Dust 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and a small quantity of salt over the flour, and work the whole well together. Place the Dough Fig. 661. Large Dough Cake. again in a warm place, and when it has risen a second time make it into small cakes (see Pig. 660), or one large one (see Pig. 661), and bake in greased tins. (2) Take lib. of common bread Dough, and work into it Jib. of sugar, Jib. of well-cleaned and dried currants, 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, loz. of chopped candied peel, and one egg. Mix well, and put into a greased tin. Bake in a good oven. DOUGH-BIRDS.—These are also known as Eskimo Curlews (Numenius borealis), and although not often met with in this country, are plentiful in the United States. They have long slender bills, about 2in. in length, and the whole bird averages about 14in. long. In autumn these birds feed freely on crowberries, their plumage being frequently much stained with the juice. They are also very partial to certain snails which frequent the rocks along the coast accessible at low tide, that being a con- venient time for fowling them. Prepared as described hereunder, they are exceedingly delicious, being generally plump, fleshy, and fat. Broiled Dough-Birds.—Prepare the birds, and split them lengthwise down the backs, but without quite separating, lay them on a plate, season with salt and pepper, and rub a moderate quantity of salad-oil over them ; next put them side by side on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Cut as many pieces of bread, ljin. thick, as there are birds, remove the crusts, and trim them to a nice shape; scoop enough out of the centre of each slice to make a hollow large enough to hold a bird, fry them in butter till lightly browned, then drain. Put a bird on each toast, place them on a hot dish that has been covered with a fancy-edged dish-paper or folded napkin, garnish with fresh watercress, and serve. Boasted Dough-Birds.—(1) Choose half-a-dozen plump Dough- Birds, singe, draw, and truss them ; dredge them over with salt, lay them on a roasting-pan, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and pour about 1 teacupful of water in the tin. Boast them in a brisk oven for twelve minutes. Cut six slices, about ljin. thick, off a stale loaf, pare off the crusts, and trim them to a nice shape ; then cut out of the centre of each slice sufficient bread to leave a hollow large enough to hold a bird, and fry them a golden brown in butter; drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper. When cooked, put a bird in each of the canapes, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a border of fresh, well-washed watercress, and serve. (2) African Style.—Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, then truss them; season with salt, lay them on a baking- dish, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and a small quantity of water in the tin. Bake the birds for twelve minutes in a quick oven. Procure as many eg'g'-plant fruit as there are birds, divide each of them into six parts, without separating, and make four incisions in each part; put them in a stewpan with some boiling lard, and fry for a minute. Take them out of the lard, and scoop out the fleshy part of the fruit with a vegetable-scoop, fill them with game forcemeat, or any other kind preferred, put them on a baking-dish, strew grated breadcrumbs over the top, put two or three small lumps of butter about, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When nicely browned, take the stuffed fruit out of the oven, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, put a bird on each, garnish with watercress or fried parsley, and serve. (3) American Style.—Prepare and truss the birds, put them on a roasting-dish, pour a small quantity of water round them, dredge moderately with salt, and put a small lump of butter on each. Bake them for about twelve minutes in a brisk oven. Cut some cold boiled hominy into as many slices as there are birds, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in stale breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating- on both sides ; put the slices of hominy in boiling lard and fry until nicely browned. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish- paper over a hot dish, lay the slices of hominy on it, place a bird on each, put a thin slice of broiled bacon on the breast of each bird, garnish with watercress or fried parsley, and serve. Salmis of Doug-li-Birds (a la Gastronome).—Singe and draw the birds and wipe them over with a damp cloth ; remove the legs, and stuff the birds with game forcemeat, inserting it by means of a paper cornet; put a small quantity of the forcemeat in the hollows left by the eyes, then place over the forcemeat two small pieces of truffle, and pass the bills of the birds through the skin of the breasts. Boast the birds for twelve minutes in a brisk oven. Put J teacupful of fumet of any game in a stewpan, with 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira sauce, three chopped livers of any kind of game, and boil them gently for ten minutes ; afterwards strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan, and mix with it the grated peel of a large lemon and a few whole mushrooms. Cut as many square pieces of bread as there are birds, and fry them a delicate golden brown in butter; drain for a minute on a sheet of paper, put a bird on each piece of bread, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with small potato croquettes, and serve. TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 525 Dough-Birds—continued.