TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 521 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special head Digesters—continued. by heating, made to contribute an artificial pressure, it would then be possible to stew or boil at any height upon the mountains. Fig. 646 shows the perfection of the original conception, for which the monks must have good reason to hold him in sincere esteem. The section (Fig. 647) shows the principle of the contrivance. It is a common iron stockpot, with a slightly - domed iron lid fitting at the rim of the pot and fastening by means Fig. 648. Digester Saucepan. of clips, or grooves and studs. In the centre of the lid is a valve arrangement, fitted with a heavy plug, with its handle or stem riding up and down in a slot. When the pressure of steam inside is sufficiently forcible to lift the plug, the water would be at many degrees above the standard for boiling. The plug not only acts as a safety-valve, but can be made to regulate the heat to which the water can be raised without danger of exploding the vessel. The principle has been extended in later years to various forms of cooking, and has led to the manufacture of a Digester Saucepan (see Fig. 648) and Digester Stewpan (see Fig. 649), both of these being insufficiently appre- ciated. In Papin’s Digester a very great economy is effected when boiling down bones for soup or stock, for by the greater heat the water acquires, the gelatine of the bones is more completely extracted. DIGESTION.—“We do not live on what we eat, but on what we digest,” are the words of a certain sage, whose name appears to have been left in the obscurity of ages. It is nevertheless an axiom that all alike live upon what they digest, and none can live without digesting the food that is to nourish his own body. This applies equally to the king and to the beggar, each having the want of food announced to him by a sensation of hunger and appetite. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both ! ’ are the words of Shakespeare, which convey to the gourmet a meaning that possibly the poor man would not understand; but this function of Digestion is one of exceeding importance, affecting the temper and disposition to such an extent as to influence the movements of the world. Cooks should bear this in mind and let it add a few more degrees to their dignity. The process of Digestion may be briefly described as Digestion—continued. follows: the food enters the mouth, where it is cut up by the front teeth or incisors, and afterwards ground down to pulp or paste by the back teeth or grinders. During this process of mastication, air and saliva are mixed with the food, the saliva turning starchy matters into sugar, and serving to lubricate the mass. The food then passes down the gullet into the stomach, where it is rolled or churned about, whilst an acrid secretion, the gastric juice, is poured out upon it. This juice acts upon albuminous bodies (a typical example of albumen is the white of egg), con- verting them into peptones, and these are either taken up by the minute capillaries which ramify on the interior of the stomach, or they may pass into the next portion of the digestive canal, the small intestine. The result of Digestion in the stomach is that the food becomes converted into an acid substance known as chyme. In the intestine the chyme meets with three fluids —bile, and the pancreatic and intestinal juices. The bile is secreted by the largest gland in the human body—the liver; the pancreatic and intestinal juices by the pancreas and small intestine respectively. The bile acts in aiding the absorption of fatty matters. The pancreatic, like the gastric juice, converts albuminates into peptones. In addition to this, it decomposes fats by the formation of soapy compounds, and also converts starch which lias j escaped the action of the saliva into sugar. The intestinal juice possesses most of the xiroperties of the other two secretions of the small intestine, all the secretions of which are alkaline, and thus by the time the food has reached the lower end of the intestine the chyme has become changed into an alkaline fluid, which now passes from the small to the great intestine, where it is moved very slowly, and gradually gives up all its remaining nutrient matter. When it reaches the lower end of the canal, or rectum, it has parted with all its nourishment, and is expelled as worthless. From the foregoing remarks it will lie understood that some foods are more digestible than others. It may lie of some interest to the cook to study the following tables of the comparative digestibility of some foods. The table is as given by Prof. Blytli in his “ Dictionary of Hygiene and Public Health,” as compiled by Dr. Beaumont. Animal Substances. Time of Articles of Diet. How Cooked. Chymitication. H. M. Pigs’ Feet, soused Boiled i 0 Tripe, soused Boiled i 0 Eggs, whipped "Raw i 30 Salmon Trout Boiled i 30 Venison-steak Broiled i 30 Brains Boiled i 45 Ox-Liver Broiled 2 0 Codfish, cured Boiled 2 0 Eggs Boasted 2 15 Turkey Boiled 2 25 Gelatine Boiled 2 30 Goose Boasted 2 30 Sucking-pig Boasted 2 30 Lamb Broiled 2 30 Chicken Fricasseed ... 2 45 Beef Boiled 2 45 Beef .. Boasted 3 0 Mutton Boiled 3 0 Mutton ... Roasted ... 3 15 Oysters Stewed 3 30 Cheese Raw 3 30 Eggs, hard Boiled 3 30 Eggs Fried 3 30 Beef Fried 4 0 Fowls Boiled 4 0 Fowls Boasted ... 4 0 Ducks Boasted 4 0 Cartilage Boiled 4 15 Pork Boasted 4 15 Tendon Boiled ... 5 30