THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 564 Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eggs —continued. and let the butter get a good lemon colour, which will take about three minutes; add 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, pour this over the Eggs, and serve at once. Fried Eggs for Garnish.—Pour i teacupful of sweet oil into a frying-pan ; when hot break in one Egg, carefully closing up the white part with a skimmer so as to have it firm and compact, and cook for two minutes. Only one Egg at a time should be in the pan. Fried Eggs served with Tomato Sauce.—Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter or oil in a frying-pan, melt it, tip the pan slightly, and break in one Egg at a time, piling the white over the yolk. When done, take it out, drain it, and proceed in this way until sufficient are cooked. Cover a dish with tomato sauce, arrange the Eggs on it, and serve. Genoese Eggs.—Wash 2oz. of rice, boil it until soft, and drain on a sieve, shaking it so that the grains separate, j Boil three Eggs until hard, then peel and finely chop them. Put 3oz. of butter into a stewpan with one small peeled and chopped onion, and | table-spoonful of finely-chopped [ parsley, and fry until beginning to brown; then put in the chopped Eggs and the rice, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir the mixture over the fire until very hot. Cut off four squares of bread, toast lightly, butter them, pile on the mixture, put them on a hot dish with an ornamental paper (see Fig. 706), and serve. Hard-boiled Eggs with Madeira Sauce.—Cut twelve hard- boiled Eggs lengthwise into halves, remove the yolks, place them in a bowl with Joz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and 1 pinch of chopped chives; beat these well, fill the whites with the mixture, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, pour over a few drops of clarified butter, and put them on a buttered dish in the oven for three minutes. Serve with a pint of Madeira sauce poured over. Imitation Poached Eggs.—Put 1J pints of cream in a saucepan, sweeten to taste, and flavour with orang'e-flowers, marzipan, burnt almonds, and candied lemon-peel, all bruised or chopped small. Beat the whites of eight Eggs to a stiff froth,. bring the cream quickly to a boil, poach this froth in it in piled table-spoonfuls; then drain, and arrange on a dish to represent Eggs poached, but without the yolks. When all the froth is used up, keep the cream on the' fire till it is somewhat reduced, add to it the beaten yolks of eight Eggs, and stir them well in ; before it boils, pour it gently over the dish of poached froth, and serve at once. Matelote of Eggs.—(1) Put in a stewpan 1 pint of either red or white wine that has been diluted with a third of its quantity of water. Chop up an onion, mix it with a little pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and one clove of garlic, and boil in the wine for five minutes; strain, put it back in the saucepan, and poach ten Eggs in it. Arrange the Eggs on a dish when done. Thicken the wine with butter rubbed in flour, stir over the fire till the flour is cooked, pour it over the Eggs, and serve. (2) Peel ten or twelve small onions, put them in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of lard or butter, and fry until very lightly coloured; pour over them in equal quantities a little white wine and stock, add a small bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the whole gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then remove the bunch of herbs, and strain the gravy. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire with the gravy in it, and poach in it, one at a time, as many Eggs as will be required. Place the Eggs and onions on a hot dish, thicken the sauce with a little flour, pour it over the Eggs, garnish Eggs—continued. with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Mock Eggs or Bombay Oysters. — Put about 1 dessert- spoonful of vinegar or an equal quantity of lemon-juice into a small glass, break in an Egg, using only a slight portion of the white, sprinkle over a few grains of cayenne, and, if liked, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and swallow at a draught without breaking the yolk, if possible. Mock Eggs and Sherry Oyster.— Pour a little sherry into a wineglass, break an Egg into it, put the glass to the mouth, and swallow Egg and sherry together, without letting the yolk break in the mouth. Nuremberg Egg.—Peel off the shell of a hard-boiled Egg, dip the Egg in batter, put it in a stewpan of melted butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the Egg, dip it again in the batter, and fry again, rolling it about well in the pan. Continue dipping the Egg in batter and frying it, as before, until a large ball is made; then place it on a hot dish, pour over wine sauce, and serve. One-Egg Cake.—Mix 1 teacupful of creamed butter with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, one Egg beaten light, J pint of milk, 1 pint of flour, ^ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 tea- spoonful each of cream of tartar and vanilla. Make into a dough, let it rise before putting into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Pickled Eggs (Jewish).—Put twenty Eggs into a net, then into a saucepan with more than sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil for thirty minutes; then plunge them into cold water, remove the shells, and put them into a jar. Pour 6 breakfast-cupfuls of brown vinegar into a saucepan, add ioz. each of long peppers, black peppers, and allspice, ioz. each of bruised mace, white ginger, coriander-seeds, cardamoms, and cloves, and ten chillies, also loz. of sugar, and boil for a few minutes. Let the pickle get cold, pour it over the Eggs, and cover over. The Eggs will have the appearance of pickled walnuts. Poached Eggs.—(1) Put some water with a little vinegar in a flat stewpan, and when it boils break in four or five Eg'gs, turning the shells so as to bring the white evenly round the yolk. When firm, take out and throw them into cold water. When the required number are cooked, trim them neatly. These can be served in various ways. (2) Fry some Eggs in an Egg-poacher in boiling oil ; when brown (but they must not be hard), sprinkle a little salt over, and glaze. Serve on small squares of buttered toast. (3) Boil the Eggs first in their shells for four-minutes- and-a-half; then plunge them into cold water and leave for ten minutes. Peel and plunge them in boiling water to warm, take them out, dish them, garnish with water- cress, and serve. (4) Break the Eggs into cups, one in each, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, but do not let the water reach to the top of the cups, and boil gently till the Eggs are done. Butter pieces of hot toast, cut off the crusts, and serve the Eggs on them. (5) Beat two Eggs along with | teacupful of milk and 1 pinch of salt. Put a small lump of butter in a frying-pan ; when it is hot, add the beaten Eggs, and stir till the mixture thickens, but be careful not to let it get hard and lumpy. Toast some slices of bread, butter them, arrange on a dish, pour over the Egg mixture, sprinkle chopped parsley and salt on the top, and serve. (6) Put half-a-dozen Eggs in boiling water for five minutes; then take them out and let them cool in cold water. Peel off the shells, and put the Eggs in warm water again for a few minutes. Dish them, brush over with reduced bechamel sauce, then with tomato sauce, and lastly with butter. These Eggs may be used as a garnish for a variety of dishes. (7) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of minced cooked ham into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of chopped gherkin and onion, ^ table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; pour in ^ pint of clear broth, and stew the sauce at the side of the fire for an hour. Poach a sufficient quantity of Eggs in boiling water, and lay them carefully on a hot dish. Mix 1 table-spoonful of orange-juice in the sauce, pour it over the Eggs, and serve.