TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 557 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs— continued. then dust over a little pepper. Pour the milk while boiling over it, stir well, add sugar to sweeten, and serve. A little brandy added is an improvement. (2) Put 1 gill of beer into a saucepan with three well- whisked Eggs and 2oz. of sugar, mix well, and set the pan on the fire ; when nearly boiling, add another gill of beer, with a little grated nutmeg and ground ginger, and serve. A little grated lemon-peel may be added. (3) Pour lqt. of ale into a saucepan over the fire to get warm; beat four Eggs with Jib. of moist sugar and 2 wine- glassfuls of rum, adding 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ground ginger. When the ale is on the point of boiling, pour it into a large jug, and pour the Egg mixture into another jug, and turn it from one jug to another till smooth as cream. (4) Pour 1 pint of ale into a saucepan on the stove, to get hot; put 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar and the yolks of two Eggs into a large bowl, and beat to a cream. When the ale is hot, but not boiling, pour it gently into the bowl over the beaten Eggs and sugar, add the whites, whip till the flip is smooth, and serve in a jug. (5) Beat two Eggs with 3oz. of sugar; make 1 pint of mild porter hot, but do not let it boil, and pour it in gradually over the Eggs, beating well; then add 1 wineglassful of gin and a small quantity of either grated nutmeg or ginger, and serve. A good way of mixing the Eggs with the beer is to pour them from one basin to another. (6) Beat six Eggs in a basin, add Jib. of powdered loaf sugar, stir well, and pour in lqt. of boiling water, adding about 1 breakfast-cupful at a time. When thoroughly mixed, pour in 1 pint or so of brandy and 1 gill of rum, and serve hot in glasses. Egg and Flour Batter Pudding (German).—Put 1 break- fast-cupful of flour into a basin, and mix with it four beaten Eggs, a small qirantity of salt, and add more flour to make a thin batter. Mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls each of well-washed currants and raisins, a few table-spoonfuls of sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of spice. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter into a frying-pan, melt it, put in the batter, and place it over the fire until set. Break the batter into small pieces, and let it set again; when it is brown on one side, turn it over and brown the other. When cooked, turn the batter out on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Eg'g Foam Sauce.—Put 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot into an enamelled saucepan with three Eggs, J teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and ljoz. of sugar, adding gradually 1 teacupful of water and 2 teaspoonfuls of maraschino, rum, or brandy to flavour. Place the pan over a good fire, beating continually until the froth rises very high. The sauce is then ready for serving. Eggs Fried in Batter.—Poach six or eight Eggs in water, but do not let them get hard, and put them on a folded napkin to drain and cool. Put 11b. or so of fat into a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry some parsley in it. Dip each Egg with a large spoon singly in batter, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and fry till brown. Put the fried parsley on a dish, arrange the Eggs on it, squeeze over lemon-juice, and serve. Eggs Fried in Brown Butter.—(1) Break the Eggs gently on a plate, taking care not to injure the yolks, and dredge them with salt and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying- pan over a brisk fire ; when turning brown, move it to the side. Put 2oz. more of butter into another frying-pan, and place it over the fire until hot; then put the Eggs in carefully, so as not to break the yolks, and spread the browned butter over them. When the whites are set, turn the Eggs out on to a hot dish, sprinkle a small quantity of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon-juice over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve ; or they may be served on hot buttered toast. (2) Brown Jib. of butter in a frying-pan over a slow fire. Break six Eggs in a plate, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, pour the liquid butter on them, then turn all quickly back into the frying-pan ; fry for two minutes one side, then turn and fry the other side for two minutes. Dish, and serve, with 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar reduced to half its original quantity poured over them. Egg Flutters.— (1) Put four Eggs into a saucepan of water, boil for fifteen minutes, take them out, plunge into cold water for Eggs—continued. a few minutes, and take off the shells ; cut the Eggs lengthwise in halves, remove the yolks, mix them up with a little potted meat, replace them, put the two halves together, pressing them firmly, and then cut into quarters with a very sharp knife. Dip these in batter, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them ; drain them, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 701). (2) Cut three hard-boiled Eggs lengthwise in halves, and take out the yolks. Chop small equal quantities of cold ham and chicken and pound them in a mortar with the yolks, add two or three drops of anchovy sauce, and season with salt and pepper. When well mixed, fill the hollows of the halves of whites with the yolk mixture, and put two halves together, working the remainder of the mixture (if any) into an Eg'g shape. Mix in a basin 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, the white of one Egg, and a few drops of salad-oil; when smooth, dip the Eggs in one at a time, and fry them in boiling fat till brown. Put a folded napkin on a dish, arrange the Eggs on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Mix the yolks of twelve Eggs in a dish (a silver one if possible) that can be put in the oven, and add 1 table-spoonful of brandy and 1 pinch of salt; cook for five minutes in a hot oven, then let them cool. Cut the preparation into twelve thin slices, dip each piece into a light frying-batter, and fry them in very hot fat for about two minutes; then lift them out with a skimmer, lay them on a cloth to drain, and serve on a folded napkin laid on a hot dish, with a garnish of fried parsley. (4) Hard boil an Egg, peel off the shell, cut it lengthwise in halves, and remove the yolk. Put this into a mortar with one blanched bitter and two sweet almonds and a very little caster sugar; pound to a paste, add three drops of brandy, and replace it in the white, pressing the two halves together, and with a sharp knife cutting the Egg into slices. Dip these in batter, and fry to a golden colour in oil. Take them out, drain, and put them on a napkin laid on a dish, dust over with sugar, and serve with wine sauce in a sauceboat, or with wine in a decanter. Egg's with Game Consomme.—Prepare some good game con- somme without sugar. Take as many Eggs as are required, and to every yolk use 1 breakfast-cupful of consomme, which will, when worked together, make a thick cream; or, if the Eggs are preferred pretty solid, use double the quantity of yolks. Boil this mixture in small jars in the bain-marie, and when they are done turn them out on to a dish, and serve with more of the consomme, thickened with the yolks of Eggs, poured over. Eggs in German Style.—Peel six hard-boiled Eggs, and cut them into thin slices. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, with 1 table-spoonful of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a pinch of pepper and salt. When this boils, put in the Eggs, simmer for ten minutes, dish, and serve. Eggs au Gratin.—(1) Put eight Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil until hard; take them out when cool, and remove the shells. Cut the Eggs up into slices; put these at the bottom of a stewpan and pour over them a few table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce reduced with a little gravy, place the lid on the pan, and set it in the bain-marie, or in another larger saucepan half filled with boiling water. Boil about 4 handfuls of finely-minced nouilles in a saucepan with salted water ; then take them out, drain, and return them to the saucepan. Add seasoning, Jib. of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and 1 teacupful of grated cheese (Parmesan for preference). Mix well, pour about three-parts of the