527 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die,, referred to, see under their special heads. Dough-nuts—continued. ready, drop a lump of lard in a frying-pan, and when smoking- hot put in some of the cakes and fry them, turning when done on one side. As each lot of cakes is cooked, drain them on paper. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, pile the nuts on it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (10) Put about 1 pint of light bread-dough on a floured paste-board, and roll it out Jin. thick ; cut this into rather Fig. 665. Dough-nut. long diamond-shaped pieces (see Fig. 665) with a sharp knife dipped in flour, throw a towel over the pieces, and let them stand near the stove to rise, while a deep frying-pan, half-full of fat, is being heated. When the fat smokes, fry the cakes, and serve them with syrup or molasses. Excellent cakes for breakfast. Dough-nuts with Fruit.—Put 21b. of light bread-dough into a basin, and mix in about 4oz. each of sugar and molasses, one egg, and 4 table-spoonfuls of hot lard; work these well in, and let the mixture stand for half-an-hour or so ; then add sufficient flour to make a soft dough, let this rise in a warm place for about four hours, roll it out very thin, and damp it over with water. Have ready a teacupful or so of any cooked fruit, put 1 teaspoonful of it at distances apart over half of the round of paste, cover over with the other half, and with a biscuit-cutter cut it so as to have the fruit in Fig. 666 Dough-nut. the centre of each piece (see Fig. 666). Let them rise again for about an hour, then plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, brown, and drain them. When done, dust with caster sugar, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve. Imitation Dough-nuts.— Take seven or eight small rolls, light and at least a day old, pare off all the crust, trim them round, lay them in a shallow pan that will just hold them, and pour over J pint of milk, with 1 saltspoonful each of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of sugar mixed in it. Turn the rolls over and over in the milk till they have absorbed it all, put them to drain on a sieve for a few minutes, then brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of finely-powdered crackers, fry them in boiling lard, drain them on paper, and serve hot with lemon sauce. Isle of Wight Dough-nuts.—Rub Jib. of butter and the same quantity of lard in ljlb. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in Jib. of sugar and a small quantity of allspice. Moisten with three well-beaten eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, mixed with a sufficient quantity of milk to make a smooth dough; cover the dough with a cloth, and leave it to rise in a warm temperature for four hours. Afterwards work into the dough Jib. of well-washed and dried currants and 4oz. of finely-shred candied peel, divide it into small quantities, and mould into balls. Put a quantity of lard into a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the balls or Dough-nuts, and cook them until equally browned. As they are cooked, drain them for a few seconds on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy- edged dish-paper on a hot dish, pile the balls on it, and serve. DOVES.—Popular prejudice is greatly opposed to the killing of these birds as articles of food, especially as they are so well represented by pigeons of a more common variety of the Columba'tribe. In spite of this prejudice, however, certain gourmets have declared so strongly in their favour that the two following receipts are appended. The Wood-pigeon or Ring-dove (Columba palumbus) is the variety referred to, which ranks as the largest of them all (see Pig. 667). Broiled Doves.—Pluck, draw, and singe some young Ring- doves, split them in halves down the back, beat them flat on the table, then put them into a deep dish with a little each of chopped parsley, chives, and mushrooms, season with salt and mixed spices, pour a small quantity of olive oil over them, and let them macerate for two hours. Drain on a cloth, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them to cook equally on both sides. Put in a saucepan the oil in which the Doves soaked, with a small quantity of flour, chopped capers and shallots, and a lump of butter; add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, and stir the whole over the fire till thick and cooked. Arrange the birds in a circle on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the sauce, pour it into a sauce- boat, and serve with the Doves. ^ Dove Soup.—Pluck, draw, and singe the required number of Ring-doves, and cut them in halves ; melt Jib. of butter in a stewpan, put in the birds with a few slices of onions, carrots, and turnips, and seasonings to taste, and fry them until lightly browned; then cover them with good stock, and stew gently. When tender, take the birds out of the pan, cut the flesh from the bones, put it in a mortar, and pound until smooth, moisten- ing with a little of the cooking-liquor. Put loz. of butter in a clean saucepan, melt it, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, strain in the cooking-liquor of the birds, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Put 1 pint of white wine into a small saucepan, and when on the point of boiling stir in the pounded meat, then mix with the other liquor, whisking the whole well together. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. This soup is very delicious, and about four birds will make a good-sized tureen full. DOWITCHER.—A name for the red-breasted or grey snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); called also brownback and greyback. See Snipes. DOWN-EAST PUDDING.—See Puddings. dragHes .—The French name for certain coated sweetmeats, such as Sugar-plums, under which heading some practical receipts will be found. DRAINERS. — These very useful appendages to kitchen utensils are made of different shapes and materials for different purposes. They are generally either of wire, like a sieve, or of perforated sheet metal. Their use is sufficiently indicated by their name. See Strainers.