645 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Freezers and Freezing—continued. factory results. For culinary purposes an apparatus is used which consists of a pewter freezing-pot (see Fig. 794) and a wooden bucket (see Fig. 795), to contain the freezing material, into which the freezing-pot is plunged. The ingredients to be frozen are placed in the freezing- pot, and this is put into the bucket containing a mixture of ice and salt pounded to- gether in the proportion of two parts of ice or snow to one part of salt (chloride of sodium). The dissolving of the salt and ice causes an extraordinary reduction of temperature, which brings the mass in the freezing-pot to a lower temperature than 32deg. At this temperature the watery particles solidify; it is therefore necessary to keep the contents intimately blended by working either with a spatula (see Fig. 796) or patent revolving mixer (see Fig. 797). Several very excellent machines have been invented to freeze “ ices ” with the least possible delay, the principle being the same, of a freezing-pot fitted inside with a removable mixer, worked direct by means of a raised or concealed Fig. 794. Freezing-pot (Mathews and Son). Fig. 795. Wooden Bucket (Mathews and Son). crank (see Fig. 797), or as shown in section (see Fig. 798). They are also made with a twin action for working two pots at the same time, or two kinds of ices in the Fig. 796. Spatula, Spaddle, or Spattle. same freezing-mixture. This number might be extended to three, four, or more; but experience shows that two are quite as many as can be conveniently worked by one action. The object of the mixer is to save the laborious use of the spatula, some sort of continuous stirring being imperative during the freezing, lest the water of the contents freezes out from the cream, sugar, or flavouring. Some excellent receipts and instructions for making Ices will be found under that heading. Freezers and Freezing—continued. A very excellent Freezing-machine, invented by C. F. Kirchhof, combines all the improved features of the most Fig. 797. Patent Freezer (Mathews and Son). perfect ice-making machines, combined with one that is peculiar to itself. It is covered in as a safe, and thus preserves the ice from too rapidly melting, the result being an extraordinary saving where ices are frequently or continually in demand. Mr. C. Reichert, on the staff of this Encyclopaedia (14, Rock Street, Finsbury Park, London), is the sole agent for the sale of these freezing- Fig. 798. Patent Freezer (Temple and Crook). machines, they being highly recommended by confectioners either for large quantities or small, hand-working or steam power. FREEZING MIXTURES.-Beyond those which consist of pounded ice, or snow and salt, very few are known to confectioners. The following, from experiments made by Professor Walker, are known to give reliable results: 1 | Snow or pounded ice | Common salt i Snow or pounded ice 2-! Common salt ( Sal ammoniac Parts. 2 l 1 f Reduces Temperature to — 5deg. to —12deg.