THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 569 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces first in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot fat for five minutes. Remove them, dust over more salt if required, drain, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. (4) The same as for No. 2, covering the fruit with egg- and-breadcrumbs instead of batter before frying. (5) This is prepared in the same way as for No. 2, with the exception of dipping the slices in flour instead of batter. Egg-plant Fruit Omelet. — Peel and scrape out the seeds of an Egg-plant Fruit, finely chop it, put it in a basin with a little salt, and pour boiling water over. Beat six eggs, mix with them 1 table-spoonful of well-washed and dried currants, double that quantity of blanched and peeled almonds or pistachios, 3 table-spoonfuls of fried minced mutton, and the Egg-plant Fruit. Season with powdered cinnamon and pepper, and stir the ingredients until well mixed. Put wlb. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, pour in the omelet mixture, and fry until browned on both sides. Put a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and turn the omelet quickly on to it. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Egg-plant Fruit Pilau.—Cut an Egg-plant Fruit in four pieces crosswise, take out the seeds, cut the pieces into slices about lin. in thickness, put them in a basin with a little salt, cover with boiling water, and in about ten minutes drain them. Put two finely-chopped onions in a saucepan with lOoz. or 12oz. of butter, place them over the fire until nearly browned, then put in the slices of Egg-plant Fruit and fry for a few minutes. Pour in lqt. of hot water and 1 pint of clear broth; add salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan over the fire until boiling, then put in l jlb. of well-washed rice, boil slowly until all the moisture has evaporated, then move the rice to the side of the pan, and leave it for ten or fifteen minutes. It does not require stirring while cooking; each grain should be whole and separate. Turn the pilau out on to a hot dish, and serve. Egg-plant Fruit Pudding.—Cut an Egg-plant Fruit into quarters, let it soak for twelve hours in salted water to remove the bitterness, parboil in more water, skin it, chop up finely, add to each pint of the fruit 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs, 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and season with pepper and salt. Bake for twenty minutes in a shallow dish in a moderate oven, and serve. Fried Egg-plant Fruit.—Cut the Egg-plant Fruit into slices of a moderate thickness, and steep them in salted water for about half-an-hour. Drain them, flour well, put them in a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and fry till browned. Peel three cloves of garlic, pound them in a mortar, season with a small quantity of salt, pour in 2 wineglass- fuls of vinegar, and stir well. Lay the slices of Egg-plant Fruit in a baking-dish, pour the sauce over them, stand the dish on a trivet over a slow fire until all the moisture is absorbed, and serve hot. Fried Egg-plant Fruit with Maitre-d'Hotel Sauce. Cut the fruit into moderately thick slices, and rub them over with salt and pepper and a small quantity each of turmeric and green chillies. Fry in boiling lard. When cooked, drain as free from the fat as possible, place them on a hot dish, pour maitre-d'hotel sauce over, and serve. Mashed Egg-plant Fruit (Indian Style). —Cut a large onion into slices, place it in a dish or basin, add two hot green chillies also cut up into slices, squeeze over the juice of a sweet lime, and soak for several hours. Put a couple of fine young Egg-plant Fruit (brinjals) in a quick ash fire, roast them, take them out when done, remove all the burnt parts, open them, and scoop out as much of the in- side as possible. Put this into a basin, add 1 teaspoonful each of salt and mustard-oil, and work the whole to a pulp, rejecting all the lumps. Now add the onions and chillies, and as much of the lime-juice as required. Mix thoroughly, and the preparation is ready for use. Mussaca. This is a Moldavian mode of cooking the fruit of the Egg-plant, and it is strongly recommended by Dubois. Cut five or six Egg-plant Fruit into halves lengthwise in the form of a wedge. Sprinkle over salt, and let them remain for a few minutes so as to extract the water. Wipe them dry, put them Egg-plant Fruit—contimied. in a frying-pan, fry on both sides, then place on a sieve to drain. Take six more Egg-plant Fruit, peel them, cut into rather thick slices, sprinkle over a little salt, and let them macerate for a few minutes ; then wash them well and dry on a cloth, sprinkle over with flour, and fry also on both sides, putting them when done on a sieve to drain. Remove the skin and bone from a loin of mutton, cut the meat transversely into collops, put them in a frying-pan with a little lard and trimmings of ham and bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and fry quickly. Season with more salt and pepper if required, take out the collops, and put them on one side to cool. Put two chopped onions in a saucepan, fry them, but without letting them take colour, add a few handfuls of chopped mushrooms, and when their moisture is reduced put the pan on the side of the fire and add the mutton. Sprinkle over a little finely-minced parsley and breadcrumbs, and thicken with yolk of egg. Put the slices of Egg-plant Fruit at the bottom and sides of a charlotte-mould well rubbed with lard, keeping them close together and leaving no space between them, fill up the centre with alternate layers of the halves of Egg-plant Fruit and mutton mixture, and when the mould is full cover over the top with a piece of buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Picklecl Egg-plant Fruit.—Select the requisite quantity of Eg'g-plant Fruit, remove the stalks, and split the fruit length- wise into three or four slices without separating them at the base. Scald and drain, put them in a wicker basket with a plate over, place a weight on this, and leave them for several hours, or until all the bitter water has been extracted. Peel and cut into halves twelve or fourteen cloves of garlic, finely chop a handful or so of parsley and two or three white sticks of celery, and mix them with the garlic. Stuff between each slice of the Egg-plant Fruit with the mixture, binding them round to prevent it falling out, then arrange them in a stone jar, pour in sufficient vinegar to cover them, place a plate over with a weight on the top, and leave for three weeks or a month. At the end of that time the pickle is ready for use. Stewed Egg-plant Fruit with Onions.—(1) Cut an Egg- plant Fruit lengthwise into thin slices, dust them over with salt, and let them remain until the bitter juice is extracted. Drain, put them in a frying-pan with olive oil or butter, and brown over a brisk fire. Take them out of the pan, and lay them at the bottom of a baking-dish. Peel four moderate-sized onions, cut them into slices, put them into the frying-pan, adding more butter or olive oil if required, and fry till well browned. Lay the onions over the Egg-plant Fruit, season with salt and 3 teaspoonfuls of honey or sugar, pour in 1 teacupful of water and half that quantity of vinegar, and set the pan over a slow fire. When the moisture is nearly all absorbed, arrange the Egg-plant Fruit and onions on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut about half-a-dozen Egg-plant Fruit lengthwise into quarters, but without separating them from the stalks ; rub them over with salt, and leave them for several minutes to extract the bitter juice. Peel four onions, cut them into thickish slices, put them in a frying-pan with olive oil or butter, and fry till lightly brown. Put half of the onions at the bottom of a saucepan, then put in the Egg-plant Fruit, and cover them with the remainder of the onions. Peel four cloves of garlic, put them in the pan, pour over 2J breakfast-cupfuls of water, set the saucepan over the fire, and stew until the Egg-plant Fruit are cooked. Turn out on to a dish, and serve. Stewed Egg-plant Fruit with Tomato Sauce (Turkish).— Cut off the ends of several small Egg-plant Fruit, scoop out the interior with a spoon, and mix with it an equal quantity of uncooked rice and minced mutton ; season with pepper and salt. Fill the skins with the mixture, score them across, and in each incision put a little finely-chopped onion. Place the fruit thus prepared into hot dripping for two minutes, take them out, drain, and put in a stewpan ; cover with thin tomato sauce, and stew till tender over a slow fire. Place them on a dish, cover with the sauce, and serve. StufFecl Egg-plant Fruit. —(1) Wash and dry six Egg-plant Fruit; cut off the tops without detaching so that they will serve as lids. Scoop out all the insides, and season inwardly with salt and pepper. Chop very fine one medium-sized peeled onion, put it in a saucepan with ^oz. of butter, and cook for