487 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cucumbers—continued. (7) Open a tin of beef and turn the meat out, mince it in a sausag’e-machine together with some bacon or some of its own fat, and a piece of crumb of bread. Season to taste with salt, pepper, powdered allspice, chopped parsley, dried mint, thyme, and marjoram, and moisten with good gravy or stock. Peel some short Cucumbers, cut off the ends, and scoop out the insides; then mix a well-beaten egg with the moistened and seasoned mince and till the Cucumbers with it; put them in a stewpan on some slices of bacon, and braise gently till done. Drain them thoroughly from the bacon-fat, and serve with a little good g'ravy to which a squeeze of lemon-juice has been added. (8) Turkish.—Peel and cut some Cucumbers into pieces about 2in. long, blanch them in boiling water, drain them, scrape out the seeds, and fill the hollow with a preparation made as follows: Mince some bits of raw mutton, mix with them a little finely-chopped suet, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, a little parsley, and a few table-spoonfuls of blanched rice, and season well. Put the Cucumbers when filled in a saucepan with a little broth and tomato liquor, cook them, and when they are done dish them; mix a little gravy with the liquor in which the Cucumbers were cooked, boil it up, and strain it over them. Cucumber Fritter. Peel half a Cucumber, remove the seeds, stuff it with forcemeat, dip it first into flour and then into batter, put it into a frying-pan with plenty of fat, and fry to a light brown. Sprinkle over with salt, and serve. A tureenful of gravy may accompany it. Cucumbers for Garnish.—(1) Cut the Cucumbers lengthwise into quarters, having first peeled them, remove the seeds, and cut the Cucumbers into oval pieces 2in. long, as deep and wide as the size of the fruit will allow. Blanch them in boiling- water, drain, and fry in a saute-pan with sugar and butter. When they are brown, put them in a stewpan with a little veal stock, and finish cooking. Put them by for use. (2) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, scrape out the seeds, and cut the Cucumbers into oval pieces 2in. long, and as wide and thick as the fruit will allow. Put them in a stewpan with cold water, and when it comes to the boil, drain the Cucumber, put it in a saucepan with a white dressing, made by mixing a little flour with stock and adding a piece of clarified poultry fat. Cook the Cucumbers in this, and when they are done, let them remain in the liquor till they are cool. Use as required. Cucumber Ketchup.—(1) Peel some Cucumbers, pound them in a mortar, sprinkle salt over, and leave them for several hours to extract the juice. Strain off the juice by twisting in a towel, season it well, and boil it. Pour it into bottles and cork tightly till wanted for use. (2) Grate some Cucumbers, press out the juice, and mix with it an equal quantity of vinegar ; pour this over the grated Cucumber, add salt and pepper, bottle, and cork it tightly. This ketchup will keep good for years. (3) Peel and chop very finely twelve large Cucumbers, an equal measure of Spanish onions, four large green peppers without the seeds, one small clove of garlic, and four shallots, and grate one medium-sized root of horseradish. Put all these ingredients into a porcelain-lined saucepan over the fire, add enough cold vinegar to cover them, together with 1 teacup- ful of salt, 1 table-spoonful each of ground cloves, allspice, mace, and cinnamon, and red pepper to taste. Boil gently until the ketchup is of the proper consistency, then cool and bottle it. Cucumbers stuffed with Ox-Marrow. — (1) Peel two or three Cucumbers, chop off the ends, and cut them up into slices about l^in. thick; put the slices into boiling salted j water to blanch, then take them out, and drain. Prepare a stuffing of ox-marrow, breadcrumbs, and finely-chopped parsley; scoop out the inside of the slices of Cucumber, stuff them with the marrow mixture, put them in a dish over a few thin slices of fat bacon, pour in a little sharp or other sauce, and cook slowly in the oven until the Cucumbers are done. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a little hot half-glaze, and serve. (2) Peel half-a-dozen large Cucumbers, split them lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon. With the seeds and their surrounding pulp mix an equal quantity each of breadcrumbs and chopped ox-marrow, and a high seasoning Cucumbers—continued. of salt and pepper ; stuff the Cucumbers with this forcemeat, laying the halves together, and securing them in place by running small wooden skewers entirely through them. Put the stuffed Cucumbers into an earthen dish just large enough to hold them, pour over sufficient meat-gravy to cover, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, or until they are tender; ihen remove the skewers, and serve the Cucumbers hot. If there is no gravy on hand, make some as follows: Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until light brown ; then gradually mix in 1 pint of boiling water, season with salt and pepper, let it boil for a minute, and then use. Cucumber Salad.— (1) Take three medium-sized Cucumbers, lay them on ice till thoroughly chilled, then pare them, taking care to leave no trace of the green skin, a very small bit of which would be enough to spoil the salad. Slice the Cucumbers very thinly and arrange them in a glass dish or shallow bowl; mix together J teaspoonful of ground white pepper and 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, and sprinkle this over and among them ; then mix 1 table-spoonful of vinegar with 2 table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, and pour it over. (2) Peel, and cut lin. off each end of a large Cucumber. Cut it into thin slices, and keep these in cold salted water till wanted. Drain, and put them in a bowl with ice. Thinly Fig. 597. Cucumber Salad. slice some young onions, mix them with the Cucumber, and pour over a vinaigrette, made by mixing together 3 table- spoonfuls of oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and | saltspoonful of pepper. See Fig. 597. (3) Blanch Alb. of skinned almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound them; soak the crumb of half a French roll in water, then squeeze it well and put it in with the almonds, adding also three peeled cloves of garlic and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Pound all the above-mentioned ingredients together until formed into a smooth paste, then add the juice of two lemons and sufficient water to bring the whole to the consistency of cream, stirring well with a wooden spoon. Peel two small Cucumbers or one large one, cut into thin slices, arrange them on a dish, dust with salt and pepper, and pour over them the above mixture ; then pour in gradually J teacupful of olive oil, and serve. This sauce can be used with a variety of vegetables in making salads. (4) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them into thin slices, put them in a salad-bowl, dust salt over, and toss them about. Peel three cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar, and pound; then mix in 1 pint of curd, and beat well, pouring in gradually sufficient water to bring the whole to the consistency of thin cream. Put a few small pieces of ice in the salad-bowl with the Cucumber, pour the dressing over when cold, and serve. (5) Peel two or three Cucumbers, cut them into slices, and let them stand for an hour in very cold salted water, Drain them, dry on a cloth, and dress with plenty of oil and vinegar and a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, or with cream salad dressing. Young onions sliced make a good addition to Cucumber salad. Cucumber Sauce.— (1) This is made by adding a very little juice squeezed from grated Cucumber, or the Cucumber itself, to a mayonnaise sauce. (2) Chop two or three pickled Cucumbers and a little lemon-peel, put them over the fire with ^oz. of butter rolled in flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of thick gravy, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Stir constantly till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Mix with it a liaison of yolks of eggs, and serve.