THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 485 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Crystallising—continued. will rest upon the upper surface of the first, and so on for as many trays as are used—the less the better, one being better than all. Upon these trays the articles to be crystallised are carefully arranged with room between them, so that the crystals shall form all round. When the trays are filled and packed, the next step is to fill the box with a strong crystallising syrup. This is made by boiling loaf sugar in water—21b. to Fig. 592. Crystallising-tin. 1 pint of water—and continuing the boiling until the syrup reaches 220deg. Fahr. (see Sugar-Boiling). Then it should be taken from the fire and stood in a cool place until it is blood-warm. Pour this syrup over the articles to be crystallised, and fill up the tin well over the top layer. Set this in a cool, dry pantry, and leave for several hours, until a thick, strong, hard crust is formed on the surface. This will indicate that crystallisation has taken place, and that the articles on the trays or stages are also crystallised. Then pull out a plug situated at the bottom of the tin and let all the loose or uncrystallisable syrup drain off. Leave the articles on the trays a bit longer to dry and set nicely, and then they may be used for any purpose required of them. Be careful not to disturb the syrup when set for crystallising, or it will not succeed so well, and use no cream of tartar in the syrup. Flowers, and confections such as liqueur bonbons, require no preparation. Fruit should be previously lightly boiled in syrup. CUCUMBERS (TV. Concombres; Ger. Giirken; Ital. Cetriuoli; Sp. Coliombros).—These fruits have long been favourites in this country, where they are most Fig. 594. Telegraph Cucumber. commonly eaten raw as salad. On the Continent they are cooked and dressed in a variety of ways, and in Poland they are usually eaten with honey. Originally Cucumbers—continued. the Cucumber-plant (Cucumis sativus) was cultivated in Egypt, Palestine, India, and other Eastern countries; but although records of its growth in England date back to the reign of Edward III., it seems to have died out, to be revivified during the reign of Henry VIII., becoming general about the middle of the seventeenth century. The most famous Cucumber-plant is the Telegraph (see Fig. 594); but it may be said of all, that the flavour and size of the fruit depend upon the manner of its growing. To be prime, Cucumbers should be freshly cut, which is indicated by the stalk : those whose stalks are withered up to a thread, and are flabby instead of stiff and firm, should be discarded as indigestible. The addition of oil to Cucumbers renders them very harmless, and they may then be eaten with impunity. Hot-house Cucumbers are best, and are in season all the year round, but require very careful cultivation. They should be full-grown, large, and soft-skinned, carrying a bloom that is easily rubbed off by handling. When the bloom begins to disappear from the Cucumber, it should be left for seed, as it will then begin to be bitter. Young Cucumbers about 3in. or 4in. long are much used for pickling, but must not be confounded with gherkins, which grow upon a distinct plant. See Gherkins. There are various plants of the Cucumber tribe, some, such as the Bitter Cucumber (Citrullus Colocynthis), and Squirting Cucumber (Ecbattium), being medicinal. An FIG. 595. CUCUMBER-SLICER. ingenious apparatus consisting of three knife-blades in one handle (see Fig. 595) has been invented to simplify Cucumber slicing, but the ordinary cook is content with one blade—a sharp one. Compote of Cucumbers.—(1) Cut into slices or other desired shapes two or three sound unskinned Cucumbers, remove all the seeds, put the slices into a bowl of salted water, and let them soak for five hours or so. Take them out with a skimmer, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from six to ten minutes. Then take them out again with the skimmer, put them into a saucepan of weak syrup, and boil until tender. Lift them out singly, put on a sieve to drain, and then on to a flat dish; boil and skim the syrup, pour it while hot over the pieces of Cucumber, place a piece of paper over the top, and set the dish aside for three days. Now drain them, boil another quantity of syrup to the crack degree, pour the other syrup into it, boil and skim for a few minutes, and then turn it over the Cucumber. On the next day, strain and strengthen the syrup as before, put in the Cucumber, and simmer. Turn all out again on to the dish, cover it over, and let it remain for three days longer. Repeat the process of strengthening the syrup once more, and simmer with the Cucumber in it as before. Put the Cucumber on a compote-dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. (2) Get some young Cucumbers without seeds, and split them lengthwise; cut them in 3in. pieces, and boil for ten minutes in a little salted water. Rinse them in cold water, put them in a sugar-boiler with some syrup, and boil. Put the pieces aside till the next day, so that they may get a green tinge. The following day, boil them again in the syrup, with the addition of a piece of cinnamon; turn them into a basin, and. when cold, serve with the syrup poured over. Cucumbers a la Bechamel.—(1) Remove the peel and seeds from one or two Cucumbers, cut them into slices, blanch in hot salted water, drain, and plunge them into cold water ; take them out and dry them. Pour some bechamel sauce into a saucepan on the side of the fire, warm the slices of Cucumber in it, without letting the sauce boil, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Peel and blanch six small Cucumbers in boiling salted water for five minutes. Remove, drain, and place them in