THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 508 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Custards—continued. out of the hot water and put it away till cold. A table- spoonful of brandy is sometimes mixed with it. When it is cold, it may be poured into Custard-glasses and a little nutmeg grated on top. Burnt Custard.—Beat the yolks of six eggs till very light together with 6oz. of powdered white sugar. Put 3 pints of milk over the fire, and as soon as it boils remove it, and add it by degrees to the beaten eggs. Set this over the fire, and stir it constantly till thick. Remove from the fire without letting it boil, turn it into a bowl, stir for a few minutes, add about 20 drops of vanilla or other flavouring, and let it stand till perfectly cold. Put it into a deep glass dish, and pile on it the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 6oz. of powdered white sugar and a flavouring of the same extract as the Custard has been flavoured with. Brown with a salamander, and serve. Cold Custard.—Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 pint of milk, turn it into a saucepan, and add 1 table-spoonful of pounded bitter almonds, ioz. of isinglass, and sugar to taste. Stir the Custard over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, but do not let it boil ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve and pour it into a mould. When set and quite cold, the Custard can be turned out and served. Custard Cake, or Fain.—Butter the interior of a flat tin, and line it with bread-dough, raising it all round the edges. Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir in gradually three well-beaten eggs and 1 pint of milk ; stir this until quite smooth, then pour it into the lined tin, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a brisk oven until evenly coloured. Serve either hot or cold. Custard Cream.—Sweeten J pint of boiling cream, pour it over the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, whisk thoroughly, put it into a stewpan, and stir over a slow fire until the Custard is thick. Turn it out, let it cool, and flavour with vanilla or lemon essence, or with a little brandy. Soak joz. of gelatine in cold water, then dissolve it in i teacupful of boiling milk, and mix it with the cream. Pour it into a mould, and let it remain for a day before serving. Custards in Cups or Glasses.—Beat together in a basin \ teacupful of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two, and add slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stirring continually. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls more of milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, pour it over the beaten Fig. 620. Custards in Cups. mixture, set the basin in a pan of hot water, and stir over the fire for about five minutes, by which time it should be thick; then work in \ teaspoonful of salt, and set it away to cool. Add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon flavouring, or half the quantity of almond, pour the Custard into Custard-cups or glasses, and serve. See Fig. 620. Custard Cup-Pudding1.—Beat up an egg in a basin, pour it into a well-buttered cup, and fill up with milk. Put the cup into a saucepan over the fire with enough boiling water to reach half-way up, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Have ready a hot plate, turn the Custard out on it, and serve at once with sugar. Custard Fritters.—Boil J pint of milk with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar ; mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour and 1 table- spoonful of wheat-flour with a little cold milk, pour it in with the boiling milk, and stir over the fire till thick. Beat in a small piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs, flavour to taste, add £ saltspoonful of salt, take it off the fire, and let Custards—continued. it get cold. When cold, cut the Custard into thick slices, roll these in beaten egg, dip them in baked and crushed bread- crumbs, and fry them to a golden colour in hot lard. Prepare a glaze by mixing together 1 table-spoonful of cornflour, 1 teacupful of sugar, and f pint of water, and boil till thick ; then add 2 wineglassfuls of rum or curac;oa. Dish up the hot fritters, and pour the glaze over them. See Fig. 621. Custard-and-Jam Pudding.—Put lj pints of milk into a lined saucepan with loz. of gelatine, and stir over the fire until the latter is dissolved ; then mix in 2oz. of blanched and chopped sweet almonds and the beaten yolks of five eggs. Stir the Custard at the side of the fire until thick, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Let the Custard cool, then line gradually with it a mould packed in ice. When the Custard has firmly set all over the interior of the Fig. 622. Custard-and-Jam Pudding. mould, lay in that a layer of any kind of jam, next a layer of sponge cakes that have been soaked in brandy, then another layer of jam, and so on until the mould is almost full. Fill up the remaining space with more of the Custard retained for this purpose, pack the mould in ice, and leave it for several hours. When about to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the pudding on to a fancy dish. See Fig. 622. Custard Pie.—Line a pie-dish with crust; put six eggs into a bowl, beat them till they are quite light, add to them 2oz. of finely-powdered white sugar and 1| pints of milk, and mix well; pour this into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Take it out, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. If it is to be served cold, stand it in cold water in a cool place, for if it does not cool at once the crust gets soaked and spoiled. Custard Pies without Eggs, or Baltimore Butter Pie.— Pour lqt. of milk into a saucepan, add 6oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and boil; then stir in 4oz. of flour mixed with 12oz. of sugar, and beat well with a whisk until the preparation thickens, when the pan must at once be removed from the fire. Line two deep pie-dishes with a thin layer of puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a slack oven until the Custard commences to rise in the centre. Take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Custard Posset.—Put 1 pint of new milk into a saucepan, and let it nearly boil. Beat in a basin the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, and powdered loaf sugar; add the hot milk and a little hot wine, and mix well by pouring it from one pan to another. It is then ready for use, and should be served hot.