THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 630 For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. are done, place them on a dish, pour 1 table-spoonfnl of Tartar sauce over each, and serve. (3) Remove the fillets from four Fowls, separating the large from the small (or minion); pull out the sinews, flatten them a little with a vegetable-masher or the handle of a knife, and put them in a pan of liquefied butter. Contise the large fillets with truffles cut into small round slices, by making three round cuts or slits in each fillet and pushing the truffles into them, but not far enough to go right through, for in that case the fillets would break and be spoilt. Place them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry them lightly, or underdone, so that they will retain a little of their reddish hue. Keep them hot in the sauce until wanted for table. Put them on a dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fried Fillets of Fowl a la Mode.—Line a stewpan with sliced vegetables, moistening them with oil. Prepare two Fowls, put them in breasts downwards, and pour in J pint of Madeira wine and sufficient broth to cover them. Boil the liquor quickly, then skim it; move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents cook slowly for three hours. When cooked, drain the Fowls, and leave them till cold; then with a sharp knife separate the fillets from the bones of the breasts, and cut each fillet into two equal-sized slices, and beat them slightly. Mix with Jib. of chicken forcemeat 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped truffles, and spread the mixture over the pieces of fillets. Mix together equal quantities of finely-chopped truffles, lean ham, and breadcrumbs. Brush the fillets over with beaten egg, and cover them with the chopped ham mixture. Put 4oz. of butter in a deep frying- pan, and melt it; then put in the fillets and fry them, turning them when done on one side. When the fillets are cooked, lay them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a puree of cucumbers, and serve. Fried Fillets of Fowl with. Mushrooms.—Peel and turn J pottle of white mushrooms, put their trimmings into a stewpan, and the mushrooms into a frying-pan with J tea- cupful of water, a small pat of butter, and a little salt. Boil the mushrooms for three or four minutes, then strain their liquor into the stewpan with the trimmings, add 1 pint of bechamel sauce, and boil it till rather thickly reduced; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, put in the mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, mix in J tea- cupful of milk, and boil it up again. Trim the fillets of a Fowl, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire. When cooked, the fillets should be quite white. Put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fried Fowls.—(1) Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, and cut in joints. Put 1 pint of cream into a frying-pan and place it over a moderate fire until it begins to colour, then put in the chicken, and fry it until the under-side is of a delicate brown. Take out part of the cream, turn the chicken over, season it with pepper, and finish cooking it. When it is done, put it in a hot dish, and pour back into the frying-pan the cream which was taken out; stir it well with what remains in the pan, let it boil once, and serve it with the chicken, sprinkled with salt. Small chicken may be breaded, either whole or in quarters, and fried brown in smoking-hot fat. (2) Select a young bird, and cut off the legs with the meat adjoining, so that that part of the carcase shall be left bare; then chop the breast part from the back, cut the breast in halves, and let the wings be attached to them. Put them in a little cold water for a few minutes, take them out, dry and dust them over with salt and pepper, and put them first into egg and then bread or biscuit-crumbs, taking care to have them well covered. Plunge them into a pan of boiling lard, a few pieces at a time, and fry them evenly, so that the under-side will not burn while the top-side is cooking. After they have fried ten minutes, when they should be done, take them out and put them on a dish on which a little good cream sauce has been previously poured, and serve very hot. (3) Prepare a small Fowl as for boiling. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and fry the Fowl till brown all over ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt on it, put the lid on the saucepan, and stand it in a moderate oven till the Fowl is done. Dish and serve with brown gravy. Fowls—continued. (4) Singe and draw four young Fowls, split each one in halves down the back, cut the legs transversely so that the ends of the bones may be pushed beneath the skin, sprinkle salt over the Fowls, rub in a little flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling, put in the Fowls, adding more' fat when required. As soon as they are browned, drain them, sprinkle with a little more salt, dish on a folded napkin or ornamental paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Tomato or mayonnaise sauce may be served with this disk. (5) Italian.—Pluck, singe, and draw three fat Fowls, cut each one into five parts—that is, two legs, two fillets, and the body—put them into a bowl, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and spices to taste, squeeze over the juice of two lemons, with a little oil, and add also a sliced onion and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Turn the pieces of Fowl in the marinade for an hour, then take them out and drain them, dust them over with flour, dip them singly into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling lard, take them out and drain them. The legs will require longer cooking than the other parts. Have ready a small croustade of bread fried in butter, fix it in the centre of a dish, place the breasts on it and the other parts round it, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 779), and serve with a tureenful of tomato sauce. Fried Fowl a la Marengo.—Cut up a Fowl, and trim- the pieces. Pour plenty of oil in a flat stewpan with a minced clove of garlic and a small bundle of sweet herbs; when boiling, put in the pieces of Fowl, season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry them. When cooked, strain nearly 1 teacupful of oil from the saucepan into a small stewpan, mix with it a moderate quantity each of finely-chopped mush- rooms, shallots, and parsley, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and sufficient clear stock, freed from fat, to make the sauce. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the sauce for about a-quartcr-of-an-kour. Pile the pieces of Fowl on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and some button-mushrooms, and serve. Fried Fowl a la Mercier.—Pluck, clean, and truss a Fowl as if for roasting, sprinkle it well with flour, plunge it into boiling fat to cover it, and fry for fully twenty minutes. Take it out, drain it, cut it into joints, cover them over separately with rich forcemeat with egg beaten up in it, and place them in the oven for a few minutes for the forcemeat to set. In the meantime whip the whites of two or three eggs to a stiff froth, colour this with three colours, leaving a part white, decorate the forcemeat with these, place the pieces of Fowl in the oven for a moment to set, and serve immediately. Fried Fowl a la Vanderbilt.—Prepare and clean a chicken, and, commencing from the neck, ease the skin from the flesh all round, including the legs; then stuff it with veal-and- tongue forcemeat, taking- care not to fill it too full, only over the merry-thought, and to fill all the cavities, making the bird plump and round. Next truss it as if for roasting, then plunge it into boiling fat sufficient to cover it, and fry a golden brown. Serve hot, with piquant sauce, or cold with a salad. Fried Fowl with Chives.—Draw a chicken, disjoint it, wash it well in cold water, then dry it on a cloth. Clean thirty