THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 697 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Goose—continued. skin the feet and head, cut open and cleanse the gizzard, cut the neck into moderate-sized pieces, and the liver and heart into halves. Put the giblets into a stewpan with a sliced onion, a few peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs; moisten to height with water, and keep them gently simmer- ing at the side of the fire for about an-hour-and-a-half. Leave the giblets until cool, then cut them into smaller pieces. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of tender steak and the giblets, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Strain in the cooking-liquor of the giblets, and cover the whole with a good plain crust, trimming off neatly round the edges, and making a small hole in the centre. Lay a sheet of paper over the top of the pie, and bake for an- hour-and-a-half in a brisk oven. It may be served hot or cold. Goose’s Giblets cooked in Westphalian Style.—Clean and prepare the giblets, lay them on a dish, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and leave them for twenty- four hours. When ready, put the giblets in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of stewed and stoned prunes, three onions, two bay-leaves, a few cloves and peppercorns, and a lump of salt; pour in sufficient water to cover the giblets, and stew them gently at the side of the fire. Put loz. each of butter and flour in a frying-pan, and stir it over the fire until browned. When the giblets are tender, mix a small quantity of their cooking-liquor with the browned flour, then stir the whole in with the giblets, and boil gently for ten minutes longer. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Goose Livers.—Thoroughly wash and clean six Goose livers, put them in a saucepan with two or three shallots, a piece of parsnip, a small bunch of sweet herbs with a few sprigs of parsley tied up in it, two or three cloves, salt and pepper to taste, and about J pint of clear stock. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently until the livers are tender. When cooked, take the livers out of the saucepan, being very careful not to break them, and cut them into slices. Take some of their cooking-liquor to make the sauce, strain it into a small stew- pan, thicken it with a small quantity of flour kneaded with butter, and stir it over the fire until boiling ; next put into it a few sliced mushrooms and the sliced livers, and let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Turn the livers and mushrooms, with the sauce over them, on to a hot dish, garnish with thin rolls of fried bacon and small croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Green Goose, or Gosling.—The modes of trussing and preparing this for cooking are precisely the same as for Goose. Baked Green Goose.—(1) Select a gosling—not very young, for the flesh is then flabby—and after it has hung for a day or so, pluck, singe, and draw it; then put it into water with a vei-y little salt, and let it remain for several hours, to remove the strong taste. Wash and wipe the inside, and fill it with a stuffing made with finely-mashed potatoes, a little lump of butter, a pinch of salt or fresh pork chopped very fine, a minced onion, and a small quantity each of chopped parsley, thyme, and sage. Sew it up, truss, and grease it all over with butter or lard. Put it on a trivet in a baking- dish with the giblets ; pour into the dish 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and put it in a quick oven. . Baste frequently, turning it round every now and then so as to brown on both sides. When thoroughly cooked, put it on a dish with gravy, and serve with onion sauce. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw a gosling, wipe the inside with a cloth, and stuff it with small apples, kept whole and with the peel left on, but with the cores removed (which can be done with a corer), and add a small bunch of mugwort (or motherwort) ; then sew it up, truss it, and put it in a roast- ing-pan covered with the Goose-fat. Put 1 teacupful of water into the pan, sprinkle a little salt over the Goose, cover it with buttered paper, and put it in the oven; turn and baste frequently, and let it remain for three hours, when it should be quite done. Sprinkle over a little more salt, remove the string, and place the Goose on a dish. Remove the fat from the pan, stir in a little gravy, boil it up, strain, and serve in a sauceboat. Goose—continued. Braised Green Goose. —Pluck, draw, and singe a Green Goose, and stuff it with a forcemeat made with pork, slightly seasoned and mixed with a little parsley and breadcrumbs ; sew it up, chop off the leg-bones and pinions at the joints, and truss it. Put the fat from the Goose at the bottom of a saucepan with a few vegetables cut in slices, place the Goose on these, and pour in 1 pint of broth, with a little salt, and reduce the liquor over a brisk fire; pour in J- bottle of wine, and a little more broth to half the height of the bird; drop in a few cloves and peppercorns and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil up, remove the pan to a moderate fire, cover the Goose with Fig. 858. Braised Green Goose. buttered paper, baste often, and put the lid on the pan. Place a few hot ashes on the top, and braise for three hours. When done, pour off the stock, skim off the fat, put the fat back with the Goose in the pan, keeping it hot, and reduce the stock to half-glaze in another saucepan; add a little brown sauce to thicken it, reduce again, stir well, add 1 teacupful of Burgundy, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Untruss the Goose, place it on a dish, and garnish with cooked glazed chestnuts, arranged alternately in groups with small cooked sausages. Pour a little of the sauce over the Goose, put a paper ruffle on each leg, and serve with the rest of the sauce in a boat. See Fig. 858. Green-Goose Pie. — Take two young but good-sized Gi’een Geese, and be careful that they are well plucked and singed ; wash them perfectly clean, bone them, and season with a mixture of allspice, pepper, salt, and mace, all in fine powder; then put one bird inside the other, drawing the legs inwards and pressing them as close as possible; put them into a pie-dish with plenty of butter, and cover with short- crust or puff paste. Or they may be put into a baking-dish that has a tight-fitting cover, with plenty of butter, and baked. Boasted Green Goose. —Season the inside plentifully with salt and pepper, but do not stuff it, fix it on a spit in front of a clear brisk fire, and roast for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, place it on a hot dish, pour rich brown gravy round, and serve with a sauceboatful of sorrel or gooseberry sauce. GOOSE’S FAT X.XVEK, (Fr. Foie Gras).—The cele- brated Strasburg Goose’s Fat-Liver pies (pates de foies gras) are too well known to require much description. Most purveyors of preserved meats import them, and although the demand is ever so great, it is certain that the supply is equal, if not superior to the occasion. The question naturally arises as to whether some sub- stitutes are not occasionally introduced; that is, if the process by which the fat livers are said to be produced is faithfully observed in all genuine cases. “ To obtain these livers,” says Grimod de la Reyniere, a famous French cook and gourmet, “it is necessary to sacrifice the personal comfort of the animal. Crammed with fattening foods, kept without water, and set near to a fire, before which it is nailed by its feet to a plank, this goose passes, it must be acknowledged, a very un- happy existence. The torment would indeed be almost intolerable if it were not encouraged by thoughts of the honourable lot which awaits it. This anticipation makes it bear its sufferings with fortitude, for when it reflects that its liver, bigger than itself, larded with truffles, and clothed in a scientific pate, will spread all