559 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. and on the top of the smaller round. Garnish -with sprigs of parsley placed between the Eggs, and serve. Egg Mince Pies.—Butter some small patty-pans, line these with a good short-paste, and put a little Egg mincemeat in each ; cover with more paste, moistening and trimming at the edges, then bake. Take them out of the tins, and put them on a dish over a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, sift over caster sugar, and serve. Egg-and-Mushroom Ragout.— (1) Slice five or six mush- rooms and one onion, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and | saltspoonful of chopped garlic, and fry until lightly browned ; dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir for a minute or two, then pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful each of clear broth and white wine, and boil gently until the liquor is reduced to one-half its original quantity, stirring continually. Boil eight Eggs until hard, peel them, cut the whites into small squares, and the yolks into slices. Put the Eggs in the sauce, and boil for a minute; then turn the whole out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve very hot. (2) Remove the peel from lib. of selected mushrooms, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and salt and pepper to taste, and cook until quite tender; then lay them in a circle on a dish and cover over with raw Eggs, taking care not to break the yolks. Sprinkle over a few dried breadcrumbs, dust over with pepper and salt, and put the dish into a hot oven for four or five minutes for the Eggs to set. Garnish with croutons of fried bread and sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Eggs in a Nest.—(1) Boil seven or eight Eggs hard, and when quite cold cut the whites from the yolks in long thin strips; put these into a very moderately-heated oven to warm, with a bit of butter over them, and baste with the butter from time to time while they are getting' warm. Chop up sufficient cold cooked meat of fowl, ham, tongue, or any cold firm fish to fill a breakfast-cup, and pound it in a mortar, adding a Fig. 703. Eggs in a Nest. seasoning of pepper and salt, and the yolks of the hard-boiled Eggs. When these are all mixed and pounded into a smooth paste, form it into small Egg-shaped balls, heap these in the middle of a dish, and arrange the shreds of hard-boiled white of Egg round them in the manner of a nest. Have ready i pint of butter sauce with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy mixed with it, pour it hot over the nest, and serve. See Fig. 703. (2) Peel off the shells of six hard-boiled Eggs, take out the yolks without breaking them, cut the whites into thin slices, mix with them either finely-minced cold chicken, ham, or salmon, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Pile this mixture in a ring or border on a plate, put the yolks in the centre, and set the plate in a steamer till the preparation is hot; pour thick white sauce round the edge of the plate till it reaches to half the height of the nest, and serve, with white sauce in a sauceboat. Egg-Nog. (1) Separate the whites and yolks of twelve Eggs, put the latter into a basin with -3-lb. of powdered loaf sugar, place the basin on the stove, and whisk well to a smooth cream. Remove the basin from the stove, pour in 3qts. of boiling cream or milk, stir well, add 1 pint of brandy, | pint of rum, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat the whites to a froth, and stir in lightly ilb. of powdered loaf sugar and 2oz. of vanilla sugar. Put the two mixtures together, grate over a little more nutmeg, or sprinkle over a little cinnamon, and serve hot. (2) Beat the yolks of six Eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, add the beaten whites by degrees, 3 teacupfuls For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Eggs- continued. each of wine and milk, stir well, and serve with nutmeg grated on the top. Brandy can be used instead of wine, or the wine can be flavoured with vanilla. (3) Beat the yolk of an Egg till light, add and beat in 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and by degrees 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Beat the white of the Egg to a stiff froth with £ pint of milk or cream, stir it in, and serve. A little nutmeg grated over gives it a tasty flavour. (4) Put the yolks of three Eggs into a bowl, add 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and beat together, adding by degrees 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Continue beating till the sugar is dissolved, then stir in gradually 3 wineglassfuls of brandy, lj wineglassfuls of rum, and 1 tumblerful of milk. Beat the whites of the three Eggs to a very stiff froth, add them to the- other mixture, and serve at once. If this be made in summer time, 5 tumblerful of pounded ice may be put in before adding the frothed white of Egg. Egg-and-Onion Stew.—Cut three onions in slices, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, drain them, and brown in a stewpan with l^oz. of butter; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and 1J breakfast- cupfuls of broth, and stir over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Cut six hard-boiled Eggs in slices, mix them in with the onions, dish, and serve. Egg-and-Orange Butter Cakes.—Boil six Eggs till hard, plunge them into cold water until cool, peel, put them in a mortar with 3oz. of butter and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and pound to a smooth paste; then turn this into a basin. Blanch 3oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound also to a paste, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water to keep them from oiling. Mix the Egg-paste with the almond-paste in the mortar, add the juice of four or five oranges, and pound the whole together. Rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Put lib. of flour in a basin with lib. of butter, and rub it in until smooth, using- the hands ; then mix with it lib. of caster sugar, the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, one well-beaten Egg, and sufficient milk to form a thick paste. Dredge flour over the table or board, lay the paste on it, roll it out very thinly, stamp it into small round cakes with a tin cutter, lay these on a baking-tin, and bake them in a brisk oven. Let them get cold, pile some of the orange butter on each, arrange them on a fancy dish, and serve. Egg Patties.—(1) Peel and mince six hard-boiled Eggs, mix them with the crumb of a French roll soaked in milk, also 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and a seasoning of finely-chopped parsley pepper, and salt. Beat well, adding sufficient milk to form a liquid paste. Lino some buttered patty-pans with puff paste, fill them with the Egg mixture, and bake in a quick oven. When done, turn the patties out of the pans, arrange them on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Peel and finely mince twelve hard-boiled Eggs, add to them an equal bulk of washed and dried currants, butter, sugar, and bread, in equal proportions, season with pounded mace and cinnamon, and mix to a paste with Madeira wine. Line several buttered patty-pans with puff paste; put 1 table- spoonful of the mixture in each, cover with more paste, pressing the edges firmly together, and bake in a quick oven. Turn them out of the tins when done, arrange them on a dish with a cloth over it, and serve hot or cold. Egg-Powder Cake.—Mix together ilb. of butter, a quartern of flour, fib. of washed and dried currants, 2 teaspoonfuls of lard, 41b. of sugar, three Eggs, and two packets of Egg- powder ; when thoroughly mixed, add a little grated nutmeg, mixed spices, candied citron-peel, and sufficient milk to make the paste of the proper consistency. Bake in a buttered tin. Egg Pudding. -Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a basin, and mix in 4|-oz. each of sifted pounded loaf sugar and flour. In the meantime, put 4£oz. of butter into a saucepan with another breakfast-cupful of milk, bring it to the boil, stir in the flour mixture, and let it remain over the fire till thick; then pour it into a basin, and let it stand until quite cold. Work in the yolks of nine Eggs together with -I3-0Z. of blanched and pounded almonds, and when thoroughly incorporated, add the whites of the nine Eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the pudding into a buttered basin or mould, so as to fill it, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and