497 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. them into a preserving-pan, stir over the fire until boiling, then strain and press the juice from them through a silk sieve. For every ounce of juice allow Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and for every pound of sugar allow about loz. of water. Mix all together in a sugar-boiler and place over a slow fire. When the sugar begins to boil at the bottom of the pan, stir the whole gently with a wooden spoon for two minutes, then move the pan from the fire, still stirring the contents. Pour the mixture from the lip of the pan, cutting it off into small drops as it runs out with a piece of curved wire held in the right hand. Sheets of paper should be placed ready to catch the drops as they fall. Leave them until firm, then turn the paper quickly upside down, and with a paste-brush clipped in a little water slightly moisten the backs of the drops; next loosen them from the paper with the point of a knife, letting them fall on to a wire sieve. Shake the sieve backwards and forwards over a rather cool stove to dry up all the moisture. Keep the pastilles in a dry place, packed in boxes between sheets of white paper, or else keep them in tightly-stoppered glass jars. Black-Currant Ratafia Liqueur.—Put 41b. of ripe Black Currants into a jar, crush them, and pour over Jgall. of brandy at 22deg. strength; add a little lemon-zest and cinnamon, and a few leaves of the fruit; tie a piece of bladder over the mouth of the jar, set it in the open air where the sun can get at it, and let it remain for five or six weeks. Drain off the liquor, filter it, and mix in 41b. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Let it stand until the sugar is dissolved, then bottle, and cork securely; in about six months’ time it will be fit for use. Black-Currant-and-Rhubarb Jam. — Cut the tops and stalks off 4qts. of Black Currants. Cut about fifteen stalks of rhubarb into small lengths, put them in a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to cover, and boil for twenty minutes. At the end of that time, pass the fruit and liquor through a fine hair sieve, pressing to extract as much of the juice as possible. Put the juice back into the preserving-pan with 101b. of coarsely-crushed lump sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden, spoon until boiling; then put in the Currants, continue stirring, and boil slowly for ten minutes, removing- the scum as it rises. Bemove the pan from the fire, stir well for a few minutes, turn it into jars, and leave until cold. Cut as many rounds of white paper as there are jars, dip them in brandy, and put one in each jar. Cover with parchment, tying them firmly round, and store in a dry cupboard until wanted. Black-Currant Vinegfar.—In making this vinegar, care must be taken that the fruit is ripe and sound, and the leaves young and tender. Put lqt. of the fruit into a preserving-pan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the leaves, and bring them to the boil, stirring well with a wooden spoon to crush the fruit; pass the liquor through a jelly-bag back into the pan, squeezing out as much of the juice as possible; add 1 Alb. of sugar to each quart of juice, stir over the fire until it melts, skim well, putting the skimmings on a sieve to drain, and return the liquor that runs from them to the pan. Let the liquor get cold, add 3 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar to each quart of syrup, and it is ready for use; if it is intended to be kept for any length of time, mix in over-proof spirit in the proportion of 1 pint to lgall. of the vinegar. Bottle, cork, and seal. Black-Currant Water Ice.—Empty a pot of Black-Currant jam into a basin, mix in gradually with it 1 teacupful of syrup and a small quantity of water, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and stir the ingredients irntil well mixed. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen, scraping it occasionally from the sides with a spatula or wooden spoon. Turn the mixture into a mould, close it, and pack it in pounded ice for two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould in lukewarm water, wipe it, and turn the ice out on to a fancy dish. Black-Currant Wine.—To every gallon of Black-Currant juice add an equal quantity of cold water and 3Jlb. of moist sugar. Put it into a cask, reserving some of the liquor for filling up. Put the cask in a warm, dry place, and the liquor will ferment of itself. When the fermentation is over, skim off the refuse, and fill up the cask with the reserved liquor. When this has ceased working, pour in lqt. of brandy to Cgalls. of the wine. Bung it up close for eight or nine months, and bottle it off when clear. Run the sediment through a jelly-bag until it also is clear, bottle it, and keep a year before using. Currants—continued. Bottled Black Currants.—Proceed as for Bottled Red Currants, boiling for fifteen minutes. Preserved Pulp of Black Currants.—Put 121b. of very ripe fruit into a basin with lqt. of water. Squeeze them with the hand until they are all broken, and only the stalks remain in the hand. Pour the liquor and pulp into a presea;ving-pan on the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring continually. Rub the whole through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon into an earthen pan, ascertain the weight, and to every pound add Jib. of caster sugar. Mix well, and when cool, bottle, cork, and tie down. Red Currants. — The fruit of the Ribes rubrum (see Fig, 607), a very hardy shrub which grows freely in any part of the British Isles and some parts of the Continent. Gerard, in his famous works on mediaeval botany, writes of them : “We have also in London gardens another sort of gooseberry altogether, without prickles, whose fruit is very small, lesser by much than the common kind, but of a perfect red colour, wherein it differeth from the rest of its kind.” But it is very much to be questioned if the Currant-bush was much better than a wild plant until the Dutch took it into favour and set us an example in its cultivation. Of the best sorts known, the following are mentioned by Nicholson in the “ Dictionary of Gardening ” : Cherry, a large, deep red, early Currant; Houghton Seed- ling, a free-fruiting late variety, berries deep red, and very acid; Knight’s Large Red, berries bright red, bunches very large ; La Fertile, very prolific, large and good; La Hative, large and early; Mammoth, one of the largest and best; Raby Castle, bunches long and large, berries bright red, with a sharp acidity; Red Champagne, pale pink or flesh-colour variety, midway in flavour between the red and white sorts; Red Dutch, one of the best, and probably the one most cultivated, it ripens early, the berries are large, juicy, and of excellent quality; Warner’s Grape, a good variety, with large bunches and berries. Bottled Red Currants.—Remove the stalks from some barely ripe Currants of the red kind, put them into bottles, packing them in very closely, fill up the bottles with 22deg. syrup (see Sugar-boiling), place them in a pan with hot water, and let their contents boil for ten minutes. Take the bottles out of the water, cork them down, let them get cold, and they are ready for storing. Compote of Red Currants.—Remove the stalks from lib. of ripe Red Currants, and put them into a basin with Jib. of caster sugar. Press the Currants with a wooden spoon, and when the sugar has partly dissolved in the juice, pour the whole into a pan and boil up, turning into a compote-dish as soon as cool. Leave it for two hours, when, if it has been 2 8