547 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, if'c., referred to, sec under their special heads. E els—con tinued. for it to fall to pieces. Take out the pieces of Eel, and put them on a dish ; add the juice of half a lemon to the liquor, remove the herbs and lemon-peel, boil up again, and pour it over ihe Eels before serving. (3) Clean and skin the Eels, cut them into pieces about 3jin. long, sprinkle them with a seasoning of salt, pounded cloves, mace, and pepper, put them into a stewpan with strong beef gravy, sherry, and port in equal quantities to cover them, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the Eels stew till quite tender. Take them out, lay them on a hot dish, and keep hot. Add to the gravy in the stewpan a chopped anchovy and a thickening of flour and butter, boil it well, strain it through a sieve, add a few drops of lemon- juice, and then pour it over the Eels. Serve hot, garnished with bread sippets and scraped horseradish. (4) Skin the Eels, cut them into equal-sized pieces, and lard them. Rub the inside of a stewpan with butter, put in the pieces of Eels, pour in a small quantity of broth, and stew them. When tender, drain, and glaze them a rich dark brown. Arrange the pieces of fish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and servo with a sauceboatful of caper sauce, with a few drops of essence of anchovies mixed with it. (5) Clean the Eels, wipe dry, cut them into short lengths, and fry them slightly in butter; then put the pieces into a stewpan, together with an onion stuck with seven or eight cloves, a seasoning of mace, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and a small quantity of horseradish; pour over them barely enough gravy to cover, close the pan tightly, and stew till half done; then take out the Eels, and strain the gravy. Return the strained gravy and the Eels to the stewpan, together with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, jib. of butter, and ^ pint of port wine, and simmer till the Eels are done enough. Dish, and serve hot. (6) Skin and clean the Eels, cut them into pieces about 3in. long, put them into salted vinegar, and let them steep for a short time. Make a roux of flour and butter in a stew- pan, put into it an onion peeled and sliced, and fry it a light brown; add the Eels, mix in gradually sufficient stock or gravy together with a small quantity of wine to cover them, also a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, two or three cloves, a little whole pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Stew gently till the Eels are thoroughly done, but not stewed to pieces, and then put them on a hot dish. Strain the gravy, add to it the strained juice of a lemon, and, if it requires it, more seasoning; boil up, pour it over the Eels, and serve hot. If to be served cold, boil rather more spice with them, and instead of the lemon-juice add 1 wineglassful of vinegar. Stewed stuffed Eels.—Bone two large Eels, and wash them well in vinegar-and-water. Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb, then beat them well, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, -J- table-spoonful of thyme, one well-beaten egg, and loz. of warmed butter, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Spread open the Eels, staff them with the mixture, roll them in separate pieces of muslin, and tie securely. Put them in a stewpan, pour over sufficient clear broth to cover them, and set the pan over the fire until boiling; then move to the side, and simmer gently for half-an-hour; at the end of that time move the stewpan right away from the fire, and leave the fish in their cooking-liquor until cold. When about to serve, take the Eels out of the muslin, put them on a dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Stewed Eels a l’Americaine.—Take 31b. of Eels, cleaned, skinned, and all fat removed from the insides, cut them into pieces about 2in. long, shake a little pepper and salt over them, and put them in a jar with ilb. of butter. Chop an onion, and strew it over the Eels, together with 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Cover the jar closely, stand it over the fire in a saucepan of cold water, bring this slowly to the boil, and cook till the Eels are tender. This will take about an-hour-and-a-half from the time the water boils. Serve in a deep dish. Stewed Eels a la Bordelaise.—Skin and clean an Eel, split it open, remove the bone, and put the Eel in a stewpan, with a Eels—continued. slice of onion, two or three sprigs of parsley, and 1 pinch of salt and pepper ; cover with Madeira wine, and simmer till the Eel is done. Take it out, and press it between two plates till cold. Strain and reduce the liquor, add a little fish glaze, and strain it through a conical strainer into a bain-marie pan. Cut the Eel into fillets, put these with a little of the sauce into a saute-pan over a moderate fire, and let the pieces of Eel get hot. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, and garnish the centre with blanched and glazed small onions. Mix a little anchovy butter and 1 pinch of cayenne with matelote sauce, pour it over the Eels, and serve. Stewed Eel a l’ltalienne.—Skin and clean a large Eel, cut it into pieces about 3in. long, put these into a saucepan with a little white wine and water, and boil until done. Mince a few shallots and mushrooms, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, season with peppercorns and salt, and set it on the fire; when it begins to get warm, add 2 table-spoonfuls of stock or gravy and the liquor in which the Eels were cooked, and reduce it. Put the fish on a dish, pour over the hot sauce, and serve. Stewed Eels a la Poulette.—(1) Clean and cut some Eels into 2in. pieces, and stew them in a marinade or stock. Make a little white roux, and mix a little broth with it; add a few green onions, a bunch of parsley, one small white onion, five or six mushrooms and a little glaze, seasoning with pepper and salt, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring continually. Take out the parsley and onions, and add a little finely-chopped parsley and the juice of one lemon. Take out the Eels, drain them, dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Clean and cut off the heads of some small Eels, cut the bodies into pieces 2in. long, wash them in warm acidulated water, rinse them in fresh water, and wipe on a cloth. Fry a sliced onion in a stewpan with a little butter, and when very lightly coloured add the pieces of Eels, and cook them over a very sharp fire; sprinkle over salt, pepper, and a little flour, and add gradually sufficient Madeira wine to cover the fish, with a few sprigs of parsley; when the liquor boils, put in twelve fresh mushrooms, cover over with the lid, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Thicken with the yolks of three eggs beaten with a little water, and squeeze in the juice of one lemon. Dish the Eels, strain the sauce over the fish, garnish with the mushrooms, and serve. (3) Put some Eels, cut into short lengths, in a saucepan with water, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and set on the fire. Make a white roux, mix with it a little veal broth, add a little chopped parsley and onions, and boil for twenty minutes; add some button-mushrooms and the juice of one lemon, stir in some of the liquor in which the Eels have been stewed to bring it to its proper consistency, and thicken it if necessary with the yolk of an egg. Put the pieces of Eel on a dish, pour the poulette sauce over them, and serve. (4) Skin, clean, and wash a large Eel, chop off the head and tail, and cut the fish up into rather thick slices. Brush the slices over with warmed butter, dredge over flour to cover them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient white wine and water in equal quantities to cover them, add a few mushrooms, a small bunch of sweet herbs and a little salt, and stew gently for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Put the pieces of Eel on a dish. Skim off the fat from the liquor, boil it quickly for a few minutes, add the yolk of an egg to thicken it, and a little lemon-juice and vinegar; pour this over the Eel, and serve. (5) Skin and clean an Eel, cut it up into rather thick pieces, wash these well, and let them soak in a basin of cold water slightly acidulated with vinegar. Scrape and remove all the blood, wash the fish again, drain it, put it into a saucepan with a little butter and a few mushrooms, warm these over the fire for a few minutes, dredge the pieces of Eel over with flour, pour over J pint of white wine and a little rich stock, stir well with a wooden spoon until the liquor boils, and then add a small bunch of parsley, a few shallots, two or three dozen small onions, half a bay-leaf, one or two cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the whole simmer gently until the liquor is reduced ; then skim off the fat, remove the bunch of herbs, add the yolks of two or three eggs to thicken, and a little lemon- juice. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Stewed Eels with Green Peas.—Cut off the heads of five or six small Eels of about jin. in thickness, remove the skin, and cut them up into rather small pieces. Chop and fry an 2x2