582 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. When the Figs are wanted for serving, they should be soaked for two hours in warm water. (3) Select small Green Figs, and allow an equal weight of sugar; wipe the Figs and cut them across the top, put them | in a strong brine of salt and water, let them soak for ten days, then drain and boil them until the head of a pin will easily pierce the skin. Next put the Figs into cold water } and leave them for four days, changing the water daily. Make a syrup of the sugar (see Svrups), and while boiling drain | the Figs and put them in. Boil them for a few minutes, then remove them from the fire and leave until the following day. Boil the Figs up in the syrup three times, the last time boiling them until very tender and green. Put the preserve into wide-mouthed bottles, and when cold cork down. Preserved Ripe Pigs. — Select white ripe Figs, slit them with a sharp knife across the tops, put them in a preserving- pan with clarified sugar, and boil. Skim the syrup, and leave the Figs in it until the next day. Boil some sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), put in the Figs, and boil up again. Leave them until the next day, drain and dry them, and store away in a dry cupboard. Dried Pigs.—Those sold in boxes are considered by far the best, although they may also be bought strung on rushes, or packed and pressed together in baskets. These two latter must be used with caution, or it will sometimes be found that they are dry and sawdusty in the middle, and probably form the homes of sundry little maggots. Fig Cake.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of butter into a basin, and mix in with it double the quantity of caster sugar, 3 breakfast- cupfuls of finely-chopped raisins, four well-beaten eggs, powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, with suffi- cient cold water (in which a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved) to make it into a stiff batter. Lay lib. of whole Figs upon a baking-sheet, cover them over with the mixture, sprinkle a little sugar over the top, and bake j in a quick oven. A very sharp knife will be required to cut it, to prevent it crumbling or breaking to pieces. Fig Cream Ice.—Put lqt. of milk in a stewpan, and heat it in the bain-marie, reserving J breakfast-cupful to mix the cornflour. When the milk is hot, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour, which has been moistened and rubbed smooth with the cold milk. Cook this for ten minutes. Beat three eggs and Jib. of caster sugar together. Pour the cooked milk and cornflour on to this, stirring all the time. Return to the fire, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of gelatine soaked in 4 table- spoonfuls of cold water, and cook for three minutes longer. Set away to cool. When cold, add 1 pint of cream strongly flavoured with vanilla, freeze for ten minutes, take off the cover of the freezer, and stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of minced Dried Figs. Cover again, and freeze until hard. Take out the beater, with a spoon pack the cream in glasses, and serve. Fig-and-Custard Pudding.—Soak lib. of the best white Figs in warm water for a few minutes to take the stiffness from them; butter a mould, split the Figs in halves, dip each piece into warm wine jelly, and line the buttered mould with them. Beat up the yolks of five eggs and Jib. of sugar, and stir into them by degrees lqt. of milk; put this custard over the fire and stir till it begins to thicken, but take it from the fire before it boils, and then let it cool. Soak Joz. of gelatine in a bowl with just enough cold water to cover it, pour over a very little hot water, and stand the bowl in a sauce- pan of boiling water over the fire ; stir till it is clear, and then pour it into another bowl to cool. Beat the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth, and when the gelatine is nearly j cold beat it by degrees into the frothed white of egg, and 1 continue to whisk until the mixture is white and thick ; then ; stir it into the cooled custard, whisk well for a few minutes, | pour it into the Fig-lined mould, and let it stand in a cold place all night. Next day dip the mould in hot water for an instant, and turn the pudding out. Figs for Dessert.—Place a lace-patterned dessert-paper on a | dish, and arrange the Figs in circular rows on it, one above the other, decreasing the circle as the structure is raised, to about 7in. in height; garnish the base with ring's of angelica, and serve when ready. Figs —continued. Fig Pastilles. — Put 1 saltspoonful of gelatine and 1 salt- spoonful of gum-arabic in a little hot water ; when melted, stir in lib. of loaf sugar. Cut 11b. of Dried Figs into thin slices, boil them for a few minutes, and strain; add them to the sugar, place the vessel containing them in hot water, and stir till the paste is quite thick and tolerably dry; put it into a well-oiled flat tin sprinkled with sugar, let it get cold, cut it in squares, and pack away in boxes. Fig Pudding.—(1) Finely chop Jib. of beef-suet, an equal quantity of Dried Figs, 2oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, blanched and dried, 3oz. of preserved stoned cherries, and 3oz. of angelica. Mix these, and add 8oz. each of coarse sugar and breadcrumbs, half that quantity of sultana raisins, 2oz. each of candied citron and flour, half a nutmeg finely grated, and the grated rind of a lemon. When all are thoroughly well mixed, add to the mass four beaten eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Place the mixture in a basin, cover it over and tie down, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for about four hours; or it may be steamed, when it will take five hours to cook. Turn out on to a dish, and serve with wine or sweet sauce. (2) Chop 8oz. of Dried Figs, mix them with 4oz. of moist sugar, Jib. each of flour and finely-shredded beef-suet, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful each of milk and treacle. Butter a pudding-mould, put in the mixture, tie over with a cloth, and place it in a saucepan of water. Set the pan over a good fire, and boil for about four hours. Turn it out, pour over a little brandy sauce, and serve very hot. An egg may be added to the pudding, and is considered a great improvement. (3) Chop Jib. of Dried Figs, and put them in a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs and Jib. of caster sugar. Trim off the skin and any discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, and chop it finely; mix it with the other ingre- dients in the basin, and add also the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Bind these ingredients together with one beaten egg and a small quantity of milk. Butter a pudding-mould, press the mixture into it, put a thickly- buttered sheet of paper over the top, then over that tie a cloth. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Put the yolks of four eggs into a small saucepan and beat them well, adding gradually 1 wineglassful of sherry, the juice of a lemon, and caster sugar to taste; stir the sauce over the fire until hot, but do not let it boil. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. (4) Put Jib. of finely-minced Dried Figs in a small sauce- pan with J breakfast-cupful of milk, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. Next mix in with them 8oz. of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 6oz. of chopped beef-suet, Jib. of sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 wineglassful of pale brandy. Turn the mixture into a buttered basin, tie a floured cloth on the top, and boil for four hours, keeping the basin well under water. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce. (5) Dissolve J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of milk, soak in it Jib. of dry breadcrumbs, add and mix in 2oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, jib. of sugar, and three well-beaten eggs; mix well, and then stir in half-a- dozen large or eight small Figs, washed, dried, and chopped very fine. Put the pudding into a tin, and boil for three hours. Serve sweet sauce with it. (6) Finely chop Jib. of Dried Figs and Jib. of beef-suet, add Jib. of fine breadcrumbs, 6oz. of brown sugar, 2oz. of flour, a little grated nutmeg, and mix all well together. Beat two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of milk, and mix with the other ingredients to a stiff paste. If the eggs and milk are not enough to wet it sufficiently, add a little more milk. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, cover securely, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for four hours, without letting the rapid boil cease for an instant. Serve hot with wine sauce. (7) Rub 6oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet into 4oz. of flour until it is quite smooth, mix in 4oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, lOoz. of finely-chopped Dried Figs, the rind of a lemon also finely chopped, 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder, and half a nutmeg g'l'ated. Make the whole into a