586 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jjc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Filters and Filtering—continued. other than those of a mechanical character, which it is asserted some Filters possess, have no foundation in fact. Filtering is a very useful process to cooks and con- fectioners for straining and rendering bright and clear those cordials, tinctures, essences, or flavourings which they are skilful enough to prepare for their own use. For filtering spirituous or watery materials a piece of C Fig. 738. How to Fold a Filter Paper. filtering or coarse blotting-paper is essential, unless the fluid is sufficiently bright to be passed through a funnel in which a wad of tow or cotton-wool is tucked. This was the original mode of filtering, and from this the name was derived—the Latin filtrum, or feltrum, signifying felt or pulled wool. When a convenient Fig. 739. Paper Folded for Filtering. funnel and filtering paper are at hand, the mode of procedure is as follows: Take a square of paper, and fold it along A B (as shown in Fig. 738), then fold it again into fourths by C I); then round off the corners with a sharp pair of scissors, open one fold, and there will be found a conical paper receptacle (Fig. 739). Drop this into a funnel, and put it into a bottle, as shown in Filters and Filtering—continued. Fig. 740. Some funnels are provided with ridges to prevent the tube fitting close to the mouth of the bottle, and thus preventing the escape of the air as the bottle fills. If no ridge or other provision is made for this purpose, it is ad- visable to insert a small splint of stick, a bit of wire, or thick cord between the funnel and the mouth of the bottle. See also Straining. FINANCIERS (A LA).—See Garnishes and Sauces. FINE HERBS—This term might be more pro- perly applied to a mixture of Herbs previously known asd’Uxelles. Recent French culinary authorities seem to have decided that another combination to those already in use shall prevail, hence they persistently in their writings apply the term Fine Herbs to the follow- ing mixtures : (1) Cooked.—Put 2oz. of finely-chopped shallot into a saucepan with |oz. of butter and salt and pepper to taste, stir gently over the fire, then add 4oz. each of mushroom trimmings and finely-chopped, well-washed, and dried parsley. The mushroom trimmings should be put into a cloth and wrung as dry as possible. Cook for five minutes longer, turn the whole into a basin, cover them over with buttered paper, and let them remain until wanted. The mushroom trimmings should be cut off only as required, for if they are kept before being used they will turn black, and the effect will be spoilt. (2) Uncooked.—Chop separately half an onion, two shallots, two sprigs of parsley, four spikes of chives, and an equal quantity of chervil; mix thoroughly before using. Fine-Herbs Sauce.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and chopped onion in a saucepan, with 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and stir for two or three minutes over the fire ; then pour in 1 pint of white sauce, and continue stirring till it boils. It is then ready to serve. (2) Put a chopped onion and two well-peeled and chopped shallots in a saucepan, brown them with loz. of butter, then add double the quantity of finely-minced mushrooms and a grain of garlic, season with ^ table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and finish with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Cook ten minutes longer, and cool before using. Fine-Herbs Vinegar.—(1) Use in equal quantities tarragon, burnet, chervil, and cress, all of which should have been gathered the day before. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle or jar with this, adding also two cloves of garlic and a green chilli. Cover the whole with vinegar, cork the bottle tightly, and place it in a warm temperature for a fortnight. Strain the vinegar through a fine hair sieve, pressing the herbs well, then filter through paper until quite clear. Pour it into bottles and keep them tightly corked. (2) Same as No. 1, omitting the chervil, cress, garlic, and chilli, and substituting the thin rind of two lemons, a few cloves, and a good supply of elder-flowers. FINGER BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. FININGS.—See Clarifying. FINNAN HADDIES.—See Haddocks. FIORANO.—An Italian wine, produced principally in Modena. Fig. 740. Straining Cordials and Liqueurs.