614 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cC:c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. curry powder in a basin with 1 teaspoonful each of flour and | salt, and add sufficient water to make it into a smooth paste ; put this into the saucepan, mix it well, and toss the pan oyer the fire until it boils; then remove it to the side of the fire, and simmer twenty minutes longer. Take out the meat, rub it through a sieve, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream | (or milk), boil it up once more, pour it on to a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. (4) Cut a large Fowl into eight pieces, cutting the back i in halves, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and | 1 table-spoonful of curry powder. Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a little butter, and fry it to a light-brown colour; put the pieces of Fowl in the pan with it, and fry them also; then pour in broth to half the height of the | meat, place the lid on the pan, and boil quickly over a good fire to reduce it; add a little more broth, and reduce again to a glaze, continuing to do this until the bird is quite tender and thoroughly cooked. Lastly, add 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of shredded cocoa-nut and a few table-spoonfuls of the cocoa-nut liquor, and keep this simmering on the side of the fire ; then add a little thick cream and the juice of three lemons. Put the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with a border of well-boiled rice cooked as follows, in the Indian way : Put lOoz. of washed rice into a saucepan of boiling water, and as soon as it begins to boil add a little cold water to stop it; when it begins to boil again cover the pan over very closely, and put it on the side of the fire to simmer slowly. After it has remained like this for twenty minutes, pour it out on to a sieve or strainer, spread it well over, stir it so that it will drain quickly, put it round the dish, and serve. (5) Fry some small thin slices of flesh of Fowl in butter until slightly browned, then dust them over with 1 table- spoonful of curry powder and a small quantity of cayenne, and put them in a stewpan. Peel and finely chop four small onions, put them into the frying-pan in which the meat was fried, adding more butter if necessary, and toss them about over the fire until beginning to brown. Drain off the butter from the onions, put them in with the meat, pour in a pint each of water and milk, season with a small quantity of salt, put the lid on the stewpan, stand it by the side of the fire, and stew gently, When the meat is quite tender, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and stir well; then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (6) Indian Style.—Put 2oz. of fat or butter into a sauce- pan and warm it; as soon as it begins to boil, add 1 table- spoonful of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, half that quantity of ground ginger, and I teaspoonful of ground garlic. Half a teaspoonful of ground coriander-seeds may be added if the taste is not objected to, but it must be well washed before it is ground. Stir well over the fire until the ingredients are brown, add a chicken cut up into sixteen or eighteen pieces and freed from bone, and 1^ teaspoonfuls of salt, and continue to cook until the chicken meat is slightly coloured; then pour in 1 pint of water and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the chicken-meat is quite tender and the liquor reduced to half its original quantity, which will require from half to three- quarters-of-an-hour. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. Boiled rice should invariably accompany this. (7) Singe and draw a chicken weighing about 31b., and cut the flesh into square pieces; put these in cold water for five minutes, wash them well, drain, and put them in a saucepan, filling' it up to the surface with hot water; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Add a bouquet garni and six small onions, and cook on a moderate stove for forty-five minutes, skimming it well. Take another saucepan, place in it la* gills of white roux, moisten it with all of the broth from the chicken, and mix well together. Prepare 1 table- spoonful of diluted curry with the yolks of four eggs and the juice of half a lemon, beat all well together, and pour it into the sauce a little at a time, stirring continually, and not allowing it to boil. Pour the sauce over the chicken, which remains in the saucepan, dress immediately on a hot dish garnished with boiled rice, and serve. (8) Madras Style.—Peel and slice two moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until browned; then dredge them with 1 table- Fowls—continued. spoonful of curry powder, and mix it in well. Cut a cooked Fowl into rather small pieces, and put them in with the onions. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour quite smooth with | breakfast-cupful of milk, pour it over the meat, and add 1 table-spoonful of mango sauce, with salt to taste. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a small lime, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried to a golden brown in butter, and serve very hot with a dish of plain-boiled rice. (9) Malay Style.—Put 3oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, put in twelve large onions cut lengthwise in slices, and fry them until they are brown; then put them on one side, or take them out of the pan, put in 4 tea- spoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, % teaspoonful of ground ginger, and i teaspoonful of ground garlic, and fry until brown; then put in the flesh of a young chicken without any bones, sprinkle over lj teaspoonfuls of salt, and fry until brown also; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cocoa-nut milk, cover over the pan, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about an hour. Turn the curry out on to a dish, sprinkle over the fried onions, after chopping them up, and serve very hot. Curried Fowl a la Creole.—Prepared and cooked the same as for Curried Fowl (No. 7), adding one green pepper cut very fine, one chopped onion, and half a clove of garlic, and cooking them for twenty minutes with the chicken. Curried Fowl a l’Espagnole.—This is prepared the same as for Curried Fowl (No. 7), adding two tomatoes cut up and one green pepper, and cooking them for ten minutes with the chicken. Curried Fowl Forcemeat Balls.—Cut off all the meat from a young Fowl, put it into a mortar together with 4oz. of beef-suet, and pound them well. With the bones prepare a small quantity of rich gravy. Warm 4oz. of fat in a frying- pan, put in 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, j table-spoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, i table-spoonful each of ground peppercorns and green ginger, and i teaspoonful of ground garlic, and brown them, sprinkling over 1 table- spoonful of water. Mix 1 teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and chopped sweet herbs with the pounded meat together with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, form the whole into a mass by adding a well-beaten egg and some of the prepared gravy, make this into balls, roll these in bread- crumbs, put them into the frying-pan with the curry mixture, sprinkle over a little salt, and fry them until they are brown ; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of chicken-broth or water, cover over the pan, and simmer gently for about two hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. Should a very fat chicken be used, the beef-suet may be dispensed with. Cutlets of Fowls in Aspic.—Cut off the fillets from two Fowls, contise the minion or smaller fillets with truffles, put them all into a saute-pan with a little butter, cover them with paper, place a tin with a weight on it on top of them to keep them flat, set the pan in the oven, and cook without allowing them to take colour. Take them out, let them get quite cold, cut each large fillet first crosswise in halves and then lengthwise, and trim them in the shape of cutlets. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, warm it, and dissolve in it 1 teacupful of aspic jelly and a little chicken glaze ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, stir them all well together, pour the mixture into a sieve over a basin packed in ice, stir it well until it thickens, and mask all the cutlets with it before it is quite cold. Decorate the cutlets with various designs stamped out in cooked truffles and tongue, and trim the minion fillets. Pour a little of the jelly at the bottom of a mould packed in ice, arrange the minion fillets on it, cover over with a little more of the jelly, then place the cutlet-shaped pieces round the sides of the mould with the plain side inwards, and let them set; then fill the mould up with the remainder of the jelly. Turn the jelly out on to a dish when set and firm, and serve with a garnish of small pieces of coloured aspic inter- mixed with finely-chopped lettuce-leaves. Cutlets of Fowl Forcemeat with Salad.—Cut off all the white flesh from a boiled Fowl, chop it, and put it into a