615 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, sec under tlicir special heads. Fowls—continued. saucepan with half its bulk each of chopped pickled ox-tongue and uncooked truffles. Place the pan on the fire, and stir in a few chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of uncooked quenelle forcemeat, and 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce. When sufficiently thick, divide the mixture into fourteen equal parts, roll them on a floured board or table, put them into cutlet-moulds to shape them, turn them out, take each one up separately, dip it into beaten egg and then in seasoned breadcrumbs, smooth it over with a knife, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling butter, and brown it slightly ; then take it out, drain it, 'and let it get cold. Proceed in this way with the remainder. Put a salad of lettuce and endive in the centre of a dish piled up as high as possible, lean the cutlets against it overlapping one another (see Fig. 771), and serve. Devilled Fowl.—Make a mixture of cayenne, salt, mustard, grated lemon-peel, lemon-juice, port wine, and Harvey’s sauce, or any other sauce except anchovy. Cut off some slices of cooked Fowl, butter them, lay them in the mixture, and let them soak for some time. Put sauce and all into a saucepan over the fire, do not let it quite boil, but serve it very hot. Devilled Fowl’s Legs.—Cut off the legs from three Fowls, singe them slightly with a little alcohol lighted on a plate, put them into the stock-pot, and boil for ten minutes. Remove them to a dish, cool them thoroughly, season with salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne, also 2 table-spoonfuls of French or Worcestershire sauce, and i teaspoonful of ground mustard. Now roll them well together, pass one after another into sifted breadcrumbs, and broil them on a moderate fire for four minutes on each side; then arrange them on a hot dish, pour over 1 gill of hot devil sauce (a la Diable), sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top, and serve very hot. Epigrammes of Fillets of Fowls.—Cut off the fillets from three Fowls, trim them, put them in a saute-pan with clarified butter-, give them a curve in the pan, pour more butter over, place a sheet of buttered paper over all, set the pan in the oven or over a fire, and cook until the flesh is done. Cut off the legs, bone them, put them in a saucepan with a little mire- I poix, braise, take them out when done, and press between two dishes until cold ; now dip them into warm reduced German sauce, next in breadcrumbs, then in egg and breadcrumbs again. Stick a piece of bone in the thin end of each, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry. Have ready a hollow croustade of bread, placed in the centre of a dish, arrange the fillets round alter- nately with the legs, fill the croustade with mushroom or other puree, and serve with German sauce in a tureen. Essence of Fowl.— (1) Put the bones of five or six chickens into a saucepan with about 21b. of fillet of veal cut into rather large pieces, add a bunch of sweet herbs, one carrot, two onions with one or two cloves stuck in each, and 3qts. of chicken broth. When the liquor boils, move it to the side of the fire, skim well, and simmer till the meat is tender. When cooked, strain the essence through a broth napkin into a jar, and when cooled skim off all the fat, and put it by for use. (2) Strain lqt. of chicken broth through a cloth into a saucepan, and then reduce it until there remains only | pint. Use when needed. Fowls—continued. Farces of Fowl.—See Fowl Forcemeat. Fillets of Fowl a la Cliingara.—Cut the fillets of two or three Fowls and some slices of boiled ham into pieces about the size of a half-crown, put them into a saute-pan with clarified butter, and fry them over a slow fire. When cooked, drain the fillets, glaze the ham, and arrange all on a hot dish. Drain the butter out of the saute-pan, pour in J tea- cupful of Spanish sauce and 1 table-spoonful of stock; add 2oz. of fresh butter, the strained juice of a lemon, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire till hot, then pour it over the fillets of Fowl, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Perigortl.—Cut off the fillets of two cold braised Fowls, and divide each into halves. Put 2oz. of goose’s fat liver in a mortar, pound it, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Finely chop an onion, put it in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, pass it over the fire for a few minutes, and then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce that has been boiled till thickly reduced. When on the point of boiling-, put in the pounded fat liver, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Leave the sauce till cold. Coat the fillets with the cold sauce, dip them into well-beaten eggs, then roll them in breadcrumbs, then beat them lightly with a knife, and repeat the operation. Plunge the fillets into a stewpan half-full of boiling lard, and fry them till browned ; then drain them, arrange them on a border of mashed potatoes, garnish the centre with fried watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Fillets of Fowl a la Princesse.—Cut off the fillets from five Fowls, pare them, and flatten them a little with a knife- handle. Shape their largest sides a good round, pare them to a point, to resemble cutlets, sprinkle them with salt, and cover them over with a cloth. Put 5oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, let it settle, and pass it through a strainer. With the flesh from the legs make some highly-flavoured force- meat, put it into a well-buttered plain border-mould, and place it in the bain-marie to poach. In the meantime, boil a pickled ox-tongue in salted water, and keep it hot; peel fifteen small raw truffles, and keep them covered over until wanted. Next prepare some stock with the bones of the birds, vegetables, sweet herbs, white wine, and broth. When cooked, strain it, add the truffle trimmings, and reduce it to half-glaze ; add Fig. 772. Fillets of Fowl a la Princesse. its equal bulk of brown sauce, and boil for a few minutes; then pass it through a cloth into another smaller saucepan, put in the raw truffles, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sherry to it, and boil again very slowly for about eight or nine minutes. Now pour the clarified butter into a flat saucepan, put the fillets in close to each other, place the pan on the fire, and cook them on both sides for about two minutes, then take them out and drain them well. Take out the tongue, drain it, skin it, and cut it up in a slanting direction into as many slices as there are fillets, shaping them like the fillets. Now turn the border out on to a dish, and place the fillets and slices of tongue, glazed with a paste-brush, alter- nately round it, with the truffles put in the centre. Pour a little of the sauce over the truffles, and serve the remainder in a boat. See Fig. 772. Fillets of Fowl a la Villeroi.—Take the fillets from six Fowls, trim them, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put them in a frying-pan with a little butter to cook, taking care to let them be rather underdone. Place them on a board with another one on the top, and a slight weight on that; afterwards cut them into shapes. Take them one at a