617 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. spoonful of flour; as soon as this begins to brown, add gradually li breakfast-cupfuls of cold milk, stirring con- tinually ; boil for a minute, and add salt, pepper, and a little mustard. Put a pile of mashed potatoes or green peas in the centre of a dish, place the fillets against it, and serve with the sauce poured round. Fillets of Fowl Sautes a la Royale.—Cut off the fillets of two Fowls, which will be four large ones and four little ones, called minion (or mignon) fillets, being the inside fillets, and flatten them a little with the handle of a knife dipped in water. Eemove the coarse upper skin, take out the sinews from the small fillets, and dip each one separately into butter; then sprinkle them over with salt, put them in a saute-pan, and fry them lightly. When done, take them out, drain them, and put them in a circle on a dish. Add a little cream and 1 table-spoonful or so of well-seasoned bechamel sauce to the butter in the pan, let it thicken over the fire for a while, and pour it over the fillets. Prepare a ragout of kidneys, mushrooms, quenelles, cocks’ combs, and truffles, put it in the centre of the dish, and serve. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, with Cucumber.—Trim and shape the fillets of two or three Fowls, season them with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, and lay them in a buttered saute- pan. Select two large cucumbers of an equal size, peel and cut each into 3-in. lengths, split the pieces into halves, scoop out the seeds, and shape them as nearly as possible like the fillets. Blanch them in boiling salted water, drain them well, put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of brown sugar, cover them with white stock, and boil till tender. Cook the fillets over a moderate fire, turning them when done on one side, and keeping them quite white. When cooked, arrange the fillets alternately with some of the pieces of cucumber on a hot dish. Form the remaining pieces of cucumber into a thin puree, turn it into the middle of the dish, and serve very hot. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, garnished with Mushrooms.— Season the fillets of three Fowls with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice, and put them in a buttered saute-pan. Wash and turn some mushrooms, put them in a deep frying-pan with a pat of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of water, a little salt and lemon- juice, and fry for three or four minutes over a moderate fire ; then put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of supreme sauce, and boil a few minutes. Skim the sauce, and mix | teacupful of thick cream and 1 teaspoonful of sugar with it. Fry the fillets, keeping them white, and when cooked, arrange them on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish; pour the sauce and mushrooms in the centre, and serve them. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, and served with Supreme Sauce.—Detach the fillets from three Fowls, and separate the small from the large ones; beat the small ones with a cutlet- bat dipped in water, to flatten them, lay them two together, thus making three large ones out of six small ones. Butter a deep frying-pan, lay the fillets in it, and season them with salt and pepper and a small quantity of lemon-juice. Put the bones and trimmings of the Fowls in a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, one onion, a clove, |oz. of butter, and 1 wineglassful of sherry; stir them about over the fire till the moisture is reduced to a glaze, then pour in lqt. of white broth, and boil slowly. Skim the sauce, pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil till reduced to one-third; then mix 1 pint of veloute sauce with it, and boil quickly over a brisk fire till thick and creamy ; then mix in 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and move it to the side of the fire. Fry the fillets over a moderate fire, turning them when cooked on one side, and keeping them very white. When cooked, drain the fillets, I put them on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, with Truffles and Aspic Jelly.— Cut the fillets from the breasts of ten chickens, and trim them carefully, but leave the small fillets attached to the large ones. The fillets should be large, thick ones. Eemove all sinews from the fillets, and beat them gently, making them round at one end and pointed the other. Melt some butter in a saute- pan, and leave it till cool; then put in the fillets and fry them over a brisk fire, turning them when cooked one side, and finishing the other. When cooked, drain the fillets, and put them between two plates with a weight on the top, till cold. Fowls—continued. When cold, trim the fillets again, and ornament each with a circle of black truffles. Cover a baking-sheet with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and when it is solid, lay the fillets on it, the decorated side upwards, leaving a short space between them. Fill up the spaces between the fillets with cold liquid jelly, and leave it till firm. Fix a pain-vert on an oval dish, cover the top with paper, and fix a support in the centre, the top of which should be ornamented with a garnished attelette. With a sharp-pointed knife cut a circular incision round the fillets; warm the underside of the baking dish slightly, then pass the blade of a knife between it and the jelly, and remove the fillets quickly. Place the fillets on the pain-vert, leaning them against the support; garnish the base of the pain-vert with small paper cases, each containing a small black truffle, and serve cold. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, with Truffle Sauce.— Cut the fillets off two Fowls, separate the small ones from the large ones, trim them, put them in a saute-pan with a pat of butter, and fry them slowly, keeping them quite white. Pour about | pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, with ^ pint of white stock, and boil till thickly reduced ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, add four or five sliced truffles, and boil up again ; then mix in teacupful of thick cream, and season with a small quantity of salt and sugar. When cooked, put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fowl a la Barbarie.—Cut up a large, fat Fowl into four portions, and stud the breast and legs with truffles. Cook them in a saut£-pan with butter, and serve very hot with Barbary sauce. Fowls en Coquilles.—Cut the fillets of some chickens into collops, put them into a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry them lightly. Cook an equal quantity of truffles in Madeira wine, and when done, cut them into pieces the same size as the chicken collops. Mix these together with some reduced German sauce. Finely grate- some breadcrumb, and fry them till brown in butter. Fill some shells with the chicken mixture, cover them with the fried breadcrumbs, and put them for a few minutes in a moderately warm oven. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fowl Bechamel Sauce.—Cut two onions in quarters, put them in a large stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Cut about ljlb. or 21b. of fillet of veal into small pieces, and put them in with the onions, also two Fowls from which the fillets have been removed, seasoning them with salt and pepper; fry the meats for a few minutes, then dredge in fib. of flour, stir it over the fire, and pour in gradually 5qts. of stock, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and continue stirring till it boils. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and let the contents simmer for two hours. The fat should be skimmed off frequently. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and boil it quickly, adding 1 j pints of thick cream in three separate portions. When the sauce is reduced to such a consistency that it coats the spoon, strain it through a broth napkin into a basin, and stir it till quite cold. Fowl-and-Beef Pie. — Skin a good-sized Fowl, cut it into joints, wash it, and let it soak in cold water for an hour. Cut some slices of salted beef, and if it is very salt, soak it in cold water. Make some paste with lib. of butter, 21b. of flour, and water. Bub butter over the bottom of a small iron pot, put into it a layer of slices of the salted beef, and shake some pepper and chopped onion over it; then, having rolled out the paste, cut a piece the size of the bottom of the pot, and place it over the layer of salted beef; over this put the pieces of Fowl, season them with a little salt, pepper, and chopped onion, cover with more paste, pour in 3 pints of cold water, cover the pot closely, and stew for four hours. Be very careful not to let it burn. Serve in a pudding-dish. Fowl Broth..—(1) Chop a Fowl into pieces, put them into an earthenware pot with 2 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, 1 tea- spoonful of coriander-seeds, pour in 2qts. of water, and boil for three hours, skimming frequently; then add 1 handful or so of lettuce-leaves and borage, cover over the pot, remove it from the fire, let it stand for twenty minutes, strain through a cloth or fine sieve, and serve.