501 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—con tinued. juice of two oranges, and a little orange zest. Mix well, strain through a fine sieve into a freezer packed in ice, adding only a small quantity of rock-salt to the ice. Let this remain for a few minutes, then remove any of the mixture adhering to the sides with a spatula. When it begins to set it is “granite” or “grainy” rough ice, this being where it differs from all other ices. Serve immediately. White-Currant Jelly.—Take 121b. of White Currants, pick them from their stalks, put into a preserving-pan on the stove, crush them with the back of a wooden spoon, and let them get a little warm, crushing and stirring till they yield all tlieir juice ; then squeeze them in a straining-cloth and get all the juice from them. Measure the juice, and add to each pint lib. of loaf sugar and 4 teacupful of cold water. Put the sugar and water into a preserving-pan and let it boil, skimming off the scum as it rises, till the water has evaporated, being careful that it boils very slowly. To find out when the water has evaporated, dip a spoon into the boiling sugar and put it at once into cold water, then touch the sugar that sticks to the spoon with the finger ; if it cracks, it is ready, and the Currant-juice must then be stirred in. Let it just come to the point of boiling, but do not let it boil or the colour will be spoiled. Put it into jars, and when quite cold cover so as to exclude the air. White-Currant Jelly garnished with Raspberries.—Take ljlb. of Currants; after removing the stalks and unsound fruit, put them into 1| pints of boiling syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and keep them on the fire for two or three minutes, tossing so as to cook them equally and evenly. Then turn them into a basin, and when they are cold strain through a jelly-bag, squeezing so as to get out all the juice possible. Put 2oz. of gelatine into a stewpan with 8oz. of caster sugar. Beat up the whites of three eggs, add lqt. of water and the juice Fig. 611. White-Currant Jelly garnished with Raspberries. of a lemon, and put these into the saucepan containing the gelatine ; place the pan on the fire and whisk the contents well until they boil, then take the pan off and let them cool for a few minutes before passing through a flannel bag. When this mixture is strained, put it back into the pan, pass it again through the flannel bag, and when it is quite cold add it to the Currant juice. Pack a mould in ice, pour the jelly into it, and let it remain in for two hours. Turn it out, garnish with some fine raspberries, and serve. See Fig. 611. White-Currant Shrub.—Bruise some White Currants, put them in a jelly-bag, and let the juice drip from them. Dis- solve powdered loaf sugar in the juice in the proportion of 3oz. of sugar to each pint of juice, and when the sugar is quite melted add to each pint of juice J pint of rum; bottle and cork well. In many dishes prepared by our famous cooks, a combination of Currants is used for the sake of variety of colour; so, also, with the Currants are added other fruits, such as cherries and raspberries. Several receipts for these will be found hereunder, as well as some receipts which apply to all these kinds of Currants in- discriminately. Compote of Red and White Currants.—Put |lb. of sugar into a stewpan with \ pint of cold water, set the pan on the fire, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes; then add lqt. Currants—continued. of mixed red and white Currants freed from their stalks, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Strain the syrup from the fruit, put the fruit first into a compote-dish, pour over the syrup, and serve when cold. Currant-and-Cherry Wine.—Take 301b. of either red or white Currants, and an equal quantity of black Currants and small cherries, not stoned and leaving on the stalks; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them with a large stick. Boil i teacupful of juniper-ben-ie3 in 5 or 6 pints of water, let it cool, add jib. of honey to cause fermen- tation, and mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stir two or three times for twenty-four hours ; then fill up the cask -with water, and bung. This quantity will make 150 bottles of excellent wine. A pint or two of brandy may be added to give more strength. Currant Jam.—Put lib. each of black, red, and white Currants into a preserving-pan, boil for a few minutes, then add 2jtlb. of sugar and boil all together, mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon ; when it has boiled gently for half-an- liour, fill the jars with the jam, cover over, and put away for future use. Currant-Jelly Sauce.—Prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sauce, strain it well, add 1 teacupful of Currant jelly made warm, put it in a pan on the fire, and stir until the jelly is quite hot and well mixed. It is then ready for use. Currant-Juice Jelly. -(1) Put loz. of gelatine into J pint of cold water, let it soak for two hours, then pour lj pints of boiling water over it, and mix until it is dis- solved. Next add the juice of a lemon, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of loaf sugar very finely powdered, and the same of any Currant-juice. Pass through a tammy or napkin into moulds, and when it is cold put it on the ice to set. When stiff it is ready for use. Or another way is to pour in a layer of the jelly, let it harden, then a layer of strawberries, and continue alternately until the mould is full or the jelly all used up. (2) Pick the fruit before it is over-ripe, take off the stalks, weigh, put it into a copper preserving-pan, and to every pound of fruit add 21b. of sugar. Stir the sugar and fruit well and leave for about an hour to macerate, then put the pan on the fire and boil for four or five minutes; next pass the liquor through a fine sieve into a large basin, and when it has set and is quite cool, place it in jars, and cover them over in the usual way. Currant Pie.—Remove the stalks, leaves, and any unsound fruit from the Currants, put them into a dish with sufficient caster sugar to sweeten, and pour over a little boiling water. Place the dish in the oven to simmer for a few minutes, then take it out and cool. When the fruit is cold, pour it into a pie-dish, cover over with a light puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Currant Sherbet.—Put 1 table-spoonful of gelatine to soak in a little cold water, and afterwards let it dissolve in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Add to this 1 pint of cold water, lib. of caster sugar, the juice of a lemon, and 1 pint of any Currant-juice. When mixed, put it in the freezer and freeze before using. The gelatine may be omitted, but the sherbet is best with it. Currant Syrup.— (1) Select ripe fruit only, whether red, white, or black Currants, and pick them over carefully, so as to free them of all rotten fruit. Mash the fruit in an earthenware crock by means of a vegetable-masher, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, at a temperature of from 75deg. to 85deg. Fahr. Keep the crock covered with a cloth, stirring the contents occasionally; then press out the juice through a sieve, measure it, and leave it for the night. In the morning add 1 wineglassful of brandy for every pint of juice; allow this to macerate for a few hours, and then filter. After filtering, put the juice into a sugar-boiler or large preserving-pan, stir in Hlb. of crushed loaf sugar for every pint, heat to boiling, skim, and stand in clean bottles previously rinsed out with a little brandy. Cork well, and capsule or wax over. (2) Pull the stalks off ljlb. of red Currants, ljlb. of white Currants, lib. of raspberries, and lib. of stoned cherries. Mash the fruit in a small tub, and keep it in a warm place for three or four days, covering the tub with a cloth or a piece