673 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gelatine—continued. get cold, and then add jgall. of cream, sweeten it with caster sugar, and flavour according to taste. Whisk it well, put it into the freezer, freeze, turn it out, and serve. Gelatine Ice.—Put loz. of Gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, and let it remain for an hour; then pour over it 3 pints of boiling water, with ljlb. of moist sugar, pints of wine, the juice of three and the rind of two lemons. Stir well, pour it into the freezer, freeze, and serve. Gelatine Jelly.—(1) Put ljoz. of Gelatine into a saucepan with lqt. of water, boil over a good fire to reduce the quantity by half, and strain through a jelly-bag into a mould; when it is cold, turn it out, and use. This jelly may be used for many purposes, being readily liquefied by warming. (2) Soak and dissolve ioz. of Gelatine in 1 gill of cold water, pour over it J pint of boiling water, and stir till the Gelatine has quite melted; then add sugar to taste and a flavouring of thinly-pared lemon-peel. When it is quite cold, set it over the fire with the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and let it come to the boil, but do not stir it; as soon as it boils, take it from the fire, and gently pour in 1 table- spoonful of cold water; let it stand for five or ten minutes, and then run it through a jelly-bag. If it is not quite clear, run it through the bag again. When quite clear, mix with it 1 gill of wine, let it stand till nearly cold, and pour it into the mould ; when set, turn out and serve. (3) Put ljoz. of Gelatine into 1 pint of cold water together with the rinds and juice of three lemons, and let it steep all night. Next day pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, add J pint of sherry, sugar to taste, and the beaten whites and shells of three eggs, and boil for ten minutes. Do not stir it after it is put over the fire. After it has boiled for ten minutes, strain through a jelly-bag into a mould, let it stand till perfectly cold and firm, and then turn it out. (4) Put loz. of Gelatine into a bowl, pour over it lqt. of cold water, and let it steep for two hours; add to it lib. of loaf sugar, let this dissolve, and then put in a piece of stick cinnamon, three blades of mace, the strained juice and thinly-pared rind of two lemons, and the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Stir all well together, place the bowl over the fire, and let it boil without stirring for twenty minutes ; then add very gently 1 pint of white wine, take it from the fire, and strain through a jelly-bag, being careful not to shake it, or the jelly will not be clear. (5) Put loz. of Gelatine shavings into a small saucepan with three-dozen-and-a-lialf Jamaica peppers, a small piece of brown bread crust and lqt. of water, and boil quickly until the liquor is reduced to 1 pint. Strain it, and keep in a cool place. A table-spoonful in wine and water, or tea, milk, or soup, makes a very agreeable drink. Gelatine Puddings. — Put joz. of Gelatine in teacupful of cold water, let it remain until soft, and then add boiling water to make the quantity up to l pint. Beat up the yolks of three eggs in a basin, mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little salt, to make a custard. Pour this into a double boiler, add 1 pint of boiling milk, and boil until it thickens. Fig. 831. Gelatine Puddings. Pass the Gelatine water through a fine strainer into the double boiler with the custard, and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Dip six small moulds into cold water, pour in the mixture, and pack them in pounded ice to harden. Turn them out of the moulds on to a glass dish, and serve with wine or other sweet sauce. See Fig. 831. GENEVA—The name erroneously given to Gin and Hollands, from their association with genievre, which is the French name for the juniper. GENEVA BISCUITS.—.See Biscuits. GENEVA BUNS.—See Buns. GENEVA CAKES.—See Cakes. GENEVA PASTE.—See Pastes. GENEVA SAUCE (i, la Genevoise). — This is oftentimes confounded with Bordeaux sauce and another style, a la Bourguignonne, because a red wine is used in all three. Geneva sauce was invented for the purpose of being served with the trout for which the Lake of Geneva is famous. See Sauces. GENOA CAKE.—See Cakes. GENOA SALAD.—See Salads. GENTIAN.—The dried root of Gentiana lutea is sometimes used in the manufacture of Bitters, as described under that head. GERANIUM.—The oil of this plant is sometimes used for flavouring confectionery. It resembles attar of roses, for which it has been substituted. By some autho- rities it is believed to be the spikenard mentioned in the Scriptures as l! very precious.” GERMAN SAUCE (& l’Allemande).—See Sauces. GERMAN SAUSAGE—See Sausages. GERMAN YEAST.—See Yeast. GHEE—This is a sort of butter much used in India, and is prepared as follows: The milk is slowly boiled in large earthen pots for a couple of hours. It is then left to cool, a little curdled milk called dliye being stirred into it to induce coagulation. In time the contents of the jars are transferred to a large earthenware crock, in which they are slowly and patiently worked with a piece of split bamboo. After about half-an-hour’s careful working, hot water is thrown over the mass, and in the course of another half-hour or so, the churning being continued, the butter forms. This butter is then left until it turns rancid. It is then put into an earthenware vessel and boiled until all the water has evaporated, and mixed up with a little salt or betel-leaf. The Ghee is then considered made, and is poured off into bottles. GHERKINS (Fr. Cornichons ; Ger. Pfeffergurken).— These are a kind of small prickly cucumber much in demand for pickling. Small undergrown cucumbers are considered nearly as good, and are less difficult to obtain. Gherkins may be pickled as follows: (1) Put some Gherkins into a stone jar, and cover them with strong brine, adding a small piece of alum to prevent them losing colour. When they have been soaking for seven or eight days, take them out, put them into fresh water, and leave for two or three days in that. Boil some malt vinegar in a saucepan, and let it get nearly cold. Take the Gherkins out of the water and put them into a large pan, pour the cold vinegar over them, and they are ready for use. Cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mustard may be added to the vinegar before boiling if desired. (2) Put 500 Gherkins into a large earthenware pan, and add sufficient salted water to cover them well. Two pounds of salt to every gallon of water will be sufficient, but it must be well stirred before being poured over the Gherkins. Let them remain for two hours, wash them well in it, drain, and put them in jars. Turn lgall. of vinegar into an enamelled saucepan, and drop into it |oz. each of cloves and mace, loz. each of allspice and white mustard-seed, half-a-dozen bay- leaves, a stick of horseradish cut into slices, two or three pieces (called races) of ginger-root, a grated nutmeg, and 1 handful of salt. Boil these well, and pour them on to the Gherkins. Cover the jars, tie them down tightly, and leave them for a day ; turn all out back into the pan, and simmer 3 F