686 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger oread—continued. for half-an-hour. When cold, put the cakes into biscuit-tin?, and keep them in a dry place. (4) Rub 3oz. of butter or beef-dripping into Mb. of flour : mix in 2oz. of moist sugar, %oz. of ground ginger, and i salt- spoonful of mixed cloves and mace well pounded. When these are all well stirred together, mix them into a stiffish paste with 6oz. or more of treacle. Roll out the paste, cut it into rounds, lay them on a tin sprinkled with flour, and bake in a slow oven. (5) Rub Mb. of butter into 1 Mb. of flour ; when smooth put in Mb. of moist sugar, 2oz. of finely-chopped mixed candied peel, 2 table-spioonfuls of powdered allspice, 1 table-spoonful of powdered ginger, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and ioz. of powdered caraway-seeds (the seeds should be quite fresh, for if they are at all musty they will spoil the Ginger- bread). When the ingredients are well mixed, stir in 1Mb. of treacle. Shape the dough into nuts, put them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake for about twenty minutes. When they are cooked, take them off the tin, and let them cool before putting away. These nuts should be kept in biscuit- tins in a dry place, for if they get at all damp, they will become sodden. (6) Rub lib. of softened butter in 31b. of flour till the butter is entirely absorbed; then mix in lib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of ground ginger, and one grated nutmeg. Put lib. of treacle and 1 teacupful of cream in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till warm ; mix 1 table-spoonful of freshly-powdered saleratus (carbonate of ammonia) with the flour, and work all together into a stiff dough ; roll this out quite thin, cut it into rounds with a 3in. biscuit-cutter, put them on buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. Take them out of the tins, and let them cool before putting them away. (7) Wash fib. of butter in a little rose-water, put it in a saucepan with lib. of treacle, and place it over the fire until hot and dissolved ; then move it off and let it get cool. Put lib. of dried flour into a basin with fib. of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped candied orange- and lemon-peel, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and thinly-cut sweet almonds, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of powdered mace, and one grated nutmeg. Beat two eggs well, stir them in with the butter- and-treacle, then mix all together. Work the mixture until thoroughly incorporated, then divide it into small equal-sized quantities, mould into round cakes, lay them a little apart from each other on floured baking-tins, and bake in a brisk oven. Fig. 845. Gingerbread Squares. Gingerbread flavoured with Orange.—To lib. 2oz. of flour add 14oz. of treacle, (Joz. of moist sugar, 3oz. of chopped candied orange-peel, foz. of ground allspice, and foz. of ground ginger. Molt 6oz. of butter to oil, and mix it with the other ingredients. When all are thoroughly stirred and well mixed, let the dough stand for twelve hours. Then roll it out about fin. thick, using as little flour as possible on the board, cut it into pieces 2in. wide and 3in. long, mark them with the back of a knife into diagonal checks, and lay them on a baking-sheet about Mn- apart. Brush them over with a brush dipped in the yolk of an egg- beaten up with rather less than 1 gill of milk, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. When taken from the oven, brush them over lightly with more of the beaten egg-and-milk, and should the pieces of Gingerbread have run together during the baking, divide them with a knife. Gingerbread—continued. Gingerbread Squares.—(1) Mix with 1Mb. of finely-sifted flour, lfoz. of freshly-ground ginger, i table-spoonful of ground caraway-seeds, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Put 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, and place it over the fire ; when dissolved, pour in 1Mb. of treacle, and stir the whole until warm. Break six eggs in a basin, pour the treacle over them, and beat the whole well. Stir this mixture in with the dry ingredients, and work them with a wooden spoon until thoroughly incorporated. Butter a shallow baking- dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. When cooked, take the cake out of the tin, lay it on a sieve until cold, then cut it into squares (see Fig. 845), and keep them dry in tins. (2) Sift lOoz. of flour into a basin, and mix with it 2 piled table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 2oz. of chopped citron, and a small piece of lemon-peel finely chopped. Mix to a firm paste with fib. of treacle and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Roll the paste out to about |m. in thickness, cut it into squares, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve cold. Honeycomb Gingerbread.—Rub fib. of butter in Mb. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in Mb- of the coarsest brown sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, f table-spoonful of allspice, the grated peel of half a lemon and the juice of a whole one; next mix in gradually Mb. of treacle. Butter Fig. 846. Honeycomb Gingerbread. some baking-tins, spread the paste thinly over them, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, take the Gingerbread out of the oven and cut it into pieces about 4in. square, rolling each piece round the finger as it is lifted from the tin. See Fig. 846. The Gingerbread should be kept in tins in a dry place. Lafayette Gingerbread.—Beat Mb. of fresh butter and Mb. of moist sugar to a cream; then add lib. of treacle, two large sticks of cinnamon ground to powder, 36grs. of allspice, thirty-six cloves, both allspice and cloves ground to powder, and 4 table-spoonfuls of ground ginger, stirring all very well together. Then add five beaten eggs and 1Mb. of flour in small quantities and alternately. Continue to stir and mix for some time after all the eggs and flour are in, and then add and stir well in the strained juice and grated peel of two lemons. Or instead of the lemon-juice and peel, J tea- spoonful of pearlash dissolved in vinegar may be added, but in this case caution must be exercised, and the dough tasted as the dissolved pearlash is stirred in, as too much of it would spoil the flavour. If dissolved pearlash be used, some raisins stoned and cut in halves or quarters may be added. When the dough is ready, put it on a buttered baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour or more if very thick. Be careful that it does not burn. Nuremberg Gingerbread.—Blanch and split lengthwise into halves Mb. of sweet almonds, and chop 2oz. of mixed candied peel. Beat well four eggs, then mix with them Mb. of sugar, ^oz. each of powdered cinnamon and white Ginger, ^oz. of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; sift in gradually Jib. of flour, and stir it with sufficient warm milk, in which 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, to make a smooth stiff batter. Mix the almonds and shredded peel with the dough, and beat it well. Cut some long strips of wafer-paper, lay them on baking-tins, cover each with a thin layer of the mixture, and bake them in a