518 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, sec under their special heads. DAUPHIN CAKES.—See Cakes. DAUPHINE (A LA).—A French term applied to Berlin pancakes, in honour of the Dauphine Marie Antoinette. They are practically Brioche Fritters. DAURADE.-See Dorado. DECANTERS.—F rom the foregoing remarks, it will be quite understood that these vessels obtain their name in a degree upon the principle of “contrariwise.” De- Fig. 641. Decanter Corks (Adams and Son). canters should surely signify the vessels canted to pour off the wine, not the vessels to receive it after being decanted. They may be generally described as glass bottles, more or less cut and ornamented, for holding- wines and other liquors, from which drinking glasses are filled. It is the butler’s duty to superintend the decant- ing, and in the case of some wines very considerable tact and care are necessary, of which full particulars will be found under Wines. In view of the costly ornamen- tation to which Decanters are sometimes subject, and the elabo- ration displayed upon the stopper, rendering them frequently not only fragile, but obtrusively in the way on the sideboard, where they may be arranged prepara- tory to service, a careful butler will find it advisable to lay the stoppers at the sides of the de- canters, and stop the necks with corks fitted with more or less ornamental plated ends (see Fig. 641). This precaution will be useful in many ways, and should meet the approval of a good master. One of the great difficulties to be contended with in using De- canters is to clean them after wine, especially port, has been standing in them for some time. The following directions will be found very practical and success- ful for removing all sorts of impurities, and giving a fine brilliancy to th e glass: Chop up a potato with its skin on, into small squares, and thrust these into the mouth of the Decanter. Pounded egg- shells, or small shot, are sometimes used with effect. Upon the potato, shell, or shot pour some strong soap-suds, made with the ordinary yellow soap, or Hudson’s Extract of Soap, which probably contains some pearlash. Then thoroughly shake the bottle until all the impurities, or furring, have been removed. Decanters furred by water standing in them may be easily cleaned with a little hydrochloric acid (“ spirits of salt’’). Rinse and wash out thoroughly. In order to render the work simple and perfect, a decanter-stick may be used with a flat end, upon which can be fastened sponge, cloth, or leather, as required (see Fig. 642). An improved decanter-cleaner can be made from a stoutish piece of copper wire (see Fig. 643). This Decanters—continued. possesses the advantage of reaching under the shoulders of Decanters with greater facility than would be possible with a straight stick. The outsides should be thoroughly scrubbed with a glass-brush, and after thoroughly rinsing, dry the inside with a soft linen rag made fast to the decanter-stick, and the outside with a soft towel, finishing with a silk handkerchief or chamois leather. DECANTING.—This term is obviously derived from the verb cant—to tip up, which again takes its origin from the old French cant and Italian canto—an edge, showing that by a combined process, as we understand, it is the tipping up of the vessel containing the liquor, such as wine, and pouring it over the edge so as to leave any sediment behind. As the term is applied to other liquids besides wine, instructions for decanting will be found under their specific headings. DECOCTIONS.—The literal signification of this term is, “ boiling-down,” from the Latin decoquere. It is used principally by chemists, cooks having- an equivalent in Reducing. DEER.—See Venison. DELAWARE PEACH PUDDING. — See Puddings. DELHI PUDDING.—See Puddings. DELICACIES.—See Dainties and Delicacies. DELILLE CAKE.—See Cakes. DEMI-GLAZE.—See Glaze. DEMIJOHNS.—These are described as glass bottles or vessels, with large bodies and small necks, enclosed in wickerwork. The name is probably derived from a town called Damaghan, in the Persian province of Kliorassan. DEMON CAKE.—See Cakes. DENTEX.-A marine fish (Dentex vulgaris) of the Perch tribe. The skin is grey, the body compressed and round, the head sloping from the forehead to a broad flat mouth. The eyes are prominent, and the horizontal stripe which marks so many fish is high and arched over the sides parallel to the crest of the back. It is found of good size in the Mediterranean, and is commonly caught off the shores of Italy, where it is called Dentici, or Dentali. The flesh of the Dentex when cooked is beautifully white, firm, and savoury. It may be boiled in court-bouillon, with or without wine; or it may be cooked an gratin, cut open, on a broiler, and in either case lobster or shrimp sauce with anchovy makes a suitable accompaniment. DERBY CAKES.—See Cakes. DERWENTWATER CAKES.—(See Cakes. DESSERT.—This term is applied to the last course of a dinner by British, French, and German alike. In Italy it is known as Giardinetto (little garden), or La Frutta (a fruit course). Spaniards know it it as Postres (the final course), either the Italian or the Spanish being- far more suggestive than our own term, which is derived from the French desservir—to clear the table. Dessert, as we understand it now, signifies anything but a clear- ance of the table, excepting so far as savouries are con- cerned, being more correctly a service of fruits, biscuits, Fig. 642. Decanter-stick.