669 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Garlic—continued. (2) Put 4oz. of ginger into a bowl with strong brine, leave it to soak for fully five days, then take out, cut it into slices, dry in the sun, put it into a stone or earthenware jar, and pour over lgall. of white-wine vinegar. Remove the peel from lib. of Garlic, cover it with salt, and let it remain for three days; wipe on a cloth, dry also in the sun, and add it to the ginger, together with Jib. of long pepper previously soaked in salted water and dried, tjlb. of turmeric, and lib. of crushed or bruised mustard-seed. Cover over the jar, give it a shake, and leave it for a year before using. Any dried herbs in season may be added. GARNISHES (TV. Embellissements; Ger. Gavningen). —When a viand is set upon a dish, it may be very good in itself and yet possess little attraction for the eye. Garnishes are the ornamentation that set it forth, just as a lady wears her jewels to give piquancy to her natural charms. The Old English word garnischen—to pi-ovide, strengthen, or prepare, is the evident progenitor of Gar- nish, but custom has given a stronger meaning to the term, so that we now speak of Garnishes as varieties of ornamentation used in preparing dishes for the table. These Garnishes are very numerous, ranging over an ex- tensive list of small articles, and adding more or less to the flavour of the viand they are used to accompany; but it does not always follow that a Garnish should contri- bute to the taste, or be served to each guest with the viand, for some contribute little more than appearance (see Plate). Numerous Garnishes and modes of applying them suit- aide for special dishes will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia; the following are a few to which special names have been given by cooks, and under these names they are generally recognised. See Attelettes. Admiral Garnish (a l’Amiral).—This a fish Garnish made up of boiled crayfish-tails and prawns, mussels masked with villeroy sauce, covered with breadcrumbs, and fried in fat and parsley, all placed in groups round the dish. Bayard Garnish (a la Bayard).—This is made up of truifle, tongue, mushrooms, artichokes, Madeira, Spanish sauce, bread, and goose’s fat liver, prepared as follows : Cut a truifle into very thin round slices, also a little cooked smoked ox-tongue, three mushrooms, and two artichoke-bottoms. Put them all in a saucepan on the fire with | wineglassful of Madeira, boil for about five minutes, or until reduced to one-half its original bulk. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Surround the dish with croutons of bread covered with thin slices of cooked goose’s fat liver. Bordeaux Garnish (a la Bordelaise). — This is composed of shallots, wine, Spanish sauce, and ox-marrow, prepared as follows : Finely chop a peeled shallot, put it in a saute-pan with f wineglassful of red wine, and cook for five minutes; then add £ pint of Spanish sauce, a small quantity of cayenne, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve it poured over fillets of beef or steaks, place over six slices of ox-marrow, pre- viously parboiled for half-a-minute, and serve. Cliambord Garnish (a la Chambord).—This consists of mushrooms, fish quenelles, Geneva sauce, truffles, crayfish, carp’s soft roes, and villeroy sauce, prepared as follows: Cook some whole mushrooms and prepare small fish quenelles, moulding them with teaspoons, and when these are ready mask with Geneva sauce. Boil some whole truffles and cray- fish, remove the flesh from the tails, keeping it whole, and cook also some carp’s soft roes in villeroy sauce. Arrange these Garnishes in heaps, alternately with whole crayfish, round the dish. Cliipolata Garnish, (a la Cliipolata).— (1) This is made up of chestnuts, onions, mushrooms, and chipolata sausages, prepared as follows : Blanch and cook in rich broth some chestnuts, glaze a few small onions, and cook some mush- rooms in butter and lemon-juice. Arrange them with the sausages rmind the dish, and mask with Madeira sauce. (2) Or it is made up of salted pork, carrots, onions, mush- rooms, chestnuts, chipolata sausages, Spanish and tomato sauces, prepared as follows: Cut £lb. of salted pork into dice, fry for two minutes in a saucepan, add 1 breakfast- cupful each of carrots (cut like corks with a vegetable- Garnishes—continued. cutter), onions (browned and glazed in the oven), and cooked mushrooms, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of blanched and peeled chestnuts, and six small chipolata sausages cut in pieces. Pour in 2qts. of Spanish sauce, 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, and sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 piled teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for half-an-hour, and use when required. Chivry Garnish (a la Cliivry).—Tlrs is made up of oysters, potatoes, crayfish, mussels, villeroy sauce, and breadcrumbs as follows : Prepare some small oyster bouchees and potato croquettes; boil some crayfish and remove the tails, leaving the shells on; mask some mussels with villeroy sauce, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat. Arrange in ^mall heaps roirnd the dish. Commodore Garnish (a la Commodore).—This contains crayfish, truffles, mussels, villeroy sauce, and breadcrumbs as follows : Prepare equal quantities of crayfish croquettes and quenelles, the latter highly seasoned with cayenne and masked with matelote sauce, and boil some large whole truffles. Dip the required quantity of mussels into villeroy sauce, cover them with seasoned breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or other fat. Arrange the Garnish in small heaps round the dish. Durand Garnish (a la Durand).- This is made up of bacon, ham, sweetbreads, Spanish sauce, truffles, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, olives, cocks’ combs, ox-palates, chicken livers, eggs, crayfish-tails, oysters, gherkins, and sweet herbs, prepared as follows : Place a large slice of fat bacon in a saucepan ; when melted, remove any lean that there may be, and add a slice of ham cut into small fillets, a lump of fresh butter, and either a calf’s or lamb’s sweetbread cut into large dice; moisten with Spanish sauce and the dripping from a roasted leg of mutton, carefully skimmed and passed through a tammy. Add thick slices of truffles, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, stoned olives stuffed with truffle forcemeat, boiled blanched cocks’ combs and ox-palates, the latter cut into dice, and, lastly, some chicken’s livers; simmer by the side of the fire, and just before serving, add the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, a few crayfish-tails, and four dozen oysters, blanched and warmed for a minute in mutton gravy, and season with gherkins and mixed sweet herbs; when done, clear off all grease, and pour the Garnish over the joint it is about to be served with. D’TJxelles Garnish, (a. la d’Uxelles).—This is composed of fine herbs and Madeira sauce, prepared as follows : Reduce 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked fine herbs with 1 teacupful of Madeira sauce in a saucepan on a moderately-heated stove for about ten minutes, or until it is thick. Fermiere Garnish (a la Fermiere).—This is made up of small rounds of potatoes fried in butter, glazed carrots, and very small cabbages and lettuces braised. Arrange in groups round the dish. Financiere Garnish (a la Financiere).—(1) For this, cocks’ combs, sweetbreads, forcemeat quenelles, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, and truffles, prepared as follows, are used: Blanch three cocks’ combs by steeping them in boiling- water, dry, and rub off the skin; soak them in water for several hours. Dry them, and stew in butter, lemon-juice, and a little salt, moistening them with a small quantity of stock. When boiling, add three lamb’s sweetbreads, six forcemeat quenelles, five artichoke-bottoms, six mushrooms, and six truffles, sliced, and the Garnish is ready for use. (2) Or it is made up of cocks’ combs, small quenelles, sweetbreads in small pieces, and button-mushrooms, prepared as follows : The cocks’ combs are generally bought in bottles. If taken from the bird, they must be so trimmed at the edges as to allow of the blood disgorging, and the skin must be rubbed off with a cloth dipped in boiling water and salt. It takes about eight hours’ soaking in cold water to dis- gorge them properly. They must be simmered in broth with lemon-juice and butter till three-parts done, and then the other ingredients added, with a rich white sauce, and the cooking- completed in this sauce. The Garnish is principally served with a fricassee of chicken, or to fill vol-au-vents. (3) Or it may be composed of goose’s fat liver, kidneys, cocks’ combs, truffles, and fowl quenelles, all cooked in