652 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fruit—continued. The Fruits sold in our markets may be divided into three groups: 1, those which are grown in the open air in Great Britain; 2, hot-house Fruits ; 3, imported Fruits ; and these again may be broken up into classes innumer- able. But as no useful purpose would be served by such an arrangement, we pass on to the consideration of numerous receipts which admit of no special classification. For further information concerning special Fruits, see those headings. When a quantity of fresh Fruit has been gathered, it should be carefully looked over, and those damaged picked out and thrown away ; then lay the Fruit on a board, not touching each other, and place it in a dark store- cupboard where a current of air will blow upon it. Every few days the Fruit should be sorted out, and those re- moved which show signs of decay. Almost all Fruits are capable of being preserved either in tins, by drying, by boiling with sugar, or by storing in spirits or vinegar, and for these preparations some very practical receipts are given hereunder: Bottled Fruits.—(1) For every pound of Fruit allow 6oz. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 5 teacupful of water. Prepare the Fruit by removing the stalks, &c., put it into a pan with the sugar and water, and boil it over a slow fire for ten minutes. Warm some wide-mouthed glass bottles near the fire, then dip a thin stick in sulphur, light it, and hold a bottle mouth downwards over it. The bottle will become full of smoke, and by this means all the air in it will be exhausted; then fill the bottle at once with the Fruit. Pro- ceed the same with the other bottles, filling them first with smoke and then with Fruit. Cork or cover the bottles, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight, and put them away in a dry cupboard. (2) Clarify 101b. of loaf sugar ; when it comes to the boil put in 181b. of picked Fruit (either raspberries, black or red currants, gooseberries, or any of these Fruits mixed, or plums or cherries), and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring the Fruit as little as possible, and taking care not to bruise or break it. Let it get quite cold, then put it into glass jars, and tie them down with bladder. Brandied Fruits.—Select equal quantities of ripe and sound Fruits, such as apricots, peaches, and plums, and prick them several times with a fork through to the stone. Put loaf sugar in a lined vessel, allowing lib. of sugar to lib. of Fruit, pour in a small quantity of water, just about as much as the sugar will absorb, and place it over the fire until small transparent bubbles rise to the top. Put the mixed Fruits into the syrup, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until just beginning to soften; then take it off, as the Fruits must still remain firm. Leave them in the syrup until cold, or until the following day; then take them out and place on a wire sieve to drain. Boil the syrup until somewhat thickly reduced, and when it is cold, mix with it an equal quantity of pale brandy. Place the Fruits in jars or glasses, and pour the syrup over them. Fruit Preserved in Ginger Syrup.—Put lib. of finely- broken white ginger into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, and boil until the water is highly impregnated with the ginger ; now add any firm Fruit, boil until done, turn all into a jar, and leave for four or five days, giving it a frequent stir. Put lib. of loaf sugar, £ pint of brandy, the peel of a lemon and juice of half a one in a saucepan, pour in a little of the ginger-water, and boil to a syrup. Skim well, add the Fruit, boil for ten or twelve minutes, remove from the fire, and leave for a week ; then strain off the syrup, add more sugar, boil up again, put the Fruit back, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Turn the preserve into pots, cover with paper soaked in brandy and then with wet parchment, and leave for a month before using. Greening Fruits before Preserving or Pickling.—Any kind of Fruit, such as apricots, pears, plums, &c., can be used in this process. Put a layer of vine-leaves at the bottom of a preserving-pan, put in the Fruit, intermixed with radish- pods or French beans and thin slices of cucumber, cover with more vine-leaves, pour over sufficient cold spring-water to cover them, put on the lid, hermetically seal it with paste, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Fruit—continued. set it on the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently ; then remove from the fire, and take out the Fruit. Leave them for a day, and repeat the process. The Fruit should be peeled before using. Pickled Unripe Fruit.—Gather any kind of Fruit, such as cherries, apples, plums, almonds, apricots, peaches, pears, nectarines, currants, gooseberries, &c., before they are ripe, mix all together, put them in stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them with strong vinegar. Put a piece of thick leather over the jars or bottles, tying it tightly down, place them in a dry cupboard, and leave for a month before using. Preserved Fruit Juice.—The juice of Fruit may be kept for some considerable time by putting it in tins, the same as whole Fruit. Mash the Fruit, press it to extract as much of the juice as possible, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Measure the juice, and put it in a pan with 31b. of crushed preserving-sugar to each quart. Fill some jars with the syrup, cover them, stand them in a saucepan with cold water to three-parts their height, and boil for half-an-hour. Leave the jars in the water till cool, then seal, and put them away for use. Tinned Fruit.—Only perfectly ripe and sound Fruit is fit for canning. It may be cut or kept whole, whichever may be preferred. Put it into tins or glass jars, the covers of which should be of glass, or, if not, should be porcelain-lined, and they should have rubber bands so as to completely exclude the air. Place the tins in a pan of cold water, not deep enough to cover them, with some hay or a folded towel or something of that sort under them, and put them on the stove to heat. When hot, put in the Fruit, which has been previously scalded, either with or without sugar. Keep the tins or jars in the pan of hot water until the Fruit is added and the covers screwed on, when they may be allowed to cool. Screw the covers tighter if they will allow of it, as they should be closed as tightly as possible, and put them in a cool dark place. If without sugar, the Fruit, when ready, should be put into the jars, which should then be placed on a rack of wooden slats in a large deep covered pan, sufficient cold water poured in to reach half-way up the sides of the jars, but not more, covered over with a cloth, and then the cover put on. Place the pan on the stove and let the water boil. In quart jars, large berries, such as grapes or cherries, ought to cook in about twenty minutes; plums, pears, cut apples, pineapples, and almost every other kind of the larger Fruits will also take the same time; quinces, however, and hard pears, take half- an-hour ; while small berries require only a quarter-of-an-hour. When the Fruit is done, lift the pan off the stove and un- cover it. Directly the jars can be handled, which with the help of a dry folded cloth will soon be possible, the covers must be screwed on tighter, and when cold the covers must bo made as tight as possible, and the jars at once stored in a cool dark place. Fig. 807. Chaudfroid of Fruits. Tlie following receipts have been collected and inserted under this heading as being of general application, that is, suitable to various kinds of Fruits, of which those specially mentioned are typical in a culinary sense. Utensils, Sauces, efcc., referred to, sec under their special heads.