THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 570 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. three minutes over a brisk fire, taking care not to brown it. Add six chopped mushrooms and loz. of sausage-meat, season with salt and pepper, and cook for three minutes longer, stirring continually. Now put in the insides of the fruit, finely chopped, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley; mix thoroughly, and cook for two minutes longer, or until the preparation commences to boil. Turn it into a basin when cold, stuff it into the Egg-plant Fruit skins, replace the lids, put the fruit gently on a dish or a tin plate, cover them with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes, and serve. (2) Put the fruit in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil until tender ; drain, cut them in halves, and scoop out their insides, leaving a wall about iin. thick. Free some cold cooked veal or fowl from any skin, fat, and gristle, and chop it; then put it in a mortar with the pulp of the fruit, first picking out all the seeds, add a few sweet herbs and chopped mushrooms, and pound the whole until smooth. Season to taste with salt and pepper, put the mixture in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes. If too dry it may be moistened with a small quantity of stock or gravy. Fill the Egg-plant Fruit with this, levelling it smoothly over the top, spread a layer of grated breadcrumbs over each, and pour in 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter. Lay them side by side on a baking-dish, put them in a brisk oven for a few minutes to brown on the top, or they may be browned under a salamander. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the fruit on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Cut the stalks off the Egg-plant Fruit, also a piece about the size of a penny from the top of each ; scoop out the insides, being careful not to make a hole at the other end, and put them in a basin of salted water. Finely mince about 21b. each of mutton and moderate-sized onions, wash 1 teacupful of rice in plenty of water, mix it with the meat and onions, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the fruit with the mixture, and replace their tops, but putting them upside down. Break four or five eggs in a basin, and beat them well; dip the stuffed fruit in the eggs, put them in a frying-pan with hot butter, and fry. When done, drain, and prick them here and there with a fork. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with some small mutton-bones, lay in the Egg-plant Fruit, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour in sufficient water to cover, and simmer at the side of the fire until the moisture is reduced. Take the fruit out of the gravy, and arrange them on a hot dish. Beat two eggs into the gravy, stir at the side of the fire till thick, but without boiling, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the Egg-plant Fruit, and serve. (4) Cut a good-sized Egg-plant Fruit into six equal parts, without detaching them. Make four incisions inside each piece, and fry them for one minute in boiling fat; dig out the fleshy part of the fruit with a scoop, and fill it with any desired forcemeat. Sprinkle the tops with breadcrumbs and a little clarified butter, brown it in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. (5) Cut the Egg-plant Fruit into halves, scoop out most of the interior, mince it fine, add an equal quantity of bread- crumbs to it, season highly with salt, pepper, and butter, and put the mixture again into the rind, heaping each half. Place the halves in an earthen dish which can be sent to the table, bake until tender, and serve hot. (6) Syrian Style.—Cut the stalks off several Egg-plant Fruit, and a piece about the size of a penny off the top of each, then steep them in salted water to extract the bitter juice. Trim off most of the fat from a piece of mutton sufficient to stuff the Egg-plant Fruit with, and mince the lean; mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions and i table-spoonful of finely-chopped mint, add also about J teacupful of the inside of the fruit, 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice, and a small quantity of saffron, salt, and pepper. Mix the ingredients well. Stuff the fruit with the mixture, replace their tops, but upside down, lay them in a saucepan with a few small mutton-bones at the bottom to prevent the fruit sticking to the pan and burning, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, pour in sufficient broth to cover, and stew over a moderate fire. When the fruit are soft and the liquor reduced to a thick consistency, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish, pour their gravy over, and serve hot. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. (7) Turkish Fashion.—Cut six Egg-plant Fruit into halves from the stalks to the ends, scoop out some of the inside, lay them on a dish, dust over with salt and pepper, and baste with a few drops of vinegar. Crumble a slice of bread, and soak it in as much milk as it will absorb. Peel and chop a small onion, also a few sprigs of parsley, put these in a mortar with fib. of sausage-meat and some of the pulp of the Egg-plant Fruit, and pound well together, seasoning to taste. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan over the fire until melted. Fill the Egg-plant Fruit with this, tie two halves together, put them in the saucepan with the butter, and fry for ten minutes. Pour f pint of boiling broth over them, and simmer at the side of the fire. When tender, take them out, and put on a hot dish. Mix a small quantity of flour with the gravy, stir it over the fire until thick, then pour it over the fruit, and serve. Stuffed Egg-plant Fruit to imitate Fish. — Select the requisite quantity of rather thin and long Egg-plant Fruit, and with a sharp knife cut the peel to imitate the scales of fish ; cut off the tops, having them about lfin. in diameter, and carefully scoop out the insides, then put them in a basin of salted water to extract the bitter juice. Peel and finely chop four moderate-sized onions, and blanch and peel 2 table- spoonfuls of pistachio-kernels. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire till hot, put in the minced onions, and stir them about until beginning to brown; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, and continue stirring it. When the rice commences to brown, pour in a small quantity of hot water, stir it till the moisture is absorbed, then pour in a little more water, and so on till the rice is nearly cooked. Put about 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered biscuit over the rice, add the pistachios and 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, and season with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Stir the mixture till all the ingredients are well incorporated, then take the pan from the fire, and leave it till the contents are nearly cold. Drain the Egg-plant Fruit, stuff them with the mixture, replace their tops, only upside down. Lay some mutton-bones at the bottom of a saucepan, put in the Egg-plant Fruit, pour in sufficient water to cover them, and boil gently till getting soft; then drain, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned. Drain the fat from them, arrange tastefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. ELBERFIELD CAKE.- See Cakes. ELDER (jFr. Sureati; Ger. Holimder; Ital. Sambuco; Sp. Sauco).— This very common tree (Sambucus nigra) may be found growing wild in almost all parts of Europe, being valued chiefly for its medicinal properties, the flowers entering into various preparations. For culinary purposes the berries, which grow in large spreading clusters, are mostly used, although the young shoots of the tree are sometimes pickled, and the flowers afford a pleasing aroma and flavour to wines and liqueurs. The juice of the Elderberry, either plain or fermented, is much used for the doctoring of dark wines. Elderberry Brandy.—Put the required quantity of ripe berries into a wine-press to extract the juice. Take four hair cloths and lay one between each press, having the cloths a little broader than the press. When all the juice is out, put the pulp into an open vessel, and pour over just sufficient of the liquor to cover it; let it remain for a week or so, when it can be used for making chutney. Put the juice (the first lot that was taken out) into the cask in which it is to remain, and to every lOgalls. of juice add lgall. of spirit, a little sugar, and a few cloves. It will keep good for fully two years without getting sour. Elderberry Chutney.—Select berries that remain on the tree after those for making ketchup have been picked. Put foz. of ginger, a little mace, and one onion finely minced into a mortar with six cloves, and pound them well. Bub the berries to a pulp (or use the pulp that remains when making Elder- berry brandy) through a fine sieve, put it into an enamelled saucepan, and add the onion mixture, also 2oz. of brown sugar, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne, 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, 3oz. of chopped raisins (sultanas), and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Set