598 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processed, Utensils, Sauces, L-c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Flawns—continued. will be found distributed through this Encyclopaedia under their various headings, such as Apple Flawn under Apples, Apricot Elawn under Apricots, &c. The following receipts are somewhat out of the ordinary: Swiss Flawn.—Put 2qts. of milk into a saucepan with Idb. of butter, bring it to the boil, remove it from the fire, and work it into ljlb. of flour, forming a soft paste. Put it back into the saucepan, dry over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it into another saucepan, mis in Goz. of butter, lib. of Gruyere cheese and a Bondon cheese, pepper, salt, and pounded loal sugar to taste, and four eggs ; work them all until smooth, then add four more eggs and another lib. of Gruyfere cheese cut up into dice, work in also the whites of six eggs whipped to a froth, and 6 table-spoonfuls of cream; keep the paste hot, turn it into a mould, and bake in a slow oven for about two- hours-and-a-half. When done, turn it out and serve at once. Turkish Flawn.—Boil 1 lib. of rice in a saucepan of water, put it in another saucepan with 3qts. of milk, lib. each of sugar and butter, with the rasped rind of a lemon or orange, and a small quantity of salt; set the pan over a moderate fire, and cook so that the rice may swell by degrees but yet be kept whole. Stir it very gently, add lib. of well-washed currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and a few table-spoonfuls of well-whipped cream, so as to soften the preparation some- what ; now add the whites of twelve eggs, whipped to a froth, turn the whole into a Flawn-ring (see Fig. 754) prepared to receive it, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Turn it out, glaze with a salamander, and serve at once. FLEAD.—See Lard. FLEMISH CREAM.—Whipped cream strengthened with isinglass and flavoured with brandy. The name has been supplanted by others, such as Chantilly and other creams, in which isinglass is used to give them sub- stantiality. FLEMISH GARNISH (d. la Flamande).—See Garnishes. FLEMISH GAUFFRES.—See Waffles. FLEMISH SAUCE (a la Flamande).—See Sauces. FLEMISH SOUP.—See Soups. FLEMISH WAFERS.—See Wafers. FLESH {Fr. Chair; Ger. Fleisch; Ital. Carne; Sp. Carne).—In an ordinary sense the term Flesh would signify the muscles, fat, and other soft tissues which cover the bony framework. Cooks use it as applying to the muscles, or lean principally, of any animal, and with that licence peculiar to art, extend the meaning almost indefinitely to fruit and vegetables, as in speaking of the flesh of the plum or pumpkin. The word was probably introduced into England by our Saxon or Danish conquerors as flocsc, or flesk, signifying pork. FLET MILK.—An old name for skimmed milk. FLIPS. —A name given to drinks originally made with beer, spirit, and eggs, stirred and heated with a hot iron, called a flip-dog. Flips are now simply heated over a fire. See Eggs for Egg Flip. FLORADOR.—A palatable, wholesome, and nutritive food, prepared mainly from granulated wheat of the best quality. It is easily digested, and as a basis for milk- puddings and custards has a high reputation. Florador is made in three grades or sizes: Large-grained, used in clear or brown soups, or for porridge; medium- grained, suitable for baked or boiled puddings; and fine-grained, best adapted for blanc-manges and creams, pancakes, fritters, biscuits, and buns. The selected receipts here given will be sufficient to indicate a few of the many ways in which this food can be employed in both nursery and kitchen. Florador Blanc-mange. — Boil 1 pint of milk and add 1 pinch of salt and 1 teaspoonful of butter; mix 4oz. of Florador—continued. fine-grained Florador in £ pint of cold milk, pour it into the boiling liquid, stirring well; boil for a few minutes, add flavouring and 2oz. of sugar, pour into a mould, and turn out when cold. Florador Cake. — Mix together 3oz. of medium-grained Florador, 5oz. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, \oz. of caraway-seeds, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt; rub carefully into these 2oz. of butter, and add 1 large teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat up an egg, add to it not quite 1 gill of milk, and with this make the mixture into a stiff paste. Put into a small greased tin and bake from three-quarters- of-an-hour to one hour in a moderately-heated oven. Florador Porridge with Milk. — Mix 4oz. of medium- grained Florador with 1 pint of milk ; boil another pint of milk or water with salt and sugar to taste, and into this pour the mixed Florador. Stir the mass well till it has boiled for a few minutes, then serve with milk. Florador Soup. — Take any kind of nicely-flavoured stock, and let it boil; drop into it as much fine-grained Florador as will thicken it, and keep stirring. Let it simmer until done enough (ten minutes should suffice), and serve very hot; l.Voz. of Florador will thicken lqt. of soup. FLORENCE OIL.—See Olive Oil. FLORIDA SALAD.—See Salads. FLOUNDERS {Fr. Flets, or Carrelets ; Ger. Flunders).—Although these fish are of the same family as dabs, sole, plaice, halibut, and some other flat-fish, they ought not to be confused, seeing that in their shape, habits, and general appearances, they differ considerably. Flounder frequently figures at a Con- tinental dinner under the name of brill (barbue), showing conclusively that it is a very good fish for the table, even though it were served under its own anything but tempting name. For the name we are indebted to the Swedish f. undr a; cognate with Danish, flynder; Icelandic, flyndhra. Along the English shores many kinds of Flounder are caught, differing in very small particulars only, the best being what is called the common English Fig. 755. Flounder. Flounder (Pleuronectes flesus) (see Fig. 755). America can boast of some very fine species, such as the Smooth Flounder, Rough or Winter Flounder, Summer Flounder, and the Starry Flounder. British Flounders are in sea- son from January to September inclusive, deteriorating slightly towards the end of the year. In many parts of England, as well as in Scotland, they are known as Flukes. Baked Flounders.—Clean and split two Flounders, and pick out all the small bones. Butter a dish, lay the fish in it, and strew over them some chopped mushrooms, parsley, green onions, and rasped breadcrumbs ; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; put a few pieces of butter about on the top, and bake them. Make a sufficient quantity of caper sauce, flavouring it with essence of anchovy and the juice of half a lemon. When cooked, drain the butter from the fish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Flounders.—(1) Clean and wash a Flounder, make a sharp cut nearly to the bone down the back, put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, add ioz. of salt-