THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 511 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Cutlets—continued. trimmed or otherwise tastily prepared for cooking. Artistic cooks literally revel in the preparation, cooking, and arranging of Cutlets, and it must be acknowledged that in the hands of a master there are few portions of meat that admit of more exquisite treatment. The fat is carefully trimmed off the bone, the sides beaten level and smooth with a Cutlet-bat (see Pig. 627), and a piece of the bone left projecting as a sort of fanciful handle, which is carefully scraped and cleaned, and afterwards ornamented with a frill (see Fig. 628). Imitation Cutlets are frequently made of various force- meats, especially of fish, such as crab- or lobster-meat. To give these the required shape, Cutlet-moulds or cutters (see Fig. 629) are used, the moulds being merely a modifi- cation of the cutter, having a bottom, so that the force- meat can be packed in, instead of being cut from a sheet. The cutters can be used as moulds if laid on a baking- sheet. Cutlets are sometimes studded (cloute) with truffles, as follows : A hole is made through the flesh with a steel, Fig. 629. Sets of Cutlet-cutters. and pieces of truffles cut into shreds of particular shapes are thrust into the holes thus made. When all are set, the ends are cut off flat with a sharp knife, and care must be taken to dish the Cutlets with the clout^s sides outward or uppermost. Cutlets en papillote are Cutlets folded in heai’t-shaped papers. For descriptions of various Cutlets, see special headings. CUTTERS.—Of these there are a great diversity of shapes and sizes made for a variety of purposes. They will be found described under their respective headings. CUVEES.—A French word meaning the different times or periods at which certain wines were made or fermented in cask (cuve). It is used in much the same sense as we use the word “ vintage,” although with a much more re- stricted signification. It is also used in a sense somewhat analogous to our English word “cask” or “caskful.” CUYOS.—Di ■inking cups made of the rind of the cala- bash or gourd. The fruit is cut into halves, the pulp is taken out, and the rind reduced to the requisite thinness by scraping. When the rinds or shells are sufficiently dry, they are painted both inside and out with various devices. They are commonly used in Brazil. CUYTE BEER.—A beer made in Brussels during the fifteenth century. It was then the best of the beers made there; but in course of time it seems to have become so depreciated in quality that, according to historians, a heavy fine was inflicted on all tavern keepers who i sold it. CYDER.—See Cider. CYGNETS.—These are young swans, deriving their name from the French cygne, a swan. When quite young the flesh is said to be very tasty and tender. They are usually roasted or stewed. Roasted Cygnet.—Pick, clean, and truss a Cygnet in the same way as a goose; chop finely 21b. of rump-steak, season with spice, minced onion, and a little butter. Rub the breast of the bird inside and out with bruised c'oves, put in the meat stuffing, sew up carefully, and tie tightly on the spit, covering the breast with meal paste, and wrapping buttered paper round it. About twenty minutes before the bird is done, take off the paper and paste, and baste till brown with butter and flour. When serving, pour over a strong beef gravy mixed with | pint of port wine, and serve with hot red-currant jelly. Stewed Cygnet.—Clean and truss a Cygnet like a turkey, tie over it rashers of fat bacon, and roast for one hour. Put at the bottom of a stewpan two sliced onions, two blades of mace, one carrot, one head of celery, £lb. of butter, 4 teaspoonfuls of soy, f pint of mushroom ketchup, 1 pint of port wine, and 1 pint of gravy; put the bird in this, and let it simmer gently for about an-hour-and-a-half, by which time it should be quite tender. Dish the bird when done, and set it near the fire to keep warm. Reduce the liquor in which it was cooked, and when boiling, add ^lb. of sultana l'aisins, a little lemon-juice, and cayenne. Mix a little butter and flour together, boil it with the sauce until thick, strain it over the bird, and serve. CYLINDER MOULDS.—This term is so frequently used in culinary parlance that it requires some explana- tion. The word cylinder is not intended to apply so much to the external shape of the mould as to a cup-like Fig. 630. Cylinder Mould. depression in the centre of the bottom (see Fig. 630), which admits of some other delicacy being inserted, and piled up if desired, such as whipped cream in a blanc-mange, cake, or jelly, and finely-shredded salad in a shape of savoury forcemeat or jelly. CYMLINGS.—A variety of the genus Cucurbita, the family to which belong also all the other varieties of pumpkins, melons, &c., which are in America popularly denominated “ squashes.” See Squashes.