500 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. (2) To 1 pint of strained Red-Currant juice put lib. of sugar. Boil the sugar and juice gently together eight or ten minutes, then set it where it will cool; add, when luke- warm, 1 wineglassful of brandy to every pint of syrup. Bottle and cork tightly, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Red-Currant Syrup. — (1) Put the required quantity of freshly- gathered Red Currants into a bowl, mash them with a wooden spoon, cover the bowl, and let them stand for three or four hours. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, measure it, and put it into a sugar-boiler with fib. of lump sugar to each pint of juice. Boil until reduced to a clear syrup, keeping it well skimmed; then take it off the fire and leave until cold. Turn the syrup into small bottles, pour a little fresh salad-oil on the top of each, to preserve it, then cork the bottles closely, and put them, in an upright position, in a dry cupboard until required. (2) Boil lib. of crushed loaf sugar to 32deg. (see Sugar- boiling), take it from the fire, and leave till cold. Pick and pound sufficient Red Currants to make f pint of juice, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. When cold, mix the syrup with the Currant-juice, pour it into bottles, and cork them tightly down. Put the bottles in a saucepan, with straw round them to prevent them knocking together and breaking, pour in cold water to three-parts their height, bring it to the boil, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, simmer gently for six or seven minutes, then take the sauce- pan from the fire and leave the bottles in it till cold. Dip the nozzles of the bottles in bottle-wax, and stack them away in bins in a cold cellar till wanted. Red-Currant Vanilla-flavoured Bomb.—Take 11 pints of syrup at 30deg., strain it, and mix in a basin with 11 pints of the juice of Red Currants. Put the yolks of eighteen eggs into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups), lqt. of rich cream, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Place the pan on the fire, stir until the eggs begin to thicken—taking care not to let the mixture boil—and then strain the whole through a fine sieve. Pack two freezing-pots and a bomb-mould in pounded ice and rock-salt, pour the Currant-syrup into one pot and the vanilla cream into the other; work both well and freeze. Put the Currant ice into the mould to line the sides about lin. in thickness, and the vanilla ice in the centre. Place the cover on the mould and cover over the top with ice. When set, turn the bomb out on to a sheet of paper, cut it first into slices fin. in thickness, then again into halves, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it. Red-Currant Vinegar.—(1) Gather the required quantity of ripe Red Currants and press them well to extract the juice. Leave it for one night, then strain through a fine hair sieve into bottles, filling them to the top; stand them uncorked in a warm place or in the sun, and leave until fermentation ceases. Skim off all the scum that rises to the top. When ready, cork the bottles, and put them by for use. (2) Or it may be made in the same way as Black-Currant Vinegar, substituting red for black Currants, and colouring with a little cochineal. Red-Currant Wine.—(1) Choose the Currants when they are ripe, remove the stalks and any unsound fruit, put them in a bowl, and mash them with a wooden pestle or spoon; keep them in this state for twenty-four hours, then pass through a fine sieve, and to every g-allon of fruit-pulp add 2galls. of water with 61b. of caster sugar dissolved in it. Put all into a cask and let it ferment, which it should do without the use of yeast. A little brandy may be added when the ferment- ing is at an end, but it is not a necessity. Bung up the cask, and leave for three months. Then stir in some whites of eggs, or gelatine, let it settle, and after the wine is cleared draw off into bottles. (2) To every gallon of the extracted juice add 31b. of brown sugar, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Trim off the stalks and pick out the unsound berries from 3galls. of Red Currants, put them into a pan, and with a wooden spoon bruise them to extract all the juice; strain them, and to what remains in the strainer add 4jgalls. of cold water. Mix it well and thoroughly, then strain it into the juice, and add 141b. of sugar. Let the sugar thoroughly dis- solve, pour the whole into a cask, leaving about 2in. of space unfilled, lay the bung over the hole, put the cask in a warm Currants—continued. place, say about 70deg. Fahr., and let it stand for a month ; then add 31b. of sugar dissolved in igall. of warm water, give the cask a good shaking, and put in the bung. In about two months, when the fermentation has ceased, rack off the clear liquor, leaving the sediment, and add lqt. of brandy to it or not, as desired. Pour it into a clean cask. Let it remain in a cool place for a couple of months tightly bunged down so as to exclude the air, and it is ready for use. Sugared Red Currants. Proceed the same as for Sugared White Currants. Whipped Red-Currant Cream.—Put loz. of gelatine in a saucepan with J- pint of water, place it over the fire until boiling and dissolved, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of Red-Currant juice and the juice of one large lemon or two small ones. Sweeten the mixture to taste, stir it over the fire until boiling again, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cool. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, whisk it to a stiff snow or froth, then add it to the Currant-juice, and whisk the whole together. When the mixture is very thick, turn it into a mould packed in ice. When set, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on to a fancy dish. White Currants.—As early as the year 1675 Worlidge wrote of the “White Curran” as becoming native to our soil, “ which is also improved in some rich moist grounds that it hath gained a higher name of the greatest red Dutch curran.” Horticulturists inform us that the White Currant has been evolved from the red Currant by cultivation, and mention the white as merely a sample of the red in a higher state of cultivation. As if in confirmation of this, a Currant that is neither ab- solutely white nor red is known, but this appears to be a later variety than the white, hence it is probable that the red and white are two distinct kinds, just as there are red and white cherries and other fruit. The following sorts are named by Nicholson in the “Dictionary of Gardening ” as the best grown : White Dutch, the best of the White Currants, the bunches and berries are large, and of a mild, sweet flavour; Wilmot’s Large White, a distinct variety, but not so much grown as White Dutch. Sugared White Currants.—Take a few dozen large freshly- gathered bunches of White Currants, and dip each one sepa- rately in the well-whisked white of an egg with 1 teaspoonful of maraschino or water mixed with it. Put lib. of caster sugar in a basin, and place it before the fire to warm. After dipping the Currants in the egg and letting them drain, dip them into the sugar, taking care that they are well covered ; place them on a strainer until the sugar is set, and they are then ready to be served in any ornamental fashion (see Fig. 010). White-Currant-and-Cherry Wine.—This is made in the same way as Red-Currant-and-Cherry Wine, using 71b. each of White Currants and whiteheart cherries, and substituting sliced angelica for the juniper-berries. White-Currant Granito.—This is much esteemed in Italy and France. Put 1 k pints of White-Currant juice into a pan with an equal quantity of syrup at 20deg. (see Syrups), the