666 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. turn the mixture on to a dish, garnish round with a circle of chopped aspic jelly, and pour a mayonnaise dressing over . it. Decorate tastefully with fillets of anchovies, pickled gherkins, capers, slices of hard-boiled eggs, and branches of tarragon and chervil. Serve as soon as completed. Game Salad a la Polonaise.—Trim off the skin from the required quantity of cold roasted Game, and cut it into small squares ; put them in a salad-bowl with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced chives, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, salt and pepper to taste, and vinegar and oil in equal quantities. Boil three eggs for three minutes, peel off the shells, and put the yolks in with the meat, stirring well; finely chop the whites, and strew them over the top. Garnish round the salad with endive, or white leaves of lettuce, and serve. Game Souffles.—Out off about 21b. of flesh from any cold roasted Game, trim off the skin, chop the flesh, pound it in a mortar, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix f pint of Spanish sauce with 1 teacupful of essence of fowls, and boil it till reduced one-third. Mix the pounded Game in the sauce, and leave it till cold. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, and mix them with the puree ; whip the whites of the egg's to a stiff froth, add them to the mixture, and season with a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Fill some small paper cases with the mixture, put them into a quick oven, and bake for Fig. 825. Game Souffles. fifteen minutes. Place the cases on a dish, garnish with fried parsley and slices of lemons (see Fig. 826), and serve immediately. Game Soup.—(1) Put the carcases and remains of any cold cooked Game into a stewpan with two or three peeled carrots and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices. Cover the whole with plenty of stock, and simmer gently for three or four hours. When sufficiently boiled, strain the liquor into a basin; pick off all the meat that can be got from the bones, and pound it in a mortar ; soak half its bulk of breadcrumbs in a little of the liquor, and when soft mix them with the meat. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, put it in a saucepan with the strained liquor, add more seasoning if necessary, and boil. Beat the yolks of two eggs and 1 wineglassful of sherry, strain them, and stir in with the soup, first moving the sauce- pan to the side of the fire. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried in butter. (2) Put the remains of any kind of cold cooked Game into a saucepan with a cow-heel cut up into moderate-sized pieces, a knuckle of ham, two or three onions and carrots, a stick or two of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf tied together, a blade of mace, five or six cloves, and salt to taste. Pour in plenty of cold water, and when boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for three or four hours. Skim and strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and place it over the fire. When boiling, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely-chopped beef and 1 wineglassful of sherry, simmer for two or three minutes, then strain it into a soup-tureen, and serve with pieces of toast or bread fried in butter. (3) Cut up any remains of cold Game, provided it is not high, put them in a saucepan with two or three peeled carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, including a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, a few cloves, and half a blade of mace, pour in a sufficient Game—continued. quantity of veal or fowl stock to cover, leave it over the fire until it comes to the boil, then move to the side, and simmer for two hours. Skim and strain the soup, return it to the saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely-chopped fowl’s liver, and boil for five minutes. Strain the soup through a napkin until quite clear, boil it up again, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve hot with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (4) Cut off the meat of any cold cooked Game, put the trimmings with the bones into a stewpan, add 2oz. of chopped lean ham, three g'reen onions, salt and pepper to taste, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 3 pints of clear veal stock. Keep the whole boiling gently at the side of the fire until all the goodness is extracted from the bones, then skim the soup, and strain it into another saucepan. Put the pieces of meat into a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pound them until smooth ; next mix in gradually with them 1 pint of strong beef gravy, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into the soup. Stir over the fire until boiling again, then turn it into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. (5) Take the meat from the breasts of any cold cooked Game, and pound it. Break the legs and bones to pieces, and boil them in stock for an hour. Peel, wash, and boil half-a-dozen turnips, mash them, and, with the pounded meat, rub them through a fine sieve: strain the broth from the bones, &c., and keep adding a little to the turnip and pounded meat in the sieve, to assist it through. When it is all strained, put it into the soup-kettle near the fire where it will keep hot without boiling. Mix and beat up the yolks of six eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and just before serving put the soup over the fire ; let it get very hot but not boiling, stir in the eggs-and-cream with a wooden spoon, let it almost but not quite boil, pour into the tureen, and serve. Game Stock.-—Put two Game carcases and 1 pint of mirepoix in a saucepan, cover with water, add 1 pinch of salt, cook for twenty minutes, and it is ready for use when needed. Minced Game.—(1) Mince any cold cooked Game, season it highly with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, put it into a saucepan with a few table-spoonfuls of stock, not making it too liquid, and add one egg; stir over the fire until it be- comes a thick paste, making it a rich brown with a little burnt sugar or caramel. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and pour over it some rich thickened brown gravy. Pass the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs through a wire sieve over the mince, garnish with cocks’ combs coloured red by boiling them in water and cochineal, small bunches of watercress, and slices of lemon. Serve hot. (2) Trim off the skin and sinews and finely chop the breast of any cooked Game. Put it into a saucepan with a little cold water and salt, stir until boiling, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Serve hot. Minced Game with. Tomato Sauce. -Finely chop any white flesh of cold cooked Game ; put loz. of butter in a stewpan, and when melted mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, add the Game, moisten with a small quantity of rich gravy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Simmer gently at the side of the fire, then mix with it some tomato sauce. A beaten egg may be stirred up with the Game if liked. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Potted Game.—(1) Free the remains of some cold cooked Game from skin and outside parts, chop the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound quite smooth. Mix with it about a third of its bulk of fresh butter, and season to taste with pounded mace, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into small jars, cover, and tie down. (2) Any remains of cold cooked Game can be used. Pick out all the tender meat, free it from skin and bone, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of finely-chopped fat ham, and pound well. Season to taste with powdered mace, allspice, cayenne, salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of caster sugar. Butter may be used in place of the ham if more convenient. Bub the mixture through a fine wire sieve, pack it tightly in earthenware jars, pour over melted lard, and keep in a dry cupboard.