THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 535 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. truss them, and roast before a moderate fire, basting with their own drippings, or with a little butter. When they are done, take them out, set the dripping-pan over the fire, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, brown it, then stir in the orange- juice and enough hot water to make the sauce of the proper consistency, and boil; season with salt and pepper. Pour this round the Ducklings, or serve it in a sauceboat. Roasted Fillets of Ducklings served -with Stewed Endive.—Pluck, draw, and singe two Ducklings, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting occasionally. Binse a few white heads of endive in plenty of water, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil till tender; then drain and chop finely. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1J- table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but not browned; then put in the minced endive, a small piece of white glaze, a little more than ^ pint of white sauce, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, salt, and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; stir this over the fire till quite hot, and then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. When the Ducklings are cooked, cut off their fillets, trim them to a good shape, arrange in circular order on a hot dish (or they may be dished on a border of potatoes), turn the endive into the centre, and serve very hot. Stewed Ducklings.—Singe and draw two Ducklings, truss them with the legs thrust inside, lay them in a roasting- pan, cover them with \oz. of butter, season with salt, and set them in the oven for ten minutes. Cut four medium-sized turnips into small dice-shaped pieces, put them in a saucepan with ioz. of butter and 5 teaspoonful of crushed loaf sugar, cook for ten minutes, and moisten with 1 pint of Spanish sauce. Lay the Ducks in the saucepan with the turnips, and cook again for twenty-five minutes. Arrange the birds on a hot dish, untruss them, garnish the dish with the turnips, pour the sauce over all, and serve. Stewed Fillets of stuffed Duckling.—Split the Duckling- down the back, remove the backbone, spread the bird open, and then take out the other bones. Put a little chopped chicken-meat in a mortar, pound it, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put half as much bread panada as there is pounded meat into a mortar, with 2oz. of butter and loz. of scraped fat bacon, and pound together; mix them with the pounded meat, season to taste, and add four eggs, one at a time ; spread the forcemeat over the Duckling, seeing that all the cavities left by the bones are filled, and smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife. Put a few thin slices of fat bacon in a flat stewpan with slices of onions and a bunch of parsley, lay the Duckling in, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, pour in ^ pint or so of white stock, and place the stewpan in a slow oven. In about an hour, or when the bird is tender, take it carefully out of the pan, removing all the bacon and onions, and press it between two plates till cold. Cut the Duckling into pieces the shape and size of fillets, put these in a deep frying-pan with plenty of rich gravy, and warm them up again. Arrange the fillets in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with a border of potatoes, and serve. Duck’s Eggs.—For most culinary purposes these eggs may be used indiscriminately with other poultry eggs. The whites are less opaque, and the yolks somewhat more oily, but in other respects they are indistinguishable when blended with other ingredients and flavourings. Some persons are particularly fond of Duck’s Eggs plain boiled. Prepared as follows they are most delicious : Duck’s-Egg Salad.—Boil four Duck’s Eggs hard, leave them till cold, then peel and cut them lengthwise into halves. Scrape the skin off four anchovies, split them into halves, and remove the bones; put a fillet of anchovy on each half of egg, wrap them in lettuce-leaves, securing them with small pointed pieces of wood, and put them on a dish. Prepare a plain salad dressing with oil and tarragon vinegar, allowing the vinegar to predominate; season with pepper and salt. Serve the eggs, with the dressing in a sauceboat. Duck’s Giblets.—These are considered very tasty in a soup or stewed. With the exception of the liver, they are not often used for any other purpose, unless it be to flavour broth for a sauce, and then any other giblets answer quite as well. Ducks—continued. Duck’s-Giblet Soup.—(1) Scald and clean three or four lots of Duck’s Giblets, cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan, add 3qts. of water-, ljlb. of gravy-beef, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the rind of half a lemon, and simmer till the gizzards are soft. Strain the broth, add some slices of onion fried brown in butter, mix in sufficient flour to thicken the soup, and stir over the fire a few minutes till it boils. Strain, skim, and pour the soup into a tureen, put back the piece of lemon-peel, add 2 teaspoonfuls of ketchup and 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and serve with toasted bread out into dice. (2) Thoroughly clean 21b. or 31b. of Duck’s Giblets; peel and slice a large onion, put it in a saucepan with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, toss it over the fire until browned, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour; put in the giblets, fry them for a few minutes, pour in 2qts. or 3qts. of clear stock, and stir until boiling. Add one carrot, a piece of chopped celery-root, and a bunch of sweet herbs, including a few sprigs of parsley. Stew gently until the giblets are tender, then strain the liquor into another saucepan. Clean and blanch two Ducks, put them into the soup with J pint of white wine, and let them boil slowly at the edge of the fire. Peel and chop two carrots, two onions, and a root of celery, put them in a frying-pan with 2oz. of chopped raw ham and loz. of butter, and fry brown, afterwards mixing them in the soup. When tender, drain the Ducks, cut off the flesh neatly from the bones, trim it to well-shaped pieces, and put them into a soup-tureen. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table-spoonfuls of cold broth, and stir them quickly in the soup without letting it boil again. Pour the soup over the pieces of Duck in the soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Boiled rice may be added to the soup if liked. Stewed Duck’s Giblets.—Well wash the giblets, cut up the gizzards, disjoint the head, neck, and pinions, and put them over the fire in a stewpan, together with a small onion, a couple of cloves, one dozen peppercorns, a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 teaspoonful of ketchup, 2oz. of butter, and ^ pint of broth. Let them stew gently till the giblets are tender, and then lay them on a hot dish. Strain the gravy, put it back in the stewpan, thicken with a little butter rolled in cornflour, and stir in 1 wineglassful of white wine. Pour the gravy over the giblets, and serve hot. Duck’s Livers.—These, especially when the bird was fully fattened before killing, are a very good substitute for the famous goose’s foies gras of Strasburg. But whether fat or not, Duck’s Livers are always so tasty that artistic cooks delight in making them up into a variety of luxuries, the following receipts being about the best: Duck’s Livers au Gratin.—Get two or three firm and white Duck’s Livers, slice them lengthwise, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and spice over them. Butter the bottom of a gratin-dish, sprinkle a pinch of chopped shallots and 2 or 3 dessert-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms in it, and arrange on this layer the slices of livers and a few slices of lemon, without the peel or pips; chop some parsley with a clove of garlic, mix with it some breadcrumbs, and sprinkle this over the livers ; mask with clarified butter, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, basting occasionally with their own gravy. Take out the dish when the livers are done, and drain off the fat; then melt a little glaze, squeeze the juice of one lemon into it, pour it over the livers, put the gratin-dish on another dish, and serve. Terrine of Duck's Fat Livers.—This very elaborate dish is described by Dubois. Eemove the gall from some Duck’s fat livers, and cut away all parts surrounding, as they are generally very bitter. Cut each liver into three pieces ; pare them, put them in a basin with salt sprinkled over, and i wineglassful of Madeira. A sprinkle of mixed spices should also be added. Carefully peel lib. of truffles, cutting the large ones into quarters and the smaller ones into halves ; add a little salt and spices to season, and mix them up with the livers. Chop small -|lb. of bacon, put it into a mortar with the liver mixture, pound this well, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Put ^lb. of lean veal or pork and 5oz. of uncooked ham, both chopped fine, into a mortar ; pound this