604 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Food—continued. game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk which is intended for sale for the Food of man, and is diseased, unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the Food of man, and to search for, seize, and carry away any animal, or other article, in order to have the same dealt with by a justice under the provisions of this Act. “ Any person who obstructs any such officer in the performance of his duty under such warrant shall, in addition to any other punishment to which he may be subject, be liable to a penalty not exceeding £20.” Various other restrictions have been placed upon the Food markets and over the suppliers to ensure the ignorant from fraud; but it would be much better that housekeepers should know how to distinguish good Foods for themselves, and then the chances of bad Foods being supplied would be reduced to a minimum. Instructions for the careful and correct selection of Foods are freely distributed through these pages. See Adulterations. The tastes of man in respect to Food are peculiar and oftentimes acquired, but the fact that some things are surrounded with prejudice does not render them the less nutritious. For instance, cannibalism is contemplated with horror, but philosophy tells us that the flesh of man is perfectly adapted to the nourishment of man; and that snails, frogs, snakes, and other such delicacies are well calculated to fulfil the same office. In some countries where the influences of prejudice are unknown as regards certain Foods, the selection is peculiar. Bats are eaten in the Indian Archipelago; in the Arctic regions the fox makes a good pie—better than rabbit. Cats and dogs are a market commodity in China, and are said to taste something like wild boar. In the South Seas a dog is a favourite dish, and a stewed puppy forms a prime dish at a royal banquet in Zanzibar. Panthers and wild cats are. said to be excellent eating, and the puma’s and lion’s flesh closely resemble veal. Bear’s paws are eaten in many places, as well as bear’s hams and tongues, which are previously cured and smoked. Badgers are good, and kangaroo is not inferior to venison, while the tails form a very fine soup. An Australian native banquet consists of kangaroos and wallabies, opossums and flying- squirrels, kangaroo-rats, wombats, and bandicoots as prime dishes ; and rats, mice, snakes, snails, maggots, worms, and grubs are the side-dishes and entrees. A nice fat marmot has been pronounced a treat; musk-rats are favourites in Martinique; Indians eat beaver, which is said to be like pork; and porcupine forms a prime dish amongst the inhabitants of all countries in which it is found. Elephant’s feet pickled are a Cingalese luxury, and the fat of a hippopotamus is better than the best breakfast-bacon. FOOD FOR THE GODS.—See Ambrosia. FOOD PRESERVING. — The advance which chemistry has made in the interests of domestic economy is so great that, whereas at one time the number of Foods we were able to preserve comparatively fresh for an indefinite period was exceedingly small, by the inven- tion of modern appliances there are now few Foods, if any, that cannot be preserved according to one method or another. At one time drying or burying underground was resorted to without any knowledge of the preserving influence. Drying, especially after salting, and followed up with smoking, is of great value for preserving some meat and fish, whereas many fruits can be dried by simple exposure to a hot sun. When Pasteur ascertained by experiment that the access of air to Foods was the cause of their decomposition, the principle of preserving Food in tins deprived of air, and hermetically sealed, soon followed, with a success that is of the gi'eatest value to all, but especially to travellers, for the Foods so pre- served retain their original flavour and freshness. Pick- ling in vinegar is another mode of preserving, and meats subject to a freezing temperature will keep unchanged for Food Preserving—continued. a length of time (see American and Australian Meats, &c.). Boiling with sugar to make jams and marmalades, jellies, and other “preserves,” is of infinite value for domestic use. FOOLS.—These are favourite English dishes made by crushing stewed fruit, especially gooseberries, and mixing them with milk or cream, and named after the French word fouler—to crush. See Apples, Goose- berries, &c. FOOTS.—A very coarse kind of sugar, consisting principally of the refuse from the apparatus employed in a refinery. It is used by dishonest brewers and pub- licans to adulterate small beer. See Sugar. FORCEMEATS. — This term is a corruption of farce-meats, from the French farcir—to stuff. Forcemeats are very numerous, and used for a multitude of purposes, as will be seen from the following receipts, many others being given under specific headings. The meat must be chopped very fine, or passed through a mincing- machine two or three times, and then highly flavoured. American Forcemeat.—Place two very finely-chopped onions with loz. of butter in a saucepan on the fire for five minutes. Soak the crumb of a loaf of bread in water for fifteen minutes, press out all the water either with the hands or by squeezing in a cloth, put the crumb in a bowl with three eg-gs, 1 table- spoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of sage, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, three skinned sausages, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley, add the cooked onions, and mix well together; the Forcemeat is then ready for irse. Curried Forcemeat Balls.—Remove the veins and scraggy portions from about 21b. of beef, and pound it in a mortar. Add 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and sufficient beef broth or milk to form the whole into a mass. Work in a well-beaten egg, form the mixture into balls about the size of walnuts, and roll them well in sifted breadcrumbs. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of lard, fat, or mustard-oil into a pan, make it hot over a quick fire, add loz. of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, £ teaspoonful each of green ginger and peppercorns, £ teaspoonful of ground garlic, and £ table-spoonful of finely-chopped sweet herbs. Sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of water, and cook until the ingre- dients become brown. Now add the Forcemeat balls, sprinkle over with salt to taste, brown them, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and simmer on the side of the fire for about two hours. Turn the whole into a dish, and serve as hot as possible. Mutton or chicken-meat may be used in the same way, but if the latter, about 4oz. of beef-suet must be pounded with it. Forcemeat Balls.—(1) Finely chop lib. of beef-suet and 31b. of veal, put them into a mortar with a few herbs, a little grated nutmeg', dried mace, finely-chopped lemon-peel, salt and pepper, and pound them well, adding the yolks of two eggs to bind the mass. Form it into balls, roll them in flour, and fry in butter to a light brown colour. (2) Put some finely-shred beef-suet into a mortar with an equal quantity of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, pound them well, add half their bulk of ham and veal, and when all is well pounded pass it through a sieve ; add a little parsley, dried and rubbed fine, a few sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat up an egg in a basin, and stir it into the mass to make it of the necessary consistence. Take out pieces the size of filberts, roll them into balls, and poach in boiling water for eight or ten minutes, or until they float. Take them out, drain, and they are ready for use. (3) Cut a French roll in halves, and soak the crumb of one half of it in milk. Take it out when well soaked, squeeze it as dry as possible, and put it into a saucepan over a good fire with a small lump of butter about the size of a chestnut, working until it becomes a firm paste. Beat up an egg and add it, stirring well until the paste is quite dry; take it off the fire, and mix it thoroughly with 2oz. of pounded sausage- or any potted-meat, season with a little finely-minced parsley and a little thyme, and let it cool. Take it out and roll into balls, using plenty of flour on the hands ; put the balls