701 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose’s Pat Liver—continued. with flour, cover over the top with a layer of paste, join the paste at the edges, cut them round evenly, brush the top over with egg, and put them into a moderate oven to bake. Take them out, turn out the flour, brush the crusts all over, inside and out, with egg, and dry them in the oven for a minute or so. Fill them up with cooked livers and truffles in equal parts cut up into small squares, pour in a little Spanish sauce, ornament the outsides with coloured glaze, arrange on a dish with an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley sprigs, and serve. The truffles and livers should be moistened with a little of the sauce before being put in the patties. (3) Put into a saucepan a little chopped shallot and garlic, a small quantity of sweet herbs rubbed to a powder, white and red pepper, salt, powdered mace, grated nutmeg, and a large lump of butter; as soon as the butter is melted, put in the Goose’s fat livers, using as many as required for the size of the pie, and toss them over the Are until they are cooked. Turn the whole into a mortar, and pound it well, adding the yolks of six or eight eggs to each pint of the mixture ; pound well again, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Line a mould with thin slices of larding-pork, taking care that there is no saltpetre in it, put in some of the mixture to about Jin. thick, place over some pieces of uncooked liver and slices of truffles, cover with another , layer of the mixture, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Cover over with a solid piece of larding-pork, put the pate into a pan half-full of cold water, and bake in a moderate oven for from one to two hours, according to its size. Lift up the cover. When the pate is taken out, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry or brandy, and serve. (4) Cut the fat livers into slices, put them in a stewpan with some sliced truffles and well-flavoured brown sauce, and stew gently at the side of the fire. Line some buttered patty-pans with puff paste, and fill them with uncooked rice; put a cover of paste over each, trim evenly round the edges, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake. When the patties are cooked, lift off the covers and empty out the rice. Fill the patties with the liver mixture, and replace the covers. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, garnish them with parsley, and serve. Potted Goose’s Fat Livers.—-(1) Finely chop 1 Jib. of Goose’s Fat Livers and Jib. of calf’s liver, put them in a mortar, pound until quite smooth, and pass them through a fine sieve. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan with the pounded livers, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes ; next mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, a few drops of rose-water, salt to taste, a small quantity of cayenne, and stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes longer; then put in a few chopped truffles and 1 teaspoonful of brandy. Let the mixture stew gently at the side of the fire until very thick, then pack it in small jars, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top. When cold, fill the jars up with clarified butter, tie them over with parchment, and keep in a dry cupboard. (2) Put a layer of forcemeat of fat livers at the bottom of a potting-pan, then a layer of slices of truffles, next a layer of livers also cut into slices, and season with spiced salt. Continue in this way until the pan is full, finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Cover the top over with a few slices of fat bacon, put a bay-leaf on the top, place the cover over the pan, and cook in the bain-marie. Take out when done, let it get quite cold, and it is then ready for serving. Potted Goose’s Fat Liver -with Jelly. — Take a jar or tin of Strasburg fat liver, and place it on the ice for two hours or so; then take off the fat from the top, and with an iron spoon dipped in hot water cut out the contents of the jar into oblong-shaped pieces, not too thick. Fill a border- mould with aspic jelly, and place it on the ice ; when it is quite firm, turn it out on to a dish. Place the pieces of fat liver in a pyramid shape in the centre of the border, and serve. Raised Pie of Goose's Fat Liver.—Line a raised pie-mould with light paste, place a layer of fat-liver forcemeat at the [ bottom, next a layer of truffles cut into slices, then one of fat livers also cut into slices, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Put a layer of paste over the top, pinch the edges together, place another layer of puff paste over ' Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. that, brush it over with egg, decorate it, make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Take it out, let it cool, then pour in a little meat jelly mixed with a little reduced essence of chicken, and cover the hole over with a small leaf or piece of paste. Put it on a dish, and serve. Great care must be taken to remove any parts of the livers that are in the slightest way tainted by the gall. Rissoles of Goose's Fat Liver. — Put G table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce into a flat saucepan with an equal quantity of brown sauce, and reduce them till thick. Add 4 table- Fig. 863. Rissoles of Goose's Fat Liver. spoonfuls of Madeira and about 3oz. of truffles, peeled and finely chopped. Stir well while it is reducing, and add gradu- ally a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. When this is done, take it off the fire and mix in lOoz. of fat liver, cooked and finely chopped. There should be only just suffi- cient of the sauce to thicken the mixture, for if it is too thin Fig. 864. Cutting out Rissoles of Goose’s Fat Liver. it would run out of the rissoles while cooking. Roll out ljlb. of short-paste on a board sprinkled with flour, form it into a square, and place small balls of the mixture at equal distances from one another over one-half of the paste (see Fig. 863). Damp between and around the balls, and lay the other half of the paste over all. Press with the fingers Fig. 865. Rissoles of Goose’s Fat Liver ready for Serving. between the balls, and then cut them out with a scalloped paste-cutter about 2Jin. in diameter (see Fig. 864). Dip the rissoles in egg-and-breadcrumb or pounded vermicelli, and fry in boiling fat until they are done. Drain them, arrange on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley and lemon. See Fig. 865.