528 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <5cc., referred to, see under their special heads. DRAWN BUTTER.—See Butter. DREAM CAKES.—See Cakes. DREDGERS.—Of these very useful utensils there should he at least three in each kitchen—one containing dry flour for pastry making; a second, dry flour and pow- dered salt, mixed—one part of salt to six of flour; a third, caster sugar for dressing pies. Other kinds containing coloured sugars are used by some confectioners. Dredgers are usually made of block-tin (see Fig. (168). DRESDEN -See Patties. PATTIES. DRESSING. —There are so many applications for this word that it would be im- FlG- 668- Dredger. possible to use it without some sort of qualification. Thus, we say, “ Salad-dress- ing,” dressing for a fowl, fish, joint, or fruit, signifying the preparation it has to undergo before being cooked. The term is also used to signify stuffing, or forcemeat. All these are described under their appropriate headings. DRIED PISH, FRUITS, &c. — See Fish, Fruits, &c. DRINKS.—See Beverages. DRINKING-VESSELS.—Of these it may be said that their name is legion; therefore, it would be im- possible here to do justice to a subject that has taken volumes to describe. Those of modern practical value, are described under special headings. DRIPPING.—By this term the hot fat that falls from roasting meats is referred to, of which there are as many varieties as roasts, the Dripping more or less partaking of the flavour of the article from which it drips. Beef Dripping is considered to be the best for cooking purposes, as the flavour of the meat is less objectionable in pastes; but ham Dripping makes a very good sweet cake. After the roasting is over, together with its accom- panying basting, the Dripping should be poured out of the Dripping-pan (see Roasting) through a strainer into clean jars, and as it is cooling much of the impurities will settle at the bottom with any meat juice that may be present. The Dripping should lie clarified before using, as follows : Put some Dripping into a saucepan, boil it over a slow fire for a few minutes, then skim it well and leave it till a little cooled. Put a small quantity of cold water in a jar, tie a piece of fine muslin over the top, and pour the Dripping through it. When cold and set, remove it out of the jar with the water, and put it into another jar. Whenever fresh Dripping is added to the jar, the jar should be placed in a moderate oven for a little time, so that all may be dissolved. Fresh Dripping should not be mixed with that which is already clarified, or the whole process must be gone over again. For frying, when fat is required in any quantity, clarified Dripping is generally used. Dripping Cake.—Rub 5oz. of Dripping in fib. of flour, and when smooth mix in 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, fib. of sultana raisins, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Work up these ingredients with a beaten egg and sufficient sour milk to form the whole into a light dough. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, put it at once into the oven, and bake for an hour. Turn the cake out of the tin before serving. Dripping Paste. -— For making this paste the hands and room in which it is made should be as cool as possible. Dripping—continued. For every pound of flour, use 6oz. of clarified Dripping and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Put the flour in a basin with the baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt, and then rub in the Dripping, broken up into small pieces. When it is well incorporated with the flour, and quite free from lumps, stir in gradually sufficient water to make a smooth stiff paste. Flour the paste-board and rolling-pin, and roll out the paste; then fold it over, and roll again. After repeating this operation three times in all, the paste is ready for use. Dripping Puddings.—(1) Warm 2oz. of Dripping and beat it until creamy; then mix with it 2oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. of flour, and two well-beaten eggs; add the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Butter some small cups, fill them with the mixture, and bake for lialf-an-honr. When cooked, turn the puddings out of the cups on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put i pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when hot put in 2oz. of clarified Dripping, and let it cool. When ready stir in 2oz. of flour, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in with the mixture, then add a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Butter some small tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for lialf-an-hour. Put a few table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly in a small saucepan with a teacupful of water, and make it hot. When cooked, turn the puddings out of their tins on to a hot dish, pour the currant sauce round them, and serve. DRIPPING-PANS.—The purposes for which these culinary utensils are required are associated with Basting and Roasting. They are the vessels which catch and collect the hot fat as it drips off roasting Fig. 669. Dripping-pan and Basting-ladle (Adams and Son). meat. In the centre (see Fig. 669), and sometimes at one corner, is a well with a perforated wall running- round the top, and fitted with a lid. As the fat collects in the well, it is convenient for basting, and keeps hot from its proximity to the fire. DROPS. —The name given to various sweets which will be found under their various headings. See Sugar- boiling. DROP BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. DROP CAKES.—See Cakes. DRYING. — This very necessary process depends upon the power of warmth to cause water to evaporate —that is, leave the substance containing it, and pass away as vapour. It is useful for hardening and pre- serving food such as bacon, ham, and fish, preparatory also to smoking. Confectionery, such as bonbons, lozenges, and other sweets, require drying, and for this purpose they are laid out on trays, and set in a warm chamber, fitted with ventilators; but any convenient place where there is the necessary warmth to produce the vapour and current of air to carry it off will answer every purpose. A great heat will dry the surface, but will harden it also before the internal moisture has time to exude. Dried herbs for winter use are prepared in this way, care being taken to induce a steady evaporation only; otherwise much of the essential oil which gives to them their characteristic aromatic properties will escape with the water. Drying- can be well effected if the articles to be dried are exposed to a hot sun. This is the process by which fruits are dried for exportation to our markets.