664 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling dripping. Serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. Game Cutlets.—(1) Cut the flesh from any cold cooked Game into dice. Soak -Joz. of gelatine for an-hour-and-a-half in a breakfast-cupful of water. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan; when it is hot, add 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix well until brown and quite smooth, add 1 pint of rich stock, one egg, four cloves, 1 table-spoonful of onion-juice, and salt and pepper to taste; simmer for ten minutes, and pour it over the Game. Return all to the pan and simmer for a- quarter-of-an-hour longer. Beat one egg in a basin, add it to the gelatine, stir it into the mixture, and remove from the fire at once. Put the pan into a larger one with cold water, so that it will cool, stirring well. Turn the mixture when cold into a shallow baking-dish, smoothing it to about tin. in thickness, and set it on the ice to get hard; cut it into cutlet shapes with a knife that has been dipped in water, then place the dish in another one of warm water to loosen the cutlets from the bottom. Prepare lqt. of Game forcemeat, cover the cutlets over with it, and return them to the ice again. Beat two eggs in a basin, remove the cutlets from the ice, and cover them over with the eggs and afterwards with breadcrumbs; put two or three at a time into a frying-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry for two minutes; take them out, drain, and put them on brown paper until drained. Stick a bone in the end of each Fig. 823. Game Cutlet. (see Fig. 823), garnish it with a paper frill, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, and serve with parsley. (2) Take any cooked or uncooked Game, the latter for preference, cut it into large pieces, remove the bones, egg the pieces over first, and then cover with breadcrumbs; put them over a brisk fire, and broil; or fry them in butter. When done, pile them on a dish, pour over a little lemon- juice, and serve with gravy (made with the trimmings and bones) poured round. Game Forcemeat.—Take any cold cooked Game, remove all the flesh from the bones, weigh it, and for every pound of meat add 4oz. of fat bacon, a little shallot, capers, a few leaves of tarragon, and a little lemon-peel, all finely minced. Put some crumb of bread into a basin with a little milk ; when it has absorbed sufficient of it, take it out and squeeze dry, adding it to the mixture with the yolks of three eggs. Sprinkle over pepper to taste, and mix in the whites of three eggs whipped to a froth. It is then ready for use. If unsalted bacon is used, very little dried salt must be added. Game Glaze.—Bone about 31b. each of fillet of veal, knuckle of veal, and gravy-beef; fasten each round securely with string, put them into a stockpot with three partridges, plucked, drawn and singed, and two skinned and cleaned rabbits. Pour over 5qts. of stock, bring it to the boil, add a seasoning of Jib. each of carrots, leeks, and onions, together with a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until all the meat is thoroughly cooked. Remove the meat from the pot, strain the liquor through a cloth into a glazing-stewpan, place it on the fire, and boil until it is reduced to one-third its original quantity, then pour it into a bowl. Leave it for a day, scrape off the surface to about Jin. in depth, take out the clear glaze, leaving the sediment at the bottom, put it back into the glazing-stewpan, and boil over a quick fire until it is reduced to the thickness of Spanish sauce, taking care to stir con- tinually. Pour it into a basin, and it is then ready for use. None of the ingredients need be wasted, for the meat can be used as hash or fricassee, or any other desired way, and the trimmings of the glaze for preparing stock. Game—continued. Game Gravy for Mutton.—Pluck and draw a very high woodcock or snipe, cut it in pieces, together with its entrails (with the bag taken out), put it in a saucepan with sufficient plain and unseasoned meat-gravy to a little more than cover, and simmer gently for several hours ; then strain, and serve. This gravy if used for mutton that has been kept for some time will give it a strong venison flavour. Game Pie.—(1) Rub 4oz. of butter into 12oz. of flour, and make it into a paste by adding one egg, half of which may be beaten up with water sufficient to make the paste firm and consistent. Knead it thoroughly, and cut off a piece about the size of a large apple to form the lid of the Fig. 821. Raised-pie Moulds (Adams and Son). pie. Butter a raised-pie mould (see Fig. 824), line it with the paste, pressing it into shape, and cut it round at the top, leaving about Jin. above the mould. Clean and wash any Game, such as grouse, partridge, pheasant, or hare, cut them up, and take out all the bones; chop up the hearts and livers, mix in lib. of sausage-meat and 2oz. of bread- crumbs, blend all together, working with the hand, and adding pepper and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, put a layer of it at the bottom of the mould, then half of a bird, and sprinkle it over with 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper and J salt- spoonful of grated nutmeg ; cover with another layer of the sausage-meat, together with a few halves of truffles and square pieces of cooked ox-tongue, then another half bird, and continue in this order until the mould is quite full. Damp the edges of the crust with a wet paste-brush, cover over with the paste lid, press the edges together to anneal them, trim round the edge, decorate the top with paste leaves or flowers, brush over with egg, make a hole in the centre, and put the pie in a moderate oven for about an-hour-and-a-half. Put the bones in a small saucepan with a little water or bi-oth, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half, that is, whilst the pie is baking; strain this gravy, and pour it into the pie, when it is done, through a funnel inserted into the hole ; remove the mould shape, and when the pie is cold, take off the lid, fill it up with chopped aspic jelly, put it on a dish, garnish with more of the jelly, and serve. (2) Bone some Game, such as partridges, woodcocks, and snipe, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, and lard all the breast pieces with thin fillets of fat bacon. Partially boil the livers of the birds, then chop them, put them in a mortar with an equal quantity each of bacon and lean cooked veal, also chopped, and pound the whole until smooth, adding about 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs moistened with clear stock, a small quantity of partially-boiled and chopped onion, and loz. of butter. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, then work in with it sufficient beaten yolks of eggs to bind it. Butter the interior of a raised pie-mould, line it with short-paste, crimp the edges at the top, mask all round and at the bottom with thin rashers of bacon, fill up with the pieces of Game, truffles cooked in white wine, mushrooms cooked in lemon-juice, and fill up the spaces with the forcemeat. Cover the pie with paste, make a hole in the centre, put a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and bake for about four hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour in through the hole at the top of the pie some liquid aspic jelly, and carefully