TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 572 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 4-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Elder —continued. liquor put into a cask lib. of chopped raisins, and pour the wine over them, straining it to remove all the flowers. On the following day fix the bung tightly in the cask and keep it in a cool cellar for six months before bottling. (3) Free the flowers from stalks, measure them, and for each quart allow lgall of water and 31b. of loaf sugar. Put the sugar and water in a pan, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an- hour; then pour the boiling liquor over the flowers, and let them work for three days. At the end of that time strain the wine throug'h a fine hair sieve and pour it into a cask. For every 5galls. put in {oz. of isinglass dissolved in cider, and three whole eggs, bung down tightly, and leave for six months. At the end of that time, draw it off into bottles and cork tightly. Keep them in a cool cellar until wanted. Pickled Elder-tops.—Lop off the tops of some young Elder- tree sprouts (about the middle of April is the best time), put them first into boiling water and then plunge them into vinegar with a little pepper and salt; when they are well blanched, bottle, and they are ready for use. Preserved Elderberries.—Put some green grapes into a pan on the stove, and let them heat very gently till the pulp can be freed from pips and skins by rubbing through a coarse hair sieve ; weigh this pulp, and to each pound add 31b. of Elder- berries, and to each pound of the combined pulp allow lib. of sugar. Put fruit and sugar together into a preserving-pan, and simmer gently till it begins to get thick, taking off all the scum. Let it cool slightly, put it into glass jars, and cover it so that the air is excluded. ELECTION CAKE.—See Cakes. ELECTUARIES.—These are medicaments mixed up with honey, sugar, or syrup to a thick paste. In some pharmacopoeias they are confounded with confections and conserves, but this is considered incorrect, as in the latter class the sugar is added in much larger proportions, in order to preserve the vegetable matter which constitutes their base. In Electuaries, sugar is used merely to bind the materials together that they may be worked into shape. The word itself is derived from a verb signifying to “ lick ”—these medicines being usually “ licked ” away. See Confections. ELVA.—This is the name of a favourite Turkish pudding, which is prepared as follows: Put lib. of butter in a stewpan over the fire; when some- what browned, sprinkle in gradually Jib. of semolina, and cook until it is browned also; boil lib. of loaf sugar in J pint of milk; blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, split them lengthwise in halves, and mix them in with the semolina; pour the boiling milk over slowly, and stir at the side of the fire until reduced to a thick paste. Binse out a mould with cold water, pour in the mixture, and keep it in a cool place. When set and cold, turn the pudding on to a dish, and serve. EMULSIONS.—These are preparations of the nature of milk, being formed by the mechanical admixture of oil and water by means of some other substance that possesses the power of combining with both. The “ British Pharmacopoeia” prescribes a variety of medicinal Emul- sions, none of which can be consistently described in a book on Cookery; but there are other Emulsions frequently prepared almost unconsciously by the cook, such as in mixing liaisons, salad-dressings, or making butter sauce (melted butter), which are duly described under their various headings. The two following are worthy of special notice, the one as a pleasant nutritive vehicle for un- pleasant medicines, such as castor or cod-liver oil; and the other as the most nutritious and readily-digested food that can be given to an infant or invalid. Emulsion of Almonds.—(1) Beat up in a mortar 2oz. of blanched almonds until they are a smooth paste, adding a little water during the pounding to prevent the almonds oiling ; work in gradually 1 pint of water, and strain through a piece of gauze. This may be sweetened by stirring in 2oz. of caster sugar, either flavoured or plain. (2) Take 3 teaspoonfuls of the oil of almonds and 1 table- spoonful each of thick mucilage and syrup; rub these together, Emulsions—continued. adding by degrees 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water and sufficient distilled water to make | pint. This can be used by con- fectioners as almond-milk. Nutritive Emulsion.—Take lib. of raw meat, dither beef or mutton, free from skin, gristle, or fat, and chop it very fine, or pass it twice through a mincing-machine. Pound in a marble mortar two or three blanched sweet almonds, half a bitter almond, and 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar ; when this is being pounded, drop in the meat little by little until it is all thoroughly incorporated. The paste will be rose- coloured and smell very tempting. With this sufficient water may be stirred to convert it into a delicious drink. For elderly persons this can be made still more nourishing by mixing the raw yolks of two eggs in milk and adding that instead of water. For infants the almonds may be omitted, and a little of the uncooked white of egg added. Should a more stimulating food be prescribed, the addition of half or a whole glass of white or port wine may be added. ENDIVE (Fr. Chicoree; Ger. Endivie; Ital. Indivia; S_p. Endibia). — Continental cooks use very large Fig. 713. Broad-leaved Endive. quantities of this plant (Cichorium Endivia) in their salads to give lettuce and other things with which it may be mixed a pungency of flavour that is exceedingly palatable. Into English salads Endive is gradually finding its way, and one variety is probably often eaten for lettuce. There are three kinds known to cooks: the broad-leaved or Batavian (see Fig. 713), known in France as the Escarole; the curly-leaved (see Fig. 714); and the wild Fig. 714. Curly-leaved Endive. (see Barbe de Capucine). Endive is sometimes cooked and served with poultry as a vegetable. Endive Salad.—(1) Well wash two heads of Endive in several waters, and when perfectly free from worms and grit, put them on to a strainer and drain off the water. Cut them up into small pieces with a head of celery, also thoroughly cleaned. Put 1 teaspoonful each of mustard and pepper, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a little salt into a basin, and work them all to a paste, adding a small quantity of cayenne (if not objected to), 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 6 table-spoonfuls of cream, adding the two latter by degrees, and mixing well. Put the salad on a salad-dish, surround it with slices of beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and pickled gherkins, pour over the dressing, and serve. (2) Pare off the green leaves from two heads of white Endive and cut away the roots, wash thoroughly, drain well on a napkin, place them in a salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper diluted with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and add