534 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Ducks—continued. a button-mushroom on it in the centre (see Fig. 675), and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce, and the saveloys cut in slices on a separate dish. Fillets of Duckling’s served with Green Peas. -(1) Eoast two or three Ducklings in front of a clear fire for twenty minutes, basting frequently. Boil 1J pints of green peas, and when tender strain off the water. Mash lib. or so of boiled potatoes, put them into a border-mould, poach in the bain-marie for a few minutes, and then turn them out on to a hot dish. Cut as many thin croutons of bread as fillets, and fry them in butter till browned. When the Duck- lings are cooked, cut off the fillets, trim them, and arrange alternately with the croutons on the border of potatoes. Strain the gravy that has run from the Ducklings into the stewpan with the peas, put in 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and a little salt, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Beat the yolk of an egg with J teacupful of cream or milk, then mix it in with the sauce, and stir by the side of the fire till thick. The sauce must not boil after the egg is added. Heap the peas in the centre of the dish, and serve. (2) Boast and fillet Ducklings as for No. 1, score the skin, arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, fill the centre with plain-boiled green peas, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Fillets of Duckling with Macedoine of Vegetables.— Boast four Ducklings, basting them frequently. Cook separately in white stock, with a little sugar, equal quanti- ties of button-onions, carrots, and turnips, the carrots and turnips being cut into balls the size of the onions ; stew some cabbage in broth till tender, and then drain and press it almost dry. The vegetables must not be overdone, or they would break in the dressing. Butter a large, plain, oval mould, line it with buttered paper, put a row of the onions round the bottom, then a row of carrots, next a row of turnips, and so on till the top of the mould is reached; then fill the hollow with the stewed cabbage, stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and place it over the fire till wanted for serving. Cut off the fillets from the Ducklings when cooked, and trim them neatly. Turn the vegetable-shape out of the mould on to a hot dish, arrange the fillets in the form of a crown on the top, fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables, and serve. Fried Fillets of Ducklings a la Bigarade.—Pour 2| break- fast-cupfuls of brown sauce into a stewpan, with half that quantity of white stock; cut off. the fillets from one or two Ducklings, put the bones into the sauce, and boil till reduced to half-glaze. Cut the thinly-pared rind of an orange into small pieces and blanch for five minutes. Trim the fillets of the Ducklings, put them into a buttered saute-pan, and fry over a slow fire, keeping them white. Strain the sauce, put in the orange-peel, stir and boil for a few minutes, and then squeeze in the juice of the orange. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the fillets in the centre, pour over the sauce, and serve very hot. Roasted Ducklings.—(1) Draw and wash inwardly two fat Ducklings, and put a small bunch of herbs inside.; singe them, twist the legs over the drumsticks, truss, and roast them on a spit in front of a good fire for twenty-five minutes, basting with clarified butter, and dredging a little flour and salt For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ducks—continued. over them just before they are taken up. Dish, garnish with cooked trufiles and mushrooms, and serve with a sauce- boatful of rich gravy. See Fig. 676. (2) American.—Singe, draw, and wipe a Duckling weighing 31b. or 311b., then stuff it with forcemeat, place it in a roasting- pan with Joz. of butter, sprinkle with salt, and cook in the oven for forty minutes, basting occasionally. Lay the bird on a dish and untruss it ; skim the fat off the liquor, add 1 teacupful of white broth, let it come to a boil, then strain it over the bird, and garnish with fried hominy. Roasted Duckling with. Apple Sauce.—Prepare and truss a tender Duckling of about 3Jlb. weight, place it in a roasting- pan, spread over Joz. of butter and 1 pinch of salt, put it in a brisk oven, and cook for thirty minutes, basting occasionally with its own liquor. Place it on a hot dish and untruss it; skim the fat off the liquor in the pan, pour in 1 teacupful of broth, let it come to the boil, then strain it over the Duck, garnish with watercress, and serve with hot apple sauce in a sauceboat. Roasted Duckling with Onion Stuffing.—(1) Pluck and singe a Duckling, wipe it with a wet towel, cut off the head and feet, and draw it without breaking the intestines. Wash two large bunches of spring onions, cut them into Jin. lengths, put them into boiling salted water, boil for five minutes, and then drain them; add to the onions an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Stuff the Duckling with this, truss it, put it into a roasting-pan just large enough to hold it, and set it in a very hot oven, or roast it before the fire. When it is brown, season with salt and pepper, and baste it with the drippings in the pan. Bake the Duckling for about lialf-an-hour, or until it is done, then put it on a hot dish. Set the pan over the fire, stir into the drippings 1 piled table-spoonful of flour, and when this is brown add 1 pint of boiling water ; season the gravy thus made with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and then serve it with the Duckling. The Duckling may be served with a garnish of watercress, or with apple sauce, or pickled apples. (2) Boil five small onions for ten minutes, then strain, and chop them very fine; add 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, a small quantity of sage, mustard, pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of melted butter. Stuff a Duckling with this, and roast it before a quick fire for lialf-an-hour, basting continually. Dish it, and pour over some gravy made from the drippings of the Duckling, adding to it the juice of half a lemon; or the gravy may be mixed with J pint of beef stock and 1 teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, with a little roux added to thicken it, and served in a boat. (3) Singe, draw, and prepare a fat Duckling, chop up its liver and crop with an equal quantity of bacon, add 1 pinch of chopped onion, a little chopped parsley, 1 good-sized table- spoonful of breadcrumbs, 1 pinch of sage-leaves, and J salt- spoonful each of salt and pepper, mixing all with the yolk of one egg. Stuff the bird with this, truss it, put it on a spit, and roast for twenty-five or thirty minutes, basting continu- ally with butter; sprinkle over a little salt, take it from the fire, remove the skewers and strings, and dish. Garnish with lemons cut in halves, and serve with a rich brown gravy in a sauceboat. Roasted Ducklings with Orange Sauce. -Pluck, draw, and singe two Ducklings, and chop the livers, hearts, and gizzards. Grate the rind of two oranges, and squeeze out the juice ; mix the minced liver, &c., with the grated orange-peel, add an equal bulk of breadcrumbs softened with cold water, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Ducklings with this, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads.