TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 626 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. % wineglassful of sherry wine, and add a quarter of a bunch 1 of well-washed green tarragon-leaves. Cook for twenty minutes longer, arrange them on a hot dish, and garnish with | six croutons of fried bread. Fowl Saute a la Regence.— Singe, draw, and dry two j chickens, cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Season with salt and pepper, add % wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, then put the lid on, and simmer for six minutes. Moisten with pint of velout£ sauce and J breakfast-cupful of mush- room liquor. Cook for ten minutes, put in two truffles cut | into small pieces, six mushrooms, a small sweetbread, and I loz. of cooked, smoked ox-tongue, all finely chopped. Con- tinue cooking for ten minutes, then take the pan from the fire and mix in slowly the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon ; while adding the yolks, toss the pan over the fire until the gravy is thick. Put paper j ruffles at the ends of the wings and legs of the chickens, and serve. Fowl Saute with Tarragon.—Cut a raw Fowl into small | pieces, and season them with salt and pepper. Pick the leaves off a small bunch of tarragon, put the stalks in a saucepan with ^ pint of clear gravy, and boil for twenty minutes ; blanch the leaves. Put some olive oil in a saute- pan, and when boiling put in the pieces of Fowl, and toss them about until cooked and browned. Strain the gravy from the tarragon-stalks, and mix the leaves with it. Arrange the pieces of Fowl on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve without delay. The oil should be drained as much as possible off the pieces of Fowl before they are dished. Fowl in Savoury Jelly.— Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it, taking care not to break the intestines, cut off the head and feet, and divide it in four or five pieces so that it can be packed closely in a saucepan. Cover it with hot water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, cover the saucepan closely, and boil until the bones can easily be taken out, always taking care that there is broth enough to prevent burning. After the bones have been removed from the chicken, put it into a tin or earthen mould, or an ordinary dish of suitable size, from which it can be turned when cold; strain the broth, return it to the saucepan, place it over the fire, and dissolve gelatine in it, allowing ^oz. of gelatine to lqt. of broth. Soften the gelatine in enough cold water to cover it while the chicken is being boiled, and then by stirring it with the hot broth for a few minutes it will entirely dissolve. Season the broth with salt and a very little cayenne, and pour it over the chicken in the mould; as soon as it is quite cold, it can be turned out of the mould and sliced as required. Any acid jelly or spicy pickle makes a good garnish. Cranberry jelly is excellent with it. Fowl Soup,—(1) Pluck, singe, and draw an old bird, stuff it with a large lump of fat bacon, sew up the neck and vent, truss it, flour it well, tie it up in a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with sufficient warm water to nearly cover; add two onions and one carrot, cut into slices, and a couple of cloves, cover over the pan securely, bring the water slowly to the boil, and then simmer for three hours or so, according to the size and age of the bird. Take it out, remove the cloth, put it into a bowl, cover it completely with any desired sauce, and let it remain for a day. Break it up into pieces, put it back into the saucepan with the liquor, add 1 break- fast-cupful of well-washed rice, a small turnip cut into pieces, and a blade of mace, and boil slowly for a couple of hours ; rub as much as possible through a sieve, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, wash them in warm water, put them into a saucepan with a good supply of veal broth and a bunch of parsley, and boil until tender. Take them out, strain the broth into a basin, and soak two rolls in it. Cut off all the meat from the Fowls, removing the skin, gristle, &c., chop it up fine, put it into a mortar with the rolls, add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and pound them to a smooth paste; add this to the broth, pass it through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add lqt. of rich cream, make the soup hot without boiling, pour it into a tureen, and serve at once. Fowls—continued. (3) Put into a soup-pot a Fowl with the skin and fat taken off, two chickens skinned (a boiled cow-heel cut into pieces may be substituted for the two chickens), a knuckle of veal, a peeled onion, a peeled and washed turnip, a scraped and washed carrot, a small quantity of whole white pepper, and a little salt, and boil these in 3qts. of water. When the birds are tender, take them up and cut them into joints. Strain the soup, put the pieces of chicken into it, and place it over the fire, but do not let it boil. Beat up the yolks of nine eggs, mix with them gradually 1 table-spoonful of well-boiled rice and 1 pint of cream, and stir it gradually into the soup, continuing to stir till it is very hot. Take it from the fire and pour it into the tureen before it boils, as if it is allowed to boil after the chicken is put in and the eggs and cream added, it will be completely spoiled. (4) Blanch |lb. of sweet almonds. Take all the meat off three cold roasted Fowls, and pound it in a mortar with the almonds, moistening them while pounding with a little cream. When the almonds and meat of the Fowls are finely pounded, mix with them lgall. of well-seasoned cold beef stock, set it over the fire, boil up, and then strain it. Just before pouring it into the tureen, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and serve. (5) " Cut up 21b. of veal or lamb and the flesh of a chicken, put them iiffo a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil. Skim clear; adu two onions cut in slices, and two small grated carrots, seasoning with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt and 1 of pepper. Boil gently for nearly two hours, then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and the same of flour, worked together, and cover the pan for fifteen minutes. Serve the soup strained into a tureen. Place the chicken-meat in a deep dish, add butter and pepper to it, and serve, garnished with sprigs of parsley. The meat may be made into balls and added to the soup, but it must be chopped fine, and mixed up with 1 table- spoonful each of butter and flour, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, adding one beaten egg to form a mass. (6) Clean and wash two Fowls, cut them into joints, trim off all the skin, put them with their gizzards and livers into a saucepan, and pour 2qts. of cold water over them. When boiling, skim the liquor, season to taste with salt and pepper, and move it to the side of the fire. After it has been simmering for half-an-hour, put in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and simmer for half-an-hour longer. Beat four eggs, and when the Fowls are tender, stir the eggs quickly one way in the soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve imme- diately. If liked, the crumb of a roll can be soaked in a little of the broth, and the soup then poured over it. Fowl Soup a la Creole.—Prepared as for Fowl Soup a la Hollandaise, adding half a chopped green pepper, loz. of lean raw ham, cut in small pieces, and five minutes before serving putting one sliced tomato in the soup. Fowl Soup a la Hollandaise.—Cut about a quarter of a chicken into small pieces, and slice half an onion; brown these well together for ten minutes in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and moisten with 3 pints of consomme ; add 3 table- spoonfuls of raw rice, ^ table-spoonful of salt, a very little red pepper, and a bouquet garni. Boil thoroughly for twenty minutes, remove the bouquet, and serve. Fowl Soup a la Polonaise.—Put 12oz. of pearl barley in a saucepan with lqt. of warm water and a little salt, and boil over a slow fire until cooked, adding more warm water when required. Put three chickens into a saucepan, pour in 4qts. of white broth, and boil them until tender. When the barley is soft, drain off all the water, put a lump of butter in the saucepan, and mash it with the back of a spoon. Strain the liquor in which the Fowls were cooked through a fine hair sieve, then pour it gradually in with the barley, and boil again. Cut off the meat from the chickens, trim it, put it in a soup-tureen with some boiled vegetables cut into small pieces, pour in the soup and barley, dust in a small quantity of either chopped parsley or fennel, and serve. Fowl Soup a la Portugaise.—Prepare the soup as for Fowl Soup a la Hollandaise, adding 1 pint of finely-chopped cooked vegetables five minutes before serving. Fowl Soup a la Reine.—Prepare a soup with two Fowls and a knuckle of veal; strain it, and put it back into the saucepan to boil. In the meantime, cut off the fillets from two Fowls, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook.