644 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <f c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, F owls—continu ed. Fowl’s-Liver Stuffing for Birds. — Chop .Vlb. of fat Fowl’s Livers into small pieces, and put them in a frying-pan with two finely-chopped shallots, 2oz. of fat ham also chopped, a little thyme, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a small lump of butter. Toss it about over the fire till partly cooked, then take it off, and leave it till cold. Pound in a mortar, and it is then ready for use. Terrine of Fowl’s Livers.—Put four or five large truffles, peeled and cut into dice, in a basin with 6oz. of cooked, fat bacon, also cut into dice, and the livers of ten or twelve fat Fowls ; sprinkle salt, spices, and powdered sweet herbs over them, and 1 table-spoonful of Madeira. Cut half a calf’s | liver in thin slices, fry it in a little melted bacon-fat with 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots and the trimmings of the truffles, and sprinkle pepper and salt over them. When the slices of liver are well set, pour in 1 teacupful of Madeira; keep it on the fire for two or three minutes, then take it | off. When cool, pound the liver. Chop and pound an equal quantity of fat bacon, mix it with the pounded liver, season well with pepper, salt, and mixed spices, and pass all through a sieve. Line a terrine at the bottom and all round the sides with thin slices of fat bacon, spread over some of the liver forcemeat, fill the dish with the livers, truffles, and bacon, and alternate layers of the forcemeat, put some thin rashers of bacon on the top, put on the lid, stand it in a baking-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, basting occasionally with the fat that runs over into the baking-dish underneath. When cooked, take the terrine out, take off the lid, put a wooden weight on the top, and let it cool. When ready to serve, turn the preparation out of the terrine, and cut it up. Clean the terrine, put it on a dish, fill it with the cut-up pieces again, arranging them so that they come dome-shaped to the top, and arrange tastefully round it some croutons of aspic jelly. FRANGIPANE.—The usually recognised term for this is “ creme Frangipane,” a pasty cream, as being a cream flavoured with Frangipane, an extract of the Frangipane plumeria; and although the original flavouring may have been changed for others, such as vanilla, almond, and pistachios, Frangipane continues to be the title of the cream. The following receipts have been contributed from a very reliable source: (1) Beat four eggs in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 pint of cream. When well mixed, add a little sugar and salt. Rasp a lump of sugar on the rind of a lemon, scraping it into the mixture. Place the pan on a slow fire, and stir continually to prevent the contents sticking to the | pan. Let it remain for fifteen minutes, add a dozen each of | blanched sweet and bitter almonds, previously pounded in a mortar with a little water, and stir well. The Frangipane is then ready, and is generally used for cakes, custards, tarts, &c. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan with loz. of sugar, and boil it; then mix in loz. of flour mixed up j with another ounce of sugar, stir well, and cook for about five minutes. Add ljoz. of butter and one egg slightly beaten, I stir well again, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover over with the lid, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Let the mixture cool, add a little flavouring of essence of lemon, and it is then ready for use. Frangipane Flawn.—Blanch 6oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, finely shred them, and mix them with some Fran- gipane. Prepare |lb. of puff paste, roll it out about lOin. or llin. in diameter, gather up the sides with the hands, making Frangipane—continued. them 2in. in height, and crimp them, and lay the paste in a greased flawn ring. Cut some small fancy-shaped ornaments out of some of the same paste, and if the ring is not used decorate the side of the flawn with it, externally, moistening with a little water to make them adhere. Bind some buttered paper carefully round the flawn, fill it with the Frangipane and almonds, setting half-almonds over the surface, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, remove the paper, sprinkle the paste with water, then dredge it well with caster sugar, and glaze it under a salamander. Serve either hot or cold on an ornamental dish-paper on a dish (see Fig. 793). Frangipane Paste.—(1) Put Jib. of flour into a basin, add sufficient milk to moisten it, turn it into a saucepan over a slow fire, and beat it well until mixed. Turn it back into the basin, and work in six well-beaten eggs, stirring well with the hand until it is nearly cold. It is then ready for use. It is a capital paste for all kinds of tartlets. (2) Moisten tjlb. of flour with a small quantity of milk, and stir it over the fire till pretty hot; then remove it from the fire, stir in six or seven eggs, and continue to stir till the paste is cold enough to be worked with the hand. Frangipane Paste made with Potatoes. — Steam some potatoes, peel them, pound them in a mortar, beat into them eggs and butter according to the quantity of potatoes, and flavour with salt, pounded bitter macaroons, a little grated citron, and sugar. The sugar may be omitted. Frangipane Shape.—Crush three or four macaroons, put them in a basin, and mix with them 3oz. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, and three well-beaten eggs. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, set it on the fire until on the point of boiling, then stir it gradually into the above ingredients. Turn the mixture into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but do not let it boil, or the eg'gs will curdle. Take the mixture off the fire, flavour it with a few drops of any kind of essence, turn it into a mould, leave it until cooled, then pack it in ice until wanted to serve. Frangipane Tartlets.—Peel and blanch 3oz. of almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound them to a paste with 3oz. of sugar, adding one egg. Mix in 2oz. of warmed butter, j table- spoonful of ground cinnamon, six drops of orange-flower water, another egg, and 1 wineglassful of rum, and stir well for ten minutes. Have ready six tartlet-moulds lined with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. When done, put them to cool, and glaze the surfaces with thin syrup and rum. Arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve. FRANKFORT PUDDING.—See Puddings. FRANKFORT QUENELLES.—See Quenelles. FRANKFORT SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. FRASCATI CAKE.—See Cakes. FREEZERS AND FREEZING. —The range and variation of temperature included in culinary processes extend from freezing to incineration; that is, virtually, from the lowest to the highest degree to which culinary ingredients can be subjected without destruction or anni- hilation. Under this heading attention is drawn to the lower temperature, which is, as all the world knows, accountable for some of the luxuries of the table. See Ices. The art of Freezing has occupied the attention of confectioners for many years, with the result that the process has been brought to perfection. Freezing renders fluids solid by converting their watery particles into ice. This, however, can only be done by subjecting the mass to a temperature some degrees below the freezing-point of water, and it may be effected through the influence of freezing-mixtures which give a lower temperature than ice (32deg. Fahr., Odeg. Cent.), or by evaporation. A little alcoholic perfume spread over the forehead causes a refreshing coldness by its rapid evaporation, and upon this principle machines have been invented which, for the manufacture of ice, have given satis-