THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 714 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gravies—continued. of some other starchy material; but for all ordinary purposes, so far as bona fide roasted meats are concerned, the plain Gravy is mostly preferred upon our English tables. Gravies made without Meat (an maigre).—To the vegetarian these Gravies are of the first importance; as flavourings they are useful for many purposes where it is difficult to get Gravy stock and there is no yield from the meat. (1) Cut a large onion into slices, dust over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter or lard, and brown them; then put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful each of beer or ale and water, add 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup and a little grated lemon-peel, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Cover over the saucepan, and simmer slowly at the side of the fire for about twenty minutes. Pass the liquor through a sieve into a basin, let it get cold, remove the fat or scum, and it is ready for use. (2) Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till browned; then put in 2 table-spoonfuls each of walnut pickle, mushroom pickle, and mushroom ketchup, two sliced onions, two skinned and boned anchovies, two or three blades of mace, and five or six whole peppercorns ; next pour in 1 pint each of water and mild ale, and stir over the fire till on the point of boiling ; then move the stewpan a little to the side, and let the contents cook for twenty minutes. Before serving, the Gravy should be strained. (3) Chop rather small a few carrots, turnips, onions, and a little celery, put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and brown them ; pour in sufficient liquor from boiled beans or peas to moisten, season well with salt and pepper, and boil until the vegetables are done and tender. Pass the whole through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. (4) Put | pint of ale, not very bitter, into a saucepan, add | pint of water, 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom and walnut pickle and mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of salt, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, an onion cut in slices, an anchovy, and some browned butter and flour. Set the saucepan over the fire, and boil all together for twenty minutes, and then strain. Thick Gravies (Jus lies).—We are indebted to the French for these elaborations of Gravies, some of which are very commendable, but others mere attempts to destroy or swamp the natural flavour of the meat with a rich sauce. Thick Gravy with Anchovies (Jus lie aux Anchois).— Put 1^ teacupfuls of brown sauce with 1 teacupful of broth and 1 table-spoonful of Gravy into a saucepan over a clear fire, and when they boil stir in 2oz. of anchovy butter. The liquor should not boil after the butter is added. This Gravy sauce should be served at once. Thick Gravy with Cucumbers (Jus lie aux Concombres). —Peel and split three large cucumbers, cutting the fillets into short lengths. Place a lump of butter in a saucepan over the fire; when melted, put in the cucumbers, with 1 tea- spoonful of sugar and 1 pinch of chopped onions; turn the cucumbers about on the fire till tender and slightly coloured, then take out, and lay them on a cloth. Put into another saucepan 2j breakfast-cupfuls of half-glaze and f breakfast- cupful of broth, and reduce till it coats the spoon, then put in the cucumbers, and boil for two minutes, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Thick Gravy (Jus lie) with Curry.—Peel and cut in slices a carrot, a turnip, two apples, and one large or two small onions; put them in a saucepan with three or four slices of lean ham, a blade of mace, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, two cloves, a little parsley, and about loz. of butter. Stand the saucepan on a slow fire, and stir the contents till slightly browned; then mix up well with them 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, pour in \ pint of good broth and nearly 1 pint of half-glaze, and boil all together; then strain through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put it on the fire, and reduce till it sticks to the spoon, skimming occasionally. Mix with it a little sugar and cayenne, pour it into a saucoboat, and ■serve. Gravies—continued. Thick Gravy with Fine Herbs (Jus lie aux Fines Herbes).—Chop up small one large onion, put it in a saucepan with a pat of butter, and stir over the fire till lightly coloured; then put in 2§- breakfast-cupfuls of half- glaze and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, and boil till reduced to two-thirds; then skim it well, stir in 1 table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, 1 pinch of sugar, and a little cayenne, and boil for five minutes. When about to serve squeeze in the strained juice of half a lemon. Thick Gravy with Olives (Jus lie aux Olives). — Fry 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped onions in a saucepan with a little salad-oil till lightly coloured, then mix with them 1 teaspoonful of port wine, 18 teaspoonfuls of half-glaze, and 6 teaspoonfuls of broth ; skim, and boil it till reduced two-thirds. Turn and stone twenty large olives, leaving them about their original shapes but smaller, put them in the saucepan with a little sugar, and boil for two minutes. The sauce is then ready for serving. Thick Gravy (Jus lie) Stock.—This is Spanish sauce in a diminutive form, and is prepared as follows : Cut from 41b. to 61b. of shoulder of veal into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan; place the pan on the fire, and fry the contents lightly, stirring occasionally with a spoon for from twelve to fifteen minutes; add a large carrot and two onions cut in slices, and continue the cooking for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer ; then add 2 pints of broth, put the lid on the pan, and reduce to a glaze, taking care not to let it burn; now add 6qts. or 8qts. of boiling broth and | pint of white wine; skim well, and as soon as it begins to boil remove it to the side of the fire. Put in a ham-bone, a fowl coloured in the oven, and a few chicken giblets, cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of- parsley and sweet herbs. When the meat is about three- quarters cooked, skim off the fat from the liquor, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed with a little cold water to thicken it. Boil for lialf-an-hour longer, skim, and strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, boil up again, put it at the side of the fire, and let it clarify for twenty-five minutes or so, adding occasionally a few table-spoonfuls of good broth. Skim it again, pour it into a basin, and let it get cold, occasionally stirring it. Thick Gravy with Truffles (Jus lie aux Truffles).—For this the French preserved truffles may be used. Put 10 table- spoonfuls of consomme and double the quantity of half-glaze into a saucepan, and reduce until it becomes again half- glaze ; then add six of the above truffles cut in slices and a little sugar, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, simmer gently for ten minutes, and it will then be quite ready to serve. Thick Gravy with Turnips (Jus lie aux petits Navets). —Peel, wash, and dry four large turnips, cut them in rounds, using a scoop about double the size of a pea. Put a little moist sugar in a saucepan, and place it on the fire till it melts and becomes slightly coloured; then put in loz. of butter and the turnips, and brown them slightly over a slow fire. Place in another saucepan breakfast-cupfuls of half- glaze and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, put in the turnips, and simmer at the side of the fire till the turnips are done, skimming occasionally. Add more seasoning if required. Turn all into a sauceboat, and serve. Gravies for Special Purposes.—Although a good compound Gravy may he considered good enough for auy dish, there are some cooks who like to prepare special Gravies for certain dishes ; but with the following very few exceptions these partake so decidedly of the character of sauces that many of them will be found under that head. Gravy for Cutlets. — Work 1 teaspoonful of flour smooth with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold plain Gravy, and when the pan in which the cutlets have been cooked has been thoroughly drained of fat, pour it in, and stir over the fire until it gets thick ; add a little Worcestershire or Harvey sauce, and serve. Gravy for Roasted Beef.—When the meat is quite roasted, put it on a plate and keep it hot while making the Gravy. Hold the corner of the dripping-pan over a bowl; let the liquid in the pan settle, then pour off all the fat into the bowl and save it. When no water is used in baking, and