608 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Fowls—continued. Blanquette of Fowls a la Talleyrand.—Pluck two Fowls, singe and draw them, and truss them for roasting; fasten some strips of bacon round them, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire, but without browning them. When cooked, unwrap them, cut off the whole fillets, trim off the skin, and cut them into collops. Wash twelve heads of endive, scald and chop them, put them in a stewpan, cover with chicken-broth, put a round of buttered paper on the top, and simmer gently for two hours ; then put the stewpan over a brisk fire, and stir the contents till the moisture is entirely reduced. Put the fillets of Fowls in with the endive, add about 1 breakfast- cupful of reduced bechamel sauce, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir over the fire for a few minutes so that the fillets may get thoroughly hot ag-ain; then turn the blanquette out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Blanquette of Fowls with Truffles.—Truss the birds for roasting, bind slices of bacon round them, then wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire, but without allowing them to brown. Cut into thin slices some truffles that have been cooked in Madeira, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of reduced Madeira sauce, and warm them. When cooked, remove the bacon from the Fowls, cut off the fillets, and trim away the skin ; then cut them into collops, and put them in with the truffles. Turn the blanquette into a silver dish, and serve. Boiled Fowl.—(1) Put lqt. of broth into a stewpan over the stove, and when it boils put in a cleaned and trussed Fowl, and season with an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper. When the Fowl is done, dish it up, garnish with pieces of fried bacon, and serve with white sauce. (2) Gourmet’s Style.—Select a plump tender Fowl, and singe, draw, and truss it. Mix 2oz. of butter with loz. of beef-dripping and 1 pinch of tarragon-leaves, stuff the bird with it, and fasten securely at both ends; then put it into a fresh clean pig’s bladder, tie up the opening, wrap it in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, remove the Fowl from its wrappings, place it on a hot dish, and serve with a white sauce flavoured with tarragon. Boiled stuffed Fowl.—(1) Fill the body of a cleaned Fowl with small onions which have been half-cooked in milk. Boil the giblets with some onions and two or three slices of bacon, and when done, strain the gravy in a saucepan, put in the Fowl, and simmer till quite tender. Boil three large onions in a quart of milk, and when it is reduced to half its original quantity, thicken with | teacupful of flour that has been smoothly moistened with milk. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick, add two pats of butter and a little pepper and salt, and stir by the side of the fire till the butter is dissolved. Dish the Fowl, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw an old bird, stuff it with any kind of forcemeat and onion cut into slices, truss it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for fully four hours. Prepare £ pint or so of onion or white sauce, with a chopped pickled cucumber in it. Place the Fowl on a dish, garnish with slices of boiled bacon, and serve the sauce in a sauce- boat. Boiled Fowls a l’Allemande.—Take two Fowls, truss them for boiling, soak them in a basin of cold water for about an hour, and drain them well, then put them into a stewpan with hot water, to boil. When quite done, dish them up with a border of quenelles of potatoes, first poached and then dipped in fried breadcrumbs, placed round the Fowls, and serve with a rich German (a l’Allemande) sauce. Boiled Fowls a la Providence. —Singe, draw, and wipe two chickens, truss them from the wing to the leg with a needle, and boil them in a saucepan of broth for three-quarters-of- an-hour. Prepare 1 pint of German sauce with the broth of the chicken, adding 1 teacupful each of finely-cut boiled carrot and cooked Lima beans or flageolets, and cook for three minutes longer. Dish up the Fowls, untruss them, pour over the sauce, arrange the vegetables on either side, and serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. Fowls—continued. Boiled Fowl a la Boyale.—Truss two Fowls as for boil- ing, lard their breasts thoroughly, and place them in a stewpan with stock up to the larding; then cover them over with a piece of buttered paper, put a tight-fitting lid on the pan, and let them gently simmer until done. While they are cooking, cut a croustade of bread in the shape of a vase, and fry it; put this in the centre of the dish, place the Fowls on either side, garnish the dish with a rag-out of cocks’ combs, truffles, button-mushrooms, and ham cut in fancy shapes, and pour over the ragout 1 pint of good white sauce, previously made hot. The croustade should have fine ornamented attelette skewers stuck in it, upon which may be arranged some of the pieces out of the ragout, and two or three crayfish. Boiled Fowl with Macaroni.—Boil ilb. of macaroni, broken in pieces, in boiling salted water for twelve minutes ; take it out, drain it, and set it in a dish with butter and salt sprinkled over. Boil a Fowl, and when it is tender, dish it, garnish with the macaroni, and serve with bechamel sauce separately. Boiled Fowls with Macaroni Dressing-.—Clean and draw two chickens, truss them for boiling, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add two or three sticks of celery, an onion and carrot, all cut up, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil until the chickens are tender, adding a few sprigs of parsley half-an-hour before taking them out. Boil the requisite quantity of macaroni in water until soft, and then drain it. When cooked, take the chickens out, and strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan and melt it, then put in the macaroni and the strained broth, season with a small quantity of salt, and place it over the fire until the broth is entirely reduced. Put the chickens in with the macaroni, and make them hot again; then arrange on a hot dish, pile the macaroni on the top of them, strew grated Parmesan cheese over all, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Macaroni Stuffing.—Break twelve sticks of macaroni in pieces about 2in. long, throw them into lqt. of boiling water, add 1 table-spoonful of salt and J table- spoonful of pepper, and boil rapidly for twelve minutes; then take up the macaroni, drain off all the water, and season with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt. After the Fowl has been singed and cleaned, stuff it with the macaroni ; truss it, tie up in a floured cloth, and plunge it into enough boiling water to cover. Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then set the pan back where the liquor will just simmer for from one-hour-and-a-half to fwo-hours- and-a-half. The time of cooking depends upon the age of the bird. Serve with bechamel sauce in a sauceboat, and plain boiled macaroni for garnish. Boiled Fowl with Onions.—Select a young fat Fowl, singe, draw, and truss it for boiling, put it into a buttered saucepan with 1 pint of white broth, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over it, place the pan on a moderate fire, and cook gently for thirty minutes. Blanch lib. of small onions, place them in the pan with the Fowl, and cook gently for thirty minutes longer. Whilst the Fowl is cooking, it should be turned two or three times. Place the Fowl on a dish, pour the onions and broth over, and serve. Boiled Fowl and Fork.—Clean and truss a Fowl, wrap it up in a floured cloth, pin it round, and put it into water in which |lb. of lean pork has been boiling for three hours. The time required for cooking the bird depends upon its age: if it is not more than a year old, an-hour-and-a-half will suffice ; but if an old bird, then cook for three hours or so in proportion. Place the Fowl on a dish, garnish with the pork cut in slices, and serve with egg sauce in a sauceboat. The liquor can be used for soups. Boiled Fowl with Poulette Sauce.—Boil a Fowl in broth seasoned with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Turn fgall. of mushrooms, and prepare 1 pint of poulette sauce. When the Fowl is done, dish it, garnish with the mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Biice.—Singe, draw, and truss a Fowl, and boil it for fifteen minutes, as for Boiled Fowl with Bock-