577 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinai-y Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fanchonnettes—continued. (3) Put four egg's into a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and flour, and make them into a paste witli a little milk. Pass it through a sieve into a saucepan, add 2 table- spoonfuls of blanched and chopped almonds, loz. or 2oz. of butter, and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, stir until the mixture thickens, let it boil for a few minutes, then remove the pan from the fire and stir in 3oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-flavoured sugar. Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with short-paste, fill them with the cream, and bake in a quick oven. Let them cool, cover with a layer of marmalade, and again with some meringue in the form of a pointed dome ; decorate this in dotted circles with coloured icing squeezed through a cornet. Place the Fanchonnettes in a slack oven for the meringue to colour a little and get crisp ; take them out, and when they are cold, set in the small dotted circles a little apple or currant jelly, or halves of crystallised fruit, turn out of the pans, and serve hot. Any other orna- mentation will do as well. (4) Pour 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, when it boils add a stick of vanilla, and continue to boil it until the milk is reduced to j pint. In another saucepan put the yolks of three eggs, ljoz. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, and a small pinch of salt. Take the vanilla out of the milk and pour it into the other saucepan with the eggs, &c. Place the pan over a slow fire, and stir until its contents are quite thick. Line eighteen small tartlet-moulds with puff paste rolled out very thin, leaving- a small edging ; fill them with the mixture when it is cold, place the pans on a baking-sheet, and bake them evenly in a moderate oven. Take them out, and when they are quite cold cover with 1 teaspoonful of meringue, made with the whites of four eggs and 1 teacupful of caster sugar whisked together ; spread this with a knife evenly over the tops, and put a few small buttons made with this meringue round the Fanehonnette, and one larger in the centre. Sprinkle all over with a little caster sugar, and place them in a slow oven to slightly brown and until the meringue is crisp. Take them out of the pans, pile in a heap on a dish, and serve whilst still hot. FANCY BREAD.—What is, or what is not Fancy Bread, is a question that lias puzzled many a wise head. At one time it was held that ornamental bread was Fancy Bread, and exempt from the restrictions affecting house- hold bread. But this led to the innovation of fancy- shaped household, and left the dishonest baker extra- ordinary scope for defrauding his customers by evading the law, whilst the makers of genuine Fancy Bread, which was not only ornamental but composed of the very finest materials, prepared in elaborate ways, gained nothing by their extra labour. The distinction is not yet adequately defined. See Bread. FANDANGO—The name of a Spanish cake, so- called because it is gene-rally served upon those festival occasions when the dance of the same name is in vogue. It is composed of a sort of flat Savarin cake made in a cylinder mould. Soak this in a thin syrup flavoured with almonds, maraschino, rum, and a little oil of aniseed. Fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with kirschenwasser and vanilla, and garnish round with apple jelly. Mask round the side and over all with apricot marmalade, and dust all over a finely-chopped mixture ! of pistachio-kernels and almonds. Decorate with sugar- plums, preserved grapes, sugar-piping, and coloured jellies, j FAN-KOUQUES.— To Austria these delicious little pasty-cakes belong. They are very simply made as follows: Boll out some brioche paste about jin. thick, cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter 3ih. in diameter, and put in the middle of every other one 1 teaspoonful of apricot marma- lade. Spread this, leaving a Jin. margin; wet the margin, lay the plain rounds evenly on those charged with marmalade, and press the edges gently together to make them adhere. Flour a clean pudding-cloth, set the Fan-kouques on it, : cover them over, and stand in a warm place to lighten. Fry them in butter until a light golden-brown, take out, let them drain, and then drop them one at a time into a hot syrup flavoured with rum. Take out and serve at once. FARCES (Ger. Fullen).—Although tills term is still maintained and used in Continental cookery, it finds little or no favour amongst British cooks, who prefer to speak of “stuffing” and “forcemeat,” the latter being a corruption of “ Farce ’’-meat, as explained under its own heading. French cooks profess to have several distinct groups of Farces, each group having its varieties, although in some instances, with the exception of the meat used, the Farces are identical. Amongst those generally prac- tised we find fish Farces, or Farces made of fish; Farces made of veal, poultry, rabbit, game, ham, &c., each and all having some specific part to play in artistic cooking. Further information concerning them will be found under Forcemeat and special headings, such as Fowl, Veal, &c. FARINA (Fr. Farine ; Ger. Mehl).—This term has been introduced into our kitchens by those manufacturers who have given the name to various hours prepared for food and cooking. They are better styled meals, according to the German, which is derived from the same source as mill. The more important kinds of meal will be found described under their appropriate headings, such as Cornflour, Oatmeal, &c. FARES.—A sort of Scotch Oatmeal Cakes.-— See Oatmeal. FARMER’S SALAD.—See Salads. FARMER’S SOUP.—See Soups. FARO.—A Belgian beer, made by mixing two others, the one strong, called lambic, and the other a small-beer, known to the Belgian multitude as mars. The lambic imparts a pleasing vinous flavour to Faro. FAT.—The similarity of the German fett to the English Fat points to their having the same origin, and possibly associated more or less with the word feed. The original of the French equivalent gras, graisse, evidently supplies us with grease. Fat is described as an oily liquid, or greasy substance, making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of vegetables ; but the cook usually understands Fat as of animal origin, that of seeds being known as oil— or in exceptional cases as butter—such as olive oil from olives, and cacao butter from the seed of the cacao, or cocoa-nib. Vegetable Fats are not unimportant to cookery, for we find some entering largely into the operations of the kitchen; but whether as butter, dripping, lard, suet, or the Fat on a joint of meat, animal Fats take precedence, most of them being of sufficient use to require separate treatment under their own headings. See Butter, Dripping, Lard, Suet, &c. Of animal Fat generally, it may be said that it varies in consistence, colour, and odour, according to the animal from which it is obtained. The Fat of flesh- eating animals is usually soft and rank, whilst the Fat of animals living on vegetable growth is solid and nearly scentless. It is whitest and most plentiful in well-fed young animals, and yellowish and more scanty in those that are old. That immediately under the skin and round the kidneys is also more solid than that about other internal organs, containing a greater proportion of stearine, to whose presence fat owes its consistency. In many kitchens Fat is treated as a sort of refuse, to be stored away in pots or other vessels and sold as a perquisite by the cook; but experience shows that every scrap that is trimmed off a joint can lie so pre- pared as to be a culinary acquisition. Let every scrap be carefully collected and put into a stcwpan with a little water at the bottom of it, then stood over a slow fire, being occasionally stirred to prevent pieces sticking to the bottom. After an hour or so of steady warming, the contents of the saucepan should be strained into a basin containing cold water. Thus prepared, this Fat 2 z