THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 541 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. off before they boil, turn them into an earthenware jar with the liquor they were boiled in, and they can then be used for frying' or boiling', as desired. Eels are boned by splitting them down the back after skinning, and then, whilst holding the fish firmly with the left hand, and pressing it on to the table, the knife is made to pass down either side of the backbone, and the flesh will soon allow the backbone to be ^lemoved. All fins, &c., should be cut off close with a pair of fish- scissors. Silver Eels.—The following receipts will be found sufficiently comprehensive: Baked Eels.—Clean two or three Eels, and rinse them to wash off the blood; roll them round and stuff with . suitable forcemeat, fasten with skewers, put them in a dish with a little court bouillon, and bake till brown; then g'laze them. Mix 1 table-spoonful of butter and a little anchovy sauce with Italian sauce, and pour this on a dish; arrange the Eels on it, and serve. Boiled Eels.—Clean some small Eels, but do not skin them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, a little salt, and a good bunch of parsley, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes ; then take out the parsley and chop it. Lay the Eels on a hot dish, put the chopped parsley into the liquor, and pour it over the Eels. Serve with parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. Boiled Eel witli Dutch or Butter Sauce.—Choose an Eel which, when cleaned, will weigh about 21b., wash it well, tie it up with string', and blanch in boiling water for a few minutes. Take it out, put it into a gallon saucepan, pour over sufficient water to cover it, add two sliced onions, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, ■2 pint of vinegar, ^oz. of pepper, and loz. of salt. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire after it has once boiled, and simmer for thirty minutes. Take out the fish, drain it, put it on a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with Dutch or butter sauce. Boiled Eel with Montpellier Butter.-Clean an Eel, removing the head and tail parts, bone it, and sprinkle over with a little salt and pepper. In the meantime, prepare a fish forcemeat or galantine forcemeat, made with pike-flesh, fat bacon, and panada. Pass the forcemeat through a fine sieve, and add a mixture of pistachio-kernels, goose’s fat livers Eels—continued. (Strasburg livers), and truffles. Fill the inside of the fish with this, sew up the cut made in taking out the bone, put it in a cloth, fix it in position with a skewer, and boil for two hours in court bouillon. Take it out, drain, remove the cloth, score it, wrap in a cloth again, coil it round a dome-shaped mould, and put it back in the liquor in which it was boiled. When it is quite cool, remove the cloth and thread, and put it on a decorated cake of spinach (pain vert) with a dome-shaped elevation in the centre, round which the Eel will appear to be coiled. Have the head boiled by itself, fix it with an attelette in its original position, mask the Eel with Montpellier butter, and ornament it with warmed butter worked through a cornet. Garnish the base with jelly and hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, put some croutons of aspic jelly round the cake of spinach (see Fig. 687), and serve. A sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce should also be sent to table with the fish. Braised Eel a la Conde.—Skin and clean a large Eel, cut off the end of the tail and head near the gills, wash and wipe it, cover with salt, let it remain for an hour or so, and put it into a bowl of cold water to disgorge. Take it out, drain, make several cuts on each side of it, tie it up, shaping like a ring, put it into a saucepan with a mirepoix, add | pint each of white wine and vinegar, and 2 pints of fish stock or broth. Put a piece of buttered paper on top, cover over with the lid, set the saucepan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise slowly for an-hour-and- a-lialf, basting it frequently. Take out if done, untie it, put it on a dish, and serve with the liquor strained over it. Braised Eel a la Royale.—Skin and clean an Eel, cut it up into 2in. pieces, dust them over with salt, and let them remain for an hour or so. Plunge them into a bowl of cold water for ten minutes, dry them, put them in a well-buttered saucepan, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and over them place slices of lemons and shallots, also a little scraped parsley-root and a few whole white peppers. Set the saucepan on a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise until the fish is done. Place the pieces of Eel on a dish, add to the saucepan 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, boil for a few minutes, thicken with a white roux, let this reduce slightly, remove the pan from the fire, add a liaison of the yolks of three eggs, boil up once more, strain it into a saucepan containing double its quantity of German sauce, boil up again, pour it round the Eel, and serve. Brochette of Eels.—(1) Skin and clean two or three Eels, cut them up into slices about lin. in thickness, lay them in a dish, dust over with salt, pepper, and a little finely- chopped parsley and sweet herbs, and let them alone for two or three hours. Have ready some truffles parboiled in white wine and cut into slices, put the pieces of Eels on attelettes or skewers, with pieces of truffle between them, brush the whole over with yolk of egg, dip them into sifted breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry for about twenty minutes. When done, put them on a dish, without removing the skewers, and serve. (2) Skin a large Eel, cut it into 2in. pieces, put them in a basin, add a sprinkling of salt, pepper, minced onion, parsley, a little oil and lemon-juice, and let them soak in this for three hours. Skewer them on an iron skewer transversely, alter- nately with a slice of fat bacon and a bay-leaf, fix the skewer by both ends to the spit, put some oil, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice in the dripping-pan, and baste continually with it. When nearly roasted, sprinkle breadcrumbs over the pieces of Eel, and finish cooking. Lay the Eel lengthwise on a dish, remove the skewer carefully so as not to separate the pieces, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. Broiled Eels.—(1) Clean and skin a good-sized Eel, remove the backbone, and cut the Eel into four or five pieces. Dip each piece first into egg and then into breadcrumbs mixed with grated rind of lemon, nutmeg, parsley, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Grease a gridiron, put the pieces of fish, with the skin- side of the fish downwards, on it over a clear fire, and broil them, turning them over when done on one side. Put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and horseradish set alter- nately, and send to table with anchovy or tartar sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Skin a large Eel, wipe it dry, and coil it up, keeping it in its position with two skewers put crosswise. Place it