THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 609 Fowls—continued. salt (No. 2). Take out the onions and herbs, put in 1 break- fast-cupful of well-washed rice, and boil till the rice is tender. Dish the Fowl, add 1 teacupful of gravy or stock to the liquor in which it was boiled, pour the gravy and rice round the Fowl, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Rice and Cheese.—Make a mince with beef-marrow and the gizzard and liver of a large Fowl, and add a little finely-grated breadcrumb seasoned well with salt and pepper. Draw, singe, and stuff the Fowl with the mixture, truss it with its claws left on, and cover with slices of fat bacon tied on with string. Put it into a sauce- pan just large enough to hold it, and add a bunch of parsley, two cloves, a few peppercorns, and two smoked sausages, pour over hot rich broth to about half its height, set the pan on the fire, and boil. Before pouring in the broth, see that it is well strained, and all the fat skimmed off. When the liquor has been boiling for five minutes, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer tbe contents for forty or fifty minutes—that is, until done. Put |lb. of well-washed rice into a saucepan, add, to about three times its height, the liquor from the Fowl after it has been well strained but the fat left in, and put it on the fire to boil; then remove it to the side until the rice is cooked, being careful that it does not dry up, mix in a large lump of butter, some grated Parmesan cheese, and a little grated nutmeg. Remove the string- and skewers from the Fowl, put it on a dish over which the rice has been spread, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Rock-salt.—(1) Singe and draw a Fowl, scald the legs, turn them inside the body, cover it with layers of fat bacon, and tie it round with string. Half fill a good-sized saucepan with broth, and when the broth boils, put in the Fowl, and boil for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half. Put some pounded crystallised salt on a dish; take out the Fowl, drain it, wipe off all the fat, put it on the dish with the salt, put some more salt on the breast, and serve, with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled in a sauceboat. (2) Prepare and truss a small Fowl, put it in a saucepan, cover it with broth, add one onion stuck with three cloves, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. The Fowl should be wrapped in buttered paper, and then it will retain its whiteness. Boil gently for half-an-hour, turning it when half done. Take out the chicken, strain the gravy, add a few drops of burnt sugar to colour, and reduce to half its original quantity. Dish the chicken, pour the gravy over it, put 1 teaspoonful of rock-salt on its breast, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Tarragon.—Boil the Fowl in the same way as for Boiled Fowl with Rock-salt (No. 2), add |oz. of tarragon to the gravy, and reduce it for five minutes; put 1 handful of coarsely-chopped tarragon into it, having previously skimmed and strained it. Dish the chicken, pour the gravy over it, and serve hot. Boiled Fowl with Tarragon Sauce.—Singe, draw, and truss a large Fowl, put a piece of butter mixed with a handful of tarragon-leaves inside, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, put it in a saucepan with the neck, gizzard, and some pieces or trimmings of veal, add 1 teacupful of Madeira wine, sufficient broth to cover, and some fat skimmed off some rich stock. When boiling, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take the Fowl out when it is cooked, strain and skim the liquor, thicken with a little roux, throw in a small bunch of tarragon-leaves, and boil for twenty minutes. Skim, strain, and reduce the sauce, thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir over the fire till it comes to the boil; then add a small piece of butter and 1 table-spoonful of blanched green tarragon-leaves. Dish the chicken, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Fowl with. Tomato Sauce.—Boil the Fowl as for Boiled Fowl with Rock-salt (No. 2), dish it, pour over li pints of tomato sauce, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Toulouse Ragofit.—Carefully dress a fat Fowl, truss it with the wings and legs close to the body, and put it over the fire in a saucepan to simmer gently in hot water or broth to cover it. While it is being cooked, make a ragout as follows: Boil until tender a large sweetbread and two cocks’ combs, and cut them into small For details respecting Culinary Fowls—continued. slices ; slice j breakfast-cupful of truffles, cut the tops from 1 pint of button-mushrooms, and prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of chicken quenelles; put all these into enough white sauce to cover them, and simmer for ten minutes. When the Fowl is tender, remove the trussing-cords, and serve it hot, with the Toulouse ragout for garnish. Boudins of Fowl.—(1) Prepare some quenelle forcemeat of Fowl and veal, rabbit, or fresh fish. Put two or throe onions cut into fine shreds into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry gently until tender, but not browned, then drain them completely of fat. Beat the forcemeat mixture up with a spoon, and add the small pieces of onion, taking care that they do not break whilst being worked in. When this mixture is quite cool, make it into a square shape about the length of a rolling-pin. Put a little butter in a saucepan, warm it, and rub it all over the pan ; place the boudin in, put a little butter over it, pour some boiling water into the pan, add a little salt, and boil until it has swollen. Take it out, drain, and when cool, cut it into thick slices of equal size; dip these first into beaten egg, then breadcrumbs, then egg again, and lastly breadcrumbs. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them golden brown; take them out, drain, arrange them on a dish (see Fig. 7G7), pour a little Italian sauce over, and serve. (2) Prepare some highly-seasoned Fowl forcemeat, mixing in a little essence of mushrooms; work the mixture well with a spoon, and when it is quite cold roll it out into a long shape, and cut into thick slices (see Fig. 768). Butter the bottom of a saucepan, put the boudins in, add a little salted water, and boil them until they swell; then take them out, drain them, and pour some bechamel sauce over them. In the meantime, take the small (minion) fillets of chicken, and tie them round a piece of fried bread or carrot cut the size of the boudins (if a carrot is used, it must have a piece of fat bacon tied over it first, before the fillets), and put them into a good oven to get firm. Take them out, glaze them, and place them on the boudins already arranged on a dish, with a little good consomme or broth, qualified with some of the liquor or juice of mushrooms, poured over, and serve. (3) Prepare a roux by melting loz. of butter in a saucepan, working in loz. of flour and 1 pinch of salt, and stirring well until thoroughly incorporated and quite smooth; add sufficient stock or water to make a stiff paste, and set it aside to cool. Cut off all the meat from a cold boiled Fowl, chop it up small, put it into a mortar with half its bulk of the paste, and pound it well, adding loz. of butter and a seasoning of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; mix well, and add one egg and the yolks of three ; pound well again, rub the mixture 3 B Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. f ; ■ ; ■ J Fig. 768. Boudin of Fowl.