691 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, sec under their special heads. Gnocchi—continued. spread tlie paste on a board or dish, and leave it until cold, when cut it into pieces about tin. square, and dredge them lightly over with flour. Put a good-sized piece of lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the Gnocchi, and fry them quickly. When cooked, drain them for a second on a sheet of paper near the fire, then pile them on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew grated Fig. 852. Fried Gnocchi. Parmesan, sugar, and a small quantity cf cinnamon over them (see Pig. 852), and serve. Gnocchi with. Cream.—Beat the yolks of six with the whites of two eggs, then beat in smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, li table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 1 pint of milk, and flavour to taste with any essence liked. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire in one direction with a wooden spoon. When thickened, spread the paste on to a dish, and leave it until cold. Divide it into small equal-sized portions, put a layer of them on a baking- tin, strew over grated Parmesan cheese, sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, put a few small pieces of butter here and there, and cover with another layer of the Gnocchi. Proceed as before with the cheese, &c., until all is used. Put them in a brisk oven until browned on the top. Serve the Gnocchi while hot. Gnocchi with Potatoes.— Boil ten or twelve potatoes in water without removing their skins, and when they are done peel and pass them through a fine sieve. Tut this puree into a pan, dust over with a little salt and popper, and work into it a little butter, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and 1 handful of grated Parmesan cheese. Pour it out on to a floured board, work into it one-third of its bulk of flour, cut it into pieces, roll them out to the thick- ness of a finger, cut again transversely round the parts that are cut, put them in a saucepan with a little salted water, and poach over the fire. When done, and quite firm, take them out, drain, put them into another saucepan, g'rate a little Parmesan over, pour a little liquefied butter and gravy over, warm them, turn out on to a dish, and serve. Gnocchi with Potato-flour.—Put lib. of potato-flour in a lined saucepan with Ooz. of caster sugar, and stir in gradually lqt. of milk, keeping it quite smooth; stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of six and the whites of two eggs. Flavour with grated lemon-peel and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and continue stirring the mixture at the side of the lire until thick. Sprinkle a dish or paste-board with a little water, spread the paste on it, and leave until cold. Cut it into small squares, arrange them in layers on a baking-dish, strewing over each layer grated Parmesan cheese, sugar, a small quantity of cinnamon, and putting a small lump of butter on each square. Bake the Gnocchi for an hour in a moderate oven, and serve hot. Gnocchi with Semolina.—(1) Put A pint each of milk and water in a saucepan over the fire, and when commencing to boil sprinkle in gradually Alb. of semolina, and stir it over the fire until cooked; then spread it on a dish sprinkled with cold water, and leave until cold. Cut the paste into small pieces about lin. square, lay them on a baking-dish, grate Parmesan cheese over, and dust lightly with caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon; put a Gnocchi—continued. small lump of butter on the top of each, and bake them for an hour. Serve while hot. (2) Put from lqt. to 3 pints of milk into a saucepan, boil it, and add Jib. of semolina. The quantity of milk used must be sufficient to keep the preparation quite light. Sprinkle in a little salt and sugar, and work it with a spoon until the semolina is cooked and stiff. Whip three or four eggs in a basin together with 1 teacupful of milk, and pour it in, stirring well all the time. Pour the mixture ’ten to a baking- sheet, and when cool cut it up into rounds : put these at the bottom of a well-buttered dish, grate a little Parmesan cheese over, cover with a little butter, and set them in the oven to dry. Gnocchi Soup.- Pour in a saucepan a sufficient quantity of stock, clear and well freed of fat, to make the soup ; flavour to taste, add any vegetables liked, and keep it simmering at the side of the fire. Put lioz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 pint of water and salt to taste ; when boiling, stir in gradually as much flour as will make a stiff paste ; strew in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, then move the saucepan to the side of the Are, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. It is advisable to use a wooden spoon when making this paste. Squeeze the paste through a biscuit-forcer into the boiling stock, cutting it off in pieces lin. long. Boil the soup for two or three minutes longer, then turn it into a tureen, and serve very hot. Milanese Gnocchi.—Mix 1 teacupful of flour with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and stir in a sufficient quantity of beaten yolks of eggs and milk to form a smooth paste ; turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until sufficiently thickened. Divide the paste into small parts, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling broth, and boil. When cooked, pile them on a hot dish, strew plenty of Parmesan cheese over, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, brown under a salamander, and serve hot. Sweet Gnocchi. — Put the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, add 1 table-spoonful of sugar and a little salt, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Pass this mixture through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add a little butter, and place the pan on the fire ; as soon as it thickens and gets lumpy, put it on the side, and work it well with a spoon until quite smooth; then place the pan on the fire again, add a little more butter, and boil for five or six minutes, working it vigorously all the time. Pour it out into a basin, mix in the yolks of two eggs and a little grated orange-rind (zest), and with a spoon take a little at a time and drop it on to a well-floured board. Boll these with the hand into balls, flatten them with the handle of a knife, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water for two minutes ; remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let them remain for five minutes ; then take them out, drain, and put them on a sieve. Arrange on a dish in layers, dust them over with cinnamon sugar and 3 table- spoonfuls of fried breadcrumbs, brush over with a little softened butter, and serve. Fig. 855. Timbale of Gnocciii. Timbale of Gnocchi. -Urbain Dubois gives the following receipt in a slightly different form: Make a little choux paste with IV gills of milk, without using sugar or zest, and put it 3 G 2