TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. 655 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fruit—continued. green almonds, 1 teaeupful of preserved citron cut in dice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped orange-peel, cover the Fruits with Madeira, and boil them ; then take the stewpan off the fire, stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, and stand the stewpan in the bain-marie. Cut out with a round paste-cutter twelve slices of household bread, about Jin. thick, fry them brown both sides in clarified butter, drain them, arrange in a circle on a round dish, mask them with a little of the sauce that the Fruits were cooked in, put the Fruits in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 810), and serve. It is a great improvement to put slices of pine- apple alternately with the crusts of bread. Fruit Darioles.—Pack in ice twelve large dariole-moulds, garnish them at the bottoms and round the sides with pre- served Fruits, angelica, or candied peel, each piece being dipped in half-set jelly; when set, mask them with a thin coating of blanc-mange, fill the centres with a preparation of Bavarian cream with rice, mixed up with a salpb’on of preserved Fruits, let them set thoroughly, turn them out, arrange in the form of a pyramid on a dish, and serve. Fruit Dumplings.—Boll out sufficient suet crust to make twelve dumpling's, cut it into rounds 4in. in diameter, fill each one separately with different kinds of Fruits, put on the top of each a little mixture made with 1 tabic-spoonful of sifted breadcrumbs mixed up with an egg, sweetened with sugar and flavoured with grated lemon-peel, roll up to form balls, tie each one separately in a cloth, and boil for forty-five minutes. When done, turn out, pour over a wine sauce, and serve. Fruit Foam.—Mix together, in equal quantities, strawberry jam and red-currant jelly, also an equal quantity of caster sugar. Beat the whole until well mixed, then add the whites of three or four eggs, and continue beating for half-an-hour longer. Pile the mixture up on a glass dish, and serve. Fruit Fritters (Parisian). — Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in 4oz. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, 1 pinch of salt, sufficient water to make a creamy paste, and work in the whites of two eggs, beaten to a very stiff froth. Cut any kind of Fruit into pieces or quarters, dip them into the batter, and fry them in butter to a light golden colour ; take them out when done, drain them of all the fat, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve. The Fruit should be quite ripe, and if it is not, it should be partly boiled in syrup. The pieces should not be too large. Fruit Gateau.— (1) Butter a shallow tart-tin, line it with good short-crust, and cover with a thick layer of well-sweetened stewed fresh Fruit. Blanch and pound 2oz. of almonds, adding occasionally a small quantity of white of egg to prevent them oiling. Beat two eggs, and mix with them the pounded almonds, 2oz. of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon ; and stir in sufficient sour cream to make a smooth liquid mixture. Pour the mixture over the cake, and bake it in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Serve hot or cold. (2) Butter a shallow mould, line it with a paste made of bread dough, cover it with any kind of mixed fresh or pre- served Fruit, so arranged that no spaces are left between them, sift sugar over, put in two or three small pieces of hutter, sprinkle a little boiling water over, and bake in a moderate oven, taking care to keep it a light colour. When it is cooked, take it out of the oven, leave it till cold, turn it out of the tin on to a dish, and serve. Fruit Gimblettes.—(1) Boll out a sheet of puff paste, mask it thickly with any kind of Fruit marmalade, cover with another sheet of puff paste, stick the edges together, cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter 2in. in diameter, and then cut out the centres of them with a cutter lin. in diameter. Finely chop 4oz. of blanched almonds or pistachios, and mix with them 2oz. of caster sugar and a little white of egg; brush over the gimblettes with beaten yolk of egg, dip that side in the almond mixture, place them with this side upwards on a baking-sheet, dust over caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve plain, or with thick cream. (2) Boll out two rounds of Genoese paste of equal size and about iin. in thickness, and bake them. Have ready any kind of Fruit, soaked in maraschino-flavoured syrup and a little cream, cover one round of paste with this, and place the other quickly on the top. Leave till cold, then mask Fruit—continued. it with chocolate icing, decorate with more coloured icing forced through a cornet, and serve when cold and set. Fruit Ice.—Make two preparations, one of sweet white Fruit ice made with pine-apple or lemon, and the other of red ice with raspberries, strawberries, or red currants. Fill a few moulds in the shapes of apricots, peaches, and pears with these ices, and also one representing a pine-apple ; close them tightly, wrap them up in paper, put them one at a time in a layer of pounded ice and saltpetre, sprinkle them over with salt, and cover with more ice and saltpetre. In the mean- time, spread a flat-bottomed pyramid mould with paper, set it on salted and saltpetred icc, and pack it well round with it. When quite cold, begin to fill it with regular and alternate layers of the prepared ices, commencing and finishing with the white. Put the cover over the mould, hermetically close it with paste, put a little salt on the top, and cover with more salted ice. Let it remain for an hour, then turn it out after wiping the outside of the mould with a cloth dipped in warm water. Arrange it on a napkin in the centre of a dish, surround it with the pears, peaches, &c., and place the pine-apple on the top, with a few green leaves at its base. Fruit Jelly.—(1) Boil in lqt. of water Jib. of American apple rings, also loz. of tamarinds and lib. of prunes in another saucepan with the same quantity of water. Peel and core lib. of pears, and stone lib. of dates and Jib. of raisins. When the tamarinds and prunes are tender, remove the stalks and stones, put them with their cooking-liquor into a preserving- pan, and add the apple rings, also their cooking-liquor, together with the pears, dates, and raisins. Put in with the above 41b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and lqt. of water. Stir the whole over the fire, and boil until the liquid is reduced to a thick syrup ; then put in Jib. of gelatine that has been soaked in water for several hours, and continue boiling until very thick. Turn the jolly into small jars, and cover them while hot. (2) The Fruit should be thoroughly ripe, and should bo gathered in dry weather. Pick it clean, put it into a jar, and cover it closely. Put the jar into a saucepan three-quarters full of cold water, set it over a moderate fire, and simmer for half- an-hour or longer ; then strain the contents of the jar through a jelly-bag twice. Do not squeeze the bag, simply allow the juice to drip through. Add to each pint of juice 1 Alb. of powdered white sugar ; when the sugar is melted in the juice, put it over the fire in a preserving-pan, and boil slowly, stirring and skimming all the time till it is quite clear and no more scum rises. It will take about half-an-hour or forty minutes. Bemove the pan from the fire, let it stand to cool, and then put the jelly into pots. When quite cold, lay over each a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the pots air-tight. One dessert-spoonful of this jelly dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of vinegar or brandy makes very good Fruit vinegar or brandy. (3) Soak loz. of gelatine in water until soft, then put it in a saucepan with Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and J pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Whip the whites of three eggs to a froth, put them in with the gelatine, add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and boil it a minute or two longer, stirring continually. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag until quite clear, and let it get cool. Prepare lqt. of mixed Fruit, cutting it into slices, put it into a stewpan with water to cover and lib. of sugar, and stew gently until tender; then take the Fruit from the fire, and leave it until cold. Mix J pint of champagne with the jelly, pour a layer of it about lin. thick into a mould, and leave it until set; then put in a layer of the stewed Fruit, and cover it with a layer of the jelly. Continue in this way until the mould is full, and then stand it in ice for an hour or two. Dip it in warm water to loosen the con tents, wipe it, and turn the jelly quickly out on to a fancy glass or china dish. (4) Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water for half-an-hour, strain it, put it into a lined saucepan with 6oz. of caster sugar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the juice from a tin of any kind of Fruit, and boil gently until the gelatine is dissolved. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the Fruit into a mortar and pound it to a pulp, then mix it with the juice. Turn the jelly into a basin and leave it until cold. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, turn them in with the jelly, and