678 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. a small quantity of toddy, the juice and a little of the rind of a large lime; pour in 4qts. of water, and boil for about twenty minutes. Let the liquid get nearly cold, pour in a claret-glassful of fresh toddy, let it stand for six or eight hours, pour into bottles, and it is ready for use. (9) Put into a large bowl loz. of bruised Ginger, 3oz. of cream of tartar, loz. of lemon-juice, and l|lb. of loaf sugar ; pour over l.J galls, of boiling water, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of yeast. When the whole is thoroughly mixed and cool, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and keep in a ccol place until wanted. Ginger-Beer Powder.—Mix thoroughly 51b. of sifted pounded loaf sugar with ljlb. of tartaric acid, lib. of bicarbonate gf soda, ljoz. of powdered or ground Ginger, and goz. of essence of lemon ; then pass the whole through a very fine sieve, and tie it up in small parcels as required for use. The air must not be allowed to get to it, otherwise it will spoil. Ginger Biscuits.—(1) Hub 4oz. of butter into Jib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in Jib. of caster sugar and £ table-spoonful of ground Ginger; beat the yolks of two eggs with | teacupful of cream ; stir them in with the dry ingredients, mixing thoroughly, and adding more cream or milk if necessary to bring the paste to the proper consistency. Put it on a paste-board or table, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. With a small paste-cutter, about 11 in. in Fig. 834. Ginger Biscuits. diameter, cut as many rounds as possible out of the paste, constantly dipping the cutter in flour to prevent it sticking. Dredge a baking-sheet lightly over with flour, lay the biscuits on it a short distance from each other, and put them into a very slow oven. When cooked, the biscuits should be crisp, but not browned, or they will be spoilt; take them off the baking-sheet, lay them on a dish until cold, when they should be packed away in biscuit-tins, and kept in a dry place. See Fig. 834. (2) Take Jib. of biscuit-flour, and rub loz. of softened butter into it. When the butter is absorbed, put in 2oz. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, and mix all together, adding the yolk of an egg beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of cream (or milk) to make the mixture into a stiff paste. Roll this out on a board to gin. thick, cut it into round shapes, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Put 8oz. of caster sugar into a copper basin with three eggs, and work them well with a spoon until the mixture is quite thick ; break three more eggs, and work in one at a time, beating thoroughly before another is added. Continue to work this mixture over the fire for ten minutes longer; then take it from the fire and stir in gradually 4oz. of flour mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger and a few drops of essence of lemon. Butter some oblong-shaped tin moulds, dust them with potato-flour, put the mixture in, set them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. (4) Rub 4oz. of butter in lib. of flour until quite smooth, then mix in Jib. of moist sugar, 1J table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and a very small quantity of cayenne; dissolve J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J pint of molasses, and stir it in. If necessary, add more flour or treacle to bring the whole to a stiff dough, and work it until quite smooth. Cover the dough and let it remain for nine or ten hours in a warm temperature. When ready, divide it into three equal-sized pieces, and roll each piece out as thinly as possible; with a biscuit-cutter 2in. in diameter cut the flats of dough into rounds, dredge some baking-tins with flour, and lay the rounds on them, lifting them up by means of a broad knife. Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned, then take them out, and when slightly cooled, remove from the baking-sheets. The biscuits should bo kept dry in tins. Ginger—continued. (5) Warm lib. of butter, beat it to a froth, then add 1 jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of ground Ginger, one grated nutmeg, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Roll it out thin on a floured board, cut it into shapes, and bake in a sharp oven. (6) Rub ljlb. of moist sugar in with an equal quantity of warmed fresh butter, and then work in eight well-beaten eggs. Sift 2gib. of flour with Joz. of ground Ginger and loz. of volatile salts; add them to the sugar mixture to form a paste, roll it out to the required thickness, cut it into fancy shapes with tin cutters, and bake in a moderate oven until crisp. Ginger Brandy.—(1) Stone 21b. of raisins, put them in a large earthen jar, with the thinly-pared rind of two lemons, 1 .Voz. of ground Ginger, and 2qts. of pale brandy. Cover the jar, and let the contents steep for fourteen days ; then strain the brandy, and sweeten it with 21b. of caster sugar. Pour it into bottles and cork tightly. (2) Bruise 2oz. of Jamaica Ginger, put it into a large earthen jar, with 2qts. of brandy, and steep it for fourteen days. Boil 3 pints of water with 1 Lib. of loaf sugar to a thin syrup (see Svrups), leave it until cold, then mix it with the brandy. Filter the brandy until quite clear, then pour it into bottles, and cork. It will take some time to clear. (3) Wash 81b. of grocers’ currants, put them in a jar with Jib. of ground Ginger, and pour over 2galls. of brandy. Let it stand for a week or ten days, stirring often. When ready, strain the liquor through a silk sieve, and return it to the jar. Put 81b. of loaf sugar in a large pan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Let the sugar get somewhat cool, then stir it into the liquor. Leave it for a week longer, stirring occasionally, then leave it untouched for some time. When all the sediment of the liquor has settled, pour the clear fluid care- fully into bottles, cork down tightly, and pack away in a dry cellar. Ginger-Brandy Liqueur.—Put into a glass bottle l gall. each of syrup and brown brandy 40deg. under proof, add loz. of essence of Ginger, and it is ready to use as required. Ginger spirit may be substituted for the essence of Ginger if preferred. Ginger Buns.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, and work it to a cream with Jib. of sugar; add half a nutmeg (grated) and 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger. Mix these thoroughly, and beat in two eggs; then add lib. of flour, and stir in Fig. 835. Ginger Buns. sufficient milk to make it of such consistency that it can be easily worked. Put the paste on a board, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, cut it into buns, sprinkle broken sugar over the tops (see Fig. 835), put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Ginger Cake. — (1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar, molasses, and butter (or half lard and half butter) into a basin with three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table- spoonful of butter-milk, and mix in 2J breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Add a little allspice if desired. Pour the mixture into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Mix together lib. of molasses, 6oz. of brown sugar, Joz. of cinnamon, eighteen cloves, three dozen allspice, all finely powdered, 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger, Jib. of butter, and sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Bake in a moderate oven, and watch it carefully to prevent burning.