THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 685 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. and 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger; next stir three well- beaten eggs into 1 teacupful of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved ; sift in gradually 2f breakfast-cupfuls of flour, and mix with the milk and eggs ; when this is quite smooth, work in lib. of well-washed currants. Spread the preparation on two buttered baking- sheets, and bake in a hot oven for thirty-five minutes. Take them off the sheets, and set aside to cool before using. Excelsior Gingerbread.—Warm lib. of butter, and beat it to a cream with lib. of caster sugar; mix with 21b. of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground ginger and one grated nutmeg ; then work in the butter and sugar, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy. When these are thoroughly incorporated, spread the mixture in layers about fin. thick on buttered baking-sheets with edges, and bake in a slack oven. When cooked, cut into squares, but let it get cold before putting it away. It will keep a long time if stored in a dry place. Fig. 842. Fairy Gingerbread. Fairy Gingerbread.—Slightly warm 1 breakfast-cupful of butter and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of moist sugar, and rub them together in a basin to a cream. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Make it into a paste like very thick cream. Spread a thin coating of butter on a baking-pan, let it get quite cold and set, spread the paste on it no thicker than a card, barely covering the pan from sight, and bake in a slack oven. When done, cut the sheets immediately into the shape and size of ordinary cards, some of which may be curled (see Fig. 842) and others kept flat. This is known in America as euchre Gingerbread, and the flat ones are placed on the table Fig. 843. Euchre Gingerbread. in packs (see Fig. 843), to be eaten as the fancy takes the player during the game of euchre. French Gingerbread.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger and f table-spoonful each of ground aniseed and ground cloves with lflb. of flour; then mix in lib. of treacle, and work it till quite smooth. Cover the paste over with a cloth, and leave it till the following day; then roll it out, and with a round tin cutter about 2in. in diameter stamp the paste out into rounds. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the Gingerbreads on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake for half-an-heur in a moderate oven. The cakes should be kept in biscuit-tins in a dry place. Gingerbread with Cocoa-nut.—Put 9oz. each of wheat- and rice-flour into a basin, and mix in 8oz. of moist sugar, loz. of ground ginger, the grated rind of two lemons, and lfoz. of candied citron cut up small. Put fib. of butter into a sauce- pan with lib. of treacle, make them both hot, pour them into the flour mixture, and stir well. Let it all cool, add 7oz. of cocoa-nut, grated and pounded in a mortar, beat well for a few minutes, put the mixture in small lumps on a buttered baking-sheet, place them in a slack oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. Take them out when done, and use either hot or cold. Gingerbread Fingers.—Put 21b. of flour in a basin with fib. of butter, and rub it smoothly in with the hands ; mix in foz. of caraway-seeds, loz. of finely-sifted ginger, and fib. of treacle. Work the paste well, let it rise in a warm tem- Gingerbread—continued. perature, then roll it out, and cut it into pieces about the size of a finger (see Fig. 844). Lay them on a baking-sheet, leaving a short space between, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked leave the cakes until cold; then pack them away in biscuit-tins, and keep them in a dry place until wanted for use. Fig. 844. Gingerbread Fingers. Gingerbread with Molasses.—(1) Mix 1 teacupful of liquefied butter with 1 pint of hot molasses; stir in gradually 2 break- fast-cupfuls of flour, and, when smooth, two well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda in f pint of milk ; mix with the other ingredients the peel of a lemon cut in small dice, and make into a dough with the milk ; if not stiff, add more flour. Put this into a deep buttered baking-dish, and bake for about half-an-hour. (2) Eub 1 teacnpful of butter in lqt. of flour; stir in 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 breakfast-cupful of water in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been mixed, and 1 pint of molasses; if not stiff enough, add more flour. Eoll it out, mark the top into cakes with a knife, brush over with thick syrup, and bake on a buttered baking-sheet in a moderate oven. (3) Eub lib. of fresh butter into 2flb. of sifted flour in which 1 teacupful of ground ginger has been mixed ; then stir into it 1 pint of milk, lib. of molasses, and 1 teaspoonful of pearlash dissolved in a little vinegar. Add them in small quantities and alternately. Stir all together for some time till quite light, then put the dough in small portions on a floured paste-board; flour the hands well, with them roll the pieces of dough into long rolls, lay them side by side, touching each other, on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Be careful not to scorch in baking. Gingerbread Nuts.—(1) Eub fib. of butter in lflb. of flour until quite smooth; mix in fib. of moist sugar, loz. of ground ginger, and lib. of treacle. Warm another fib. of butter, and beat it well with fib. more sugar ; when frothy, add it to the other ingredients, and mix. Eoll out the paste to about fin. in thickness, and cut it out with a tin cutter lain, in diameter. Lay the cakes on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave the cakes until cold; then put them into biscuit-tins, and keep in a dry place. (2) Put 2 teaspoonfuls of ground allspice, 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves, foz. of ground cinnamon, and 2oz. of ground ginger into 2 fib. of sifted flour, and mix them thoroughly. Then cut up and rub in lib. of fresh butter, and with 21b. of molasses mix this to a dough, working it well together with a knife. Add 1 saltspoonful of pearlash dissolved in vinegar, put the dough, a large handful at a time, on a well-floured paste-board, and knead it into separate cakes; then put them all together and work it well for a long time in one large lump; when it is very well kneaded cut it into halves and roll the two pieces evenly out in two sheets about fin. thick. Cut the paste into cakes with a very small cutter, lay them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. Be particularly careful that they do not scorch. Gingerbread being very liable to burn. (3) Eub 2oz. of butter into fib. of flour, and when smooth mix in 3oz. of moist sugar, f table-spoonful of ground ginger, i teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, a few drops of essence of lemon, loz. of finely-shred candied peel, and fib. of treacle. Work the whole to a stiff dough, cut it into pieces about the size of walnuts, then with floured hands mould them into small round cakes. Butter a baking-tin, lay the cakes on it leaving a good space between, brush them over with a paste- brush dipped in milk, and bake them in a rather slow oven