692 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gnocchi—continued. • in a saucepan on tlie fire; when it is sufficiently reduced, add about 1 handful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg to taste. Sprinkle a little flour on a board, pour the mixture on it, add 1 teacupful of flour (or a little less), and work it well; roll it out, cut it up into strips double the thickness of macaroni, and cut each one transversely into pieces |in. long; place these on a sieve with flour, shape into rounds, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them bubble up two or three times. When quite firm, drain on a colander, put them in another saucepan, and sprinkle over with grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese in equal proportions. Pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of reduced bechamel sauce to which has been added a pat of butter and 1 teacupful of glaze. Have ready a timbale-mould lined very thinly with a flat of good paste, pour in the mixture, put the mould into a moderate oven, and bake for forty-five minutes. Turn it out on a dish, garnish with potato cro- quettes, ornament with glaze, and serve. See Fig. 853. Venetian Gnocchi. ■— Stir fib. of flour in sufficient boiling water over the fire to bring it to the consistency of dough, and add about loz. of lard and a small quantity of salt. When sufficiently cooked, move the paste from the fire, and when cold mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs and 2oz. of ricotta. Divide the paste into small equal-sized portions, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain the Gnocchi, pile them on a hot dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over, brown under a sala- mander, and serve very hot with rich brown gravy. GOAT.-—Tliis animal is not much known in the culi- nary world excepting for its milk. The young are some- times eaten, but are not reckoned very savoury unless wild. See Kid. Goat’s milk is considered to be very nutritious ; but after standing a very short time assumes a musky smell and taste that is not very pleasing to the palate. GODARD GARNISH (a la Godard).—See Gar- nishes. GODARD SAUCE (k la Godard).—See Sauces. GODIVEAU.—This word is probably a corruption of the French verb tricoter—to knit or cudgel, and veau— veal. It is applied to veal forcemeat, but as it has a distinctive character it is inserted as a special heading. The best receipts for preparing it are as follow: (1) Remove the skin and gristle from lib. of noix or fillet of veal, chop it up, and put it into a mortar with l|lb. of beef-suet, also finely chopped; pound them well, and add loz. of spiced salt to season. When it is of a smooth paste, add two eggs, one at a time, and mix them well in. Care must be taken not to let any whole pieces of veal or suet be visible. Place the mixture in a basin on the ice, or in any cool place. In the meantime, put loz. of butter, two eggs, f pint of milk, and a little salt into a saucepan, and stir it well over the fire until it boils ; then take it off, and put the pan into a large bowl of cold water to cool. Place the forcemeat back into the mortar with the butter - and - egg mixture, add two more eggs and fib. of clean rough ice, and pound all together, adding these ingredients slowly to the forcemeat, and pounding well upon each fresh lot being added. Put a little of the forcemeat into some boiling water; if it is too stiff, add a little more ice; and if too thin, a little more egg. Keep the forcemeat in a cool place until wanted. (2) Remove the stringy tissue from fib. of veal-suet, and pound it in a mortar. Chop an equal quantity of lean veal, add it to the suet together with lib. of stiff choux paste, and pound all together until well mixed. Season highly with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and f teaspoonful of nutmeg; add the yolks of six eggs and whites of two. When well blended, strain through a sieve, and put it on ice to he used when required. Poach it for three minutes before serving. This forcemeat can be prepared with poultry or game instead of veal. (3) Chop as fine as possible lib. of knuckle of veal and Gib. of beef-suet; mix in a seasoning of any kind of spice, pound the whole well in a mortar, add four eggs, and continue Godiveau—continued. to pound until every trace of the veal and suet is gone. Take care to make the forcemeat smooth and firm, and use it as required. Gocliveau Pie.—Finely chop fib. each of veal and chicken, put them in a mortar, pound them, and mix in one egg. Trim off the skin and discoloured parts of 21b. of veal- kidney suet, chop it fine, and pound; then mix it with the pounded meats, and pound them all together till a smooth paste is obtained. Season the mixture, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of unsweetened choux paste and another egg. When quite smooth, place it over ice and leave for one hour. Butter a hot pie-mould, line it with short-paste, then cover it with about a third of the forcemeat, mould the remainder of the forcemeat into quenelles on a floured table, and poach them in salted water. When firm, drain the quenelles, and arrange them in two superposed garlands in the mould, placing between them slices of raw truffle. Cut some sweetbreads into collops, and fry them lightly in butter ; then fill the hollow of the pie with them, intermingling them with slices of truffles, and piling them in a dome. Put some thin slices of bacon on the top, and then cover the pie with a flat of short-paste, trimming it round the edges, and moistening and pressing them together. Roll out the trimming's of the paste, and cut it to imitate leaves; damp them slightly at the bottom with water, arrange them on the top of the pie, and make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put it in a hot oven, and bake for an hour, covering it after the first ten minutes with a sheet of paper to prevent its taking too much colour. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, place it on a hot dish, lift off the paste cover and remove the pieces of bacon, pour in a small quantity of thin Madeira wine, replace the cover, and serve immediately. GOLD CAKE.—See Cakes. GOLDEN ICING.—See Icing. GOLDEN PUDDING.—See Puddings GOLDEN SAUCE.—See Sauces. GOLDEN SYRUP.'—See Treacle. GOOD-FRIDAY BUNS.—See Buns. GOOSE (Fr. Oie; Ger. Gans; Ital. Oca; Sp. Ansar). —According to some cooks tlie Goose (Anser domesticus) is considered to be the king of the poultry tribe, but it is of very little repute on the Continent, being regarded as coarse and unwholesome. The livers, especially fatted livers, and thighs of Geese, are thoroughly appreciated, and formed into pies with truffles—pates de foies gras— are deservedly esteemed all the world over. At one time extraordinary virtues were attributed to roasted Goose; it was thought to promote longevity and cure hydro- phobia. The fat, mixed with honey, was used to anoint the bites of mad dogs. The association of Goose with Michaelmas appears to have been of very ancient practice, it being usual, some centuries back, for tenants to present their landlords with a Goose at the September quarter. At this time, too, the green Goose may be considered to have out- grown the youth which entitled it to be called green, and should be just in its prime. Young Geese fed on oats and green refuse, such as lettuce- and cabbage-leaves, soon till out and fatten; but green Geese require some- thing more powerful in its fattening action, such as oatmeal or peas, mixed with skimmed or butter-milk. Such a diet, with occasionally oats and barley, is supposed to prepare them for the table within four weeks of hatching. The age of a Goose is easily tested by breaking the upper bill with the finger and thumb. The feet, too, give some strong indications of age, being coarse and worn in the old Goose and comparatively smooth in the young one. The following receipts will give ample instructions for the culinary preparation of Geese, and other information