TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 719 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Greengages—continued. water; put the sugar and water into a preserving-pan and boil and skim till it is quite clear, then let it cool, and when cold add to it an equal part of brandy. When syrup and plums are both quite cold, fill up the jars with the syrup, and cork and fasten them air-tight. Preserved Greengage Pulp for Ices.—Stone the required quantity of ripe Greengages, put them in a preserving-pan with a little water and stir over the fire till reduced to a pulp, then rub them through a hair sieve; weigh the pulp, and for every 21b. add |lb. of broken loaf sugar. When the sugar is well mixed in, put the pulp into wide-mouthed bottles, and tie them down; stand the bottles in a deep preserving-pan, with a little straw or hay between to prevent them breaking; surround them, almost to the necks, with boiling water, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Leave the bottles in the water till cold, then take them out, cork them, and wax over the tops. Keep them in a dry store-closet. This preserved Greengage puree or pulp is very useful to confectioners and pastry-cooks, and if nicely coloured with spinach-green may be made to answer innu- merable purposes. Stewed Greengages.—Peel eighteen or twenty ripe Green- gages, cut them into halves, stone and put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, adding |lb. of sugar. Place the pan on the stove, and when boiling skim well. Cook for five minutes, stirring slowly from the bottom to avoid mashing the fruit; remove from the fire and immedi- ately add 1 g'ill of reJ cura^oa, mixing well together for about half a minute. Pour the whole into a bowl, let it get cool, turn it on to a dish, and serve. GREEN GOOSE.—A common term for a gosling. See Goose. GREEN ICING.—See Icing. GREENING.—A vegetable colouring matter made by expressing the juice of spinach. Occasionally used in confectionery and for other culinary purposes. See Colourings. GREEN LAVER.—See Algal GREEN MACAROONS.—See Macaroons. GREEN PEAS.—See Peas. GREENS.—This term is commonly used as applying to all kinds of cabbages. GREEN SAUCES.-See Sauces. GREEN TURTLE.—See Turtles. GRENADES.—In times of revolution and anarchy Grenades were in great vogue for dealing death and destruction at close quarters. They were shells con- taining combustibles, and were thrown by the hand, hence the term “hand-Grenades” and the origin of our Grenadier Guards, whose badge is the emblem of a flaming Grenade. But Urbain Dubois sought in his day to treat the subject with culinary satire, and accordingly served up the following dish: Fig. 888. Grenades with Cherry Sauce. Grenades with Cherry Sauce. —Cut some small stale rolls in halves, trim off the crusts, and shape the crumb like eggs. Beat a few yolks of eggs with a small quantity of cream, sweeten with caster sugar, and flavour with essence of vanilla; soak the rolls in the mixture. When well steeped, drain the rolls, taking care not to injure the shapes, dip them Grenades—continued. in beaten eggs, and cover with finely-grated stale bread- crumb. Put some clarified fat into a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the rolls and fry them till browned. Put 1 breakfast-cupful or so of sour stoned cherries into a small saucepan, add 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the peel of half a lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and 1 wine- glassful of red wine. Let the liquid boil quickly for a few minutes. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, then mix it with the sauce, and stir by the fire till thick. When done, diain the Grenades, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle vanilla-flavoured sugar on them, pour the cherry sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 888. Other fruit sauce may be substituted for the cherry sauce. GRENADINES. — A small kind of Fricandeaux ; some receipts for making them will be found under various headings of meat, poultry, &c. GREY MULLET.—Sec Mullet. GREY PLOVERS.—See Plovers. GRIDDLE.—This is described as an iron plate or pan used for cooking cakes (see Fig. 889). It is some- times mentioned in the lowland districts of Scotland as a Girdle, but this is merely a corruption of Griddle, which dates its pedigree back as far as the time when Scotland and the North of England were inhabited purely by Celts. GRIDDLE CAKES.—See Cakes. GRIDIRONS.—Correctly speaking these are irons for broiling meat or fish over coals (see Fig. 980), although they derive their origin from the same source as griddle, the iron having seemingly cropped in to distinguish them from wooden grids, or gratings. Since the intro- duction of the French word griller — to broil or grill, the French for a Gridiron, “ a grill ” and “ to grill,” seem to have taken the place of the older phraseology. See Broiling and Grilling.