TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 715 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Gravies—continued. the oven is very hot, this liquid will be the fat from the meat and the brown juice which will settle, and some will adhere to the pan. Pour 1 pint of hot water or stock (stock preferred) into the pan, and rub off the sediment at the bottom, so that it shall be dissolved in the stock or water. Pour this into a stewpan or saucepan, and place it on the stove to heat. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of the hot fat into a small frying-pan, and when browned stir in 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of dry flour, or enough to absorb all the fat. Stir until the flour is brown and well mixed, then add the hot liquid gradually, and stir as it thickens. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer for five minutes. Strain through a Gravy-strainer till perfectly smooth. Gravy can be made in the dripping-pan, but such pans are usually large, inconvenient to handle, take up more space than can be spared on the top of the stove, and are much harder to wash when the Gravy has been made in them. To make it in the pan, pour off nearly all the fat, put the pan on the stove, and add dry flour until the fat is all absorbed; then add hot water or hot stock, and stir as it thickens. Cook for five to eight minutes, and strain. Pour the Gravy into a dish, not over the meat, as is the custom of inexpe- rienced cooks. Gravy for Roasted Goose.—When the goose is roasted or baked, turn nearly all the fat out of the pan, but do not pour away the brown part of the drippings. Put the pan over the fire, stir into it 1 piled table-spoonful of flour, and lot the flour brown; then stir in 1 pint of boiling water, season the Gravy with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and serve. Gravy for Turkey.—Chop up an onion as finely as possible, put it in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till it is dark brown. Put 3 gills of stock in a saucepan, with a little ham finely chopped, a sprig each of parsley and thyme, a little Worcestershire or Harvey sauce, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil up for from five to ton minutes; then strain it into a basin or sauceboat. Gravy for Venison.—Remove all the fat from 21b. or 31b. of loin of mutton, cut it into rather thick slices, grill them for a minute or two on one side only so as to slightly brown them, put them into a stewpan, pour over lqt. of water, place the lid on the pan, and simmer at the side of the fire for an hour; then take off the lid, and boil until the liquor is re- duced to half its original quantity. When wanted for use, season with salt only. Gravy for Wild Towl.—Put into a small saucepan a blade of mace, a piece of lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls each of mush- room ketchup, walnut ketchup, and strained lemon-juice, two shallots cut in slices, and 2 wineglassfuls of port wine; put the saucepan over the fire, and boil the contents ; then strain and add it to the Gravy that has come from the fowl while roasting. If there should be a large quantity of Gravy, less wine, ketchup, &c., will be needed. GRAVY SOUPS.—These have become so universal in our restaurants, and even at private tables, that a few receipts for their manufacture are desirable under this heading. The term “ gravy ” is rather a misnomer, as the soup is not made from the gravy of meat obtained with the dripping, as previously described in the article on Gravy. (1) Take 31b. or 41b. of bones (those from a piece of streaky bacon for preference), break them up small, and fry lightly in a frying-pan. Cut 21b. of beef from the neck into small pieces, and fry them also. Cut up lib. of onions into thin slices, and fry them in a separate pan until they are a light brown colour. Turn all into the stockpot, add 3qts. of water, boil up, and skim. Put in two large turnips and a carrot cut in slices, six or eight pepper- corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil gently for four or five hours, and just about an hour before it is ready put in a little chopped celery or celery-seed tied up in a bag. Strain the soup through a fine sieve, and when it is quite cold skim off all the fat. Boil up again, add 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour mixed to a paste in 4 table-spoonfuls of water, sprinkle in 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and the soup is ready to serve. A few forcemeat balls might be added with advantage. (2) Cut into slices about 71b. of shin of beef, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and two shallots cut into Gravy Soups—continued. pieces, cover the pan, and brown the meat over the fire ; add 8oz. of ham, pour over Igall. of cold water, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for about three hours, taking great care not to let it boil, and skimming frequently; now add 3qts. of warmed water, three carrots cut in slices, two heads of celery in small pieces, four or five cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer gently for another hour, then add throe turnips cut in slices, and simmer again until the meat is perfectly tender, and done to rags. Strain off the liquor, let it remain for a day, skim, put it into a saucepan, make it hot without boiling, add 2 tabic-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and a seasoning of allspice, salt, and pepper, turn it out into a tureen, and serve with small squares of toast floating on the top. (3) Cut bullock’s, calf’s, or sheep’s milt into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 21b. of bones and lib. of onions, fry till they are a light brown, and pour over 3qts. of water; when this boils, skim it, then add three carrots and turnips, 4oz. of Scotch oatmeal, and a few sweet herbs. When it has boiled for four hours, pass it through a fine sieve, remove all the fat, place it back in the pan, and boil again, adding 2oz. of cornflour made into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Season well with salt and pepper, and serve plain or with croutons of fried bread. (4) Lay at the bottom of a saucepan £lb. of loan ham, over it 31b. of lean beef, and cover this again with 31b. of veal, all cut in slices; if there arc any bones, break them, and put them on top of the meat. Put in also a bunch of sweet herbs, a head of celery cut up, two peeled and sliced turnips, two sliced carrots, four peeled onions, four cloves, a blade of mace, and lqt. of water. Cover the pan, and set it over a moderate fire till the meat browns ; then turn it over, and let the other side brown. Pour in 3qts. of boiling water, and boil gently for an hour, skimming off the scum as it rises ; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, throw in 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and simmer for four hours. Strain through a sievo and let it stand till cold; carefully remove the fat, then pour it carefully into the saucepan to warm it up, without dis- turbing the sediment. This soup should be perfectly clear and the colour of amber. (5) Cut 31b. of neck of beef and a slice of ham into small pieces, and put them into a stockpot with a little butter; cover the pot, and put it on the side of the fire, where the juice will be extracted from the meat without burning; when there is about £ pint of juice put the pot a little farther over the fire, so that the watery portions may evaporate. When the meat is covered with a thick rich glaze add £ pint of water, and boil up so as to reduce it quickly. Now add 2qts. of water, boil again, skim well, and let it remain with the lid a little raised for three hours. Put a large carrot, two turnips, eight onions cut up in slices and fried, 1 salt- spoonful of celery-seeds, and two or three peppercorns tied up in a muslin bag into another saucepan ^ith 1 pint of water, and boil until quite tender. Strain off the liquor into the soup in the stockpot, sprinkle in a little pepper, strain the whole again, and let it get cool. Remove the fat, and if it is at all thick warm it, and stir in the well-beaten whites and shells of three eggs, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Remove it from the fire, and in five minutes strain it through a very fine sieve or flannel bag, and it is ready for use. The addition of £oz. of dissolved gelatine will make this Gravy Soup very strong, or a little glaze added before clarifying enriches it. Fig. 881. Grayli.nu. GRAYLING.—This favourite fisli (Thymallus vul- garis) is allied to the trout; it has a very broad dorsal I fin (see Fig. 881), and is found in cold mountain streams.