THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 584 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Filberts—continued. husks. Red Filberts and White Filberts are alike (see Fig. 736) externally, but in the former the kernel is covered with a red skin, and in the latter kind the kernel covering is white, or pale brown. Either of these can be preserved in their husks for winter use. The Kentish cob-nut is a short, round, thick-shelled nut, and a very fine variety of these is imported from Spain. The Cosford nut is another very fine nut, being oblong, and finely striated longitudinally. The shell is very thin, and the kernel usually large, full, and milky. The Downton, a large square nut, is considered also to be a special variety. When nuts are served for dessert they should be piled on a dish and garnished here and there or round under them with leaves—fresh nut-leaves if possible, or vine- leaves if the nut-leaves are not forthcoming. Filberts should be served freshly gathered, when they will peel easily after cracking off the shells; but when they are somewhat dry they may be blanched by plunging the kernels into boiling water, and after just boiling them up for an instant, turn the kernels into a rough cloth; the skins will then rub off. Compote of Filberts.—Crack the shells and carefully remove the kernels from some fresh-gathered Filberts, put them on a dish, squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juiee, and leave them for an hour or two. Drain the nuts free from the juice, arrange them in pyramid form in a compote-dish, pour over thick syrup flavoured with noyeau, and serve. Filbert Balls.—Blanch fib. of Filberts, put them in a pre- serving-pan over a moderate fire, and stir with a wooden spoon until they are lightly and equally browned. Take them off the fire, let them get cold, then put them in a mortar and pound to a smooth paste, adding occasionally a small quantity of white of egg. Mix fib. of flour with the Filberts and 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and stir in sufficient beaten yolks of eggs to make a stiff paste. Boll the paste out, and cut it into four equal parts ; roll each part to the same length, cut them into pieces about the size of walnuts, and roll them into balls. Brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake until lightly browned in a moderate oven. When cooked, the balls should be dry and crisp. Filbert Biscuits.—(1) Skin about Rb. of Filberts, put them on a tray, and toss them over the fire until they are well coloured. Let them get cold, put them into a mortar, and Filberts—continued. pound to a pulp, adding gradually the white of an egg to prevent oiling; then form them into a paste with £lb. each of flour and crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of butter, and the yolks of four or five eggs. Cut the paste into small pieces about the size of walnuts, roll them out to about 3jin. in length, dust over with coarsely-sifted loaf sugar, brushing them over with egg to make it adhere, put them into a slack oven, and bake for a few minutes, or until they are well coloured. Take them out, put them into a dry closet until crisp, and they are ready for use. (2) Crack some Filberts, pick them clean from shell and skin, put them in a mortar, and pound, with white of egg sufficient to keep them from oiling. Mix and pound with the nuts powdered white sugar till the paste is thick, then with the spaddle and knife drop small pieces of the paste on a sheet of paper. Each piece of paste should be about the size of half a walnut. Put two or three sheets of paper under them in the oven, and bake brown. Take them from the oven on the sheets of paper, and let them remain on these till they are quite cold. (3) Bub lib. of butter, softened by warming, into 3|lb. of flour, place it on a board, make a bay in the centre, put in lOoz. of caster sugar, and form it into a paste with 3 gills of milk, 4 table-spoonfuls of honey-water, and 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water ; work it until it is perfectly smooth, and make it into round shapes the size of nutmegs. Make two incisions like a cross with a knife on the top nearly half- way through, place them on a slightly-buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a slow and steady oven until done. Filbert Butter.—Blanch and pound a dozen Filberts, beat in 3oz. of butter, a slight seasoning of chives, tarragon-leaves, and parsley, and when it is well mixed, the butter is ready for use. Filbert Candied Paste Bonbons.—Blanch jib. of Filberts, put them in a mortar, and pound, adding a small quantity of white of egg to prevent them oiling. Mix with this paste |lb. of syrup at 40deg. (see Syjrups), f wineglassful of kirschen- wasser, and sufficient spinach-green to tinge it. Leave the paste till cool, then cut it into pieces the same shape and size as olives; put them on a sieve, set it in the screen with a moderate heat, and dry them for four hours. Put the pieces in a candy-tin, pour over them syrup at 36deg. (see Sykups) slightly cooled, to about lin. above the paste, place a sheet of paper over the tin, and leave it till the contents are candied, which will take about fifteen hours, the tin being placed in a hot closet. Break the sugar that has caked on the top, take the bonbons carefully out of the syrup, put them on a wire tray, and finish drying in the screen. Pack in boxes between layers of paper. Filbert Cannelons.—Crack 6oz. of Filberts, pick them free from shell and skin, put in a mortar, and pound with a little white of egg to keep them from oiling; then add lib. of powdered white sugar and half the white of an egg. Mix the paste well, let it stand to dry slightly, and then press it through a biscuit-forcer, forming cannelons about 4in. in length. Put some butter in a pan over the fire, and when quite hot fry the cannelons in it, taking care to keep them quite straight. Sprinkle sugar over them, and glaze with a salamander before serving. Filbert and Citron Cream Ice.—Crack the shells and take out the kernels of 1 pint of Filberts; place them on a buttered tin, and put in a moderate oven until the skins can be easily removed, then chop them finely. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, pour them into a lined saucepan with 1£ pints of cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire until thickened, but not boiling. Take the saucepan off the fire, leave the contents until nearly cold, then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of preserved citron with its juice and the Filberts. Turn the mixture into a mould, and cover and pack it in pounded ice and salt for a few hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a glass dish. Filbert Cracklings.—Cut lOoz. of blanched Filberts into shreds, and mix them in a basin with an equal quantity of caster sugar, a few drops of noyeau, and the whites of two eggs. Take the mixture up with a dessert-spoon, and drop it in lumps about the size of walnuts on sheets of wafer- paper, and about ljin. apart; dip the top of the finger