TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 530 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. saucepan with. 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until browned ; pour in the sauce, and boil again. Place the Duck on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Braised Duck a l'lmperatrice. — Cut off the wing and half of the breast of a Duck, take off the skin, remove the bone from the wing, and fill np its place with quenelle force- meat. Lard the breast, put it into a braising-pan over slices | of leeks, carrots, onions, a little parsley, thyme, chervil, bay- leaves, celeriac, and lemon-peel, and pour over sufficient stock j to prevent burning. Set the pan on the fire and braise the j half Duck, then glaze it, put it on a dish over a layer of cooked sea-kale, and serve with a pur<5e of beans for garnish. Braised Duck •with Mushrooms.—Braise a Duck. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, add a few chives, several finely- j minced mushrooms, and a bunch of parsley, and fry them for ten minutes ; dredge in a little flour, add the liquor from the Duck after braising, and stir over the fire for a few minutes ; then skim off the fat, and strain. Dish the Duck, pour over the gravy, and serve. Braised Duck with Sour-crout.—Have ready some pickled sour-crout, drain it, and put it in a braising-pan; add one or two thin slices of belly of fat pork, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, two or three bay-leaves, a bunch of spring onions, a little whole pepper, and spice. Put the Duck (drawn and cleaned) in the middle of the pan, add some fat that has been skimmed off broth, and some German sausag-e, a knuckle of ham, or pork sausage-meat. Sausages should not be added till half-an-hour before dishing. Stand the pan over a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid, and let the contents cook for three hours. Drain the sour-crout, spread it in the bottom of the dish, put the Duck over it, and garnish with the sausages and pork. Serve hot. Capilotade of Duck.—Take the remains of any cold Ducks, cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan, cover with a thin Italian sauce, and simmer on the side of the fire. Cut some slices of bread into the shape of kites, and fry them. Dish the pieces of Duck, garnish with the fried bread, pour the sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 671. Devilled Duck.—Clean a good-sized Duck, and split it down the back. Make a mixture of dry mustard, pepper, salt, and chutney, rub it all over the Duck, having previously pricked the skin with a fork, and broil it for twenty minutes. Put [ in a stewpan teacupful each of white wine, mushroom ketchup, lemon-pickle, and stock, and add a little sugar. Dish the Duck, pour the sauce, when hot, over it, and serve. Ducks a la Chasseur.—Singe, draw, and truss three Ducks, and cook them in a stewpan with a piece of butter over a I moderate fire. Fry the livers of the Ducks with more poultry livers, or slices of pig’s or calf’s liver; when they are cool, pound them, pass through a sieve, mix in a little glaze, I and with it mask a few breadcrusts cut into oblong shapes and browned in butter. Arrange a heap of green peas or any other vegetable in the centre of a dish, cut the Ducks into pieces or fillets, trim them, arrange them with the crusts round the pyramid, and place a decorated attelette in the centre of the heap (see Fig. 672). Mask the fillets of Ducks with brown sauce reduced with Madeira, and serve. More of the sauce may be served in a sauceboat. Duck Boopiaja.—Brown twelve onions in a frying-pan with 3oz. of fat, and take them out when done. Put in 4 tea- spoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, % teaspoonful each of ground ginger, coriander- and cumin-seeds, and 5- teaspoonful of ground garlic, Ducks—continued. and brown them slightly; then put in a Duck cut up into sixteen or eighteen pieces, If teaspoonfuls of salt, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and simmer over a slow fire for a little more than one hour, or until the meat is quite done. Put the curry on a dish, chop up the onions and sprinkle them over, and serve as hot as possible. 4 Duck Pie.—(1) Cut off the neck Horn a Duck, then skin it, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put the well-washed giblets over the fire, together with an anchovy, a little whole black pepper, a small bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a bit of mace, a crust of bread toasted very brown, a very little cayenne, and loz. of butter; cover the pan till the butter is quite melted and all are quite hot, then add f pint of boiling water, and stew till quite tender. Take up the giblets, strain the liquor, and let it and the giblets stand till quite cold. When the Duck has boiled, take it up, and while it is hot cut it in pieces. When the giblets are cold, put them into the pie-dish, pour in the skimmed liquor they were boiled in with the gravy that has run from the Duck, season the Duck with salt and pepper, put it into the pie-dish with a few bits of butter, cover with puff paste or short-crust, and bake. (2) Cut off all the flesh in slices from a couple of cold roasted Ducks, put a strip of truffle forcemeat (using lib. in all) on each, roll them up, and put away until wanted. Prepare a thick jelly with the bones and trimmings. Line a pie-dish (such as used for Melton pies) with paste, put in the rolls, pour in the warm jelly, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take it out, glaze, decorate according to fancy, and serve. (3) Finely mince the meat from a couple of Ducks, also 4oz. of ham and the Duck’s livers, mixing in 1 teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs and the grated rind of half a lemon, and seasoning with mace, cayenne, salt, and pepper. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the mince, fill up with rich jelly made from the bones, cover over with more paste, decorate with leaves, &c., bake in a moderate oven, glaze it when done, and serve either hot or cold. Duck Sandwiches.—Trim off the skin of the remains of any cold roasted Duck, chop the meat, put it in a saucepan with a lump of butter, season it with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. When the butter has dis- solved, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, mix in the beaten white of one egg, and continue stirring till the mixture is nearly cold. Put the meat into a mould, press it down tightly, and pack the mould in ice. When cold, turn the meat out of the mould, cut it into thin slices, and put these between thin slices of bread-and-butter, dusting a little pepper and salt over them. Cut the sandwiches into fingers, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or fancy dish-paper on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Duck Soup.—(1) Put a small Duck, previously drawn and trussed, into a stewpan with half a sliced carrot, three or four small sliced onions, 1 pinch of salt, and 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and fry over a moderate fire ; stir, add 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, reduce, and cover liberally with broth ; when the broth boils, remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and simmer till the Duck is sufficiently cooked. Take out the Duck, drain it, and keep it hot. Skim and strain the liquid. Cut out of a turnip with a small vegetable-spoon several small balls about the size of Spanish nuts, blanch them for nine