565 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iSic., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs—continued. Poached Eggs a la Bourguignonne. — Put 1 table- spoonful of meat glaze in a saucepan with 1 pint of broth or consomme, and boil for a few minutes; add two Eggs, and poach for one-miuute-and-a-quarter. Carefully lift out the Eggs with a skimmer, and lay them gently on a hot dish. Repeat the operation with ten more Egg-s, two at a time. When all are on the dish, sprinkle over loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and place them in the hot oven for one minute to brown. Reduce the gravy in which the Eggs poached to half its original quantity. Carefully pour it round, but not over them, and serve hot. Poached Eggs with Anchovy Sauce.—Put six Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil for five minutes; then take them out, remove the shells, and put them into cold water. In the meantime, cut off the crust from a stale loaf (tin- loaf for preference), and cut the crumb into slices about lin. thick, and again into oval-shaped pieces about the size of Eggs. With a sharp knife cut them transversely round the edge, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out, split them, removing the bottom part, scoop out a little of the soft inside, fill each cavity with an Egg, and put on the tops. Flavour a little bechamel sauce with essence of anchovies, place the Egg croustades on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve quite hot. Poached Eggs with Bechamel Sauce.—Pour 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, and set it on the hot stove. Cut twelve hard-boiled Eggs in halves, put them into the hot bechamel, season with white pepper, and warm up thoroughly for three minutes, but without boiling; add loz. of butter and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, pour the whole on to a hot dish, and serve with six croutons of fried bread. Poached Eggs with Celery Sauce.—Boil two heads of well-washed celery in lqt. of white broth for fifteen minutes; take them out, cut them in lin. lengths, return to the pan with the broth, leaving it on the stove to keep hot, and season with salt and white pepper. Reduce the liquor to three-quarters (which will require about ten minutes), pour in 1 ] gill of hot bechamel sauce, and boil again. Poach twelve Eggs, neatly arrange them round a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve quickly. Poached Eggs with Game Puree.—Take the trimmings and carcases of any cold roasted game, chop them into convenient-sized ptieces, put them into a stewpan with a small onion, a carrot, a small piece of celery, a bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, a small piece of mace, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; pour in a sufficient quantity of common stock to cover, and boil gently for two hours. Cut Jib. of lean beef with some cold game into small pieces, pound them in a mortar until smooth, rub the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and put it into a stewpan. Strain the stock, pour it over the pounded meat, place it over a gentle fire to get thoroughly hot, add more flavouring if required, and stir in about loz. of butter. Poach and trim some Eggs, and fry an equal quantity of croutons of bread in butter until browned. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, arrange the poached Eggs on the top, garnish round with the fried bread, and serve. Do not make the puree too liquid; if there is more liquor than required, put it by for other use. Poached Eggs with Mushrooms.—Peel and wash Jib. of mushrooms, drain them, put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, season with salt and white pepper, and squeeze in two or three drops of lemon-juice. Cover over the pan, cook for ten minutes on a moderate fire, add about J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to half the original quantity; then add 1 gill of bechamel sauce, and bring the whole to the boiling-point. Poach twelve Eggs. Pour the sauce on a hot dish, keeping the mushrooms in the saucepan ; neatly lay the Eggs over the sauce in a circle on the dish, place the mushrooms right in the centre, and serve. Poached Eggs for Soup.—Put J wineglassful of vinegar into a saucepan of boiling salted water, keeping it on the side of the fire to boil gently. Break some Eggs separately in a cup, pour them gently into the boiling water, cover over Eggs —continued. the pan, and let them remain for three minutes. A few only should be put in at a time. When done, take them out with a perforated slice, and plunge them into cold water; take out of this, trim them round, and either put them into the tureen with the soup or serve separately on a dish. Poached Eggs with Stock.—Put lqt. of water in a sauce- pan with 1 pinch of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil. Break six Eggs, one at a time, in a cup, and pour carefully into the boiling water. When the whites are firm, take the Eggs out with a skimmer so as not to break them, and put them in a basin of warm water for ten minutes; then drain them, trim to an oval shape, and put them on a dish. Reduce 2 pints of stock to 1 pint, pour it over the Eggs, sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper, and serve. Poached Eggs and Tomatoes.—Put half a tin of canned tomatoes in a stewpan, with one chopped small onion, add salt and pepper to taste, and stew for ten minutes; then put in six Eggs, one at a time. Lift the whites carefully over the yolks with a fork while cooking till the Eggs are firm; then prick the yolks and let them mingle with the tomatoes and whites. Have ready some slices of buttered toast on a dish, pour over the Egg mixture, and serve hot. Poached Eggs with Truffles.—Peel three truffles, cut them up into thin slices, put in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to one-lialf its original bulk over a moderate fire. Season with salt and white pepper, add 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce, and boil. Prepare twelve heart-shaped croutons of bread, dip the pointed parts first into the sauce, Jin. in depth, and then into finely- chopped parsley to the same depth; arrange them on a hot dish in the shape of a star, so that the decorated ends of the croutons will just reach up to the edge of the dish equally all round. Poach twelve Eggs, and put one on each crouton. Pour the sauce gently in the centre of the dish, being careful not to pour any over the Eggs ; cut a truffle into twelve equal slices, dip these in a little hot broth for two seconds, lay a slice on top of each Egg, and serve im- mediately. Poached Eggs with Wine Sauce.—Pour 1 pint of claret into a stewpan, with two sprigs of parsley and one sprig of thyme tied together, also one small onion, one clove of garlic, one clove, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil for a- quarter-of-an-hour; then strain through a fine hair sieve, and return it to the stewpan. Break in carefully one Egg, leave it in one minute, then take it out with a skimmer, and place it on a dish. Proceed like this until eight Eggs have been used, then put the dish in a warm place. Work 1 table-spoonful of flour with Jib. of butter, put it into the wine sauce, stir over the fire, and boil until reduced to a thick cream. Pour the sauce over the Eggs, and serve. Potted Eggs. -Boil half-a-dozen Eggs till hard; then pound the yolks in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce and about Joz. of butter, with pepper and salt to taste. Press the mixture into a glass jar, pour 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of butter melted to oil on top of it, and it will keep for a week or ten days. When wanted, stand the jar on a small dish, and garnish round and on top with fresh, well-washed parsley. Preserved Eggs.—(1) Make a mixture of 1 bushel of lime (slaked in wrater), 31b. of salt, 8oz. of cream of tartar, and as much water as will more than cover the Eggs; put the Eggs in this, and they will keep good for a couple of years. (2) Brush over the Eggs, which must be new laid, with a little dissolved gum, doing one half of an Egg first and letting it dry, and then doing the other half, so that every part is covered, and taking care that none is rubbed off in handling. Eggs preserved in this way will keep fresh for a considerable time. Savoury Eggs.—(1) Put a large piece of butter in a dish, and stand it on a hot stove until the butter has melted; then pour in J pint of cream, break in carefully a sufficient quantity of Eggs, and dust a small quantity of salt and pepper on the top of each. Leave the dish on the stove until the Eggs are firm, and then serve. (2) Beat up three Eggs, and mix with them 2 table-spoon- fuls of cold ham, minced very fine, J teaspoonful of chopped