495 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Curing—continued. or recess (c) made sufficiently large to loosely hold a pan some ISin. or 2ft. in diameter. The pipe trench is then filled in, and what earth is to spare can be packed round the base of the barrel. The pit (c) is covered with an iron or wooden lid (d), which should also be packed down when the apparatus is in action. The mode of working is as follows: Hang the hams, bacon, fish, tongues, or whatever it may be desired to smoke, on sticks laid across the top of the barrel, and cover over the top as tightly as possible. When the barrel or smoke-chamber is stocked, put into the pit (c) a pan of burning wood chips, chopped straw, or dry sawdust, or any or all together. Put on the lid of the pit, and secure it all round the edges as soon as the fuel is well alight. The smoke generated will pass along the pipe to the barrel, and soon be very dense, with the advantage also of being quite cool. This device is the invention of a Mr. Brooks, of New York, who claims for it a further advantage beyond that of ordinary smoke-houses, which is, that should the string that ties up a ham or anything else give way, the article will fall upon the ground and not into a smouldering fire, so that it remains unin- jured. Although this is apparently a somewhat remote advantage, it is worth keeping in remembrance, as such accidents are by no means of rare occurrence in larger concerns. In some farm-houses where wood is burnt in the kitchens, hams and bacon are sometimes smoked by Fig. 604. Smoking Apparatus for Home Use. hanging them up the chimney; but this arrangement does not give very satisfactory results, the smoke passing by too rapidly, often requiring the meat to be scored deeply with a sharp knife before it allows the smoke to penetrate. This scoring process is technically termed “ bucaning.” Whatever may be the apparatus employed, it must be borne in mind that the quality of the wood has great influence upon the smell and taste of the smoke-dried meat, smoke from beech-wood and oak being preferable to fir and larch. The twigs and berries of juniper, sprays of rosemary, peppermint, and other aromatics are sometimes added for the purpose of imparting peculiar flavours, cloves and allspice being especially esteemed; but the best of all smoke for bacon and hams is that from Irish peat. The smoke of peat gives a peculiar flavour which is much esteemed by epicures; it requires great attention and care in the process, and necessitates the use of specially arranged smoke-houses. Ordinary smoke- houses are two or three storeys high, the fire being kindled in the lowest, which is generally below ground. Bacon is hung in the storey above, the smoke passing through a perforated floor and cooling on its road. "Any soot formed is retained in the first chamber before it passes through to the bacon. In the storey above the bacon it is customary to hang hams, and in the storey above that sausages and fish are smoked, the entire process taking about six weeks to complete. Curing—continued. Before smoking, all goods should be carefully salted and dried, the pickle and mode of application depending upon the kind of articles to be cured. These processes are described under the name of the particular article treated. Cold weather is reckoned to be the best time for smoking, as the flavours appear to penetrate the flesh more readily. CURLY CRESS.—The common name for Garden Cress (Lepidium sativum); sometimes also known as Pepper Grass. The curly leaves make an excellent garnish or salad. CURRANTS.-—There are two distinct kinds of fruit known by this name ; the first being the sweet-acid berries of the Ribes, a tribe to which gooseberries belong ; and the second, the dried fruit of the Corinth grape, better known as grocers’ Currants. From these latter it is prob- able that the word Currant is derived, being merely a corruption of Corinth. Some writers assert that Currant is an extension of the old Anglo-Saxon word car—signi- fying red. This would scarcely apply to black Currants, although it might to the white, they being a variety of the red; other authorities have taken much trouble to show that this origin of the word is improbable. Opinion naturally inclines towards the British origin, regarding grocers’ “ Currants ” as a convenient corruption, because the Ribes are indigenous to Great Britain, and will only flourish in Northern Europe. In France they are known as red and white “gooseberries” (groseilles), the black Currant rejoicing in the name of Cassis, and the grocers’ Currants in Raisins de Corinthe. In Germany the two kinds are distinguished by Johannisbeeren, and Korintlien; and in Italy they are Ribes and Sparrow-grapes respec- tively. Black Currants. — These are described as the fruit of the Ribes nigrum, being black, strong-flavoured, aperient, and tonic, and in addition to these medicinal properties it is just possible that others have been dis- covered or imagined. In cookery and confectionery Black Currants hold an important position, due in a great measure to the richness of the juice and colour. The receipts given (see also Cassis) will be found good. The following are amongst the best in cultivation : Black Naples, large and good, but, being- early in leaf, the fruit is sometimes liable to suffer from spring frosts; an old variety. Lee’s Prolific, comparatively new, the bunches large, and the berries even larger than Black Naples, very sweet, and abundantly produced. Ogden's Black Grape, large and fine, very prolific. Sweet-fruited, a small sort, but little known. Black-Currant Cordial. Pick clean lqt. of Black Currants, put them into a large basin, and pour over lqt. of whisky ; add the grated rind of one lemon and squeeze in the juice. Bruise loz. of whole ginger and put it in also. Cover over the basin and keep it standing in a cool place for ten days, then strain the liquor through a clean cloth. Measure it, put it in a preserving-pan, add to each pint lib. of loaf sugar, put the pan on the fire or stove, and stir till the sugar is quite dissolved: remove the pan from the fire and let the cordial cool. When it is quite cold, bottle and cork securely. Black-Currant Cream Ice.—Pick the stalks off V pint of ripe Black Currants, stir and mash them over the fire for five minutes, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix i- pint of syrup, at 32deg., and i pint of thick cream with the puree. When well beaten together, turn the mixture into a freezer, and work till stiff. Put the cream in a fluted mould, close it, pack in ice, and leave till frozen; then dip the mould in lukewarm water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and decorate with crystallised cherries, candied angelica cut into points, and garnish round the dish with preserved apples and pears, or other fruit. Surmount the whole with an ornamental attelette (see Fig. 605), and set back in the ice-chest to keep cold until wanted. This is reckoned to be one of the finest-flavoured and handsomest sweets that can be prepared.