551 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac , referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. until done and the whites quite firm. Place a lump of butter on each, garnish the dish with parsley, round each egg put small strips of bacon, and serve. (2) Proceed as for No. 1, sprinkle over cracker- or bread- crumbs, and bake until the whites are firm and the crumbs brown. (3) Whip the whites of the Eggs to a froth, season slightly with salt, spread the froth roughly over a baking-sheet, making indentations in it, and put in the yolks, keeping them a little distance apart; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and bake in a quick oven until the froth is quite firm. (4) Heat £oz. of butter in a dish on the hot stove, break into it twelve fresh Eggs, sprinkle over 2oz. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, set the dish in the oven, and bake for two minutes. Pour over 1 pint of well-reduced Spanish sauce, add 3oz. of finely-chopped, cooked, tender ham or cooked kidneys, and serve at once. (5) Beat four Eggs in a basin, add 8 table-spoonfuls of milk and 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, with salt and pepper to taste. Put a little butter in a pie-dish (an enamelled one is the best), make it hot, pour in the Eggs, and bake in a quick oven until the Eggs are quite firm. (6) Well butter a small dish, break in carefully six Eggs, keeping the yolks intact, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over, and put in a slow oven. When done, serve in the same dish. (7) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter on a hot dish; as soon as the butter has run, break three Eg'gs separately and put them in the dish. Beat the yolks of two Eggs with some finely-chopped parsley, one minced anchovy, half a small shallot, 1 pinch of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and five or six capers; add the well-beaten whites of the two Eggs, pour the mixture into the dish with the other Eggs, and stand it in a quick oven for three or four minutes to set. Garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Baked Eggs masked with. Forcemeat.—Take a small quantity each of lean ham, veal, and anchovy, and mince them very fine, adding a little cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste. Remove the shells from half-a-dozen hard-boiled Eggs, and cover them all over thickly with the forcemeat. Beat up the yolk of an Egg, brush the Eggs over with it, and hake in a quick oven for about a-quarter-of-an-hour or until done. Take them out, put them on a dish, and pour brown gravy round them. Boiled Eggs.—Before being boiled, the Eggs should be warm, that is, not brought at once from a cold cellar and boiled. Plunge them into boiling water and boil gently for three minutes, when the yolks will be soft and the whites a little hardened. If boiled for five minutes exactly, the whites will become quite hard, while the yolks will remain soft; and if boiled for three or four minutes longer they will be quite hard; but for salads they require to be boiled for a-quarter-of- an-hour. If the Eggs are very cold, as they are likely to he in the winter, holding them in steam will sufficiently warm them. If the shell of an Egg should be cracked, prick small holes in the thickest end of the Egg, which will prevent the contents oozing out while boiling. Broiled Eggs ■with Clieese.—This is prepared in the same way as Broiled Eggs with Parsley, with the exception of 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese being scattered over. Broiled Eggs with Crayfish-tails.—Put a piece of butter in a shallow saucepan, and place it on the side of the fire to warm. Beat up eight Eggs in a basin, season with salt and pepper to taste, put them into the saucepan, place this on the fire, and stir so that the Eggs will be perfectly smooth. As soon as the mixture thickens, remove it from the fire, stirring continually, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream and a little red butter made with the shells of cray- fish-tails. Let it remain for a couple of minutes, add 4 table- spoonfuls of cooked and picked crayfish-tails, turn it all out on to a dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried in butter, and serve. Broiled Eggs with Mushrooms.—Chop up three cooked mushrooms, and put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of melted butter; break four Eggs in a basin, add them to the mush- rooms, with 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce or rich gravy, and .V teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Put the pan on the fire, stirring continually until the Eggs begin to set; then remove it to the side, and stir again for two or three minutes. Line a dish with some slices of toast, pour the mixture over, and serve very hot. Broiled Eggs with Parsley.—Break six Eggs into a igall. saucepan with 4oz. of butter, set the pan on the fire, and warm the butter; then add teacupful of milk and a little salt and pepper. Place the pan over the fire, and beat the contents well with a whisk until the Eggs begin to set; take it off, and whisk for two or three minutes longer. Put in 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and stir again; turn the mixture out on to a dish, surround it with small strips of toast, and serve. Care must be taken not to cook the Eggs too much, and see, too, that the whisk moves all the mixture from the side of the pan. Broiled Eggs with Truffles or Asparagus Peas.— Put eight Eggs into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, 4- teacupful of cream, and a little salt and grated nutmeg, set the pan over the fire, and stir with a spoon until the Eggs begin to set; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped truffles, or asparagus peas, mix thoroughly, and turn out on to a dish. Garnish with a few small pieces of fried bread, and serve. Curried Eggs.— (1) Peel six hard-boiled Eggs, and cut them into slices. Put 1 teaspoonful each of chopped onions and butter in a frying-pan, and stir over the fire till brown; add i teacupful of flour and curry-powder mixed in equal pro- portions, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, season with salt and pepper, and simmer till the onions are soft, then add the Eggs. When warmed through, turn all on to a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of green peas and two onions, or two carrots and two turnips sliced, into a saucepan with 1 pint of stock or salted water, and boil them ; take out when done, and rub through a hair sieve. Put 1 table- spoonful of curry-powder into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk or cream, and work it into a smooth paste, adding salt to season; then mix the vegetable puree in with it, put the saucepan on the fire, and stir well until its contents become quite thick. Cut several hard-boiled Eggs into slices, put them on a dish, pour over the mixture, garnish with pieces of toast, and serve. (3) Brown some slices of onions in a stewpan of butter, sprinkle in a little flour, and add | pint of stock. Mix 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder and 1 dessert-spoonful of corn- flour with sufficient milk to give it the consistency of batter; stir this in with the onions, and boil for two or three minutes, still stirring. Cut the ends off six or seven hard-boiled Eggs, stand them up in the dish, pour the sauce round, garnish them with crouton’s of fried bread, and serve. See Eig. 698. (4) Indian.—Boil hard four or five Eggs ; when cold, peel and cut them in halves. Peel and slice a moderate-sized onion, put it in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry until nicely browned; then remove it, and mix in with the butter 1 table- spoonful each of ground onions and curry-powder, and a small clove of garlic, all finely minced. Stir these ingredients over THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Eggs—continued. Fig. 697. The Lightning Egg-beater (Wm. Poore and Co.).