THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 709 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. GRANDS VINS.—The first class of French wines, as compared with (2) Yins Fins, (3) Yins Ordinaires, (4) Yins Communs. See Wines. GRANITO.—The name given to an iced drink com- posed of fruit juices mixed with syrup, and also to various kinds of punch. Coffee Grand to is a great favourite, and so also are those compounded with lemonade, orangeade, and orgeat. Italians are very fond of them, and consume them freely in hot weather. At balls and evening parties they will be found piost welcome. Receipts for them will be found under certain special headings, but the only instruction necessary beyond that which taste will dictate is to have the juice quite clear, and thoroughly sweetened. Other flavourings are added at discretion. GRAPES (Fr. Raisins; Ger. Weinbeeren; Ital. Uve; Sp. Uvas).—The French for a bunch of Grapes is Une Grappe de Raisin, hence we have our word Grape; the word vine having its origin in the Latin vinum—wine. Although in the strict sense of the word Great Britain cannot be called a Grape-growing country, it is admitted that, under cultivation in our hothouses, there is no country in the world which produces such splendid and luscious fruit. The chief of these are grown for dessert purposes, our hothouse supplies being insufficient for wine-making, and too good into the bargain. Fig. 873. Black Hamburgh Grapes. According to Nicholson in the “ Dictionary of Garden- ing,” “ records of the cultivation of the Grape, and of the making of wine in Egypt, go back 5000 to 6000 years. The introduction of the vine into this country is generally credited to the Romans, in the reign of the Emperor Augustus, about a.d. 10. Vineyards existed in England at a very early period of our history. They are mentioned in the ‘ Domesday Book ’ and also by Bede, who wrote in a.d. 731. The Isle of Ely was called the Isle of Vines by the Normans, the Bishop of Ely, shortly after the Conquest, receiving as tithes wine made from the vines grown in his diocese. In the reign of Henry III. we read of vineyards. Malmesbury mentions the county of Gloucester as being, in his time, very rich in vineyards; and there still remain traces of them at Tortworth. The first Earl of Salisbury planted a vineyard at Hatfield, which is noted as being in existence when Charles I. was I Grapes—continued. taken there as a prisoner. There are records of vine- yards existing in various parts of Surrey, and a notable one, which is still partly in existence, once flourished at Bury St. Edmunds. Vineyards seem to have been com- mon to all monastic establishments; but the suppression of the latter, and, subsequently, the fact of cheap foreign wines becoming more easily accessible, led, no doubt, to neglect in Grape cultivation.” The following are the principal Grapes grown in this country: Black.—Alicante, Alnwick Seedling-, Black Hamburgh (see Fig.- 873), Black Morocco, Gros Cohnan, Gros Guillaume (sometimes known as Barbarossa), Gros Maroc, Lady Downes, Madresfield Court, Mill Hill Hamburgh, Mrs. Pince, Muscat Hamburgh, and Trentham Black. White. — Buckland Sweetwater, Cannon Hall Muscat, Duchess of Buccleuc.h, Duke of Buccleucb, Foster’s Seed- ling, Golden Queen, Muscat of Alexandria, Trebbiano, White Frontignan, and White Tokay. Kettner observes that it is strange that the Grape is of no use in cookery, save in the form of raisins, wine, vinegar, and verjuice. In its natural condition it is nothing save when an occasional Grape appears in a macedoine or medley of fruits. Whether Grapes are useful for culinary purposes or not, will be seen by the following receipts. For dessert there is no fruit so much valued for its quality, appearance, and flavour. See Currants (Grocers’), Raisins, Wines, &c. Compote of Grapes.—(1) Cut the stalks off a bunch or two of fine Grapes, make a little slit in the side, and pick out the stones with the point of a quill. Boil some syrup to the large pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), put in the Grapes, and boil them up three or four times. When cold, skim off any SGum that may have risen to the top, arrange the Grapes in a compote-dish, and serve. (2) Select some of the finest of either black or white Grapes, pick the stems off carefully, so as not to tear the fruit, then drop them one by one into hot syrup of 22deg. (see Sugar-boiling), and let them simmer, without boiling. Pour them carefully into a basin, and when cold arrange them like a pyramid in the middle of a compote-dish, and pour the syrup round. This makes a very pretty dish for dessert. See Fig. 874. (3) Pick about 31b. of unripe green Grapes, put them into a preserving-pan with 2qts. of water, set it over a very slow fire, and leave till the verjuice turns a yellowish hue. The water must not even simmer. Take the Grapes carefully out with a skimmer, and drop them into a pan of cold water. When cool, open the Grapes carefully with a sharp-pointed knife, and pick out the seeds; put the Grapes in the preserving- pan containing the water in which they have been scalded, stand the pan over a slow smothered fire, and leave them till they resume their green colour again. Take the pan off the fire, set it in a cool place, cover the Grapes with vine- leaves,. and leave them till the following day. Drain the Grapes on a sieve, put them in a pan with some thin syrup, and simmer for a minute or two; then cover them with more vine-leaves, and set the pan aside till the following day. When ready, arrange the Grapes in a compote-dish in the form of an elevated cone, pour some of the syrup round the base, and serve. Frosted Grapes.—Dip the required quantity of bunches of Grapes into the white of an egg, and dust them well with