665 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respiting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. remove the mould. On the following day lift the cover off the pie, and place over the top a layer of chopped aspic jelly. Serve on a dish garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. (3) Bone a partridge and a quail, and prepare a rich force- meat as used for stuffing turkeys. Make a good rich paste. Select a raised pie-mould, and spread it very thickly with cold butter. Roll out a large round of the paste about Jin. thick, set the mould on a buttered plate, and lay the paste in it, using the fingers to press it quite firmly into every depression of the mould; trim it just above the upper rim, so that the upper crust may be laid against it. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with forcemeat, fill the quail with the forcemeat, and put it into the partridge, filling the space between the two birds with more of the forcemeat; then lay the partridge in the mould, and fill the empty portion with more forcemeat. Wet the upper edge of the side crust with cold water where it lies, over the rim of the mould, and put on a thick upper crust. Cut or ornament the surface, making holes for the escape of steam, brush it with beaten egg, and cover with buttered paper. Bake slowly for three hours, then brown it, and serve either hot or cold. (4) Prepare and bone a partridge, a grouse, and a medium- sized rabbit, and fillet them. Place the pieces of meat in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter, season with salt, pepper, and thyme, and cook on a brisk fire for one minute on each side. Add J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to one-half its original bulk, which will take about five minutes; turn the whole into a bowl and let it cool. Chop the bones into pieces, place them in a saucepan with one medium-sized sliced onion, a small sliced carrot, one bay-leaf, three cloves, twelve whole peppers, and a blade of thyme; cook with loz. of butter until the mixture is of a light brown colour, and add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, half a medium-sized lemon cut in slices, lqt. of white broth, and 2oz. of gelatine. Cook for one hour longer; strain through a napkin or fine sieve into a bowl, and set it aside to cool. Chop fine Jib. of very lean veal, Jib. of pork (not salted), and 6oz. of larding pork, and season with salt and pepper. Cut into dice-shaped pieces eight truffles and 3oz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue ; mix well, and it will be ready for use. Knead well together on a table or board Jib. of Fig. 825. Game Pie. flour and Jib. of butter, gradually add 1 gill of cold water, mixing well for five minutes at least without ceasing ; put it in a cool place, and leave for ten minutes before using. Lightly butter the interior of a plain mould, roll out three-quarters of the paste to Jin. thick, and with it evenly line the inside of tho mould, taking special care not to make any holes. Cut some very thin slices of larding-pork, and mask the paste all round with it. Put in one layer of the forcemeat and one layer of the Game, and so on, until all is used. Make a hollow in the centre down to half the depth of the pie. Roll out the other quarter of paste to an equal thickness, and with it cover the pie, making a small hole in the centre. Decorate the surface with leaves made out of paste, and glaze it with the yolk of an egg beaten up with J gill of cold water. Place it in a moderate oven to cook for two hours ; remove it, pour in the cold gravy through the hole in the top, and set it away in an ice-box for six or seven hours. It must be served as cold as possible, and may be elaborately garnished with aspic jelly, or Game tim- bales, &c. (see Fig. 825). Game—continued. (5) Roll out the required quantity of paste to lin. in thickness, forming it into two oval pieces, one for the top and the other for the bottom, and the remainder into a long strip to form a wall for the pie. Brush the bottom piece over with well-beaten white of egg, place the wall piece round the edge, pinching it so as to make it adhere, and taking care to have it firmly joined all round. Parboil a smoked ox-tongue; bone a goose and fowl, and season with grated nutmeg, powdered mace, and salt and pepper. Place the goose in the pie, then put in the fowl, and lastly the tongue, filling up the spaces between them with any pieces of Game, but without bones. Cover over with 8oz. of butter cut in thin slices, and put on the top crust, keeping it ljin. bnlow the wall crust. Fix the sides to tho top, decorate the pie all over with flowers and leaves made of paste, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, fasten round with two folds of white paper, and bake for four hours. In cold weather the pie, if kept from the air, will keep good for three weeks. (6) Russian.—Put lOoz. of rice into a saucepan of water, boil it until quite soft, drain off all the water, add a lump of butter, and stir well for about ten minutes. Put a thin flat of short-paste on a well-buttered round baking- sheet, cover this over with a layer of veal, bacon, and calf's liver in equal proportions, all finely minced and cooked, over this put a layer of the rice, then again a layer of minced and cooked fillets of partridge or phe.isant, cover this over again with a layer of the minced veal and bacon, and lastly with a flat of puff paste. Decorate the sui'face with leaves cut in paste, brush over the top with egg, channel the edges, put it in a quick oven, and bake for about three-quarters-of- an-hour. Slip it carefully on to a dish, and serve with rich brown sauce in a sauceboat. Game in Rice Patties.—Thoroughly wash lib. of rice, and boil it in salted water until soft. Afterwards strain off the water, leave the rice at the edge of the fire, and moisten occasionally with milk or stock until it will not absorb any more. Mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, season with a small quantity of pepper, and beat it to a paste. Turn the rice on to a dish, spread it out to about 2in. in thickness, and leave it until quite cold. When ready, cut the rice into rounds with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- crumbs. With a smaller tin cutter, one about l|in. in diameter, cut half through the centre of each round. Put a lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, and when it is boiling put in the patties, and fry them until browned. Drain them, lift up the piece marked by the smaller cutter, and scoop out some of the rice. Fill them with a puree of Game arrange them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Game Rissoles.—Put 12oz. of brioche paste or puff paste on a board, roll it out very thin, and place over it, about 2in. apart, some small pieces of Game forcemeat. Fold the paste over so as to cover the forcemeat, cut the rissoles asunder with a tin cutter, brush them over with egg, put them on a baking’-sheet, and let them rise. When ready, plunge them into a frying-pan with boiling fat, and fry until they are well coloured. Take them out with a skimmer, drain on a cloth, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with parsley for garnish. Game Salad.—(1) Chop separately the required quantity of beetroots, carrots, and whites of hard-boiled eggs. Rub the bottom of a salad-bowl with onion, and pour over a little lemon-juice. Chop and pound some watercress, mixing it with an equal quantity of butter, and form into small balls ; repeat the operation with 1 table-spoonful of the chopped carrot and 2oz. of butter. Put some slices of cold cooked Game at the bottom of a dish, decorate with the chopped vegetables, including a good supply of lettuce-leaves and other vegetables in season, pour over a tartar sauce, sprinkle over the chopped egg, over this put a few slices of beetroot, decorate the edge of the dish with the balls of butter, pour round a mayonnaise dressing, and serve. (2) Trim off all the skin from the flesh of any kind of cold roasted Game, cut the meat into small pieces, put it in a basin, mix with it a moderate quantity of chopped herbs and oil, and season with salt and pepper. Stir all well together,