THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 672 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Garnishes—continued. Vanderbilt Garnish (a la Vanderbilt).—This is prepared with green peppers, tomatoes, and shrimps, as follows : Peel and chop a green pepper, put it in a saucepan with a tomato cut into small pieces, loz. of butter, and eighteen picked and minced shrimps; season with salt and pepper, cook for ten minutes, and it is ready for use. This Garnish has been christened after the name of the famous American millionaire by a grateful cook. GAEUM.—This word is not used in modern cookery. Originally it was the name given by the ancients to a sauce made of small fish, from the Greek garos; the word being applied afterwards to gravy, in which sense it is used in some ancient cookery books. According to Pliny, it was a kind of pickle or sauce prepared of fish in a state of incipient putrefaction, strongly salted and seasoned with aromatics, and a great favourite at the tables of the Romans. GAS.—The use of Gas as the fuel or heat-giver in kitchens has been rapidly gaining favour, as much for the nicety with which it can be regulated, as for its cleanliness and freedom from dust and smoke. There are, however, some cooks who are ready to declare against Gas for reasons that are fraught with prejudice. These prejudices will be overcome in course of time, and then Gas will become indispensable to all well- regulated kitchens. These matters will be duly dis- cussed under Stoves and Ranges ; it is merely necessary here to observe that it is usual to mix air with Gas for heating purposes, and that in this condi- tion it is explosive, requiring careful management and reliably-constructed apparatus. For covered cooking, such as baking, boiling, and even frying, Gas has proved very effective; but in spite of many laudable efforts to use it for roasting and grilling, nothing has yet been invented of an entirely satisfactory character. GASCONY BUTTER.—See Butter. GASFACHO.—This is described by some authorities as a famous nutritive drink of Spain, a cold soup compounded of tomatoes, garlic chopped fine, oil, and vinegar; and a salad. Urbain Dubois (who dubs it Gas- pachio) considers it to be a sort of raw vegetable salad, which the Andalusians partake of daily, consider- ing it to be very refreshing. The following receipts are given for its preparation: (1) Finely chop some chives, and cut plenty of cucumber into small squares; put these into a bowl, mqisten well with a little water or cold stock, season with salt, and add lemon-juice and oil to suit the taste ; toss up together, and sprinkle some breadcrumbs over the liquor. Have ready a pinch or two of finely-chopped marjoram, sprinkle over the surface with it, and serve. (2) Mince a large Spanish onion and a large freshly-cut cucumber. Split three fleshy tomatoes into halves, take out the seeds, and cut them into pieces. Put onion, cucumber, and tomatoes in layers into a bowl, dusting each layer with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs. Pour over sufficient vinegar and oil—one part of vinegar to four of oil —until all is moist. Set aside in a cool place for a few hours, and it is then ready to serve. (3) Put 5 teacupful of oil into a mortar, season it with salt and crushed garlic, rub them well together with the pestle, and add slowly a sufficient quantity of breadcrumbs to form a mass. Sprinkle in a very small quantity of water, and then add green capsicums, tomatoes, and cucumbers, all finely chopped; pound these well, and fill up the mortar with more water; now turn this into a bowl, add more cold water if required, sprinkle in more breadcrumbs, let it soak, add a little finely-chopped onion, pour in sufficient vinegar to give it an acid flavour, and stir well with a wooden spoon. The proportion of vinegar and oil to be used is one of the former to three of the latter. Care must be taken to serve immediately the vinegar is added, otherwise the breadcrumbs will absorb part of it and become sour. Iced water should be used. GASTRONOMY.-—The art or science of good eating. GATEAUX.—This is the French for cakes, but varies somewhat in the application, being more correctly used in connection with fruit or even savoury compounds formed in moulds (see Fig. 830)—such as Gateau de prune—or some cake which is constructed out of others. Indeed it is almost impossible to define the word, and give to it a precise meaning. GATTINARA.—A Pied- montese wine which more often finds its way into South Ame- rica than into England. GAUFFRES or GAUF- FERS.—These will be better understood if described under the more appropriate head of Waffles. The term is obtained from the irons called gauffering-irons used in their manufacture; the process resembling that of stamping patterns on velvet, which is called gauffering:. Fig. 830. Gateau-mould (Temple and Crook). GAZOGENES.—At one time, when aerated waters were very expensive, a machine was invented by which in a form they could be prepared at home in very small quantities. Recent improvements, such as the charged syphon, have rendered their use troublesome and un- necessary. GEESE.—See Goose. GELATINE (Fr. Gelatine; Ger. Gallerte; Ital. Gelatina; 8ft. Gelatina).—This is described as jelly obtained from animal tissues, such as tendons, bones, and ligaments, by prolonged boiling. Glue and size are coarse kinds of Gelatine procured from skin, hoofs, &c. Isinglass is a purer kind obtained from the air bladders of fish, especially the sturgeon, and sometimes from their bones and skins. Liebig has pointed out that although Gelatine in a certain proportion is valuable with meat foods, yet it possesses little or no nutritive properties ; nevertheless, it answers so many useful purposes to the cook and con- fectioner, that it is likely to be valued for the properties that it does possess. Philosophers have puzzled their heads to make out the use of Gelatine in the animal economy, urged thereto by the fact that if omitted from the food for any length of time the constitution of the individual suffers. The fact that certain tissues possess so much Gelatine in their substance would surely point out that it is required by the tissues possessing it, pro- bably giving to them something of their strength and tenacity. Several kinds of Gelatine are known in the market, some good and some spurious. Confectioners have been known to use French glue; but it may be accepted as a general truism by all interested in genuine cookery that the best is the cheapest in the end. Isinglass is specially i referred to under that heading; but the term Gelatine is mostly used in this Encyclopajdia as indicative of the raw material, giving the cook the choice of using either that or more refined qualities, such as isinglass. French Gelatine is sold in thin cakes, or “ leaves ” as they are called, and it is said that much of it is prepared in Paris from the cuttings of kid gloves. Rough Gelatine may be refined and clarified by boiling, and straining repeatedly through a cloth or jelly-bag. The following are a few of the uses to which Gelatine may be applied : Gelatine Cream-Ice.—Put loz. of Gelatine to soak in 1 pint of milk, and after about an hour pour 3 pints of boiling' ' milk over it, and stir until the Gelatine has dissolved. Let it