THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gravies—continued. Gravies—continued. happen to be any it will collect and harden at the top. This Gravy stock is useful at all times for making Gravy at a minute’s notice. It is almost impossible to draw a distinctive line necessity to the useful application of the following receipts, and that adopted here is “ Plain Gravies,” “Gravies made without Meat (an maigre),”“Thick Gravies (Jus lies),” which are almost sauces, and “ Gravies for Special Purposes.” Several receipts are given hereunder for making a large variety of Gravies, plain, thickened, and compounded, and their application, unless specified, can be left to the taste of the cook, provided it be first remembered that the meat from which the Gravy is made is the kind of meat with which it should be served. See Sauces. Plain Gravies. — The following receipts embrace some of the simplest and best modes known to cooks of preparing Gravy : (1) Put lib. each of veal and gravy-beef into a stewpan with a slice of ham, one clove, one onion, some celery, 1 liqueur-glassful of sherry, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated lemon-peel, and sufficient water to cover them all; put on the lid, place the pan on the fire, and boil the contents until they are nearly dry, turning the meat frequently; next add 1^ pints of boiling water, and boil for two hours longer;, then skim and strain it. Rub loz. of butter into loz. of flour, put in a little Gravy to moisten it, and add this to the Gravy. Place the pan by the side of the fire, and simmer for thirty minutes. Remove it from the fire, skim the liquor, and pour it through a conical strainer. A good Gravy for any purpose. (2) Add a little water to the Gravy that has dropped from the meat when being cooked, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of butter and ^ table-spoonful of flour. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, boil up for a few minutes (sufficiently long to cook and brown the flour), strain, and it is ready for use. (3) Put a layer of bacon cut in thick slices at the bottom of a saucepan, then four large onions cut in halves on the top of them, and cover with a few slices of beef; add stock to half the height of the meat, and put the pan on the side of the fire. When the liquor has reduced, put a knife into the meat to let out all its juice. Continue to simmer until the liquor is a light brown coloirr, taking care not to let it brown. Add a little more broth if necessary, a bunch each of green onions and parsley, a peppercorn or two, and a pinch of salt. Boil for one hour longer, skim off the fat, strain, and it is then ready to serve with almost any meat or roasted birds. (4) Remove the bones from 2ib. of lean fillet or leg of veal, tie it up with string, and put it into a saucepan with £ pint of water; place the pan on a slow fire, and reduce the liquor gradually until a lig'ht brown glaze forms at the bottom of the pan. Turn the veal about so that it may be coloured evenly all over, and add 3 pints of water, a faggot of sweet herbs, about ^lb. each of carrots and onions (the latter stuck with two cloves), foz. of salt, and a little pepper. When it begins to boil, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour. If it is allowed to boil con- tinuously it will not turn out clear. Pass it through a sieve, remove the fat, and it is ready for use. Should it be required to set as a jelly, before it commences to boil a calf’s foot will have to be added, and at the end of an hour’s cooking the veal must be removed and the liquor boiled until the calf’s foot is quite tender, then strain it, and put it away in jars in a cool place to set. (5) Put some bones cut from a piece of streaky bacon in a saucepan and fry them to a light brown, add a few chopped onions, also fried to a brown colour, and a young turnip cut in small pieces ; pour in 1 pint of water or stock, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain it well, remove all the fat, and it is ready for use. (6) Cut into small pieces 21b. of lean shin of beef, lib. of veal, and 31b. of scrag of mutton ; put the beef into a sauce- pan, then the mutton, cover these over with slices of fat bacon, add a carrot and onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a little black pepper, and cover with the veal. Place the lid on the saucepan, and toss it gently over the fire for a few minutes. Sprinkle over a little flour, pour in sufficient water to cover, and cook gently, with the lid on, for about three hours. Strain and skim it, and it is ready for use. (7) Cut a piece of beef taken from any part except the shin or leg into pieces, put it in a frying-pan, and fry to a light brown. For every pound of meat used put two chopped onions into a frying-pan, and fry them also. Put both of these in a saucepan with lqt. of water, a few pepper- corns, 0 teaspoonful of salt, and 2oz. of ham, and boil for two hours. Remove the scum as it rises, and when it is reduced to one-half its original quantity strain, skim off the fat, and thicken with 1 teaspoonful each of wheat-flour and potato-flour made into a smooth paste with a little stock or water for each pint of Gravy; boil for a few minutes longer, and it will be ready for use. (8) Put 6oz. of lean bacon or ham cut into small pieces in a saucepan with a small quantity of butter, brown them, and add 21b. of shin of beef, also cut up small, dredged over with flour and pepper, and slightly fried. Brown an onion and two shallots in a little butter, place them on top of the meat, pour over 5 pints of water, and bring the liquor gently to the boil. Take off all the scum, add two or three dozen peppercorns, five or six cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a head of celery cut in pieces, an onion cut in slices, and salt to taste. Place the saucepan on the fire, and boil gently until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity ; strain it, let it get quite cold, take off the fat, and when wanted for use add, while warming it, 1 table-spoonful each of capsicum vinegar, and mushroom ketchup, and a little butter well kneaded with flour. (9) Cut up into small pieces 41b. of leg of beef and the same of veal taken from the shoulder or scrag of the neck, and put them in a saucepan with a little clarified skimmings from broth, called “toppings,” and place the pan on the fire, stirring frequently; when the meats are set, add £ pint of white wine, and reduce to a glaze. Now add from 7qts. to 8qts. of hot broth, skim frequently, and as soon as it begins to boil remove the pan to the side of the fire; add a few bones from any roasted meat, a few vegetables cut up, and a bunch of parsley garnished with chervil and sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns and cloves. A little coriander and cinnamon may also be used if desired. When all the meat is done and quite tender remove it with a skimmer, take off the fat from the Gravy, pass the latter through a sieve, and it is ready for use. (10) Cut 21b. of shin of beef and three slices of ham or bacon into small pieces, put them into a stone jar, with alternate layers of shallot, half a head of celery, and one carrot cut into slices; add a blade of mace, a little salt and whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, chopped up ; pour in lqt. of water, tie the jar closely down to prevent the steam escaping, and set it in a moderate oven for eight hours. Strain the Gravy, and stir in 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup and soy, or 1 wineglassful of port wine. When cold, take off the fat carefully from the top, and it is ready for use. (11) Put lib. of shin of beef into a saucepan with a sheep’s milt cut in slices, dust over with flour, add a small quantity of butter, and brown them; then pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of hot water, add a small onion, a few pieces of celery, salt and pepper to taste, and stew slowly for about two hours. Skim off all the fat and scum, pass the liquor through a strainer, mix in 1 table-spoonful of mush- room or other ketchup, and the Gravy is ready for use. (12) Fry three sliced onions in butter till browned, put them into a stewpan with a large slice of well-browned toast, any trimmings or bones of meat, season to taste with sweet herbs, pour over the required quantity of water, and cook over a moderate fire until all the goodness is extracted from the meat and the Gravy is thick. Add salt and pepper to taste, strain into a basin, and use as required, keeping it in a cool place. When it is desired to thicken a Gravy (jus lie), this can be done by a judicious use of flour, or the addition