498 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes,'Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see wider their special heads. Currants—continued. properly worked, it will set to a jelly and then be ready for use. Green-Currant Jam.—Gather the required quantity of green Currants, of the red kind, pick off the stalks, put the Currants in a preserving-pan, and place them over a gentle fire to draw out the juice. Add fib. of crushed loaf sugar for every pound of the fruit, and boil quickly for twenty or twenty-five minutes, stirring and skimming occasionally. When ready, turn the preserve into jars, leave it until cool, lay over rounds of white paper soaked in brandy, cover over with parchment, and tie down. Preserved Pulp of Red Currants.—Take 121b. of Red Currants and 41b. of very ripe raspberries, and mash them with the hand in a large basin or bowl, adding lqt. of water. The stalks need not previously be removed, as by squeezing the fruit in the hand the stalks will remain in it, and must be thrown away, for if they remain they give an acid flavour. Pass the fruit through a strainer into a stewpan, squeezing it well so as to get out all the juice, weigh it, and to every pound add ^lb. of caster sugar. Stir well with a spoon until the sugar and fruit-pulp are thoroughly incorporated. Place the pan on the fire, boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, take it off, and pour the fruit into warmed bottles. Cork well, and tie down with string or wire. Red-Currant-and-Cherry Wine. — Bruise 31b. of Red Currants and 71b. of black or wild cherries, and put them into a cask with a few broken cherry-stones. Put jib. of juniper-berries into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, together with 31b. of honey and 21b. of grated un- peeled apples, and boil them well; turn the whole into a cask, let the liquor ferment, pour off through a tap at the bottom of the cask, and add it to the cherries and Currants in the other cask ; pour over these 4galls. of water, previously boiled and cooled, let the liquor ferment again, draw' it off into another cask, and add 71b. of sugar. When all the fermentation has ceased, which will take nine or ten days, add 2oz. of soaked and dissolved gelatine, also a little finings, bung up securely, and in three months it will be ready for use. Red-Currant Drops.—Put fib. of coarsely-sifted broken loaf sugar into a basin, and add sufficient Red-Currant juice and water in equal parts to make it into a stiff paste. Place it in a small sugar-boiler on the fire, and stir continually until it boils ; then pour it out, letting it drop slowly on to a baking- sheet, and when the drops are quite cold, dry them in a hot closet on a sieve, and they are ready for use. Red-Currant Pool.—(1) Pick the stalks off 2 pints of Red Currants, put them in a stewpan with 1 pint of water sweetened with crushed loaf sugar, and boil gently until cooked. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a bowl, and set it in a cool place for an hour or two. Cut one or two small rolls into thin slices, arrange them on a baking-dish, dredge over -with sugar, and put them in the oven until delicately browned and glazed. Mix 1 pint of red wine with the Currant liquor, add more sugar if required, put in the glazed slices of bread, and serve. (2) Select ripe Red Currants, remove the stalks, leaves, and any unsound fruit, measure them, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of pounded white sugar to every pint of fruit; put them into a stewpan, stew gently for half-an-hour, then pass the fool through a sieve, and let it cool. While still lukewarm mix some finely-grated breadcrumbs and milk, cream, or custard with it. Serve quite cold. Red-Currant Gin.—Put into a preserving-pan 71b. of Red Currants, freed of stalks, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil for a few minutes. Then strain the liquor through a flannel bag back into the pan, add 71b. of sugar, and stir well with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Place the pan on a gas-stove, add the whites and shells of two eggs to clarify the liquor, bring it to the boil, turn out the gas, and let the pan remain for about four minutes without touching it. Strain through a flannel or jelly-bag, let it get cold, and add to it lgall. of unsweetened gin; mix thoroughly, and bottle for use. Should the colour of the liqueur not be deep enough, a very little cochineal may be added. Red-Currant Jam.—Take some ripe Red Currants, pick off their stalks, weigh them, and to every pound of Currants Currants—continued. allow lib. of sugar. Put the Currants and sugar into a preserving-pan on the stove, over not too hot a fire, stirring now and then till it boils ; then let it boil for ten minutes, taking off the scum as fast as it rises. Let the jam cool a little, put it into jars, cover when quite cold, and pack away for future use. Red-Currant Jelly.— (1) Choose fine large Red Currants, pick free of stalks, put them into a preserving-pan over a moderate fire, and break them with a wooden spoon till the juice is extracted; then strain through a jelly-bag, and to every breakfast-cupful of juice add Mb. of sugar. Put both juice and sugar into a preserving-pan, set it on the stove, and let it gradually come to the boil. Then boil for ten minutes, and after cooling it a little put it into glasses or moulds, and when quite cold turn out. (2) Pick 161b. of not over-ripe Red Currants, put them in a copper basin on the hot stove, and begin stirring them im- mediately from the bottom, using a wooden spatula; when they begin to scald, pour them into a tub, and with a pounder mash them thoroughly. Strain through a jelly-bag back into the copper basin, adding to the juice 71b. of preserving-sugar. Return the basin to the fire, and boil until the juice is reduced to about half the original quantity, then dip in a skimmer, lift it up, and feel the jelly with the two forefingers; close them and open them slowly: if the jelly is gummy and sticky, it is done ; if not, cook for a few minutes longer. Take it from the fire, and pour a little into each of the glass jars, as this will prevent them cracking, afterwards fill them up. When thoroughly cold, cover them, tie down tightly, and put in a cool closet. This jelly will keep good for quite two years. Red-Currant Jelly Cakes.—Prepare about lib. of puff paste of four turns, roll it out to about ^in. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a cutter 3in. in diameter, moisten these rounds, and fold them over into three-cornered cakes, pressing the folds down gently. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet, keeping them about 2in. apart. Brush over with egg and bake in a quick oven. Take them out, dust over with caster sugar, set in the oven to glaze, mount them with Red-Currant jelly, and serve tastefully arranged on a dish (see Fig. 608). Red-Currant Jelly and Cream (Floating1 Islands).— Sweeten lqt. of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, and whip it to a stiff froth, then turn it into a shallow glass dish. Put the whites of two eggs in a basin, beat them to a froth, then put in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of Red-Currant jelly, and continue beating until well mixed and thick. Drop this mixture in table-spoonfuls into the cream, keeping the lumps a little apart. Serve as soon as possible. Red-Currant Jelly Omelet.—Slightly beat 3 eggs with a little less than 1 teacupful of milk; put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, make it just warm, but not hot, then pour in the batter and cook it, tossing the pan frequently. Put a long roll of Red-Currant jelly down the centre of the omelet, and turn in the edges to cover it. Slip the omelet on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, mark it across in slanting bars by touching the sugar with a red-hot wire, and serve. Red-Currant Jelly Sauce.—Put V teacupful of Red-Currant jelly into a small saucepan with teacupful of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Stir the sauce over the fire until the jelly has dis- solved, then add a few drops of cochineal, just sufficient to tinge, and a small quantity of powdered mace. The sauce is then ready for serving.