THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 504 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. the water out of it, dredge a little flour over, spread the floured cloth over the top of a basin, pour the dumpling into it, tie the cloth tightly with a piece of strong twine, and put the dumpling into a large saucepan of boiling water. Throw into the water J table-spoonful of salt and boil fast for three hours. Be careful not to allow the boil to slacken, and should the water waste much, replenish it from a kettle kept boiling for the purpose. When the dumpling is done, turn it carefully out of the cloth on to a hot dish. (2) Mix 5 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with a pinch of salt, 3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, and 12oz. of finely- shred beef-suet, then add lib. of well-cleaned Currants. When these are thoroughly mixed, stir in four beaten eggs and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, or sufficient to make a stiff paste. Form it into large balls, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, moving about frequently to prevent them adhering to the side, and boil for about half-an-hour. When done, take them out, and serve with sugar or sweet sauce. The paste may also be rolled in one piece and tied up in a cloth, if desired. (3) Finely chop Jib. of beef-suet and mix an equal quantity of finely-grated breadcrumbs with it; also 4oz. of well-cleaned Currants, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated ginger. Beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites Fig. 615. Currant Dumplings. of two, stir them into the above ingredients, and mix the whole well. Divide the mixture into equal-sized portions, mould them into balls with the hands floured, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Serve hot. See Fig. 615. Currant Fritters.—(1) Mix together 1 teacupful of clean Currants, 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs (the whites and yolks beaten separately), and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. When well mixed, fry this batter in lumps in boiling lard. Drain the fritters before the fire on paper, pile them on a hot dish, sprinkle with white sugar, and serve hot. (2) Put Jib. of flour into a basin with 3oz. or 4oz. of sugar and 4oz. of well-cleaned Currants, then stir in gradually sufficient light ale to make a stiff batter, and beat well. Put a large lump of lard into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then drop in the batter in table- spoonfuls, and fry them until evenly browned all over. When the fritters are cooked, take them out of the fat and drain on paper or a sieve for two or three minutes. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve with a butter-boat of lemon sauce. See Fig. 616. Currants—co n tinued. Currant Gruel.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal with lqt. of water, and stir it over the fire till about half cooked ; then mix in it 2oz. of well-cleaned Currants, sweeten to taste with sugar, and finish cooking it. When quite cooked, mix 1 teacupful of cream with the gruel, turn it into a bowl or soup plates, and serve. If Currants are not liked, the gruel can be made with the water in which some Currants have been boiled. The cream may be omitted. Currant Pancakes.—See Pancakes. Currant Pudding'.—Mix together lib. of cleaned Currants and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, then add a little grated nutmeg and sliced citron. When thoroughly mixed, turn them all into a basin, tie over a cloth, and boil until done. Serve with wine sauce. Currant Roll.—Put 12oz. of flour into a basin, make a bay in the centre, mix in Jib. of warmed finely-shred beef- suet, the same quantity of well-cleaned Currants, and a little salt; pour in about 1 pint of water or sufficient to make the paste thick. Form it into a roll, tie it up in a cloth, plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about two hours. Take it out when done, turn it carefully out of the cloth on to a dish, and serve with sweet sauce poured over it. When the flour is moistened with the water, the paste should be rather soft, almost too soft to be handled. Currant Sauce for Sucking-pig.—Clean thoroughly loz. of Currants, put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of water, and boil for a few minutes; then sprinkle over them 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs. Leave them for a few minutes, then beat them with a fork, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of melted fresh butter. Take 2 table-spoonfuls of the gravy made for the sucking-pig, pour into it 1 wineglassful of port, and add a little salt. Pour this into the Currants, and place the pan on the fire, stirring until the sauce is quite smooth. Currant Tart.—Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of well-cleaned Cur- rants into a basin with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line a tart-dish with paste, spread over it 1 table-spoonful of apple sauce, place the Currants and sugar over this, put a rim of paste round the edge of the dish, moistening with beaten egg on both sides before putting it on, fasten it securely at the ends, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about fifty minutes. Take it out, sprinkle the surface well with powdered loaf sugar, return it to the oven to melt the sugar, take it out again, spread over some sweet jelly, and serve hot or cold, but the former for preference. Currant Wine.—See Raisin Wine. Spiced Currants.—Make a syrup of 31b. of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of cinnamon, 2 table-spoonfuls of cloves, and J teaspoonful of salt; add 61b. of well-cleaned Currants. Boil for half-an-hour, and they are ready for use. CURRY. — Although this name for a celebrated mode of cooking is generally considered to be of Indian birth, and accepted by European residents in India as a national dish, it in reality owes both title and origin to Europe. That the original European Curry, probably a sort of Spanish olla, was inferior in every way to the high-class preparations that now rejoice in the name, there can be no doubt; nor that the native cooks, with an instinct worthy of the cause, have so improved upon the original by reason of the greater facilities for flavouring at their command, that Curry has become a native by adoption. Of this we have abundant proofs, for although, be it observed, not one native Indian in a hundred knows what Curry is, there is not a presidency or small state but has its school of Curry-making and Curry. Thus, we have Madras Curry, Bengal Curry, Bombay Curry, &c., and to these might now be added, Cingalese and Burmese Curries also. The origin of the term “ Curry ” seems to be simple enough, as referring to the mode and process used in its preparation. Webster says that to Curry signifies “ to dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, heating, smoking, and colouring”; but, whereas this is applied to the currying of leather, there can be no doubt that it applies equally well and correctly to the preparation