THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 512 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. CYPRUS WINES.—Cyprus lias long been cele- brated for the superior quality of its grapes, from which are prepared both “ sweet ” and “ common ” wines. The sweet wines are Morocanella, Xynisteri, and Commanderia. The best of these wines require to be from five to ten years old. In their preparation the grapes are exposed to the heat of the sun for several days after they are gathered, in order to develop the saccharine matter in them. For the common wine the grapes are pressed as soon as they are gathered. This wine is largely exported to Egypt, Syria, and Trieste; it is coarse and heady. Being kept formerly in jars and skins coated inside with tar to prevent them from leaking, Cyprus Wines were notable for a strong taste of tar; but now wooden casks are used instead of the tarred jars, rendering the wine more fitted for the market. CZARINA SAUCE.—See Sauces. Dace—continued. Dace with a black nose. Dace would be very delicious eating if it were not for the numerous small bones with which the body abounds. They are nearly always in season, excepting in March and April. They are some- times dipped in batter and fried, but the style of cooking them advocated by good cooks is as follows : Stewed Dace.—Scale the Dace, cut off their gills, wash them well in plenty of water, dry on a cloth, flour them, and fry lightly in boiling butter. Put j pint of claret in a stew- Fig. 632. Dace. DABS (Fr. Limandes; (hr. Blieschen).—These fish are not reckoned amongst the aristocrats of the dinner-table, although, when tastily cooked, there are few fish that afford better results, especially if previously boned or filleted. They are a species of flounder [Pleuronectes limanda), and are called Dabs (see Fig. 631) because of the masterly rapidity with which they dab or dive under Fig. 631. Dab. the sand. They are commonly caught along the shore of the English Channel, and in the mouths of rivers, or so far up as they are tidal. The American Rough Dab is a variety of the European. Instructions given for preparing and cooking Flounders will be found equally applicable to Dabs. Fried Dabs.—Scrape and clean five or six large Dabs, chop off their fins, slit them down the backs, remove the backbones, dust them over with salt and pepper, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them. When done and of a good colour, take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of fried parsley and quarters of lemons for garnish. DABS.—Another name for Dodgers—so-called, because before baking they are small masses or “ dabs ” of moist dough. See Cornflour. DABCHICKS.—Species of small water-birds (Podi- lymbus podiceps), that are so-called on account of their dexterity in diving. They are not much valued for the table, perhaps because of the difficulties that attend their capture, and the small return for much trouble. The flesh is tasty, but unless the birds are young it is apt to be hard and stringy. They are called variously in different parts of the country—Dapchick, Dopchick, Dip- chick, Didapper, Dobber, Devil-diver, Hell-diver, and Pied-billed Grebe. DACE (Fr. Yandoises; Ger. Weissfisch).—This pretty little silvery river-fish (Leuciscus vulgaris) (see Fig. 632) is common in almost all rivers, and takes its name from its rapid dart-like movements. The term Dace, or Dare as it is sometimes called, being a supposed corruption of the word dart. The Americans boast of a species of pan, with a small quantity of sliced ginger, half blade of mace, two or three cloves, ^ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, a little salt, and one sliced orange. When this boils, place the fish in the stewpan, put on the lid, and set it over a quick fire. The fish should be turned occasionally while stewing. When cooked put the fish on a hot dish, on some slices of oranges and croutons of fried bread. Put a lump of butter in the liquor the fish was cooked in and stir it till dissolved; then pour it over the fish, sprinkle over grated breadcrumbs fried in butter, and serve with slices of orange or lemon. DAINTIES AND DELICACIES. — These two words have, for want of better, become so intimately associated with all manner of culinary productions that they may now be considered a part of the culinary vocabulary. According to Webster’s Dictionary these words are compared as denoting articles of food. The term Delicacy is applied to a nice article of any kind, and hence to articles of food which are particularly attractive. Dainty is stronger, and denotes some exquisite article of cookery. In this sense the terms are used by the poets Milton, Cowper, and others. Milton wrote: These Delicacies— I mean of taste, sight, smell, herbs, fruits and flowers, Walks, and the melody of birds. Cowper, referring to a table, wrote: Furnished plenteously with bread And Dainties, remnants of the last regale. DAIRY (Fr. Laiterie ; Ger. Milchkammer ; Ital. Cas- cina; Sp. Quesera).—It is so very usual to associate the word maid with our British Dairies, that it modifies to some extent our natural surprise that the term for a milk, cheese, and butter department is derived from the Old English deie or daie, which signifies a maid or servant. This curious definition of the term Dairy can only be due to the employment of domestic servants in this work ; hence we have Dairy-maid, Dairy-man, Dairy-woman, and so on. The term is so thoroughly accepted now, that, as we have not agreed upon any other to use in its place, we content ourselves with the very inappropriate name we have adopted. A Dairy is interpreted as signifying a place where milk is kept and made into butter and cheese. At one time almost every farmhouse was fitted with such a Dairy, but the advance of modern enterprise has so far improved upon the butter- and cheese-making industries that they are worked upon such a huge system as to render small, or private Dairies, either injudicious or unnecessary. The term Dairy has therefore become in a sense modified, and now applies to the chambers in which milk is stored. Of whatever magnitude the Dairy may be, it is advisable that it should have a northerly aspect, in order that it may be sheltered from the sun during the heat of the day. This is not always possible, the Dairy-keeper