621 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fowls—cont inued. the slices of Fowl on a hot dish. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, mixing it well; then pour in gradually 1 teacupful of milk, and continue stirring' over the fire until it boils. Mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with the sauce, boil it for two minutes longer, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the fritters. Serve very hot. (3) Cut a cold roasted or boiled Fowl into small pieces, place them in an earthen dish, and season well with salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Let the mince stand one hour, then make a frying batter, and stir the meat into it. Drop this by the spoonful into boiling fat, and fry till a light brown. Drain, and serve immediately. Fowl Glaze. — Put 31b. each of knuckle and fillet of veal in a stockpot, having first tied them together. Pluck and draw three Fowls, wash, and put them in the stockpot with the meat; pour in lgall. of water, and stand the pot over the fire. When the liquor boils, add Jib. each of leeks, onions, and carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs, move the stockpot to the side, and simmer till the meat is tender; then take out the meat and Fowls, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, put it into a glazing-pan, and boil till reduced to one-third; then pour it into a basin. On the following day, the glaze having set, remove about Jin. from the top, turn it upside down, and cut off the thick sediment that will have settled at the bottom ; when the glaze is trimmed, put it into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it is reduced to the thickness of Spanish sauce. Turn it into a jar or bowl, and keep tied over with paper till wanted for use. Fowl Glaze for Preserving.—Put 101b. each of beef and fillet of veal into a stockpot with beef-bones and a couple of knuckles of veal, add six Fowls, one being coloured by roasting, pour over sufficient water to cover the whole, and bring it slowly to the boil; skim well, add seasoning to taste, using only a small quantity of salt, cover over the pot, and boil continuously for six hours. If preferred, the pot may be hermetically sealed with flour-and-water paste, and the contents cooked in the oven, by which moans the richness of the liquor will be better brought out. Strain the liquor through a cloth, skim off every particle of fat, pour it into a saucepan on the fire, and reduce it; stirring with a wooden spoon, when nearly reduced, to prevent it catching, and as soon as it becomes thick and sticks thickly to the spoon, turn it out on to buttered baking-sheets (with upturned edges), and let it remain for four or five hours; then cut it into cakes, 2Jin. by ljin., pack them away in slightly-buttered tin boxes, and use as required. When wanted, dissolve as many as required in warm -water, and a soup is at once pre- pared. If desired, any quantity or kind of vegetables may be cooked with the meat, giving the soup a richer and more savoury flavour. The boxes containing the cakes should be kept with their lids on in a cool place. Fowl Gravy.—Put the bones and trimmings of a Fowl into a stockpot with a small quantity of stock, and boil them; add flour and butter (previously fried to a light brown) to thicken it, and then place the stockpot on the side of the fire where it will simmer. Stir well, and after the gravy has simmered for some time, skim and strain it, and it is then ready for use. Fowl-and-Ham Sandwiches.—Cut some thin slices of bread, remove the crusts, and spread butter thinly over them. Lay on the buttered side of the bread some slices of cold Fowl, and over these very thin slices of ham, adding a little salt and mustard to taste; lay a slice of bread, buttered side downwards, over each, press them gently together, trim, and cut the sandwiches into oblong pieces. When about to serve, lay them on a napkin on a dish, and garnish with fresh parsley. Fowl Jelly.—(1) For this an old bird is best, or if the white parts of the meat have been used for entrees, the legs can be reserved for jelly. Put the Fowl into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil slowly for an hour; then take out the bird, slip out the bones, crush or pound them, return them to the broth, simmer slowly for an-hour-and-a-half, season with salt and a little white pepper, and strain through muslin after passing through a colander. Pour it into a mould or a shallow dish, and let it set; then turn out, and 1 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Si Fowls—continued. serve on a napkin, with a garnish of parsley or watercress. The jelly should be strong enough to keep shape, and might be cut into croutons if liked. A little grated tongue or ham may be served with this jelly. (2) Clean, draw, and boil a Fowl weighing about 41b., put it in a saucepan, pour over 4 pints of water, and put it on the stove; when it boils, skim it, and simmer at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Take out the Fowl, skin it, and remove all the meat from the bones. Put the bones into the liquor again, and boil quickly till it is reduced to one-half its original quantity, strain, and set it away to cool. On the following day, skim off the fat, and turn the jelly into a saucepan, but be careful to keep back the sediment. To each quart of jelly, add Joz. of the best gelatine soaked in cold water, put to this an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery cut into small pieces, twelve peppercorns, a blade of mace, the white and shell of an egg, and salt and pepper to taste; when it boils, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly for twenty minutes. Strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve, pour a little of it in a 3-pint mould, making a thin layer about jin. deep, and stand the mould on ice. Having cut the meat from the Fowl in long fillets, and sprinkled it with salt and pepper, put it on the set jelly, pour in the remainder of the jelly, and leave it on the ice till set. Before dishing, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it round, turn the jelly out on to a dish, and garnish with parsley. Tartar or mayonnaise sauce may be served with it. Fowl in Jelly.—Draw and clean a Fowl, and cut it up, with the exception of the breast, which should be left whole. Put the pieces in a stewpan with the liver, heart, and gizzard, add two bay-leaves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, and half a small lemon, pour in water to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the Fowl very gently until the meat is tender. When cooked, take the Fowl out of the liquor, cut the meat off the breast into four long strips, and cut the remainder of the flesh into smaller pieces. Put the bones back into the saucepan with Joz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water, and boil them gently for fifteen or twenty minutes longer. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, and pour sufficient into a deep pie-dish to cover the bottom. When this jelly has set, arrange on the top of it a device in hard-boiled eggs, put the largest slice of Fowl in the centre of the dish, arrange some of the other slices round it, pour in another layer of the jelly, and leave it until set; then put in the remainder of the pieces of meat, arranging them tastefully, pour the remainder of the jelly carefully over, and put it in a cold place. When the jelly is quite firm, dip the dish in warm water, wipe it, turn the contents quickly over on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Fowl Kebob.—Clean and draw a young Fowl. Put 1 dessert- spoonful of coriander-seeds, 1 teaspoonful each of cayenne and ginger, three or four cardamoms, five cloves, a small clove of garlic, and 2 table-spoonfuls of onion-juice into a mortar, pound to a smooth paste, and rub it well over the Fowl, both inside and out, then truss the Fowl. Put Jib. of butter into a braising-pan, and melt it; then put in the Fowl, dredge it with salt, and fry until lightly browned on both sides. This should be done very carefully over a slow fire. When cooked, take the Fowl out and place it on a hot dish; thicken the gravy in the pan with a small quantity of flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour it round the Fowl, garnish with a few thin rolled slices of fried bacon, and serve. Fowl-and-Macaroni Pie.—Cut up any cold cooked Fowl into convenient - sized pieces, also cut up some bacon or ham. Butter a pie-mould, line it with rich paste, fill the hollow with rice, and bake it. Boil Jib. of macaroni until tender then drain and cut it into pieces about lin. long. Put 1 teacupful each of veal stock and milk into a saucepan, season well, thicken with flour, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put the meat and ham in the sauce, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. After the paste is cooked, empty out the rice, and turn it out of the mould. Turn the meat and sauce into the paste-shape, strew grated cheese on the top, and serve. Fowls with Nouilles.—Singe and draw a couple of fat Fowls remove the breast-bones, and stuff and cook them as for Ivory- ices, cfrc., referred to, see under their special heads.