579 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Feasts—continued. has been handed down to posterity, although in these days it is usual to give these great occasions the more modest name of banquets, or public dinners. History tells us of Feasts that can hardly he imagined, so elaborate, extravagant, and effusive were they—rivers or fountains flowing with wine, acres of tables groaning with their loads of luxuries, and multitudes of guests. But then comes the story of the Feast of Belshazzar to mar the prospect, and it may be owing to some such Nemesis that we have discarded the word Feast from our notions of a festive gathering. See Banquets, Dinners, &c. FEATHER CAKE.—See Cakes. FECTJLA {Fr. Fecule).—1This term is not often used in cookery. It is the technical name for the matter subsiding from cold water in which bruised or rasped vegetable substances have been washed or macerated, such as starch. Continental and American cooks apply it occasionally to potato-flour. FEDERAL CAKE—See Cakes. FEET.—As these parts of the animal contain a very large proportion of gelatine, they are much prized by cooks for their jelly-making properties. The percentage of nourishing matter is small, although they are fre- quently prepared in such a way that by various additions they are rendered sufficiently nutritive and palatable. For receipts, see under the special heading, such as Calf’s Feet, Cow-heels, Lamb’s Feet, Pig’s Feet, Sheep’s Feet, &c. FENNEL (Fr. Fenouil; Ger. Fenchel; Ital. Finoc- chio; Sp. Hinojo).—There are several kinds of Fennel known to botanists, such as those called popularly Sweet Fennel, Dog’s Fennel, Hog’s Fennel, Giant Fennel, and others. That which is used in cookery is the Sweet Fennel (Fteniculum vulgare) (see Fig. 727), and at one time this was considered of sufficient value to be cultivated in almost every kitchen garden; but owing to its in- ability to withstand inclement weather, and perhaps for other reasons best known to the cook, it has become very rare of late years, greengrocers not caring to keep it in stock on account of its withering propensities when cut. It may be pickled as follows: Wash thoroughly a large bunch of Fennel, put it into a saucepan with sufficient boiling salted water to cover it, and Fennel—continued. let it remain for two or three minutes until thoroughly blanched or scalded. Take it out, and roll it in a cloth to dry and get cold. Pack it in small jars, fill them up with vinegar, throw in a pinch or so of ground mace and grated nutmeg', tie the jars over with bladder, and they can be put by to keep until wanted. Fennel Sauce.—Blanch a moderate quantity of Fennel in boiling salted water, then dry it on a cloth and finely chop it. Put 2oz. of butter with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; pour in a little more than a pint of hot water, and continue to stir until boiling. Season the sauce with salt and pepper to taste, move it to the side of the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of half a lemon, and strained. Mix the Fennel in with the sauce, and it is then ready for serving. FENOUILLETTE. — A liqueur made from Fennel- seed, which was at one time offered to ladies at French tables, after wine. FENU-GREEK.—At one time this herb (Trigonella Fcenum-Griecum) was much used for flavouring con- fectionery, but it has been almost completely deposed by other equally aromatic and more refined spices, such as caraway, aniseed, &c. It is a native of the Mediter- ranean shores, and cultivated in India, Egypt, and other warm countries, but very rarely in England, and then only for flavouring horse medicines, and concealing the smell of bad hay. The seeds were at one time highly prized amongst the Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans for cooking purposes. It is sometimes known as Fenu-grsec, foin-grec, or Greek hay. FERMENTS.—This name is given to the organic bodies which cause fermentation. Of these we have a simple specimen in yeast. FERMENTATION.—Recent investigations, based upon the discoveries of Professor Pasteur, have very much altered the theory of Fermentation; although, so far as results are concerned, they are altogether the same. By the Fermentation of an infusion of malt and hops, beer is obtained; by the Fermentation of the gluten of dough, bread is made light and spongy. By a series of oilier Fermentations, various other articles are produced, which differ in almost every respect from the original substance from which they have been evoked. For many years past some very erroneous notions were propagated by chemists and others as to the causation of Fermentation and the action of ferments. Some wonderful rays of light have been lately thrown over and into the subject by industrious workers, with the result that the process is no longer one of mystery. Fermentation, in all cases, is the breaking up of an organic body into other bodies of a lower organic value, until elementary simplicity is reached. This is brought about by the agency of a ferment (see Yeast), which requiring for its food some portion of the materials of which the body is composed, takes it, and thus compels the substance to assume other forms. It loosens, as it were, the keystone of the arch, with the result that the remainder falls to pieces and is thus enabled to assume these other forms. For instance, by putting yeast into a sugary fluid, under certain conditions, the yeast-cells begin to grow and multiply rapidly at the expense of the sugar and nitrogenous substances present, using these as its food, but removing at the same time an important item in the composition of sugar; that material falling to pieces, and becoming alcohol and carbonic acid gas. This regathering, as it were, is probably due to other ferments, present or therein created. Fermentation is a process of destruction—a decom- position, represented in some cases by putrefaction; but putrefaction, or the production of offensive matter, or luxuries, such as beer and wine, are merely grades 2 z 2