THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 718 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Greengages—continued. about 12in. long by 8in. wide, cut out six pieces with a paste- cutter, and put them in six scalloped tart-moulds, 3|in. in diameter. Press down the paste so as to have the impression of the moulds, but avoid pressing down the edges, so that in baking they will swell and rise. Cover the bottoms of each of these with Joz. of apple marmalade, arrange the Greengages on this, sprinkle over 2oz. of powdered loaf sugar, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Pull them to the oven door, dust the edges with more powdered sugar, and bake for two minutes longer. Take them out and let them cool, spread over each a little apple jelly, turn them out carefully on to a napkin or dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 887. (2) Stone the required quantity of Greengages, put them in a stewpan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew until tender. Butter some patty-pans, line them with short-paste, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake. When the tartlets are cooked, empty out the rice, and fill them with the Greengages. Pile in each tart a small quantity of well-whipped cream, arrange them on a dish over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve hot or cold. (3) Prepare a paste with lib. of flour, 2oz. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and a small quantity of water. When well mixed, put the paste on a floured table, and roll it out to about lin. in thickness. Butter some patty-pans, line them with the paste, fill with uncooked rice to keep them in shape, and bake. Stone the selected quantity of Green- gages, put them in a stewpan with loaf sugar to taste and a small quantity of water, and boil until tender. When cooked, turn the rice out of the tart-crusts, and fill them with the Greengages. When cold, put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper and serve, accompanied by cream or custard. Greengage Toast.—Procure the Greengages when they have just ripened, cut them into halves and remove the stones. Put plenty of loaf sugar in a saucepan with some cold water, boil it until thickly reduced, then strain. Lay 'the halves of Greengages in the saucepan, turn the syrup over them, pour in some sherry, and simmer gently for about ten minutes. Cut as many slices of milk roll as there are halves of Greengages, and trim off the crust, leaving a round of crumb a little larger than a Greengage. Put a lump of butter into a flat stewpan; when it has molted put in the rounds of bread, fry them a pale golden cokmr on both sides, drain them, arrange in a circle on a dish, and put half a Greengage on each, the cut side of the fruit upwards. Crack the stones, put half a kernel in each half of the fruit, and pour the syrup over. Pile whipped cream in the centre of the dish, and serve. Greengage Water-Ice.—Put two dozen ripe Greengages in a stewpan with a little water and cook them till soft, then pass them through a hair sieve, colour with a little extract of spinach, and put in the juice of one lemon and about £ pint of syrup. Put the preparation into a freezing-pot, and when frozen turn it into a mould and cover and pack in ice. When wanted for use dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it round, and turn the ice on to a cold glass dish. Greengage Wine.—Stone 20qts. of ripe Greengages, press the fruit to a pulp, pour 5galls. of water over, and let it stand till the next day. Boil the Greengages for half-an- hour in the water and dissolve 101b. of loaf sugar in it, removing the scum as it rises. Beat the whites of six eggs, mix them in with the Greengages, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Crack the stones and put them with the kernels into a cooler, strain the liquor through a hair sieve on to the stones in the cooler, cover it down closely, and let it remain till cold. Generally this will ferment by itself, but if fermenta- tion does not set in during the course of a couple of days or so, cover a piece of toast with pure fresh yeast, put it in with the wine, and let it ferment for four or five days, stirring two or three times a day. When settled, skim the wine, pour it into a cask, add 3oz. of white sugar-candy, the thinly-peeled rinds of two lemons and two Seville oranges, and 31b. of stoned and finely-chopped raisins. Filter the lees, and add the liquor to the rest, filling the cask ; put a sheet of paper and a weight over the bung-hole, and let the wine Greengages—continued. work. When the fermentation has ceased, pour in 1| pints of pale brandy (or this may be omitted), fasten the bung down securely, and let it be for twelve months. Rack it off, filter the lees, and fill the cask again; crush 3oz. of white sugar-candy, put it in the wine, with Joz. of dissolved isinglass, and fasten the bung down securely again. Decant the wine in due time. Preserved Greengages.—(1) Select the required quantity of Greengages, not quite ripe, prick each as far as the stone in two or three places, and put them in a copper preserving- pan ; cover with salted water, and stir them about over the fire, with a wooden spoon, till hot through, then turn them into a tub, pour the same liquor over, and leave them to soak. Scald them again the next day in the same liquor, and on the following day scald again till the stones will move easily in the fruit and the colour is changed to a bright green ; then take the Greengages out of the liquor and put them in cold water; afterwards take them out, one by one, put them in a preserving-pan, cover with a weak syrup, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Lay the Greengages care- fully on a large flat dish, cover them with syrup, put a large sheet of paper over the top to keep out the dust, and let them remain for three days. Arrange carefully on sieves, so that they may drain; put the syrup in the preserv- ing-pan again, add some sugar boiled to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), boil it for a few minutes, and skim. Put the Greengages on the dish again, pour the syrup over, and let them remain in it for two days longer. Proceed as before, adding more boiled sugar to the syrup, then put in the Greengages; simmer for a few minutes, take them out, put them in jars, pour the syrup over, and let them be till cool. The jars should be covered and tied down, and kept in a dry cupboard till wanted for use. (2) Prick over with a fork 31b. of Greengages, put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover, simmer gently for a few minutes, remove from the fire, and drain the plums. Prepare a weak syrup, made with 31b. of sugar and the water the fruit was boiled in (see Sugar-boiling), boil very quickly until the syrup falls in short drops from the spoon, skimming continually, then put in the plums, which should be warm, and boil until large bubbles appear in the syrup. Turn all into a pan and leave it for a day, then drain the fruit, boil up the syrup, pour it o-ver the fruit, and continue in the same way twice more. Now boil the syrup up again, put in the plums, boil for a few minutes, turn all into warm jars, and tie down. Care must be taken that the sugar is not boiled to candy (see Sugar-boiling). (3) Procure 250 ripe Greengages, selecting those which break easily from the stones ; wash them well in cold water, drain thoroughly, divide equally into glass jars, and fill up with 5qts. of syrup. Put on the covers, which should screw in tightly, and place them in a large saucepan, seeing that they do not touch each other, otherwise they might break, and pack a little hay or straw between them. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, place it on the hot stove, and boil for eight minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying them in a dry but not cool place. Let them remain until thoroughly cold, then put them away in a dry place and use as required. (4) Wash the Greengages in cold water, and dry them well. They should not bo quite ripe, but must be sound and good. Have ready plenty of vine-leaves or peach-leaves washed clean and drained; weigh the Greongag'es, and to every pound allow a piece of alum about the size of a pea. Put into a preserving-pan a layer of leaves to cover the bottom three thick, then a layer of Greengages, with some of the alum powdered to a fine powder and sprinkled among them, then a layer of leaves, then Greengages with the powdered alum, and so on, taking care that the last layer of Greengages has a layer of leaves over them. Put in enough cold water to just cover them, place a clean cloth over the top of the pan, and put over that a tight-fitting cover to keep the steam in. Place the pan on the stove, let it heat gradually, and steam for two hours. It must not boil or the Greengages will get soft and burst. When they are a good green, drain, let them cool, and put them into glass jars. Make a syrup, using lib. of sugar for every 21b. of plums, and add for every pound of sugar 2 breakfast-cupfuls of