488 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Cucumbers—continued. Cucumber Soup.—(1) Put in a stewpan Jib. of butter, two sliced shallots, six Jerusalem artichokes (if obtainable), Jib. of lean ham, and six peeled Cucumbers ; stir this mixture oyer a slow fire for twenty minutes, then add the well-pounded flesh of half a braised fowl and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour. When these are well blended, pour in 3qts. of veal stock and lqt. of boiled milk; stir it till it boils, then strain through a cloth into a clean stewpan ; skim, and season with salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Have ready about twenty pieces of Cucumber, peeled, cut, and stewed as for Cucumbers a Blanc, put them in a tureen, mix J pint of cream with the soup, pour it over them, and serve. (2) Thicken some good beef stock with fried onions and flour done to a roux of a nice bright colour. Cut some Cucumbers, with the peel on, in pieces, and boil them in water till quite tender; squeeze them through a colander, keeping the skin back. Mix the pulp with the prepared stock, season with pepper and salt, boil up, and serve with croutons of toast. (3) Put into a saucepan a neck of mutton, a thick slice of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, one scraped and washed carrot, two peeled and washed turnips, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 4qts. of water. Let all these simmer together till the water is reduced one-fourth, and then strain. Put into the saucepan the crumb of a French roll with loz. of butter, and fry it brown; then put in four good-sized Cucumbers, peeled and cut small, and a couple of lettuces, washed and cut small, let them stew for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and add lqt. of the mutton broth. As soon as it boils, put in 1 pint of green peas, and as it stews add gradually 2qts. more of the mutton broth. When the Cucumbers and peas are done, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Cucumber Vinegar.—Peel fifteen large Cucumbers, cut them into slices, put them in a wide-mouthed bottle or stone jar, together with 3 teaspoonfuls of pepper, J teaspoonful of cayenne, 2 piled table-spoonfuls of salt, a little garlic, two or three shallots, and four large onions cut in slices, and pour over 6 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar. Let this stand for fully four days, then transfer the whole to a saucepan, boil for a minute or two, let the liquor get cold, strain, filter into small bottles, and cork securely. The vinegar is then ready for use. Curried Cucumbers.—Put lib. or so of loin of mutton, lamb, or veal into a mortar, and pound it well, adding two or three onions and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Peel as many Cucumbers as are required, cut off the ends, and remove the seeds; stuff the fruit with part of the force- meat, and with the remainder form forcemeat balls. Put all into a saucepan with some good stock, sprinkle over a dessert-spoonful or so of curry-powder, and stew for fully an hour. Turn the whole on to a dish, garnish with boiled rice, and serve as hot as possible. Fried Cucumbers.—(1) Peel two or three Cucumbers, cut them up into thick slices, and remove the seeds; put the pieces into a deep earthenware dish with salted water slightly acidulated with vinegar, and let them soak for an hour or so. Take them out, drain and dry on a cloth, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry a light brown. Take the Cucumbers out, drain them, and they are ready for use. They are generally used for brown ragouts. (2) Peel the Cucumbers, taking off every bit of green skin, lay them in ice water, and leave them for half-an-hour; cut them lengthwise into slices nearly Jin. thick, and again lay in ice water, in which let them remain for ten minutes; then take out and wdpe dry with a soft cloth. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, dredge with flour, and fry a light brown in butter or lard. (3) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into thick slices, and lay in water for a little while. When ready to fry, dry them, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in egg- and-breadcrumb, and fry, with the cover over the pan, until light brown. Serve while hot. Fried Cucumbers served on Toast.—Peel two Cucumbers, and slice them lengthwise about Jin. thick. Put over the fire in a large frying-pan 2 piled table-spoonfuls of butter, and when it browns put in the Cucumbers, and fry them brown. In the meantime make as many slices of toast as there are Cucumbers—continued. pieces of Cucumber, butter them, and keep them hot. When the Cucumbers are done, serve them on the toast (see Fig. 598). Fig. 598. Fried Cucumber served on Toast. Glazed Cucumbers.—Peel some Cucumbers, cut them into quarters, split them in the middle, scrape out the seeds, and blanch in boiling water. Lay a few slices of raw ham at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the Cucumbers, with a little gravy, and let them boil till the gravy is reduced to glaze; then dish them. Mix with the liquor a little white wine, let it boil, thicken with kneaded butter, strain it over the Cucumbers, and serve. Grated Cucumbers.—In season use fresh Cucumbers; in winter use salted or pickled ones. Grate the fruit on a coarse grater, and if the fresh vegetable is used, squeeze out nearly all the juice. Season the pulp highly with salt and pepper, and pack it in glass jars. Pour in strong cold vinegar, quite filling the jars, and then seal them air-tight. They will be fit for use in about a week. The flavour of the pickle can be varied by adding to the grated Cucumber one-fourth its quantity of grated green peppers without the seeds, or of white onions peeled and grated. Marinaded Cucumbers with Duck.—Thinly slice three salted Cucumbers, lay them in a basin, pour 1 pint of water and J teacupful of vinegar over them, and let them marinade for two or three hours. Cut a small duck into eight pieces; peel and slice an onion, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry it for a few minutes ; then put in the pieces of duck, and fry them until lightly browned; pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of stock, add a clove of garlic and a bay-leaf, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender ; then drain the slices of Cucumber and put them in with the duck to get hot. When ready, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Pickled Cucumbers.—(1) Cut a piece out of the .sides of two or three dozen large Cucumbers, and scoop out the seeds with a small spoon. The Cucumbers should not be over-ripe or yellow at the ends. Put them into a bowl of salted water, and let them remain for nine days, or until they become yellow, stirring up every two or three days; then take them out, put them into a saucepan with a good supply of vine-leaves both under and over them, pour in the brine in which they soaked, place the saucepan over a clear fire, and boil slowly for about five hours ; take them out, and drain dry. Stuff the cavity in each with a little each of horseradish, garlic, capsicum, mustard-seed, and peppercorns, keeping each in- gredient as much by itself as possible without mixing; continue in layers until the hole is filled up, then place in its proper position the piece that was cut out, and sew it up. Pour lgall. or so of vinegar—sufficient to cover the Cucumbers when added to them—into a saucepan, add to each gallon loz. each of cloves and mace, 2oz. each of long pepper, ginger in slices, and Jamaica pepper, and 3oz. of mustard-seed, all tied up in a muslin bag; add also a root of horseradish cut up length- wise into strips, and Jib. of heads of garlic. Place the sauce- pan on the fire and boil for about five minutes; remove the bag of spice, pour the whole over the Cucumbers in jars to cover them, tie them over securely, and let them remain for five or six days, when they will be ready for use. (2) Peel a large Cucumber, slice it lengthwise down the middle, scrape out the seeds, and cut it into pieces about Jin. square ; put these into a large bottle or jar, with a dozen chillies and a little salt, and fill up the bottle or jar with distilled white vinegar. Keep for a month in a cool place ; at the end of that time the pickle will be ready for use. (3) Select the requisite quantity of small green Cucumbers, put them in a pan of cold water, and scrub w’ell with a brush to remove the prickles. Put them in a vessel with water that has been strongly salted with rock-salt, and let them steep in this for three days; at the end of that time drain them,