TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 568 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs—continued. care must be taken in filling the Eggs not to crack the shells in the slightest, or it would spoil the effect. Topsy-turvy Eggs.—Butter the interior of several small patty-pans, and strew grated breadcrumbs over them, shaking out any that do not adhere; break an Egg into each one, taking care to keep the yolks intact, place them on a hot stove until the whites are set, then turn them upside down out on to a hot dish, and serve. Whites of Eggs Cooked in Bladders.—Beat up the whites of one dozen Eggs with 1 gill of rose-water and a flavouring of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and mix well. Take four small bladders, put into each one-fourth of the beaten white of Egg, tie each bladder into the shape of an Egg, put them into hot water, and boil for half-an-hour. Let them get cold, turn the contents out of the bladders, and lay them in a glass dish. Mix together the strained juice of half an orange, 1 gill of red wine, and i pint of rich cream; sweeten with white sugar, and pour it over the Eggs before serving. EGG-PLANT FRUIT (Fr. Aubergine; Gcr. Melan- zanapfel).—At one time the fruit of the Egg-plant (Sola- num Melongena) was used in kitchens indiscriminately with tomatoes, to which it is allied. Modern cooks have recognised that these remarkable fruit admit of considerable variety of artistic culinary treatment, and have, therefore, devised receipts for their prepa- ration. The two sorts out of many that mostly find favour in kitchens are the long (see Eig. 709) and the round (see Eig. 710), both of which date their origin from the East Indies. They ai-e sometimes called Mad- apples, as fitting com- panions for tomatoes, which are Love-apples. Baked Egg-plant Fruit.— (1) Peel an Egg-plant Fruit of medium size, cut it into slices iin. thick, sprinkle with salt, lay them in a deep bowl, and let them stand in a cool place for an hour. Soak 1 pint of stale bread in cold water. Fry the Egg- plant Fruit in a frying-pan of smoking-hot fat; when one side is brown, turn them, and brown the other; when all are brown, remove them from the frying-pan with a skimmer, and lay them on a dish. Put four peeled and sliced tomatoes into the same frying-pan, adding more fat if there is not sufficient in the pan, and fry them for five minutes. Then squeeze the bread in a colander to remove any excess of water, add it to the tomatoes, season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, and stir over the fire until scalding hot. If fresh tomatoes are not obtainable, tomato sauce or tinned tomatoes can be used. When the bread and tomatoes are hot, put them into a baking-dish in layers with the fried Egg-plant Fruit, dust breadcrumbs or cracker-dust over the top, season with salt and pepper, put 1 table-spoonful of butter in small pieces over them, set the dish in a very hot oven until the crumbs are brown, and serve hot. Cold fried Egg-plant Fruit can be used for this. (2) Boil three or four Egg-plant Fruit in plenty of water till tender, skin them, and mash in a basin with a little butter and grated breadcrumbs; put them in a shallow dish, grate more breadcrumbs over, bake in the oven until brown, and serve. (3) Cut a medium-sized Egg-plant Fruit into halves, score it deeply on both sides, rub salt and pepper into the cuts, put it into a pan with 1 piled table-spoonful of butter spread Fig. 709. Long Egg-plant Fruit. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. over, bake till tender, and serve with the gravy it yields poured over. Baked Egg-plant Fruit with Cheese.—Peel and cut in slices three parboiled Egg-plant Fruit, press the juice out of them, and fry over a sharp fire. When done, season to taste, thicken with a little bechamel sauce, arrange them on a dish in layers, alternately with grated Parmesan, baste with butter, bake for twenty minutes, and serve. Boiled Egg-plant Fruit with Curry.—Wash the fruit and boil it. Peel and chop a small onion and a green chilli, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. When the Egg-plant Fruit is cooked, cut it open and scoop out all the pulp. Work this up with 1 teaspoonful of mustard and a few drops of salad-oil, and mix in the onion and chilli; it is then ready for serving, and will be found excellent with curry. Broiled Egg-plant Fruit.—Peel an Egg-plant Fruit, cut it into six slices lin. thick, put them in a dish, season with salt and pepper, and pour over 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil. Mix well, arrange the slices on the broiler, and broil for five minutes on each side. Remove them from the fire, place on a hot dish, spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Egg-plant Fruit au Gratin.—(1) Peel five or six Egg-plant Fruit, and cut them lengthwise into slices; thickly butter the interior of a baking-dish, having first rubbed it over with a little garlic, put in the slices of fruit in layers, with bread- Fig. 710. Round Egg-plant Fruit. crumbs, finely-chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and salt and pepper in moderate quantities. Warm ^lb. or so of butter, pour it over the slices, cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, and set the dish in the oven. When cooked, brown the top with a salamander, and serve in the same dish. (2) Boast the fruit in a Dutch oven before the fire, then split them open and carefully scoop out all the interior; mix with the pulp a small quantity of finely-minced onion and green chillies, a small lump of butter, and salt to taste, work well together, and fill the skins with it; lay them open in a buttered gratin-dish, cover them with grated bread- crumbs, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and brown in a brisk oven. Serve in the same dish. Egg-plant Fruit Fritters.—(1) Boil the Egg-plant Fruit in salted water, mixed with a little lemon-juice; when tender, skin, drain, and mash them. For every pint of pulp add § break- fast-cupful of flour, two well-beaten eggs, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Shape into small fritters, put them in boiling fat, and fry both sides till brown. These can be used as a garnish, or served separately as a vegetable. (2) Boil the Egg-plant Fruit cut in slices, without being peeled, in salted water for a few minutes. Drain, dip them in batter, and fry brown in hot lard. Put them in a shallow baking-tin in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Serve as a garnish for savouries, or separately. (3) Peel a medium-sized Egg-plant Fruit, cut it up into six slices about £in. in thickness, and sprinkle over f tea-