THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 700 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. (2) Put ljlb. of chicken forcemeat into a basin, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of puree of cooked goose’s or poultry livers. Put a dozen timbale-moulds in a pan, fill them up with the forcemeat, place the pan in the bain-marie, and let it remain until the forcemeat is firm. Turn out the timbales, dip them into beaten egg' and then breadcrumbs, and mark them round on the top with a small paste-cutter, so that when they are cooked an opening may be easily made. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry; take them out, drain oft' all the fat, open them where they are cut, remove all the inside, and fill each one with a mixture of cooked fat liver and truffles, thickened with a little brown sauce reduced with the trimmings of truffles. Place the lids or plugs on the timbales again, arrange them on a dish in the form of a pyramid, and serve. Goose’s Fat Livers with Truffles.—Select four Goose’s Pat Livers, sprinkle with salt and pepper, wrap them round with slices of fat bacon, put them in a saucepan with a little mirepoix with the fat left on it and a little wine added, and cook them until done. Remove from the fire, let them cool in their stock, take them out, remove the bacon, trim, and mask them with a little transparent light-brown chaudfroid sauce or jelly. Place the livers on a square piece of fried bread about lin. thick, having a crouton support in the centre of it, mask the support with a thick layer of chopped aspic Fig. 861. Goose’s Fat Livers with Truffles. jelly, and lean the livers against it. Decorate them with pieces of truffles dipped in aspic jelly, and in the spaces between them on the fried bread put some cooked and glazed round truffles. Garnish an attelette with a cock’s comb and truffle, and place it in the top of the crouton support. Put a circle of butter balls round the base of the truffles, and another circle of chopped aspic jelly outside the circle of butter and round the livers, to cover up any part of the bread that might be exposed. Finish with sprigs of parsley and slices of lemon (see Fig. 861). Imitation Fates cle Foie Gras.—(1) Wash a calf s liver, put it in a saucepan with salted water to cover, and boil until tender; also boil a calf’s tongue in another saucepan. When cooked, drain the liver, cut it into small pieces, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar, moistening with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. When quite soft and smooth, season the paste with a few pounded cloves, 1 teaspoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and mustard, half a grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne; add 1 table-spoonful of warm water, and a few drops of onion-juice. Beat the mixture well until all the ingredients are mixed. Skin the tongue, slice it, and cut it up into small squares and three-cornered pieces; work them in with the liver mixture, and press the whole into well-buttered pate-jars; pour in each jar a layer of clarified butter. When cold, put on their lids, and keep them in a very cool cupboard. In the winter time they will keep fresh for several weeks. (2) Boil the livers and gizzards of four or five fowls till thoroughly done, then drain, and wipe them dry. Peel an Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. onion and chop it fine, put it into a saucepan over the fire with 3oz. of butter, and simmer slowly for ten minutes. Put the livers of the fowls into a mortar, and pound them to a paste. When the butter and onions have simmered, strain the liquor through a piece of muslin, squeezing it well to get out all the flavour of the onion ; work this strained butter by degrees with the pounded livers, together with 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce and salt and pepper to taste. Cut up the gizzards (they must be very well boiled and tender) into little squares. Butter a small glass jar, and press into it the pounded livers, putting in here and there little bits of the boiled gizzards instead of truffles. When all the paste is pressed in, cover it with warmed butter. (3) Boil 21b. of calf’s liver in salted water until cooked, then drain, and when cold grate it. Mince 21b. of cold roasted pork-fat, and mix it with the liver in a mortar; add 1 table- spoonful of minced truffles, J table-spoonful of minced button- mushrooms, and ljoz. each of ground allspice and black pepper. Pound the mixture until perfectly smooth, and put it into small pots, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top. Melt some butter, pour a little into each pot, tie them over with stout paper, and keep them in a cool dry cupboard. If they are to be kept for any length of time, the space in each jar should be filled up with melted paraffin-wax instead of butter. Fate de Fois Gras.—(1) Take a good-sized Goose’s Fat Liver and carefully remove the gall, put the liver into a pan of boiling- water to set, taking care that it does not boil, then take it out and let it cool. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion into a saute-pan with a little rasped bacon, and fry, but without allowing it to colour. Cut the liver into large squares, put it into the pan with the onions, and add 8oz. of raw truffles cut up into small squares or dice; sprinkle over a little salt and add a few spices to season. Place the pan over the fire for eight minutes or so, tossing it frequently, then take it off the fire and let the ingredients cool. Finely chop Jib. each of lean veal and fat bacon, mix in with them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, soaked in milk and squeezed thoroughly dry, mince it up a little more, and season with salt and pepper. Place Fig. 862. Pate de Foies Gras this mince in a basin, add some trimmings of truffles and the fat liver, also chopped very fine, and Jib. of lean ham cut into small dice or squares. Butter a hot pie-mould, place it on buttered paper on a baking-sheet, line it with short-paste, put a layer of the mince at the bottom and sides, then fill it with a round flat of paste; decorate, leave a hole in the centre, brush it over with egg, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. As soon as the paste begins to colour, place a piece of buttered paper over it. When it is done, remove the top of the pie, wipe off as much of the fat as possible, mask the contents with brown sauce reduced with Madeira and trimmings of truffles, and serve very hot. See Fig. 862. (2) Rub lOoz. of butter into lib. of flour, add the yolks of two eggs and a little salt, make it into a soft paste with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, stir until quite smooth, and place it in a basin on the ice to set. Put it on a paste-board and roll out thin. Line one-dozen-and-a-half small pie-moulds about ljin. deep and 2in. in diameter with the paste, fill them