THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 611 Fowls—continued. Fowls—continued. Braised Fowls a la Turque.—Select a couple of young Fowls of about the same size (taking care to have them perfectly white), singe and draw them, remove the breast- bone, and well wash them inside. Wash and clean 21b. or 31b. of rice, and boil it in good consomme; when it is suffi- ciently cooked and quite thick, sprinkle part of it with salt and pepper, and put it in the insides of the Fowls, turning in the rump to prevent the rice from coming out when being cooked. Tie them round with layers of bacon and pieces of buttered paper, and place them in a braising-pan to cook. Leave them over a moderate fire for an hour, when they should be perfectly done. Take them out, and remove the string, paper, and bacon ; add 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and 1 table-spoonful of thick cream to the rest of the rice, season with salt and pepper, and put it in a layer on a dish. Place the Fowls on this, and serve. Braised Fowls with Macaroni.—Clean and truss two Fowls as for boiling, and put an onion and a small lump of butter in each. Spread two or three slices of fat bacon over the bottom of a stewpan, put in the birds with some chopped carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of stock, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Braise them very gently until tender, basting- them constantly with their cooking liquor. Have a saucepan of boiling salted water over the fire, and throw into it lib. of macaroni, broken into convenient lengths ; when the macaroni is cooked, drain off all the water, and mix with it loz. of butter and a small bottle of tomato sauce. Stir the macaroni over the fire, and strew in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. Drain the Fowls when cooked, put them on a hot dish, pile the macaroni round them, and serve. Braised Fowls with Mushrooms.—Select three birds, the smaller the better, singe and truss them for boiling, put some slices of bacon over them, tie it on with string, and place them in a braising-pan on the top of some vegetables cut in slices, a few trimmings of mushrooms and chopped ham, and pour in sufficient good broth to half the height of the Fowls. Slip in a bunch of parsley, tied up with string, put the pan on a good fire, and braise, covering the lid over with hot ashes. When they have remained like this for forty minutes, take them out, pass the liquor through a fine sieve, and remove all the fat. In the meantime, put two dozen mush- rooms into a saucepan with a little butter and lemon-juice, and cook them. Put about fqt. of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, and place it over a brisk fire. When it has reduced a little, add to it gradually the liquor from the Fowls, which has previously been reduced to half glaze, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of the mushroom liquor, well skimmed of its fat; and as soon as this sauce is done, take it off the fire and add a large lump of butter. Cut the string away from the Fowls, remove the bacon, and put them on a dish in the shape of a triangle, having their legs towards the centre. Put eight small mushrooms on each bird, strain the sauce through a fine sieve over them, and serve. Braised Fowls with Rice.—Draw a Fowl and break the breast-bone with a knife. Fry a chopped onion in a saucepan, with a little chopped fat bacon, add 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, cover it with gravy, and boil till the rice is dry ; then take the stewpan from the fire, and add a little finely-chopped raw ham and 1 pinch of pounded pimento. Stuff the Fowl with this preparation, and truss it as for boiling. Put Goz. of butter in a stewpan, then put in the Fowl, cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, put the lid on the pan with some red-hot cinders on the top, and stand it over a moderate fire. When the Fowl has browned all over, add J pint of white wine and a small piece of glaze, put the lid on again, with some more live embers, and finish cooking. Fry some ham (cut in small pieces) and tomatoes, adding pepper, salt, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; drain off the fat, put the ham and tomatoes in the stewpan with the Fowl, and leave them for ten minutes. Then dish the Fowl (having taken off the strings), arrange the bacon, ham, and tomatoes round the dish, and serve. Broiled Fowls.—(1) Clean a Fowl, singe it, split it down the back, break the joints, take out the breast-bone, and wipe the bird clean; dust a little pepper and salt over it, rub with For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, warmed butter, put on a gridiron over a good clear fire, and broil for twenty minutes or so. Place it on a dish, with some more butter over it, and serve quite hot. To carve this, separate the legs and wings from the body, and then the breast from the lower parts. (2) Draw and singe two young birds, split them down the back, remove all the bones except the stump-bone of the wings, and cut up the pinions and leg-bones. Take out the flesh from the legs, taking care not to injure or cut the skin, and trim away the sinew ; chop the flesh up very small, with half its quantity of bacon and also of raw ham, both finely minced, add a little pepper, spices, and salt to season, also a few breadcrumbs, and half an egg, and mix well. Place the chickens flat on a board, pepper and salt slightly, and put half the mince on each, making the surface smooth; next put them into butter warmed and mixed with the yolks of four eggs, and then breadcrumb them over. Place them on a gridiron over a good fire, basting them frequently, and when they are done, which will be in about twenty minutes, dish them up with thick gravy and a little tarragon put about the dish. (3) Prepare a couple of chickens, cut off the claws at the first joint, push them under the skin, which has been pre- viously cut so as to get the bone inside ; singe the birds, cut them in halves down the back, and put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter. Let the butter cool on them on both sides, and then put them on a baking-sheet to drain; dust over a little cayenne and salt, smooth over them a little made mustard, and pour over sufficient of the butter from the saucepan to moisten them, lastly rolling them in finely- sifted breadcrumbs. Place them on a gridiron, "with the skin part uppermost, broil very slowly over a moderate fire, basting- frequently with a brush dipped in the butter in the saucepan ; turn them, and when they have been cooking for a quarter-of-an-liour put them on a dish, with a little gravy on the bottom, and serve with sauce a la minute separately in a sauceboat. (4) Singe and draw two chickens, make holes in the legs above the joints, and push the claws into them ; cut the birds in halves, break the leg-bones, and remove the bones from the back and breast, so that there will be as few bones left as possible. Press the Fowls into a round shape, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and brush over with yolks of eggs; cover them with breadcrumbs, dip them in liquefied butter, and dust with the crumbs again, taking care to have them well covered. Put them on a board to make them flat, and then broil on a gridiron over a good clear fire, care being taken that the legs, which take the longest time to cook, are quite done. Place them on a dish, and serve with a little Italian sauce poured over. (5) Pluck and draw the Fowls, split them lengthwise in halves, bone them, and cut the flesh into three or four pieces, beat the thickest parts with a rolling-pin, to make all of an equal thickness, season with powdered cinnamon, salt, and pepper, and leave for an hour or two. Put the pieces on a gridiron over a moderate charcoal fire, and turn them constantly till evenly browned; then lay them in a saucepan, cover with clear chicken broth, that can be made with the bones, and boil them gently over a moderate fire till tender. When cooked, put the Fowls on a hot dish, and serve. (6) Pluck and singe a chicken and wipe it with a wet towel; split it down the back, dress it without breaking the entrails, and break the joints of the wings and legs. Put it between the bars of a buttered double-gridiron, and broil it quite brown, but not too close to the fire, cooking the inside thoroughly before turning, and taking care that it is quite done at the joints. Season it with salt and pepper, lay it on buttered toast, put 1 table-spoonful of butter over it, and serve hot. (7) Cut out the breast- and thigh-bones of a plucked and drawn Fowl, rub the meat well over with olive oil or butter, sprinkle with cracker or breadcrumbs, and with a little salt and pepper to season, broil over a clear fire for ten minutes or so. Serve hot. Broiled Fowls with Bacon.—Singe and draw two chickens, wipe them, and cut off their heads, then split them length- wise without separating. Place them on a dish, season with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil, turn them well in the seasoning, and broil for nine minutes on each 3 b 2 Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads.