THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 635 loi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Skim the fat off the liquor, season with salt, pepper, a little lemon-juice, and celery salt, and reduce to % pint; then mix it in with the meat. Butter a mould, and decorate the bottom and sides with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and small fancy-shaped pieces of tongue or ham. Pack the meat in tightly, put a weight on the top, and let it remain in a cold place until wanted ; then turn it out and garnish with parsley, lettuce-leaves, celery-sticks, radishes, or beetroots, cut into various shapes. Fulled Fowl.—Remove the skin from a boiled Fowl and dis- joint it, pulling the pieces of meat away from the bone. Take the legs and back and dip them into a little liquefied butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and place them on a gridiron to broil. In the meantime put the meat that was pulled off into a saucepan with a little white sauce, and season with pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a little ground mace. Place the pan on the side of the fire and warm the meat thoroughly, then take it out, put it on a dish, place the legs, &c., over it, and serve with lemons cut into slices, and croutons of fried bread for garnish. Puree of Fowl.—Put some consomme into a saucepan with a couple of Fowls, and braise them. Take them out when they are done, and let them get quite cold. Pass the consomme through a fine sieve or cloth, remove all the fat, and place it back in the saucepan; reduce it, pour in double its bulk of veloute sauce, and continue reducing until it has a firm consistency. Cut off all the meat from the Fowls, removing the skin and fat, chop it up small, and pound in a mortar. When well pounded, add the sauce, mix it in, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. It is then ready for use. Puree of Fowl with Poached Eggs.—Finely mince the white meat from a cold cooked Fowl, put it in a mortar and pound it to a smooth paste, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and mixing with it a sufficient quantity of white sauce to make a rather thick puree; turn this into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until hot. Poach eight fresh eggs, and trim them to an even shape. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, lay the eggs on the top, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Roasted Fowl.—(1) Spread over a Fowl, which has been properly plucked and drawn, sufficient butter to cover it, set it in a Dutch oven, put it in front of a good fire, and baste continually with butter for half-an-hour; five minutes before serving sprinkle a little flour over it. Dish and serve with brown sauce. (2) Singe, draw, and truss a couple of Fowls for roasting, put a small lump of butter, mixed with pepper and salt, in their insides, cover them with buttered paper, and place them a short distance from the fire, basting frequently with butter. When the Fowls are partly done put them nearer the fire, and five minutes before serving take off the buttered paper so that they may brown. Whilst the Fowls are cooking, boil a little gravy-beef with the giblets (washed and cleaned). Dish the Fowls, pour over the gravy, garnish with a border of watercress, and serve. (3) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss a Fowl weighing about 31b., cover it with thin slices of salted fat pork, and place it in a roasting-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of broth. Spread a little butter over the breast, sprinkle with J pinch of salt, and roast it in the oven for fifty minutes, basting frequently. Arrange it on a hot dish, untie it, and garnish with water- cress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve with the Fowl. (4) Singe, draw, and truss three young chickens as for boiling. Cut two onions and one carrot into slices, put them into a saucepan with a little butter and a few cuttings of bacon, and fry them to a good brown ; then add a few sweet herbs’ sprigs of parsley, the trimmings of truffles,, and a little Madeira, and place the pan on the fire to reduce quickly. Take out this mixture and cover the breasts of the Fowls with it, with some thin slices of bacon over to keep it in its place. Tie them round with string, and roast them on a spit for forty-five minutes, basting frequently with the fat that comes from them and a little butter. When they are quite done take them off the spit and remove the string, bacon, and the onion and carrot mixture. Make a border of forcemeat, decorate and poach it; put a three- Fowls—continued. cornered large thick croustade of fried bread, covered with cooked forcemeat, in the centre of the border to support the Fowls. When ready to dish, rest the Fowls, with their tails uppermost, on the border, and leaning against the support, and at their base (on the border) place a few round truffles, also make a circle of them on the top of the croustade, leaning them against the Fowl, and put an attelette skewer dressed with truffles and cocks’ combs in the top of the bread croustade. Pour a little Madeira sauce reduced with truffle cuttings on the dish, glaze the Fowls, and serve more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Roasted Fowls a la Bresse.—Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, truss them, tie slices of fat bacon round, put them on the spit, wrap well-buttered paper round them, and roast in front of a clear fire for fully an hour, basting frequently. When nearly done, remove the paper and bacon, let them brown, dust over with salt, remove them from Fig. 786. Roasted Fowls a la Bresse. the spit, untruss them, and cut each one into five parts. Should the Fowls be very large, the breasts must be cut in halves. Skin the backs, cut them in halves, place them with the breasts in the centre of a dish, arrange the legs round, with the wings on top of them, garnish with truffles, and place a large mushroom on top (see Fig. 786). Serve with bread sauce in one sauceboat and rich gravy in another. Roasted Fowls a la Due de Teck.—Put a couple of Fowls in the oven to roast; take them out when done, cut them into quarters, glaze, and decorate them with butter squeezed through a cornet. Place them on a dish, leaning against a pyramid of cress ; garnish with slices of tongue, covered with hard-boiled eggs finely minced and made into a paste with butter, and rolled up; also garnish with cocks’ combs, truffles, champignons, &c. Pour round a mayonnaise sauce, and serve. Roasted Fowl served a la Harridence.—Prepare and clean a chicken; truss it, and roast in front of the fire. When done and cold, skin it, and cut into joints or fillets. Lightly roast lib. of chestnuts, skin them, rub them through a fine sieve to form a puree, flavour this with grated lemon- peel, and add only sufficient cream to make the puree moist. Carefully remove the bone from each piece of chicken, and fill the cavity with the chestnut mixture. Have ready sufficient aspic jelly, one half coloured red with cochineal and the other yellow ; mask the pieces of chicken with these, and pipe over, with a paper cornet, a preparation made of corn- flour and milk, with a little cream and butter beaten in to flavour, and well seasoned with salt and white pepper. Form the piping over the pieces in crossbars, in each of the squares pipe a white dot, and on each of these dots place a smaller dot of green, made by colouring some of the above sauce with spinach-juice. Place the pieces of Fowl carefully on a dish, garnish with endive and a macedoine of cooked vegetables ; pour over a rich salad dressing, and serve with Tartar sauce in a sauceboat. Mayonnaise sauce may be substituted for the Tartar sauce. Roasted Fowls a la Maryland.—Prepare two small chickens, detaching their legs and wings; lay the birds on a plate, season with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, roll in sifted breadcrumbs, place them in a buttered pan, pour over an ounce of clarified butter, and roast in the oven for eighteen minutes. Pour i pint of cream sauce on to a hot dish, arrange the chickens on top, decorate with six thin slices of broiled bacon, also six small corn fritters, and serve as hot as possible.