G02 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Flummery—continued. German Flummery.—Boil 1) pints each of white wine and water, and dissolve 1 pinch of salt in it. When this is. boil- ing, add gradually 9 table-spoonfuls of semolina; stir it over the fire for eight or ten minutes until thick, then take it off, mix in the grated peel of half a lemon, 1 breakfast- cupful of castor sugar, and the whipped whites of eight eggs, and stir till smooth. Rinse out a large jelly-mould with a little cold water, pour the Flummery into it, pack the mould in ice for a couple of hours, or until wanted to serve ; then dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the contents, wipe it quite clean outside, and turn the Flummery on to a dish, and mask over with a puree of strawberries or straw- berry jam. Prussian Flummery.—Put loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of boiling- water, and leave it for a few hours; next pour it into a saucepan and mix in ^lb. of loaf sugar, the juice and thinly- pared rind of one lemon, and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Place the saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling. Strain the Flummery through a flannel bag, leave it until partly cold, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. When the Flummery has set, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish, and serve. Turkish Flummery.—Pirt ilb. each of ground rice and sugar into a pan, and add -)oz. of blanched bitter almonds, and the grated rind of half a lemon; mix well and stir in lqt. of milk. Put the pan on the fire, stir continually, and boil for ten minutes, when it should be done. Turn it out, let it get cold, and cut into shapes. A pinch of powdered cinnamon is sometimes added. FLUTES.--At one time it was customary to drink champagne out of long narrow glasses, which were called Flutes. Modern innovation has exactly reversed this style, those now in fashion being broad and shallow. In French cookery the term Flutes is applied to a variety of productions, such as small long rolls (Brioches) or cakes. FOAM OMELET.—See Omelets. FOAM SAUCE.—See Sauces. FOGOSCH.—This fish is found chiefly in the lakes of Austria. It makes a very handsome dish, often weigh- ing 71b. or 81b., and the flesh is considered to be of good quality. The body is silvery in appearance, and the back slightly grey. Although a great favourite wherever it is to be found, and capable of being cooked in any way suitable to a large delicate fish, some of our best cooks prefer making it into quenelles, as follows: Remove the skin and bones from about lib. of very fresh Fogosch flesh, and with it prepare a forcemeat, in the same manner as decribed for Fish. Mould the forcemeat into quenelles between two table-spoons, and place them as soon as done in a flat buttered stewpan; cover them with boiling salted water, and poach for about fifteen minutes. Put about 1 teacupful of plainly-cooked tomato puree into a stewpan, add an equal quantity of melted glaze and 1 pinch of paprica. Boil the mixture for two minutes, stirring it all the time; then move it to the side of the fire, and mix in gradually, in small pieces, 6oz. of butter, still keeping it well stirred. When firm, drain the quenelles, arrange them on a hot dish in circular order, pour the sauce over, and serve. A foundation of the same forcemeat may be poached and set on the dish before the quenelles are put on, if liked. FOIES GRAS.—Ft. for fat livers. These are de- scribed under Goose. FONDANTS.—This term has become familiar to us for kinds of soft sweets that “melt” in the mouth, the name being derived from a French word which signifies to melt. Some very excellent receipts for their manufacture are given by Mr. E. Skuse in the “ Con- fectioners’ Handbook.” He styles them Cream Fondants. (1) Boil 71b. of sugar with 3 pints of water and 1 tea- spoonful of cream of tartar to the feather degree (see Sugar- boiling). Take it off the fire, let it stand a few minutes, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fondants—continued. then work the syrup against the side of the pan with a knife or spatula until it becomes thick and creamy. This will require some time, as the change takes place but slowly. Fill a tray with finely-powdered starch, and level it quite flat. Make depressions corresponding to the shapes required into the surface of the starch-powder, and having flavoured and coloured the cream as desired, fill the depressions care- fully. Cover them over lightly with more starch-powder, and leave for a time to set. They may then be crystallised. (2) Boil 71b. of sugar and 21b. of confectioners’ glucose with 3 pints of water to the feather degree (see Sugar- boiling) ; then pour it on to a plate, and with a palette-knife rub the syrup against the plate until it becomes white and stiff, like a lump of curd. Take this off the plate and put it again into the pan, and melt it over a slow fire, stirring freely all the time. When this is sufficiently melted to run freely, fill up the depressions in the starch, as described in No. 1. When set, lift the Fondants out of the starch, clean off by lightly brushing, and crystallise. Chocolate Fondants.—These are made in the same way as the preceding, with this exception, that chocolate is used to flavour. It is usual to divide the Fondant-paste into two portions, one remaining white and being flavoured with vanilla, and tho other being mixed with chocolate. The moulds, or depressions, are then filled half-way with each. An immense variety of shapes, colours, and flavours can be made (which may be crystallised or not), accord- ing to the ideas and tastes of the manufacturer. The following is the process advised for crystallising: Cream and chocolate Fondants require to be crystallised in cold syrup. Boil the syrup to the blow degree (see Syrufs), and while it is boiling add a few drops of acetic acid; remove it from the fire, cover over the surface with a damp piece of muslin, and let it get cold. The object of the damp muslin is to prevent a scum of crystals from forming on the surface ; or the scum forms on the cloth, and when removed comes away with it. It should never be left uncovered, or the scum would tend to cause the whole to grain and spoil. Fill some small square tin pans, about 2in. deep, with the articles required to be crystallised, pour over the syrup to cover, put damp cloths over, place them in a cool but not draughty place, and let them remain for about ten hours. Drain off the syrup, tilt the tins so as to strain off as much as possible, give the tins a knock, turn out the contents, separate them carefully, and they are ready for use. FONDUES.—These very favourite French savouries are made of melted cheese, the term Fondues signifying melted. By the following receipts it will be seen that a variety of cheeses can be used—fat or buttery cheeses for preference. They are generally served in paper-cases. (1) Put ilb. of grated cheese in a basin with 2 table- spoonfuls of warmed butter and the yolks of two eggs ; season with salt and pepper, and stir them well together. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add them gradually to Fig. 759. Fondues. the cheese, stirring lightly at the same time. Three-parts fill some paper cases with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and lightly browned, arrange the Fondues in their cases on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 759), and serve immediately. (2) Grate 2oz. of Parmesan and 2oz. of Gruyere cheese, and mix with them a little salt, pepper, and cayenne. Beat the yolks of six eggs with ilb. of warmed butter, stir them in with s, tic., referred to, see under their special heads.