THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 717 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Greengages—continued. a large jar, and cover them with vine-leaves ; on the following day strain off the syrup, boil up again, skim it, and pour j it back on the Greengages. Repeat the operation of boiling for the two following days. Take the Greengages out of the syrup and lay them a short distance from each other on a wire drainer placed on a baking-sheet; put them in a screen, and dry them slowly. Boil 111b. of sugar to the pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and work it against the sides of the pan with the bowl of a spoon until it has a dull white appearance, then throw in the dried Greengages. Toss them about to give them a good coating, then lift them carefully out with a fork and place on the drainer, the stalk sides upwards (see Pig. 884). Dry the Greengages slowly in a screen, then pack them away in boxes between layers of paper. Greengage-and-Apricot Jam.—Put 21b. of stoned Green- gages into a preserving-pan with 21b. of stoned apricots. Blanch the kernels of the apricots, add them to the fruit, together with 21b. or 31b. of loaf sugar, and boil gently over a slow fire until a clear jam is obtained. Put it away in pots, covered over with pieces of paper dipped in brandy, and then again with wet parchment, or thick paper. Greengage Bouchees.—Make some Savoy-biscuit batter. Spread a sheet of white paper on a baking-tin, squeeze the batter through a biscuit-forcer on to the paper, forming Fig. 885. Greengage BouchiSes. rounds 1 .jin. in diameter; sift caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a moderate oven, keeping them as light a colour as possible. When done, put the half of a preserved Greengage on each (see Pig. 885), glaze them with transparent icing flavoured with maraschino, and they are ready to serve. Greengage Cream-Ice.—Peel one dozen Greengages, put them in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and stir over the fire till reduced to a pulp. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 pint of thick syrup and an equal quantity of thick cream; colour with a few drops of extract of spinach. Put the mixture into a freezing-pot, and work it over ice till stiff, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice for two hours. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn its contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. A little lemon-juice added to the cream is an improvement. Greengage Jam.—Select sound ripe Greengages, split them down the sides and remove the stones ; put the fruit in a preserving-pan with a little water, stew them till quite tender, then rub the fruit through a sieve, put the pulp in the pre- serving-pan again, and for every 61b. of fruit put in 4jlb. of sugar ; stir with a wooden spoon, and boil very fast, skim- ming off the scum as it rises. When the jam drops from the spoon like a thick jelly it is done. Pill jars with it, let it cool, then cover with rounds of writing-paper dipped in brandy, and then with bladder. This jam should be kept in a dry cupboard till wanted. Greengage Paste.— Select the required quantity of Green- gages, stone them, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water, and simmer till they form a thick pulp ; pass this through a hair sieve, put it back again in the preserving-pan and reduce it by gently heating. Weigh the pulp, and use lib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound of pulp. Boil the sugar to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), then stir in the Greengage pulp, and continue stirring over the fire until it is thick. Turn it out on to an oiled baking-sheet, and dry it both sides in a very slow oven. Dust caster sugar over, and when firm and dry cut it up and pack away in tins or boxes, with paper between the layers. Greengages—continued. Greengage Souffle.—(1) Put 11b. or so of Greengages in a preserving-pan on the stove, cover them with syrup, and when quite soft pass the pulp through a sieve. Put 1 table- spoonful of flour in j pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till thick ; take it off, let it cool, then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and sufficient Greengage jam to make a stiff paste; beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in with the souffle; pour the preparation into a plain dish, and put it in the oven; when it rises turn it out on a dish, and serve. (2) Put lib. of Greengages in a saucepan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew them gently. Put 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour in a small saucepan, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; allow it to cool a little, then stir in the well- beaten yolks of three eggs ; pass the stewed Greengages Fig. 886. Greengage Souffle. through a fine hair sieve and mix them in also. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the mixture. Pour the whole into a plain metal dish, and bake in a quick oven. When well risen take the souffle out of the oven, pin a folded napkin round the dish, and serve immediately. See Fig. 886. Greengage Tart.—(1) Cut the fruit into halves, and stone it ; put it in a stewpan with plenty of caster sugar and a very small quantity of water, and stew gently. Whisk the yolks of three eggs along with the white of one and a small quantity of water, then beat in 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, I5 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and a sufficient quantity of flour to make a stiff paste. Work it well, put it on a floured table or paste-board, and roll it out to jin. in thickness. Butter a flat tart-mould, line it with the paste, join the ends together, first moistening them with beaten white of egg, spread a sheet of white paper over it, fill with uncooked rice, and bake. When the Greengages are tender, pour in with them 1|- wineglassfuls of pale brandy. Empty the rice out of the tart-crust, removing it with the paper, fill the crust with the Greengages, and serve hot or cold. (2) Cut into halves a dozen ripe Greengages, remove the stones, put the fruit into a basin, and mix in 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line a pie-dish with rich paste, cover with a little apple preserve, and put the Greengages over this. Brush the edges of the tart with beaten egg, put a rim of paste round, brush over with more egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifty minutes. Take out the tart, sprinkle over caster sugar, melt this in the oven, spread over some sweet jelly, and serve. Fig. 887. ..Greengage Tartlets. Greengage Tartlets.—(1) Cut into quarters twelve ripe Green- gages, and remove the stones. Roll out ^lb. of puff paste to