THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 704 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. cook them for a few minutes until the cream is firm, put ripe Gooseberries glazed with syrup oyer the top, and serve either warm or cold. See Fig. 867. Gooseberry-and-Curra nt Jam.—(1) Pick off the stalks and tops of 61b. of ripe red Gooseberries and 21b. of red currants, put them into a preserving-pan on the stove, and let them get hot gradually, stirring every now and then to keep them from burning. When the Gooseberries begin to burst, add 61b. of sugar, and stir more frequently, boiling steadily for about thirty or thirty-five minutes, or till a little cooled on a saucer thickens sufficiently. Take the pan from the stove, let the jam cool, and put it into jars. (2) Use perfectly ripe red Gooseberries; pick and put them into a preserving-pan with 1 teacupful of red-currant juice for every 31b. of fruit, and boil over a moderate fire until the fruit is reduced to a pulp, mashing it with a wooden spoon or spatula. Afterwards mix in lib. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar for each pound of fruit, continue stirring, and let it simmer until reduced. Turn the jam into pots, and when it has got quite cold, sift in a small quantity of caster sugar and tie over with egged paper. Gooseberry Pool.— (1) Pick and wipe 2qts. of green Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with fib. of moist sugar, and cook till quite tender; then mash and press them through a coarse sieve. Warm lqt. of milk, add the beaten yolks of two eggs and 1 teacupful of cream, and continue stirring over the fire till the milk is thick, but do not let it boil. Take it off when ready, and let it get cold. Mix more sugar with the Gooseberries, stir them in with the milk, pour the fool on a fancy dish, and serve. A little nutmeg grated over the top and a garnish of sweet biscuits, such as ratafias, is an improvement. See Fig. 868. (2) Cut off the tops and stalks of lqt. of green Gooseberries, put them in a stewpan with a little water, and cook till tender ; then press the pulp through a fine hair sieve. When the pulp has cooled a little, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and sift in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour to thicken it slightly. Boil 1 pint of milk with a little grated lemon-peel, crushed coriander-seeds, and ground cinnamon, and sweeten with moist sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs, strain the milk, pour it back into the saucepan, add the beaten eggs, and whisk them over the fire till thick, but do not let the mixture boil. When cold, mix it with the pulp of the Gooseberries, pour all into a glass dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. (3) Put lqt. of unripe Gooseberries into a saucepan with f pint of water, and simmer until they begin to plump and turn yellow; then drain them, press through a fine wire sieve on to a dish, and sweeten the pulp to taste with loaf sugar. Whisk lqt. of thick cream to a stiff froth, flavour it with a wineglassful of brandy and a small quantity of Gooseberries—continued. nutmeg, and when the Gooseberry pulp is cold, pour the cream over it. It is then ready for serving. (4) Put lib. of unripe Gooseberries into a stone jar, together with fib. of sugar and 4 pint of water; cover the jar, stand it in a pan of boiling water over the fire, and stew till the fruit is in a mash; then rub it through a sieve, stir into the pulp another fib. of sugar, and mix with it f pint of cream and f pint of milk. (5) Stew lqt. of green Gooseberries with 2oz. of sugar till very soft, then rub the fruit through a sieve, and mix with the pulp sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Whip into 1 pint of milk, either warm from the cow or warmed over the fire, the beaten yolk of an egg and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and stir it over the fire till it thickens just a little, but do not let it boil. Take it from the fire, and stir it till nearly cold. When quite cold, mix it in with the pulped fruit, and serve. (6) Snip the stalks and tops off lqt. of green Gooseberries, put them in a stone or earthenware jar with plenty of moist sugar, add a small quantity of water, stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and keep it boiling gently until the Gooseberries are tender. When cooked, mash them through a rather coarse sieve, and mix with them 1 pint of thick cream. Put the mixture over ice, and stir it occasionally until very cold, but not frozen; then pile it on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. Gooseberry Jam.— (1) Weigh out 71b. of Gooseberries, wipe them well with a cloth, cut off the stalks, put them into a preserving-pan with 71b. of sugar and 1 pint of water, and boil over a clear fire. When the Gooseberries are soft, re- move the scum that forms at the top, pour them into jam jars, cover them first with paper dipped in brandy and then with bladder or parchment paper, tie down tightly, and keep them in a dry cupboard till wanted for use. (2) Pick over and clean 121b. of small, red, rough Goose- berries, put them in a preserving-pan on the fire, and as they commence to cook, crush them to extract the juice. When all the juice is out, boil for ten minutes, remove from the fire, stir in 41b. of sugar, return to the fire, and boil for two hours, stirring continually. Take a little up in a spoon, and drop it on a plate ; if it jellies, it is sufficiently done. Turn into jars, and cover over when cold. (3) Use freshly gathered, perfectly ripe, large white Goose- berries ; pick off their stalks and ends, put them in a preserving-pan over a moderate fire, and mash them well with a wooden spoon; then put in gradually for each pound of the fruit lib. of sugar, and continue stirring until reduced to the proper consistency. Great care must be taken against letting the jam burn, for should it catch in the least it would bo spoilt. Turn into jars, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Choose green Gooseberries, take off the tops and stems, wash them, put them into a preserving-pan with f pint of water to each 41b., set on the stove, and let them get a little soft; then to each pound of Gooseberries add lib. of sugar, and boil till a little of the jam dropped on a saucer jellies as it cools. It will require boiling for about three- quarters-of-an-hour, and must be constantly stirred to prevent burning. Then proceed as for No. 1. Gooseberry Jelly.—(1) Pick and wipe the required quantity of ripe Gooseberries, put them in a preserving-pan with a little water to keep them from burning, and let them stew at the side of the fire till they are tender; then mash them, strain the juice through a sieve, and for each pound of it use fib. of crushed loaf sugar. Put it in a stewpan, reduce until it will drop from the spoon in lumps, and turn into jars; tie these over tightly, and keep them in a dry place until wanted for use. (2) Cut the tops and sfalks off some ripe Gooseberries, mash them through a coarse wire sieve, put the pulp in a preserving-pan with a little water, and stir over the fire till boiling; then pass it through a sieve. Measure the juice, and to every pint allow lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Boil the sugar, and when the syrup reaches the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), add the Gooseberry-juice; skim, and boil it till the jelly will coagulate on the spoon. Turn it into jars, cover them with paper, and tie down. (3) Put 31b. of either ripe or unripe Gooseberries in a preserving-pan, pour in 3 pints of water, and boil gently