THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 659 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. of preserved Fruits, and keep the mould in the ice for one hour. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on a bordered slab of gum-paste on a dish. Ornament the top with a rosette of preserved Fruits, and garnish the base with chopped jelly. Timbale of Fruits.—Rub 2oz. of softened butter into 6oz. of flour, mix in 1^ pints of milk and 1 pinch of salt, and stir it over the fire in a saucepan for fifteen minutes ; then turn it out, and let it cool. Butter a plain timbale-mould, pour in the batter, and bake it; when done, cut it flat on the top, hollow the inside, and fill it with orange ice mixed with preserved Fruits. Tux-n it out on to a round dish, mask the outside with orange icing, and garnish with a circle of halves of preserved greengages stuck round the top of the timbale, and stand upright round the base some strawberry- jam tartlets. An elegant supper dish. Vol-au-Vent of Fruits.—Prepare a vol-au-vent case of puff paste, bake it in a moderate oven, and cover with l'oyal icing. Scald and sweeten 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, stir in twelve preserved cherries and six apricots cut in halves, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Put 2oz. of macaroons at the bottom of the case, pour in the cream mixture, also two bananas cut in slices and three rings of angelica, put another 2oz. of macaroons on the top, and serve. FRUMENTY.—This is a great dish in some parts of the British Isles, especially in Somersetshire, where it is more often known as fnrmenty, or furmity. The term is derived from the Latin frvmentum—wheat, and is therefore most probably a dish of the ancient Romans, bequeathed to us by them during their stay here. Several receipts are extant for its manufacture, of which the following have been found to give satisfactory results: (1) Wash J pint of wheat, put it in a saixcepan with just sufficient water to keep it moist, and boil it slowly till tender. When done, remove the pan from the fire, and mix with it beaten eggs or cream. Sweeten to taste, add a small quantity of grated nutmeg, aixd flavour it with a few drops of vanilla, rose- or orange-flower water. Sei-ve hot or cold. (2) Put i pint of wheat in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and let it simmer gently at the edge of the fire until it bursts and is soft. Mix about ^ table-spoonful of flour smoothly in 1 pint of milk, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with a small quantity of grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Stir in with the milk about 1 table-spoonful of the wheat, boil all together for two or three minutes, and serve. (3) Soak the requisite quantity of wheat for thirty-six hours, anti boil it until tender the day before it is wanted. It will take about six hours to cook. Drain it, and on the following day put it in a saucepan with milk to cover it, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for two hours. Make a custard with the yolks of six eggs, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour it with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Mix 1 teacupful of well- washed currants with the wheat, and stir in the custard. Turn it on to a dish, and serve. Somersetshire Frumenty.—Put igall. of cold water into a lai-ge stone jar with ig-all. of bruised wheat, and cook in the oven until quite soft. Put Jgall. of fresh milk into a saucepan, add as much of the wheat as will make it of the consistency of thick custard, add also Jib- of well-cleaned currants, and stir over the fire until the currants are cooked. Put the yolks of three eggs into a bowl, beat them well, season with nutmeg, and pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk ; add these when well mixed to the wheat, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then sweeten to taste, and serve hot or cold in a deep dish. Turkish Frumenty.—Put the required quantity of hulled wheat in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it until the grains begin to crack, skimming off with a wooden spoon any pulp that may rise to the top, and put it in a basin ; pour more water in with the grains, continue boiling them, and skim until all the goodness has been extracted. Strain all Frumenty—continued. that is left of the grains through a fine hair sieve. Put lqt. of the pulp into a saucepan with 1 teaoupful of well- washed eui-rants and 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup, stir the mixture over the fire till it begins to boil, then flavour it with rose-water and musk in small quantities, stirring for two or thi-ee minutes longer. Blanch, skin, and cut into long shreds 2oz. each of almonds and pistachios. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it till cold; then arrange the almonds and pistachios tastefully over it, and serve. FRY.—A dish of anything fried, but applied nowadays to the internal parts of a lamb or a pig when cooked together, generally by baking or stewing. FRYING.—Some very mistaken notions have crept into culinary use concerning this, which is one of the most effective of all cooking processes. The modern acceptation of the term has probably originated with the shallow frying-pan, which was invented for what might more fittingly be termed “ pot-broiling.” A small quantity of fat at the bottom of the pan, and upon that a chop, steak, kidney, or rasher of bacon might be deliciously prepared for table; but when we speak of frying fish, then the meaning of the term undergoes a complete change. Frying, correctly speaking, is not merely frizzling in a little fat, but cooking by absolutely immersing the article to be fried in boiling or nearly boiling fat. This Fig. 814. Pan for Frying. requires a pan with straight sides (see Fig. 814) and some inches deep, together with a quantity of fat that might astonish a parsimonious housekeeper. And yet there should be no waste whatever ; the same fat, if discreetly worked, being used over and over again. Besides this, the best fat for frying is undoubtedly the dripping of roasted joints, together with the rended- down scraps of fat that might otherwise be wasted. See Fat. Fat for frying should be almost boiling; a very good sign as to when it is ready to receive the article to be fried being, not bubbling, as some would suppose, but smoking—hence cooks talk of the fat as being “smoking hot.” If any doubt should exist as to the heat of the fat, drop a piece of bread into it and keep it there Fig. 815. Iron Wire Frying-basket. for a minute; if the fat browns it, quenelles and croquettes may be cooked in it. When fat is ready for frying, the heat of it is very great, being more than twice that of boiling water ; so that no time is lost in cooking, a minute or two being ample for cold meat croquettes, quenelles of cold fish, oysters, or small fish, such as whitebait, which need little more than immersing.