633 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Leg's of Fowls a la Perigueux.—Cut off tlie legs of five Fowls, bone them without cutting the skin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, fill them either with cooked chicken forcemeat or quenelle forcemeat mixed with sweet herbs, put them in a saucepan with a little gravy mixed with white wine, place the pan on the fire, and boil gently. Take them out when done, and place between two boards with a weight on them ; when perfectly cold, trim them, and arrange them in a flat saucepan, adding a little of the stock in which they were cooked, reduced to half-glaze; place the pan over a very slow fire, and warm them thoroughly. Take them out, place a paper frill on the small ends of each, and put them on a dish in a circle. Add four or five raw, peeled, and chopped truffles to the liquor, 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and a little boiling brown sauce, and, after standing by the fire a few minutes, pour it all over the stuffed legs, and j serve. Matelote of Fowl. —Cut up one or two Fowls into neat joints, put them over the fire in just sufficient stock to barely cover them, and let them stew gently for thirty minutes. In another stewpan brown 2oz. of butter rolled in flour, mix with it i pint of white wine, put into it a dozen small onions (that have been put into boiling water for ten minutes, next into cold water for ten minutes, and then peeled), the centre part of two carrots without the red part, a parsnip (scraped, washed, and cut into 2in. pieces), a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Cover the stewpan and stew till the Fowl has simmered half-an- hour, then add the Fowl to the vegetables, and simmer for ten minutes. Arrange the Fowl on a hot dish, lay the vege- tables among it, reduce the gravy a little, strain it over the Fowl, and serve hot, garnished with crayfish or pieces of fried eel. Mayonnaise of Fowl.—(1) Cut a cold roasted Fowl into small joints, trim them to shape, lay them on a deep dish, dust over salt and pepper, lay two or three slices of onion on them, also a few cloves, and moisten with tari'agon vinegar and salad-oil. Let the pieces of Fowl \ marinade for two or three hours, turning them occasionally so that all may be flavoured. Wash two or three lettuces, dry them on a cloth, and cut them into fine shreds with the exception of the hearts ; heap these ou a dish, drain, arrange the pieces of Fowl on them, and coat well with mayonnaise sauce. Arrange tastefully round the dish the hearts of the lettuces cut in quarters, quarters of hard- boiled eggs, slices of beetroot, and stoned olives, and serve. (2) Cut the meat of a cold cooked Fowl into dice, put it in a basin, add 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce, and let it soak in that for two hours. Pile it in the middle of a dish, cover with mayonnaise sauce, garnish with cresses, and serve. Mazarine of Fowls. - Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, add a small lump of butter, and season to taste with salt and grated nutmeg. Turn this into a saucepan on the fire, and stir until it thickens ; then add a few chopped mushrooms, stir briskly for a few minutes, and rub through a fine sieve into a basin. Cut off the fillets of three uncooked Fowls, chop them up, pound them in a mortar, rub through a sieve back into the mortar, add a little Fowls—continued. butter and pound it in, season to taste, and lastly moisten with the mushroom liquor, stirring it in a little at a time. Try some of the forcemeat by poaching it in boiling water, and should it be too stiff, add more of the mushroom liquor. Well butter the inside of a shallow charlotte-mould, decorate the bottom and sides with pieces of truffles, fill up with the forcemeat, cover over with a sheet of buttered paper, put the mould in the bain-marie, and poach the contents for forty or forty-five minutes. Turn the forcemeat out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the cavity with small pieces of cooked pickled ox-tongue and breasts of Fowls, pour over a little veloute sauce seasoned with essence of mushrooms, plaee a few cooked truffles round the base of the mazarine (see Fig. 782), and serve with more veloute sauce in a tureen. Minced Fowl a la Polonaise. Mince some pieces of cold Fowl, put them in a stewpan with bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till hot, but not boiling. Dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Minced Fowl with Egg's.—Bemove the skin from a cold, cooked Fowl, separate the flesh from the bones, and cut it into small squares. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with 11 pints of stock, a small onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Boil the stock gently for an hour, then strain it into a clean stew- pan, skim off all the fat, put in the pieces of Fowl, and keep them simmering at the edge of the fire. When the Fowl is tender, mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a small quantity of milk, and stir it into the stock, letting it simmer but not boil. Add 1 teaspoonful of chutney to the sauce, and more seasoning if required, and turn the whole on to a dish ; break carefully over the top as many eggs as will just cover the mince, but do not crowd them, and be very careful not to damage the yolks; strew lightly over a few finely-sifted breadcrumbs, dust over with salt and pepper, and put them in the oven until the eggs are set, but take care not to let them get hard. When ready, take the dish out of the oven, garnish round with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Minced Fowl with Poached Eggs. — Mince the meat of some cold cooked Fowl with cooked tongue and mushrooms, put it into a basin, and place a cloth over it. Butter an open flawn-mould about 5in. in diameter, line it evenly with short-paste, and pinch it with pastry pincers. Spread a sheet of paper over a baking-sheet, stand the flawn on it, line it with buttered paper, fill the inside with flour, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When done, take the crust carefully out of the circle, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Boil 1 breakfast-cupful of bechamel sauce till reduced, mix in gradually a little cream and 4 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the Fowl-mince, and season with grated nutmeg. When thoroughly warmed through, pour it into the crust. Poach some eggs, put them on the mince, garnish with fried pai'sley, and serve. Montglas of Fowls garnished with Jelly. —Fill twenty or so small moulds with aspic jelly, and let them set. Take off all the flesh from a cooked Fowl, cut it into narrow strips, and put them in a saucepan with a third of their bulk each of pickled ox-tongue, truffles, and mushrooms all cut up into pieces. Put 3 or 4 teacupfuls of bechamel sauce into a sauce- pan with a few pieces of uncooked ham, reduce, and stir well, adding gradually a little less than i teacupful of double cream. When ready, remove the pieces of ham, add the sauce to the Fowl mixture, remove the pan from the fire, mix thoroughly,