674 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gherkins—continued. gently on the side of the fire until the Gherkins are green. Care must be taken not to let them boil, for if they do they will turn brown, get soft, and spoil. Replace them in the jars, cover them again, and when quite cold, tie over first with bladder and then with leather, and put them in a cold place until wanted for use. (3) Cut off the ends of 21b. of Gherkins, wipe them, put them in a napkin or cloth with 2 handfuls of salt, and mix up thoroughly with it; hang up the cloth in a cool place with a basin underneath to catch the drippings, and let them remain for twelve hours. Add another couple of handfuls of salt, and repeat this in twelve hours’ time. Put the Gherkins (freed from salt) into jars, and cover them over with hot vinegar mixed with 1 wineglassful of spirits of wine, a dozen cloves, mace, allspice, and a few tarragon-leaves. Cover over the jars when cold, put them in a cool place, and in three weeks they will be ready for use. (4) Put igall. of vinegar into a lined saucepan with 3oz. of salt, J table-spoonful each of mustard and allspice, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and mace, a sliced nutmeg, and a moderate quantity of sliced horseradish. Boil the vinegar with the other ingredients for fifteen minutes, then skim it well, and leave until cold. Next pour the vinegar over the Gherkins, cover them, and let them steep for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time turn the vinegar and Gherkins into the pan, and keep them simmering until they turn green. When cold, put the pickle into jars or wide-mouthed bottles, cork, and tie them over with bladder. Keep them in a dry cup- board until wanted. (5) Use small Gherkins. Strew them plentifully with salt, and let them pickle for twenty-four hours. Dry them on a cloth, and pack in layers in jars, putting between the layers the following ingredients in small quantities: mace, shallots, tarragon-leaves, bay-leaves, and old pepper. Cover them with boiling vinegar, leave for four days, then strain off the vinegar, and boil it up again. When the vineg'ar is cold, pour it over the Gherkins, and tie a piece of stout paper over each jar. (6) Wash the required quantity of small Gherkins in cold water, cover them with cold brine—strong enough to float an egg—and leave for three days; then drain. Line a preserving- pan with green grape-leaves, put the Gherkins into it in layers, with leaves between, and cover them with more; sprinkle a little pulverised alum between the layers (a piece of alum the size of a small grain of corn will be enough for each pound of Gherkins), pour into the pan just enough cold water to cover the top layer of leaves, spread a cloth over the top of the pan, and put on the cover, placing a weight on it to keep it down; put the pan at the back of the stove, where its contents will heat gradually, and let them steam, with- out boiling, for three hours. Lay the Gherkins in cold water for an hour, and if one treatment does not green them suffi- ciently, repeat it. After the Gherkins are green, pack them in earthenware jars. Put in a saucepan over the fire sufficient vinegar to cover them, allowing Jib. of sugar and loz. of mixed whole cloves, allspice, peppercorns, mace, and cinnamon to each quart of vinegar, and as soon as it is hot, pour it over the Gherkins. When they are cold, seal them from the air. They will be ready to use in about a week. The sugar and spice may be omitted. Fig. 832. Gherkin Toasts. Gherkin Sauce.—Put a sprig of. thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, two finely-chopped shallots, a little cayenne, pepper, and salt into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Place the pan on the fire, and when the contents have boiled Gherkins—continued. for thirty minutes, add 1 breakfast-cupful of stock or good broth. Strain it through a fine sieve, and stir in ljoz. of liquefied butter mixed with a little flour to thicken it. Place it back in the saucepan, and when it boils stir in 1 tea- spoonful or so of parsley very finely chopped, two or three minced pickled Gherkins, and a little salt if required. A very favourite sauce for savoury dishes. Gherkin Toasts.—Finely chop eighteen Gherkins; cut eight 3in. squares of bread, and fry them in butter or clarified fat until a pale golden brown ; then drain them on a sheet of paper placed near the fire for a few minutes. Strew grated Parmesan cheese over each square of bread, and then the chopped Gherkins; dust them over with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, arrange them on a dish, and serve. See Fig. 832. Preserved Gherkins.—Steep some sound Gherkins in cold salted water for a couple of days ; take them out, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes or so. Take them out of this, put them into a pre- serving-pan with a little thin syrup, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until they are done. Arrange the Gherkins on a glass dish. Boil some sugar to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), add to it the thin syrup in which the Gherkins were cooked, and boil up again for a few minutes. Skim frequently, and when ready pour it over the Gherkins ; let them remain for a day, then take them out, thicken the syrup as before, replace the Gherkins in it, and simmer gently. Turn the syrup on to a dish, and let it remain for three days; then replace it in the pan (with the Gherkins), and repeat the process. When done, put them in jars, cover them over, and tie down. When wanted for table, arrange them in a compote-dish, and serve with the syrup. GIBELOTTE.—Fr. for a ragout generally prepared from Rabbits, under which heading it will be found fully described. GIBLETS.—The origin of this name is very uncer- tain. It is found in Old English and Old French spelled Gibelets, and signifying game, but that does not seem to give any reason for its present application. The inmeats, or edible viscera of birds, together with the feet, joints of pinions, head, and neck are known to the modern Fig. 833. Giblets. cook as Giblets (see Fig. 833). Before cooking them it is necessary to thoroughly cleanse them all, and plenty of water is required for this. The head should be chopped off the neck, the neck skimied, and the pipe drawn away. The pinions require to be thoroughly plucked, and the feet skinned by scalding and wiping with a rough cloth. The toe-nails must also be chopped off. The heart should be well squeezed, the gall-bladder carefully re- moved from the liver, and all stained parts cut away. The gizzard has to be cut open and turned inside out, when the gritty contents can be washed off, and the thick lining membrane torn away. There are many uses to which Giblets can be applied, and some very tasty dishes are prepared from them. Giblet Pie.—(1) Prepare and stew three or four sets of Giblets, and when they are done place them in a dish with the meat from the neck and pinions, arranging them in layers with a few slices of boiled bacon between them; pour in a little gravy, cover the dish with a good pie-crust, and put it in the oven for thirty minutes. If desired, mashed potatoes