503 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. Red- or White-Currant Shrub.—Remove the stalks and un- sound fruit from 2qts. of red or white Currants, put them into a large jar or earthenware crock, cover it over, place it in a saucepan of cold water on the fire and boil once, afterwards removing it to the side of the fire and letting it simmer for one-hour-and-a-half or two hours. The juice having flowed freely, pass the liquor through a sieve, measure it, and to every pint add lqt. of rum and 6oz. of caster sugar. Add the sugar to the juice while it is still -warm, stir it up, and then add the rum. Strain again through a tammy or flannel-bag, and pour it into bottles. It will then be ready for use, but improves by keeping. Red- or White-Currant Tartlets.—Put 1 pint of red or white (or both) Currants into a basin with 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and mix well. Line six fluted tart-moulds with |lb. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, place the Currants on top, dust them over with some sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take them out, sprinkle over the edges with more powdered sugar, glaze in the oven for two minutes, and then let them cool. Turn them out of the moulds, mask with a thin coating of apple jelly, put them on a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Red- or White-Currant Water.—Take lqt. of Currants, either red or white, pick them free of all stalks, and add to them 1 pint of raspberries picked and cleaned. Put both raspberries and Currants into a preserving-pan, bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon, then pour over them igall. of cold water, and add Jib. of sugar. Set the pan on the stove, and let it very gradually get hot; when it begins to boil, take the pan from the stove, empty its contents into a jelly-bag, and drain into a large jug. When it is quite clear, let it get cold, freeze it, and sweeten to taste with white sugar. Red- or White-Currant Wine.—(1) Remove the stalks from some red or white Currants, put them into a muslin bag, squeeze them to extract all the juice, and to every gallon of juice add 2galls. of water and 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast. [The yeast is not an absolute necessity.—Ed.] Let it remain for forty-eight hours to work, strain it through a sieve, and add 31b. of sugar to every gallon of liquor. Mix well, and pour it into a cask ; bung up the cask, and in about three months’ time it will be ready to bottle. Brandy may be added or not, as desired. (2) Put lgall. of white, or white and red (mixed) Currants into a large crock, and crush them with a wooden pestle, or the hands ; pour over them Ingalls. of cold water, and stir them occasionally for a week. Then pour the liquor through a tammy or jelly-bag, measure it, and to every gallon add 41b. of crushed loaf sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let it remain for a day or two in the crock, then put it into a cask, and allow it to ferment. When the fermentation has ceased, bung up the cask and let it stand for about eight months. Clarify with isinglass. (3) Put 161b. of red or white Currants into a bowl or crock with 3galls. of water, break the Currants with the hands in the water, and strain off the liquor; dissolve in it 141b. of crushed loaf sugar, and strain into a barrel. Add 1 pint of crushed raspberries, cover over the bung-, and let it work. In a week or so bung it down, and let it stand for three months. Some add 1 pint of brandy to this quantity, but it is not essential to quality. Dried Currants (Grocers’). — As previously ex- plained, the more correct name for this fruit would be Corinthian grapes, or raisins, as they were originally imported from Corinth, in Greece; but in later years the greater bulk have been grown in Zante. They grow wild on miniature vines, and hang in miniature bunches (see Fig. 614), have no seeds, and are gathered when ripe and already partly dried. The Zantiotes are said scarcely to understand for what purposes we use them, fancying that they must be for a kind of dye. They tread them into barrels so firmly that the mass of currants has sometimes to be broken up for sale or use by a large wooden mallet. There are more of these Currants used in England than in any other part of the world, the annual importation exceeding half-a-million tons. “It is a Currants—continued. question,” says Kettner, “ whether the English partiality for them is reasonable, for they are very indigestible, though cheap, and in moderation pleasant.” The following receipts are very good examples of the many uses for which we employ Dried Currants, and some others will be found under various headings, such as Buns, Cakes, Mincemeat, &c., but, before using, it is necessary that the Currants should be cleaned. At one time it was believed that to wash them would remove so much of the outside sugar as to spoil the flavour altogether; this, however, has been shown to be erroneous, for what sugary matter may be outside is ex- ceedingly dirty, and having- come in a measure from the inside is merely an impure sample of that which is con- tained within in greater abund- ance. Let them be well washed in a colander, and then picked over, and all spoiled Currants and bits of stone and dirt removed. This can be more perfectly accomplished by spreading the washed Cur- rants on a cloth. Then dry them in the cloth as thoroughly as possible, dredge them with flour, and shake in a sieve until dry flour falls through. In this state they are ready to mix into a cake. For mincemeat and other purposes in which flour is not used, plain drying will be sufficient. Currant Buns.—See Buns. Fig. 614. Grocers’ Currants (Corinth Vine). Currant Cake. — (1) Mix together 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, half a grated nut- meg, J breakfast-cupful of milk, and five eggs; beat all well together. Clean lib. of Currants and roll in the dough. Put into a suitable tin, and bake. (2) Cream nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, add gradually 1| breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or lemon, 1 saltspoonful of mace, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cleaned Currants. Mix 3 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and | teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; add gradually to the other ingredients. Pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and lastly, add the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Put into a buttered tin, and bake in a steady oven about fifty minutes. (3) Mix lib. of flour in a basin with |lb. of moist sugar, rub well into these -]lb. of butter, add lib. of cleaned Currants, and 1 small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; mix both soda and Currants well in the flour. Beat well three eggs and add to them 1 teacupful of milk. Have ready a well-buttered cake- tin. Mix well and quickly together the dry ingredients and the eggs and milk. Put the cake into the tin in a moderately hot oven as quickly as possible, and bake for an-hour-and-a- half. (4) Butter some small round tins. Put lib. of flour in a basin together with 6oz. of butter, and with the hands rub the butter well into the flour ; mix in [lb. of cleaned Currants and [lb. of sugar ; put 1 teaspoonful of volatile salts on a plate, rub it quite smooth with the back of a spoon, put it into the basin with the other ingredients, and mix well. Beat well four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, and with this mix the flour, &c., to a dough very quickly, half fill the tins, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Currant Dumpling's.— (1) Skin and chop fine Jib. of beef- suet, put it in a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, lib. of breadcrumbs, [lb. of sugar, and [lb. of cleaned Currants. Mix all these well together, and stir into them f pint of milk. Dip the centre of a pudding-cloth into boiling water, wring