540 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes', Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eddoes—continued. dish, and garnish round with the Eddoes. Some persons like this served with a thick Spanish or German sauce either poured over or served separately in a sauceboat. Or as a vegetable, boil the Eddoes, slip them out of their skins, put them on a hot dish, pour over some butter sauce and a moderate quantity of lime-juice, and serve while hot. EDINBURGH BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. EELS (Fr. Anguilles; Gcr. Aale).—There is no other kind of fish in the world that has what might be styled such a universal existence as the Eel. It is found in all countries and climates, and seems to be equally at home Fig. 683. Snig Eel. m the sea, pond, and river. Holland is very famous for its Eels, and exports large quantities to London. There are several kinds, the more important being the snig (see Fig. 683), the grig, the sharp-nosed (see Fig. 684), and the broad-nosed (see Fig. 685), all of which closely resemble each other as far as their bodies are concerned, some being larger and more silvery than others. Those caught in the Thames are the most silvery, and are considered by epicures to be of the sweetest flavour. Eels may be classified for culinary purposes as river (silver) and sea (conger) Eels, all belonging to the Anguilla tribe; the latter (see Fig. 686) sometimes growing to an enor- mous size, specimens having been caught in the English Channel more than 10ft. long, and some 7in. or Sin. in Eels—continued. diameter. The flesh is exceedingly coarse and oily, but, in spite of that, by submitting it to artistic treatment, some very savoury dishes can be made from it. Before submitting the flesh of the Eel to the various modes of cooking prescribed for it, there are some few | hints concerning killing, skinning, cleaning, and boning that require the cook’s attention. In the first place, it may be emphatically stated that the habit of skinning Eels before they are dead is an absolute piece of bar- barism and quite unnecessary, answering no good purpose whatever. In every case the Eel should be first killed by piercing the backbone where the neck joins the head witli a sharp-pointed skewer; or it may be killed by knocking its head hard on a wooden block or stone. The next step is to skin it, which is generally accom- plished by putting a cloth over the head and holding it in one hand whilst with the other you cut round the neck, and turn the skin down for an inch or so. With the head in one hand and the skin in the other, by pulling steadily the skin strips off. Another plan is to hold the Eel, after killing, over some hot embers until it is partly grilled, and the skin will then strip off easily, after making an incision round the neck. In a very old-fashioned cookery book it is recommended that the Eels, whilst yet alive, should be put into hot ashes, and as they raise their heads and squirm out of | the burning heat, they should be seized by the cook and the skin stripped off with a cloth. It is needless to say that such a barbarous practice cannot be too severely condemned. Chop off the head and tail of the skinned Eel, open the throat with the point of a knife, and make an incision at the navel; then with the assistance of a large larding- needle push the gut from the small hole cut in the navel through the opening at the throat. Wash it and dry it before cooking. Conger Eels, if large or oily, are better j held over a charcoal fire for a few minutes; or, if small, they may lie blanched as follows: Cut them into pieces, tie in rings, put them into a saucepan of cold water, add a good pinch of salt, a little vinegar, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, a quarter of a bunch of parsley-roots, one onion, and one carrot, and place them on a slow fire; take them