589 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pish—c ontinued. handled, of the very greatest use, and has in consequence by their means been enabled to serve a large soft Fish in a state of perfection not usually acquired by any other method. Braising Fish.—This mode of cooking large Fish requires the same preparatory processes as frying or boiling. All other instructions will be found under Braising, as for braising joints or large birds. Broiling Fish.—Most Fish admit of this mode of cooking, either whole or in parts. It is usual to prepare them for this process by washing them in strong vinegar, wiping dry, rubbing lemon over, and then flouring. The bars of the gridiron should be hot and well-buttered before the Fish is placed on them. Frying Fish.—The Fish require the same preparation as for boiling, being afterwards dipped in batter, or egg- and-breadcrumbed. The pan should be two-thirds full of boiling fat, and the Fish let in on a basket if small, or on a broad wire strainer if large. See Fig. 746. The foregoing general instructions are sufficient for most purposes, and are those usually practised; but the ingenuity of cooks has not been exerted in vain ; hence we have to record a mode of sewing up a stuffed Fish that is worthy of imitation. By the old process of stitching up in the ordinary manner, cooks experienced great diffi- culty in removing the string without breaking the Fish, and even then it was almost impossible to set the Fish upright Fig. 747. Fish Stuffed and Sewn^up for'Cooking (new method). on its belly. By the system (see Fig. 747) invented by one of the staff of this Encyclopaedia, the Fish can be placed in position before removing the sewing. This is brought about by a series of steel, electro, or silver pins with ball heads. They are passed through the belly taking up the cut, and then by a saw-like system of stitches a very close fastening is made, which is easily removed by withdrawing the pins one at a time, and pulling the string from under. To bone or fillet Fish for cooking does not often fall to the lot of the cook in a small family, as the fish- monger would probably be more expert at either. Never- theless, as the bones are useful for making Fish stock, and the fishmonger usually retains them if he is requested to perform either feat, and the cook might lie called upon to do both, the following instructions will be found sufficient to meet all purposes : Boning Fish. First of all the Fish must be cleaned and well washed, and then the skin stripped off ; lay the Fish flat Fish—continued. on the table, and run the knife from the tail to the head, between the flesh and bone, keeping it close to the bone: hold the flesh carefully so as not to break it, and scrape it away quite clean. When the flesh on one side is removed, slip the knife under the bone on the other side, and raise the bone, leaving the flesh on the board ; pull out any small bones that may be left in the Fish, they being' easily discovered by feeling the flesh with the fingers. Such Fish as cod, cusk, mackerel, &c., can be boned, but smaller ones, like herrings or shad, are not boned, on account of their having so many fine bones. Filleting Fish.—Skin the Fish with a sharp pointed knife, then cut down the backbone straight from the head to the tail. Separate all the flesh to the left of the backbone, then turn the Fish round and cut off the three remaining fillets. The fillets are then ready. The following receipts will each be found to apply to so many different kinds of Fish that they are inserted under a general head in preference to being referred to the special heads under which particular Fish are treated. Baked Fillets of Fish with Fish Forcemeat. --A great variety of Fish may be prepared in the following way: Split the Fish down the back, and take out all the bones; wipe the fillets on a cloth, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Lay the fillets on a board, the skin side downwards, and coat them thickly on the top with Fish forcemeat. Lay them in a baking-dish, put in 1 table-spoonful of dripping, loz. of butter, and a very small quantity of water : cover the fillets with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake for lialf-an-hour or more, according to the thickness of the fillets. The Fish should be basted occasionally with the contents of the pan while baking. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a mound of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and serve with a sauce- boatful of clear gravy. Broiled Scalded Fish.—This receipt is of Turkish origin Clean whatever Fish has been selected, and scald it; rub a gridiron over with olive oil, lay the Fish on it, place it over a moderate charcoal fire, and turn the Fish occasionally until both sides are browned. Put a layer of finely-chopped parsley at the bottom of a baking-dish, lay the Fish on it, dust over salt and pepper, and moisten witli 4 pint of clear broth and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the dish over a moderate fire till all the moisture has evaporated, then put it on to another dish, and serve quickly. Chartreuse of Fish. (1) Pick the flesh from cold cooked Fish of any kind, with the exception of salted Fish. Flake the flesh, and mix with it an equal quantity of mashed potatoes and two hard-boiled eggs; season to taste, and moisten with a small quantity of cream. Butter the interior of a small mould, fill it with the mixture, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for lialf- an-hour. When ready, turn the chartreuse out on to a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Pick and flake some cold cooked Fish, and mix half its quantity of stale breadcrumbs with it; bind the ingredients together with some well-beaten eggs, and season with salt, cayenne, and either tomato ketchup or Worcestershire sauce. Butter a mould, and proceed as for No. 1. Cold Boiled Fish a la Vinaigrette.—Remove the skin and bones from any cold boiled Fish, put it on a dish, sprinkle over finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, and garnish the dish with slices of beetroots, slices of cold boiled potatoes, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve with vinaigrette sauce in a sauceboat. Creamed Fish with Oysters.—Deprive two dozen oysters of their beards, and mix with them an equal quantity of cold boiled Fish; put the mixture into a stewpan, cover it with white sauce, and cook until the oysters are plump. Dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Creamed Salted Fish. — Remove the bones and skin from some cooked salted Fish, break the flesh small, put it in a saucepan, cover it with cream sauce, and stand it near the fire, or in a bain-marie, till hot through. Butter sufficient slices of hot toast to hold the Fish, put them on a dish, pour the creamed Fish over them, and serve with lemon and parsley for garnish. Curried Fish.—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices two moderate- sized onions, put them in a stewpan with a small lump