573 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Endive—continued. 1J- table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil. Mix thoroughly together, and serve. (3) Pare off the green leaves and cores of two heads of fine white Endive; if the Endive be tolerably clean, wipe carefully without washing’ it, as it should not be washed unless the earth adhering to it cannot otherwise be removed. Put it in a salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper, mixing in 2 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, also 1J table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, just before serving. Endive Salad au Cliapon.—Prepare the salad as for No. 2, adding a garlic flavouring. Stewed Endive.—(1) Cut off all the green parts from eight or nine heads of Endive, wash them thoroughly, drain and put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for twenty minutes. Take them out, plunge them into cold water until cold, afterwards draining them and wiping on a cloth. Chop up, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, season with salt and pepper, mix in a little flour, pour over sufficient stock to moisten, and boil until the liquor is reduced. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve with pieces of toast or fried bread for a garnish. A little butter and cream may be added before serving. (2) Boil five or six heads of Endive in salted water, keeping only the white parts; drain, rinse them with fresh water, press the water out, chop, and put them in a saucepan with a little melted butter. Fry them, then sprinkle over a little flour, and add a small quantity of boiled milk and lqt. of broth. Stir this until it bubbles, season well, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half- an-hour ; then strain through a fine sieve, boil, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs mixed with J pint of cream. Serve with a plate of bread croutons fried in butter. (3) Select a dozen heads of Endive, and wash them well, taking care to pick out all the worms; strip off all the green part of the leaves, wTash the remainder in cold water, using plenty of it. Parboil them, throw them into cold water, when they will be blanched and the bitter taste removed. Take out, let them get cold, put them on a sieve, and strain out all the water ; chop up very fine, put them into a stewpan with sufficient veal gravy to cover, add 1 teacupful of sugar, and season with salt. Put them on the fire and stew until tender, which can easily be ascertained by taking a little out and pressing it between the finger and thumb. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of reduced Spanish sauce, and use as re- quired, either as a garnish or not. Veloute sauce may be used instead of Spanish sauce, and broth instead of gravy. (4) Cut several heads of Endive into quarters if large, and into halves if small ones. Put them into a saucepan with a little water, parboil them, then strain off the water. Put a small quantity of dried flour in a basin, pour over it a little broth, adding it gradually so as to work it well in, and keep the paste perfectly smooth; season with a little nutmeg, and add a small piece of butter. Put this into the saucepan with the Endive, and stew until it is quite done. It is then ready for serving. A little lemon-juice may be added if desired, and potato-flour used instead of the wheat-flour. Endive prepared in this way can be used for garnish. (5) Pull the heads of Endive to pieces, and wash them thoroughly in plenty of water, drain, put them into a sauce- pan of boiling salted water, and boil till tender; then put them into a colander, and press well to remove all the water. Chop finely, put in a stewpan with loz. of butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Stir over the fire for twenty minutes, then mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with them. When cooked, turn the Endive out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (6) French Style.—Clean and pick over five or six heads of Endive, and blanch them by first putting into hot water and then into cold; chop them finely, put into a stewpan with enough broth to cover them, and stew until the Endive is done and the broth all boiled away, leaving it quite dry. Add 4oz. of butter, a little nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, mix them well in, and send quite hot to table. Stewed Endive with Cream Sauce. — Thoroughly clean three large heads of Endive, cut off all the outer green leaves, wash the Endive in several waters, drain, and blanch them in boiling salted water for ten minutes. Remove them, cool Endive—continued. in cold water, then take them out, and press out the water; chop up, place them with 4oz. of butter in a saucepan, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour, or until dry. Pour over 2 wineglassfuls of cream or milk, a very little at a time, reduce, and grate in a little nutmeg, adding salt and pepper to taste; stir well, leave it on the fire for five minutes, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish. Stewed Endive served with Gravy.—Select six large heads of Endive, pare off the outer leaves that are damaged, leaving the roots intact, wash them in several waters, remove, and put them to blanch for ten minutes in boiling salted water. Take out, put them back into cold water, and let them cool thoroughly. Drain, and cut them into halves. Put a piece of lard or lard-skin at the bottom of a saute-pan, add one carrot, one onion, both cut up, and a bouquet garni, place the Endive on top, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, cover over with buttered paper, set the pan on the stove, stew for ten minutes, or until the Endive is a golden colour, then moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of white broth. Put the pan in the oven for thirty minutes ; then arrange the Endive on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve. Stewed Endive with Poached Eggs.—Trim off all the green leaves of the Endive, and wash the heads well in several waters, taking care that there are no worms left in. Blanch in boiling water to remove the bitter taste, then throw them into cold water, let them remain for a few minutes, press out as much of the water as possible, and finely chop the Endive. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient veal gravy to cover it, also a small lump of sugar and salt to taste, and boil gently until tender. Poach a sufficient quantity of eggs, and trim them neatly round. Turn the Endive on to a hot dish, place the eggs on the top, and serve. See Fig. 715. ENFIELD BUNS.—See Buns. ENTRECOTES.—Fr. for rib-steaks cut from between the ribs. They are declared by epicures to be second only to fillet-steaks. ENTREES.—To French cooks we are indebted for this expressive term; and it is significatory of the French origin of these dishes that we have no English term to take its place, nor is there any other representative term used for Entrees in the lan- guage of any other country, even though they form a part of the table service. Entree strictly speaking means “ brought in,” which describes the manner of their service. They are brought in one or more at a time, whilst a “remove” occupies the chief place at a table. By some cooks these “ removes ” (re- leves) are styled Entrees ; but as a matter of fact these re- Fig. 716. Chicken Entree quire some other name, as they Mould (Temple and Crook), usually consist of large solid dishes. The term “ removes” hardly expresses their import- ance ; but until we find another and better term, we must be content with this. Entrees, as understood in this