517 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads, Dates—con tinned. tants of Africa. The fruit is somewhat olive- sliaped (see Fig. 639), containing a soft pulp, sweet, excellent, and wholesome, and including a hard kernel. During the flowering season the Arabs tap the stem and draw from it from two to three pints of sap daily, which they call “ lagmi,” or palm-milk. When this is fermented it pro- duces a strong wine. A very good spirit obtained from this wine is much used in preparing Arabian liqueurs. By treating the Dates as apples in cider- making a fine alcoholic drink called “maliia” is obtained, and the liquor of macerated dried Dates yields a strong alcohol when fermented. Then, again, a paste called “adjoue” is made by the Arabs from crushed Dates, and is used to make a sweet, refreshing drink on a long march by dissolving a little in water. The fruit as imported is usually massed and caked to- gether in bags, or baskets, made of matting; but the better kind, or Tafilat as they are called, are more carefully selected, dried, and packed. Long whole bunches of Dates are now im- ported in boxes, forming a very pretty dessert dish when nicely arranged. Blyth informs us that dried Dates contain 58 per cent, of sugar, and are very nutritious, one time roasted and ground for the purpose of adul- terating ground coffee. Date Cake.—(1) Cream 1 teacupful of warm butter, and mix with it 1J breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 saltspoonful of mace, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon or vanilla. Sift together 2| breakfast- cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and prepare a dough by adding 1 teacupful of milk and the flour alternately with the butter mixture. Beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, and add that also. Cut up finely 1 teacupful of stoned Dates, flour them, and mix in thoroughly. Put all into a buttered tin, and bake for about forty minutes in a moderate oven. (2) Stone Jib. of Dates and cut them into small pieces. Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and Jib. of ground rice, and then add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 break- fast-cupful of moist sugar, the Dates, one well-beaten egg, and lj breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Butter and flour a cake- tin, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven for about one-and-a-half hours. Take it out of the tin, let it cool, and serve. Date Compote (Arabian).—Bemove the stones from two or three dozen fresh Dates, put them in a mortar, pound them to a pulp, pass this through a sieve, and add a little sugar to sweeten, and a few drops of extract of roses or lemons to flavour. Put the pulp in a glass dish, smooth the surface, and pour over it a thin sauce made with arrowroot or rice- flour, moistened with milk and flavoured with lemon or orange, and serve. Dates stuffed with. Cream.— Mix together in a saucepan Jib. of loaf sugar, J saltspoonful of cream of tartar, and J tea- cupful of water; set the saucepan over a moderate fire and cook, keeping it closely covered, till, when a little of it is tried in cold water, it forms a jelly; then remove immediately from the fire, let it stand covered for ten minutes, and beat it to a smooth stiff cream with a wooden spatula. When as stiff as very soft dough, turn it out on a paste-board Dates —continued. and work it with the fingers. Have ready some fine Dates carefully stoned, fill the cavities with the cream, arrange them in a heap in the centre of a glass dish, and serve. Dates for Dessert.—Ornament a fancy dessert-dish with a lace-edged paper, and cut out some pieces of green angelica in shapes like leaves; build some Dates up on the paper in a conical form, sticking the pieces of green angelica amongst them. This gives great relief to the golden-brown of the fruit. Date Pudding1.—(1) Chop 6oz. of beef-suet, 4oz. of stoned Dates, and grate a sufficient quantity of stale crumb of bread to fill a breakfast-cup. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with Jib. of sifted flour, and work in the above ingredients adding a small quantity of grated nutmeg; stir in a sufficient quantity of milk to bind the whole together. Butter a pudding- basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil for four hours, keeping the basin well covered with the water. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce separately or poured round. (2) Put into a bowl J pint each of molasses and finely- chopped beef-suet, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, half that quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Dates, peeled, stoned, and chopped fine, and mix together. Dissolve 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 table-spoonful of hot water, mix it with J pint of milk, and add to the other mixture; beat two eggs very light, add them also ; and lastly, put in .3} breakfast-cupfuls of flour, mixing all well together. Butter one or two moulds, pour in the mixture, and put them to steam in a saucepan of boiling water for five hours; then turn them out, and serve with wine or cream sauce. DATE-PLUMS,—These fruits are common in China, and are there known as Kaki (Diospyros Kalti); they are about the size of small apples (see Fig. 640) of a reddish Fig. 640. Date-plums. colour, and with a very luscious, tawny, semi-transparent, juicy pulp. They are usually dried with sugar, like figs. See Persimmons. DATJBE.—Fr. for a powerful seasoning for meat, as Beef a la Daube. DAUBING.—This term is applied by cooks to a system of coarsely seasoning certain meats by inserting large pieces of salted pork through their substance. This is done by means of what are called Daubing-needles. See Larding. Cut some salted pork into strips -Jin. wide and the same thickness, pierce a hole through the meat with a steel, and then insert the lardoon with a daubing-needle, or with the finger. The salt and fat penetrate through the meat in cooking, and are considered by many to improve the flavour very greatly. Beef-suet can be used in place of the pork if preferred, but it should be previously well salted. The kernels were at