680 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under thru• special heads. Ginger—continued. four hours, then strain the liquor and sweeten it with 51b. of pounded loaf sugar. Bottle the cordial, cork tightly, and keep in a cool cellar. Ginger Cream. — (1) Put foz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of boiling milk and let it soak. Take ljoz. of preserved Ginger and cut it up very small. Put J pint of double cream in a basin, whip it until it is stiff, add 2oz. of caster sugar, a little at a time, then 1 table-spoonful of syrup of Ginger, Fig. 836. Ginger Cream. next J teaspoonful of essence of Ginger. Mix thoroughly, and then add the milk and gelatine, and lastly the preserved Ginger. When the mixture is cool, put it into a rook-shaped mould and place it on the ice to set. Serve on an orna- mental glass dish. See Fig. 836. (2) Strain the syrup from lib. of preserved Ginger into a basin, and mix with it 1 pint of thick cream in which loz. of isinglass has been steeped ; turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, add loz. of caster sugar, stir it until the isinglass is dissolved, turn it into a basin, and stir occasionally until cold. Cut the preserved Ginger into very small pieces, mix with it the strained juice of a small lemon, stir the Ginger gradually in with the cream, turn it into a mould, and stand in a cool place or on ice until quite firm and cold. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and serve. Ginger Cream Ice.—(1) Put 1J pints of cream or milk into a saucepan with fib. of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, 6oz. of preserved Ginger (well pounded), and 1 pinch of salt. Place the pan on the fire, and stir frequently until the mixture begins to thicken. Pour it out, let it get cold, put it in the freezer, and freeze. (2) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with Jib. of preserved Ginger well pounded in a mortar, set the pan on a brisk fire, and stir well. Just before it boils, remove the pan from the fire, strain the mixture through a cloth into the freezer, and freeze. (3) Indian.—Put fib. of preserved Ginger in a mortar and beat it until well bruised; then mix with it lib. of caster sugar, the strained juice of one large lemon or two small ones, and lqt. of thick cream. Beat the whole well together for a few minutes, then strain it through a hair sieve. Turn the mixture into a freezer and work it well until frozen. Afterwards it may be served in glasses, or packed up in moulds, and kept in ice until wanted. Ginger Cup-Puddings.—Mix a small quantity of grated nutmeg and Ginger with 1 table-spoonful of flour, add 1 pinch of salt, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream and one beaten egg. Turn the mixture into a> cup or small basin, tie it up with a cloth, and boil for half-an-hour. A few currants may be added if liked, but they should previously be well washed. One of these puddings should be made for each person. Ginger Drink.—In 5galls. of water mix Jgall. of molasses, lqt. of vinegar, and 2oz. of powdered Ginger. This will make not only a very pleasant beverage, but one highly invigorating and healthful. Ginger Drops.—(1) Put loz. of candied orange-peel in a mortar with a small quantity of powdered white sugar, and pound to a paste. Mix Joz. of finely-ground white Ginger Ginger—co ntinued. with Jib. of powdered white sugar, wet it with a little water, mix it with the pounded orange-peel and sugar, boil all together to a candy (see Sugar-boiling), and let it fall in small drops on paper. When quite cold, take them off the paper and dry on sieves on the stove (2) Put lib. of sugar in a sugar-boiler with 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and place it on the fire. Boil until it comes to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), and then add a little citric acid and 1 table-spoonful of essence of Ginger. Con- tinue to boil until it comes to the caramel degree, add a few drops of essence of lemon, and pour it while still hot into small hollows made in powdered starch. When the drops are cold, take them out, and they are ready for use. Gingerette.—Mix 7 J minims of oil of bitter orange with Jgall. of Ginger syrup, filter until quite bright, adding a little silica or magnesia if required; add to this 1 fluid ounce of essence of raspberries, J fluid ounce of acetic acid, and J fluid ounce of sugar colouring. The raspberry essence should be quite soluble. Bottle and use as required. Ginger Gin.—This is prepared in the same way as Ginger- Brandy Liqueur, substituting gin for the brown brandy. Ginger Ice.—Put the yolks of eight eggs into a saucepan with fib. of sugar, and work it with a wooden spoon until quite frothy; stir in 1 pint of boiling milk and a little orange or lemon flavouring. Let it get cold, and place it in the freezer until it thickens. Put Jib. of preserved Ginger in a mortar, pound it well, pass it through a fine sieve, and add first a few table-spoonfuls of rum and then a few table-spoonfuls of the ice. When these ingredients are exhausted, place it again into the freezer, work it, and when firm place on a paper on a dish, in the form of rocks, and serve. Ginger Loaf.—Rub 6oz. of butter or dripping into lib. of flour, put it in a basin, and adl Jib. of moist sugar, Joz. of ground Ginger, and half the latter quantity of mixed spice, or a little powdered cloves and nutmeg. When it is well mixed, add three well-beaten eggs and fib. of treacle. Work this vigorously, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 wineglassful of warm water, and turn it into a well-buttered shallow square tin, only half filling it to allow for rising ; 2oz. of candied peel finely minced or Joz. of caraway-seeds may be added if desired. Put the tin in a moderate oven, and bake slowly until done. See Fig. 837. Ginger Lozenges.—Put loz. of powdered Ginger and lib. of caster sugar into a basin, and mix it into a paste with dissolved gum, made by dissolving 2Jib. of gum arabic and loz. of gum dragon in 2J pints of water. Add a little vegetable yellow for colouring, roll the paste out about Jin. thick, cut it up into lozenges, dust them over with starch- powder and sugar to prevent them sticking to the slab, place them on wooden trays, and put them in a screen or on a stove to dry. Ginger Lump.—Put 1 teacupful each of flour and brown meal into a basin, and rub in 2oz. of lard; when smooth, mix in J teacupful of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of baking-powder and ground Ginger, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, and a small quantity of warmed milk to moisten. Beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, then pile it up in a buttered tin, and bake for nearly an-hour- and-a-half. The cake should not be cut on the same day that it is made.