687 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <1c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. slow oven until lightly browned. Keep the Gingerbread crisp in tin canisters. Parliamentary Gingerbread.—Crush jib. of whole ginger, put it in a saucepan with nearly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then move it off the fire, and let it get cold. Put lib. of flour in a basin, and mix with it 8oz. of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and j table-spoonful of ground caraway- seeds. Put jib. of lard into a stewpan, melt it over the fire, add 1 table-spoonful of treacle, and strain in the ginger-water; mix well, and pour the liquor over the other ingredients. Stir the whole until thoroughly incorporated. Dredge flour over a paste-board, lay the paste on it, and roll it out to jin. in thickness. Cut it into rounds or fancy shapes with a tin cutter, lay them on a floured baking-sheet with space between, brush them lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in treacle thinned in a little water, and bake for fifteen minutes. When the cakes are cooked, put them on a sieve until dry, and keep them in a dry place. Queen’s Gingerbread.—Mix lib. of moist sugar with 31b. of flour; cut Jib. of candied orange-peel into thin slices, blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, and mix them with the flour and sugar; grate in the rinds of two lemons, add loz. of cinnamon, and joz. each of powdered cloves, Ginger, mace, and cardamom-seeds. Fig. 847. Queen’s Gingerbread. Put 21b. of honey in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water; when hot, mix it with the other ingredients. Let it stand till the next day, shape it into cakes (see Pig. 847), and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, ice them over roughly with sugar icing. These are very delicious. Rich. Gingerbread.—Put 1111). of butter in a lined stewpan with 1 jib. of golden syrup and 3 teacupfuls of milk, and stir them over the fire until hot and the butter dissolved. Put ljlb. of finely-sifted flour in a basin, and mix well with it 3 table-spoonfuls each of brown sugar and ground ginger, and 3oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel. Stir the treacle mixture gradually in with the dry ingredients, and when quite smooth stir in four well-beaten eggs and 2 scant teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Warm a shallow baking-tin, grease it well with butter, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, cut it into squares. Soft Gingerbread.—(1) Sift lib. of flour and rub 4oz. of butter into it; when quite smooth, mix in 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, two well-beaten eggs, and Jib. of golden syrup. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon, making it into a soft paste. Butter a square shallow tin, turn the paste into it, and bake in a moderate oven, being very careful not to let the Gingerbread burn. When cooked, turn it out of the tin and cut it into shapes. . (2) Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of saleratus (ammonia) in 1 pint of butter-milk. Bub 2oz. of softened butter in Jib. of flour; stir in 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, three beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of thick cream; when quite smooth, pour in the milk. Butter a shallow baking-tin, put in the preparation, and bake in a slack oven. When cooked, turn it out of the tin and leave till cold. Spiced Gingerbread.—Prepare a dough with lib. of butter melted in lqt. of warm molasses, Jib. of brown sugar, six eggs, jib. of ground ginger, jib. of ground allspice, 2oz. of ground cloves, 6jib. of sifted flour, and 4 table-spoonfuls of saleratus. Boll it out, form into cakes, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. If preferred, it may be baked in loaves in buttered pans. It should be eaten cold. Sponge Gingerbread.— (1) Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, and mix with it 1 pint of molasses and 1 table-spoonful Gingerbread—continued. of caster sugar. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in j pint of milk, and mix it with the molasses. Mix 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger with lqt. of flour, stir in gradually the molasses, &c., add more flour if the paste is not stiff enough to roll out easily, roll it out about lin. thick, put it on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Put jib. of butter in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk made warm enough to melt the butter; then add 3 piled table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of molasses; when well mixed, beat in three eggs, 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder, and 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger; beat again, and then sift in lib. of flour. Butter a pan, spread the mix- ture lin. thick in it, and bake for about twenty minutes. Sweet Gingerbread.—(1) Beat jib. of butler and Jib. of sugar to a cream ; then mix in two eggs beaten very light with 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, 1 saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Mix in the strained juice of a lemon and 1 gill of sour cream, then jib. of flour, and lastly 1 salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water. Bake it in a loaf. If wrapped in a thick cloth it will keep several days. (2) Beat 6oz. of warmed butter with lib. of caster sugar, and stir in four well-beaten eggs; mix with 1 Jib. of flour 3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, and sift it in gradually; dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 wineglassful of milk, and mix it with the rest. Turn it into a deep buttered baking-dish, and bake. Tbin Gingerbread (German).—Put J pint of the best honey into a lined stewpan with 6oz. of sugar, and place it over the fire until boiling. Cut 2oz. of sweet almonds into thin shreds but without peeling them, put them in with the honey, and boil them gently for two or three minutes; then turn the mixture into a basin and put in jib. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel, the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon, joz. of powdered cinnamon, j drachm of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Leave the mixture until cool, then add to it 1 wineglassful of rum, as much bicarbonate of soda as will lie on a sixpence, dissolved in a small quantity of water, and jib. of finely-sifted flour. Work the dough lightly to mix it, then put it on a paste-board that has been dredged over with flour, and roll it out as thinly as possible. Cut it into strips 3in. or 4in. long, lay them closely together on floured baking-sheets, and leave them all night in a cool place. Next morning, lay a sheet of white paper over them, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not allow the Ginger- bread to brown. When cooked, cut through with a knife where the cakes have stuck together, and leave them on the tins until cold. Boil some moist sugar in a small quantity of water until reduced to a thick syrup that will hang in threads from the spoon. Coat each of the cakes on one side with the syrup, and leave them until dry. Keep the cakes in biscuit-tins in a dry place. Transparent Gingerbread.—Bub 5oz. of butter into jib. of flour, and mix in jib. of sugar, a little grated orange-peel, ground ginger and cinnamon, and jib. of treacle. Put this Fig. 848. Transparent Gingerbread. mixture into a biscuit-forcer, and squeeze it out on to a buttered baking-sheet in lumps the size of walnuts (see Fig. 848) a few inches apart; place the sheet in a moderate oven, and bake until done. Wafer Gingerbread.—Pour 7 fluid ounces of treacle into a basin, and with a wooden spoon mix in 2oz. each of warmed butter and moist sugar, half that quantity of ground ginger, and