595 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., Fish—continued. chervil, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Put the pieces of Fish and the whiting quenelles, which must be poached but without boiling, into a tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. Sturgeon is to be preferred to plaice, and codfish should also, if possible, be used in making this soup. Fish Stew (German).—Clean the Fish, put it in a fish-kettle with water to cover it, and boil. Finely chop an onion, fry it with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, and put it in with the Fish. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of sifted flour and the strained juice of two lemons ; and when the Fish is done, pour this into the kettle with it, add some powdered ginger, pepper and salt to taste, and stew for two or three minutes longer. When cooked, turn the stew out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve very hot. Fish Toast.—Pick out all the bones of some cold Fish, chop the flesh, and put it in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk and the yolks of two eggs ; stir over the fire till thick, then Fig. 751. Fish Toast. move it to the side, but do not let it boil. Cut off a large slice, or more if there is sufficient Fish, from a tin loaf, toast and butter it, trim off the crusts, and spread it very thinly with anchovy butter. Cover with a layer of the Fish mixture (see Fig. 751), and serve very hot. Fresh-water Fish Baked in a Crust.—Clean some small fresh-water Fish of any kind, cut gashes on each side (called scoring), and sprinkle them with salt and pepper ; roll out some crust to Jin. in thickness, wrap the Fish in the crust, moisten and press the edges together, and bake them in a moderate oven for half-an-bour. Dish, and serve with egg sauce. Fried Fish Roes.—Any roes can be cooked this way. When well washed, put them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add a little salt and vinegar, and boil for ten minutes. Mix in some finely-grated breadcrumb with a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Drain the roes, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in the breadcrumbs, and fry till brown in boiling lard. Drain them, put them on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Hashed Fish.—(1) Put about Jib. of uncooked salted Fish, from which the skin and bones have been removed, into a stewpan with four or five large potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, cover with boiling water, and boil till the potatoes are done. Drain off the 'water, mash the potatoes and Fish together, and add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a little pepper and salt, and one well-beaten egg. Melt some salted pork fat in a frying-pan, fry the hash like an omelet till brown on both sides, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Chop any cold boiled salted Fish, freed from all the skin and bones, with twice its bulk of boiled potatoes. Allow Jib. of fat salted pork for every pound of Fish, | slice it, and brown it in a frying-pan; then take it up, leaving the drippings in the pan, and keep it hot. Put the minced Fish and potatoes into the frying-pan, with seasoning of salt and pepper, stir them until hot, move them to one side of the pan, form them into a cake by pressing I together, let them brown on the bottom, then turn out on a hot dish, and serve with the fried pork. Should there not be sufficient dripping, a little butter may be used, but only enough to brown the hash. Pickled Fisk.—Cut the required quantity of any Fish into slices or pieces, dust them well with flour, put them into a frying-pan with oil, and fry them. Put into a mortar two or three sprigs of mint, two cloves of garlic, one capsicum Fish—continued. (which should be fresh if possible), and salt to taste, pound them well together, pour in slowly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of malt vinegar, turn the whole into a saucepan, and boil for five or six minutes. Take out the Fish and drain it, put it into a deep dish, pour over the hot vinegar, let it all get quite cold, and serve. Potted Fish.— (1) Free some cold cooked Fish from skin and bone, and finely chop it; peel some freshly-boiled shrimps or prawns, chop them also, mix with the Fish, put the whole into a mortar, and pound until smooth. Work in with the paste an equal quantity of fresh butter, and season to taste with pounded nutmeg, mace, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, pack it into small moulds, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top of each, and fill up with clarified butter. Keep the moulds in a cool larder. When wanted for serving, turn the Fish out of the moulds on to a dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with fresh green parsley ; or it may be served in the moulds if preferred. (2) Clean, skin, and bone sprats, shad, small mackerel, fresh herrings, or other Fish, cut the flesh into strips, pack it in layers in a stone jar, with a little salt and spices sprinkled over, also a few slices of onion. Cover the fish with vinegar, tie stout paper over the top, spread a layer of thick flour- and-water dough over that, so as to keep in the steam, and bake in a moderate oven for six hours. Take the covers off; when cool, cover them with fresh paper, and the Fish will keep good for some time if put in a cold place. Rechauffe of Fish.—(1) Use any pieces of boiled, grilled, or fried Fish, freed from skin and bones, lay them in a deep dish, moisten with milk, and spread over a thick layer of mashed potatoes ; strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs on the top, and over this put a few small lumps of butter here and there. Set the dish in the oven for a-quarter-of- an-hour, brown the top with a salamander, and serve. (2) Remove all skin and bone fron 31b. of cooked Fish, and divide the flesh into flakes. Put 1J pints of cream into a saucepan, with 3 teaspoonfuls each of mushroom ketchup and anchovy sauce. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and stir it into the sauce; when thick, add the Fish, and stir over the fire till hot. Turn the rechauffe into a dish, cover it with breadcrumbs moistened with liquefied butter, put the dish in the oven until browned, and serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce. Salted Fish (Spanish Fashion).—Put a piece of salted Fish in salted water to soak on the morning of the day before it is wanted; next put it into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it until cooked. When tender, drain the Fish, remove the bones, and flake it with two forks. Peel a large onion, cut it into thin slices, put it in a stewpan with some salad- oil, and fry until lightly browned. Put in the Fish, with a little tomato sauce, season to taste with pepper, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half; stir the mixture occasionally to keep it from sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. When ready, turn the mixture on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. Salted Fish Souffle.—Fill a pint measure with chopped flesh of cooked salted Fish. Boil eight large potatoes, and when they are done, mash them thoroughly; mix them with the Fish, work in 2 piled table-spoonfuls of butter, f breakfast- cupful of hot milk, and season with salt and pepper; add to this two well-beaten eggs. Pile the preparation on a flat dish, in which it is to be served, and place it in the oven for ten minutes. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add J saltspoonful of salt; beat the yolks, mix them with the whites, spread this over the fish, and set it in the oven ag’ain till well browned. Serve with or without sauce. Tomato sauce is very nice with this dish. Scalloped Fisli.—(1) Remove the skin and bones from lib. of any cold cooked Fish, put it in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful each of made mustard and walnut ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and J pint of cream. Stir this mixture over the fire till it is hot through, but do not allow it to boil. Turn it out on to a dish, flatten it down, shape it with a knife, cover the top with grated breadcrumbs, moisten with liquefied butter, brown it in a quick oven or under a salamander, and serve hot. 3 A 2