THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 661 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Galettes— continued. turn make it about lin. in thickness. Cut it into a round shape with scalloped edges (see Fig. 818), put it upside down on a baking-sheet, brush it over with egg, and mark it in lines with a sharp knife. Bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes, and just before taking it out sprinkle over with sugar-glaze, and it is ready for use. fSIz'F-. Fig. 818. Galette. (2) Dissolve 3oz. of butter in 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and mix in lib. of flour to make a smooth paste. Warm another teacupful of milk, stir into it loz. of German yeast, pour this into another ^lb. of flour, and work to a dough. Put the two together into one basin, add thi-ee or four eggs, one at a time, and mix well with the hand for a-quarter-of-an- hour, until it is quite light. Cover over and put it in a warm place to rise for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours. Turn it out on to a well-floured board, work it well again, and add 2oz. each of sugar, citron-peel, and sultana raisins cut up small. Butter some baking-tins, put in the mixture, brush over the surface with milk, decorate with slices of candied citron, dust over a little sugar, and put them in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently light, set them in the oven and bake until done. (3) Put H teacupfuls of milk and 1 teacupful of water into a small saucepan, and place this over the fire until warm; put loz. of German yeast with \ table-spoonful of sugar into a basin, pour in the milk and water, and stir them until dissolved; then mix in slowly sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Cover the basin, and stand it in a warm place until the dough has well risen, which will take two or three hours. Place lib. of flour in another basin with seven eggs and 1 teacupful of milk, and beat all well together with the hand for twenty minutes. Put the dough when sufficiently risen in with the flour and eggs, and work the whole together until incorporated. Cover the basin, and set the contents to rise for two hours in a warm place; then turn it on to a paste-board, and knead it slightly with a little more flour. Divide it into small quantities, mould them to an egg shape with the hands, mark them across with the blunt edge of a knife, lay them on a floured baking- sheet, a short distance from each other, and let them rise for about fifteen minutes. Bake them in a brisk oven for ten minutes, strew caster sugar over, and bake for ten minutes longer. Serve hot or cold. (4) Rub 6oz. of butter in jib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt and two well-beaten eggs. Knead the mixture, put it on a floured paste-board, and roll it out to about fin. in thickness and of a round shape. Butter a baking-sheet, place the Galette on it, and bake in a brisk oven. Slightly warm loz. of butter, and beat into it one egg and 1 teacupful of cream. When the Galette is nearly cooked, spread the cream mixture over, return it to the oven, and finish baking’. Serve cold. GALL.—Those cooks who have accidentally made the acquaintance of this bitter fluid will have some knowledge of its terrific pungency. If in cleaning a fowl or any other creature possessing a liver, the Gall-bladder happens to be broken, it is next to impossible to rid the flesh of its taste; the greatest care therefore is neces- sary when handling a liver, and the cook must use the knife unsparingly to cut away all the liver that is stained by proximity to the Gall-bladder, which is intimately connected with it and situated immediately beneath it Gall—continued. (see Fig. 819). At one time the Gall of various animals was administered to patients for the supposed cure of sundry diseases. Fig. 819. Liver and Gall attached. GALLIMAWFRIES.—This is said to be a corrup- tion of the French word galimafree (hotch-potch), but an enthusiastic etymologist, who has found it sufficiently interesting to spend much time in tracing back the origin of obscure kitchen terms, pronounces the French word to be a corruption of the English. In either case the modern meaning may be considered to be the same, namely, a combination of many things without regard to order or reason. The following receipt may be regarded as a very fair specimen of a Gallimawfry: Cut up any cold batter or suet pudding, bacon, ham, and any vegetables into small pieces, put them all into a frying- pan with a little hot dripping, together with lib. of cold meat cut moderately small, a seasoning of pepper and salt, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, chopped onion, vinegar, flour, and sugar. Mix well over the fire, fry, and serve hot. GALLING.—The Italian for a very delicious dish of curds and whey, the milk being turned by using an infusion of the gizzards of turkeys or fowls. The term is derived from gallina—a hen. The Gallino liquor is prepared as follows : Take the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys or fowls, clean them free from sand and pebbles, rub them with salt, and hang them up to dry. When required for use, break off bits of this skin and put it over the fire in boiling water for eight or nine hours, then the liquor is fit to be used as other rennet. GALLON.—A measure of capacity equalling 4qts. See Weights and Measures. GALONJ.—The Spanish term for small cakes, gene- rally used for garnishing entremets. They should be thin, light, and cut in fanciful shapes, so as to have the appearance of lace when set round as a garnish. They are best prepared as follows: Rub jib. of butter into ^lb. of flour, and mix in two well- beaten eggs and a little salt. Work this thoroughly for forty-five minutes or so, put it on a floured board, roll it out thin, and cut it up with fancy-shaped biscuit-cutters. Plunge the pieces into a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry till done, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust over with sugar, and they are ready for use. GAME (Fr. Gibier; Ger. Wildpret; Ital. Cacciagione ; Sp. Caza).—This may be correctly described as anything that has been hunted by sportsmen, the term being one of very ancient use in this country as applied to sport or amusement. Any bird or annual which is shot or snared for amusement belongs by right to the title of Game, but according as such birds or animals have proved their gastronomic value, so in proportion have they com- manded the attention of land-owners, by whom the laws of the country are greatly influenced, resulting in Game Laws which afford the greater protection to those birds