514 TILE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Damsons—continued. Damson Cream Ice.—Put 1 pint of Damsons in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil until soft; then pass them through a fine hair sieve, keeping back the stones. Mix the Damson pulp with 1 pint each of thick syrup and thick cream, turn the mixture into the freezer, and work it over ice until frozen. Turn the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice; let it set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it on a cloth, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Damson Jam.—Pick and wipe some Damsons, and stir over a slow fire until soft enough to be mashed; then take them off, and pass through a fine cane sieve. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels, and mix them with the Damson pulp. Boil with each pound of pulp lib. of preserving-sugar, remove the scum, and put the jam into pots. When cold, cover the pots with paper dipped in brandy, and tie down. Damson - Jam Pudding.—Line a buttered basin with a pudding-crust, put in alternately a layer of Damson jam and a layer of the crust, until the basin is full. Boil the pudding for half-an-hour, turn it out, and serve while hot. Damson Paste.—Pick and wipe some sound ripe Damsons, put them into a stewpan with water just sufficient to wet the bottom of the pan, and boil and stir until well reduced; then pass them through a sieve. To each pound of pulp take lib. of crushed loaf sugar, clarify it, and boil to the feather degree. Mix the pulp with the syrup, keep it over the fire for a short time, pour it into shallow tins, cut it into the desired shapes, and pack between layers of paper in a box. Damson Pastille Drops.—Boil a few Damsons with a little water, and when tender rub them through a sieve. Boil loz. of this pulp with 4oz. of coarsely-sifted sugar and 1 table-spoonful of water. When the sugar is dissolved, stir over the fire for a couple of minutes with a wooden spoon ; then take the pan from the fire, still stirring, hold the pan in the left hand, and with a curved piece of wire cut the paste as it pours out into drops the size of small Damsons, and let them fall in close rows on a sheet of stiff paper. When they are quite firm turn the paper upside down, and brush the reverse side over with a little water, so that the drops will shake off easily on to a sieve, and move this backwards and forwards over a slow fire to thoroughly dry. Put them in glass bottles, cork down tightly, and keep in a dry place. They are a very nice garnish for sweet entremets. A small quantity only should be made at one time. Damsoil Pie.—Scald the required quantity of Damsons, and when they are cool, remove the stones. Line a buttered pie-dish with a short-paste, put in the Damsons, add moist sugar to sweeten, sift a little flour over them, cover with more paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve- hot with custard. Damson Sauce.—Wash and put in a preserving-pan 71b. of Damsons, 1 pint of vinegar, and 3|lb. of brown sugar, heat slowly, and boil gently until the skins of the fruit begin to burst; skim out the fruit, add to the syrup 4in. of stick cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of whole cloves, and two blades of mace, and continue to boil until a little of it will jelly when cooled. Put the Damsons into jars, strain the syrup, and pour it over them hot; when cool, close the jars, and seal them air-tight. This sauce is a good substitute for red-currant jelly for game, venison, &c. Damson Tart.—Wipe the required quantity of fine sound Damsons, pricking those that are not quite ripe, put them in a stewpan, and cover with syrup that has been boiled to the thread degree. There should be sufficient syrup for the Damsons to float. Set the pan on the side of the fire until the skins of the Damsons burst, then remove it and let them remain to soak in the syrup until next day. Strain off the syrup, add more sugar and water if required, and boil it without the fruit to the large thread degree ; then skim the syrup, put in the fruit, and boil. Stand the pan off the fire, and the next day drain off the syrup again, boil it to the large pearl degree, put the Damsons in once more, and boil them for three minutes. Next skim it, and then turn all into pans, and the fruit will be ready to be put in tart-paste as required. Damson Water Ice.— (1) Put lqt. of clean Damsons in'a pan with | pint of thin syrup, boil them to a pulp, add a little cochineal, strain all through a fine sieve, and freeze. Damsons—continued. (2) Mix together lqt. of Damson pulp, li pints of syrup, and one white of egg of Italian meringue paste. Put the mixture into a freezer and freeze, scraping the ice that adheres to the sides back into the middle with a spatula. Continue this operation till all the contents are frozen, and use as desired. Damson Wine.—(1) Gather 161b. of Damsons on a dry day, bruise them, and put them into a tub with a tap in it, adding 2galls. of boiling water. After two days’ soaking, draw off the liquor into a 2-fgall, cask, and add 51b. of crushed loaf sugar. Cover the bung-hole until the fermentation has somewhat subsided, bung down, and keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months; then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar in each bottle, and cork the bottles well. It will be fit for use in two months after bottling. (2) Boil 321b. of moist sugar with lOIgalls. of water and the whites of ten well-beaten eggs, not omitting to skim it. When it has boiled for half-an-hour, add 321b. of ripe Damsons, previously picked and stoned, stir well, and boil for another half-an-hour; then skim again, and strain it into a cooler. When at the proper temperature, put in some fresh yeast spread on bread, and let it work for three or four days. Draw off the liquor clear of sediment, and put it into a cask; strain the lees into the cooler, and fill up the cask with it, allowing the wine to work out at the bung-hole. When the hissing noise of fermentation has ceased, put in lqt. of French brandy, stop the cask up securely, and paste stout paper over the bung. In six months rack it off into another cask, filter the lees through thick flannel, and fill the cask with it. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 2qts. of the wine, put it in the cask with the remainder, bung down tightly, and keep it for two years ; then bottle, and wax over the cox-ks. This wine is improved by keeping' for two years after it has been bottled. (3) Pick 3jgalls. of Damsons on a dry day, take out about one-third of their stones, crack them, put them into a tub with the fruit, pour over a boiling syrup made with 3Jgalls. of water and 71b. of sugar, and stir well. Let this get cool, then add 1 gill of yeast, cover over the tub with a thick cloth or blanket, and let it remain for four days. Skim well, strain and press out as much of the liquor as possible, pour it into a cask (brandy cask if it can be obtained), and add lib. of finely-chopped raisins. When the fermenting hissing noise stops, add a little gelatine or other fining-, and hung up the cask. Bottle it in about ten months. The kernels can be omitted and Joz. of essence of almonds stirred in when the wine has ceased fei-menting. Preserved Damsons.— (1) Wipe as many large Damsons as are required, cut a long slit lengthwise with a sharp-pointed knife in each, and put them in a warm place (on the hearth or somewhere near the fire) until the stones can easily be removed. Make a thick syrup with as many pounds of loaf sugar as of Damsons, put the fruit in this, and boil till they are quite tender. The stones may be cracked, and the kernels blanched and added if desired. Turn all into a large bowl till cool, then into glass jars, and cover tightly. (2) Remove all the stalks and unsound fruit from some Damsons, so as to have 4qts. of sound fruit, put this into a jar with 2|lb. of sugar, mix well, tie the jar over tightly, put it in a saucepan of cold water, bring it slowly to the boiling-point, and simmer gently for about an hour, or until the Damsons are soft and pulpy. Turn the whole into a sieve over a saucepan, strain off the juice without pressure, and boil it for about fifteen minutes ; then pour the fruit into pots or jars, and let it cool. Pass the liquor thi-ough a jelly-bag over the Damsons, cover over the pots, first with white paper soaked in brandy, then with bladder or paper damped with white of egg, and put them in a cool place until wanted. Preserved Pulp of Damsons.—Wipe and split lengthwise 61b. of Damsons, and put them in a preserving-pan ; crack the stones, and add the kernels, after blanching them, to the fruit; pour in % pint of water, and stir over the fire until the fruit is tender. Rub the pulp through a coarse sieve, and put it in a proserving-pan, together with 2oz. of loaf sugar to each pound of the pulp. When the sugar is dissolved by warming over the fire, bottle, cork, and tie down tightly.