THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 607 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,be., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Powls—continued. Sometimes the poulterer cleans the bird, and sends it to the kitchen in such a condition (see Fig. 766) that the Fig. 766. Fowl cleaned for Cooking. cook can either truss it for boiling or roasting, or it may be cut up for an entree as follows: Split the Fowl into halves lengthwise by cutting down the middle of the hack with a sharp kitchen knife, laying the Fowl wide open and chopping through the breast-bone from the inside. Lay one half on the board and chop slantingly through the end of the drum-stick at the hip-joint, or a little on the fleshy side of it; next cut off the side-bone and tail-end, leaving as much meat as possible on the body, a little of which may be taken from the thigh ; cut off the second joint by chopping straight across the Fowl, thereby dividing the quarters into three pieces of equal weight. Cut off the two small joints of the wing; chop off the main joint slantwise, so that it will have attached to it a piece of the neck-bone and a small part of the flesh of the breast. There will then remain nearly the entire breast, which should be chopped straight across to make two pieces. Cut up the other half of the Fowl in the same way. The object of cutting up a Fowl in this way is to provide for each person a piece of meat of equal size and appearance. Treated otherwise, one would have all meat, and another a dark-looking, bare piece of bone. Boiling1 a Bowl.—Break the bones of the bird just above the feet by giving them a blow with a knife, cut the skin round, and give the feet a twist, thus breaking them off, and with them the strong sinews of the legs. Chop off the wings just above the second joint. Slit the skin of the neck and pull it out, cut it off close, and trim the skin neatly. Make an incision along the back from the neck to the tail, then separate the flesh from the bones, beginning at the neck-end ; when the wing-bone is reached, disjoint it from the carcase, make a slit along the inside of the wing, and remove the bone; then disjoint the thigh-bone from the carcase. Proceed the same with the other side. Work along each side, detaching the breast, and being very careful not to break the skin, especially over the breast, where it is very tender; then remove the carcase. Make an incision along the thigh, dissect the bone from the flesh, scrape the flesh of the leg along the bone, and then pull it out in such a way as to draw out the remaining sinews with it. An old tough Fowl may be made very tender if pre- pared as follows: Cut it up into joints, put these into a deep pan with sufficient slightly-salted water to cover, set the pan in the oven, and let it remain until the bones can be easily pulled out. It will require three or four hours for this. More boiling- water must be added as the other boils away, so as to have the meat always covered. Now draw out all the bones, remove the skin and sinews, and the flesh will be quite tender and fit for using in stews, curries, or such-like dishes. By the liberal assistance of the staff of cooks engaged upon the Encyclopaedia, the following extraordinary variety of receipts has been collected. Instructions for Carving and Trussing will be found under those heads. Aspic of Chicken Puree. - Put a thin layer of aspic jelly at the bottom of a plain cylindrical mould, and place it on the ice; when the jelly has set, decorate it with some tongue and truffles cut into shapes with a biscuit-cutter. Prepare some chicken puree and some truffle puree, moisten each of Fowls—continued. them with a little warmed aspic jelly, and pour them into the mould alternately to about Jin. in thickness, letting one lot set before another is put in. When the mould is full and the jelly well set, turn it out on to a socle of rice, masked with ravigote butter. Surround the jelly with chopped or croutons of aspic jelly, and it is then ready for table. Baked Fowl.—(1) Singe, remove the pin feathers, and clean a chicken; then wipe it clean, stuff, and truss it. Bub it over with a mixture of salt, pepper, flour, and warmed butter, and put it into a baking-pan with a little cliicken-fat or dripping, and set it in the oven. When the flour is well browned, reduce the heat of the oven, baste well with its fat, and afterwards with 3oz. or 4oz. of butter melted in a breakfast- cupful of boiling water. When the chicken is brown on one side, turn it over on the other, so as to brown it well all over, adding- a little more water if there should not be sufficient to baste with. A bird weighing from 4)lb. to 51b. will require about one-hour-and-a-half to bake. (2) Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, split it down the hack, and dress it without breaking the entrails ; clean the heart, liver, and gizzard, and chop them fine. Put the chicken into a dripping-pan large enough to let it lie out flat, after first breaking the joints of the wings and legs, season it highly with salt and pepper, sprinkle over it the chopped heart, &c., put 1 tablespoonful of butter on it, and place it in a very hot oven for about twenty minutes, or until it is done at the joints and evenly browned. Turn it two or three times while it is cooking, to make sure that it is evenly done. Serve the bird on buttered toast, pouring- over it the gravy in the dripping-pan. Baked Fowls in Maryland Style. — Clean the required number of young Fowls, chop them down the back and then through the breast, and if they are large birds cut them into quarters. Wash them, and let them stand for a little while in cold water. Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and clarified dripping, or fat from fried bacon, into a saucepan (one large enough for the pieces of Fowl to lie flat without overlapping- one another), and place it over the fire to boil. The quantity of fat or dripping used will be sufficient for two birds. Drain the pieces of Fowl, dip them in flour to entirely cover, put them into the fat with the skin part downwards, dust them over with plenty of salt and pepper, put the pan into a quick oven, and let them cook for a few minutes, basting well. When they are done on one side, turn them over. When cooked on both sides, take them out and put them on a hot dish.. Bemove the grease from the gravy, leaving only the browned flour and the thick part that sticks to the pan, add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and boil up. Pour this over the Fowl, and serve. Baked Fowl with Tartar Sauce.—Singe, draw, and split a Fowl down the back, wipe it well with a wet cloth, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, spread over it a thick layer of softened butter, and dredge on both sides with fine, dry breadcrumbs. Put the Fowl into a baking-pan, the cut part downwards, and bake in a sharp oven for thirty minutes. Dish, and serve with Tar-tar sauce. Ballotines of Fowl with Jelly.—Clean and bone a Fowl, and stuff it with a salpigon of tongue and truffles mixed with Fowl forcemeat. When stuffed, shape the Fowl into a long roll about 2jin. in diameter, put it in a cloth, secure it at each end, and tie it across, in two places, very tightly with string. Put the Fowl into a stewpan, cover it with mirepoix, and when cooked take it out and let it cool for half-an-hour. Take off the cloth, and cut the Fowl through where the marks of the string are. Put a mound of boiled rice in the middle of a dish, cover it with ravigote butter, stand two of the ballotines on the mound, and put the third one on the top ; put chopped jelly in the spaces between the pieces of Fowl, garnish with croutons of jelly round the rice mound, and serve. Blanquette of Fowl.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cream sauce into a double boiler, add 1 pint of chicken meat, cooked and cut into small strips, and 1 table-spoouful of chopped parsley. Set the boiler on the fire, and when the sauce, &e., is hot, beat in the yolks of two eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and stir well for two minutes. Put a border of boiled rice, mashed potatoes, or strips of toast round a dish, pour the chicken in the centre, and serve.