THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 481 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. CROUSTADES.—To define a Croustade would tax the ingenuity of the best of cooks, for it would seem that any dish having no title to anything better may revel in the term “ Croustade,” provided only that it is contained in a crust. The Croustade may be made of Bread (see Fig. 583. Bread Croustade. Fig. 583), or Paste (see Fig. 584) of any kind, and in any shape or device, some very noteworthy samples appearing under these two headings. Larousse describes Croustades as “ Patties with a crisp crust. The name is also extended to dishes in the preparation of which crusts of bread are Fig. 584. Paste Croustade. used.” As an example of the importance that some artistic cooks give to the name, a receipt is given below, founded upon one advocated by Jules Gouffe. Paste Croustades a la Financiere.—Rub 41b. of butter into Jib. of flour, and when quite smooth add 1 saltspoonful of salt and the yolks of two eggs, work in sufficient water to make a softish paste, roll it up in a lump, put it in a cloth, and let it stand for a time on ice; line a dozen small Croustade-moulds with the rollecl-out paste, and fill them up with flour to keep the paste in position whilst baking; bake them till the paste is a light brown and crisp; then turn out the flour, brush the insides with egg-, and set the Croustades in the oven for two or three minutes. Clean and prepare some cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, mushrooms, foie gras, collops of fowl, and sliced truffles, cut all into dice, put them with some chicken forcemeat into a stewpan, and boil them in 1 quart of Spanish sauce, stirring till it coats the spoon; fill the Croustades with this mixture. At the time of making the Croustades some covers should have been made for them with the paste; it should be rolled out to Jin. in thickness, then from that twelve rounds should be cut out with a 2in. fluted cutter, and another twelve rounds with a lin. fluted cutter. Put the smaller rounds on the top in the centre of the larger ones, brush them over with egg, also egg the tops of the large ones before putting the smaller ones on, to make them stick ; put them on a wet baking-sheet and bake in a brisk oven. Cover the tops of the Croustades with them. CROUTE-AU-FOT. — A better name for this in English would be “ pot-luck.” It is nothing more than a clear soup made of almost anything handy, with crusts of toasted bread floating about in it. Amongst the lower orders of France Croute-au-pot is very general, and is little better than a weak broth; but it is capable of better things, as shown by the following receipts: (1) Cut into round slices two carrots and one turnip, and add to these a few short pieces of celery stalks and a small quantity of chopped white cabbage. Stew these for a few minutes in a covered stewpan with 1 piled table-spoonful of butter. Just as the vegetables are beginning to take colour pour over them 3 pints of broth, adding J table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil this slowly for half-an-hour or more, and then pour it into a hot tureen, in which a few pieces of toasted bread or rolls have been previously placed. Serve very hot. (2) Procure about 41b. of leg or shin of beef, cut it into pieces, and put it into a stockpot, with 6qts. of water, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, a few slices of bacon, or a ham bone or rind of bacon. Put the pot on the fire, let it boil up, then skim it carefully, and set it back to simmer. After this has been cooking for about an-hour-and-a-half, add a knuckle of veal, an old fowl, and some vegetables, such as two carrots, one turnip, a head of celery, an onion coloured in the oven, cloves, and peppercorns. A small cabbage may also be added, or three or four lettuces tied together. In the course of an hour add any other piece of roasted meat or bones, or any other scraps. Continue the simmering for three hours longer, then take out the vegetables, chop them into pieces, lay them in a tureen, with some slices of bread, toasted and buttered. Strain the broth through a napkin on to the vegetables and crusts, and serve very hot. CROUTONS.—The literal meaning of this French culinary term is given as “ little crusts,” or sippets, such as fried dice of toast served with soups, or tri- angular and other shapes used for garnishing minces and hashes. The advance of artistic cookery has caused the name to be extended to large shapes of bread cut Fig. 585. Crouton of Fried Bread. out of a loaf and fried brown outside (see Fig. 585), for supporting roasted birds when served in twos or fours. These Croutons are gummed to the dish with glaze, or some other adhesive material, and then can be used to prop up the birds, or other things, in any position likely to contribute elegance to the dish. Crou- tons of aspic jelly (see Fig. 586) are made in almost any shape, and the term is also extended to pieces of cake or pastry. Croutons for garnishing or soup are prepared thus: For Garnishing.—Cut some slices Jin. thick off a tinned- loaf, and cut out from these, with an ordinary paste-cutter or a sharp knife, crescents, squares, lozenges, oblongs, ovals, rounds, stars, or any other shape desired; fry these in boiling fat, using butter for preference. The frying-basket gives a 2 R