TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 505 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Curry—continued. of the various ingredients for Curry. Some authorities suppose the word to be derived from the Tamil Karil, and this view seems to be supported in France, where Curry is known as Kari; but the simple English deri- vation appears to answer all purposes, and may be ac- cepted without further argument or discussion. An authority on the subject writing in the Saturday Review treats currying as a special branch of cookery, and informs us that “ there are a thousand Curries, varying according to the constituent items, the ingredients, their proportions to each other, and the mode of preparation. To speak, therefore, of ‘ Curry ’ as a specific dish is an absurdity. There are meat Curries, fish Curries, vege- table Curries, Curries wet and Curries dry, Curries hot and Curries sweet, Curries simple and Curries spiced.” Of the principal Indian Curries, Madras is reckoned to be the purest and best, Bengal is preferred for fish and vegetables, and Bombay Curry is mostly adapted to currying fish (bornelow or poppedorus). Ceylon is famous for a pink Curry made in Galle; and in Burmah there is a mystic Curry called ballychoug, of whose composition, we are informed, it were better not to inquire into too curiously. Malay Curry is distinguished by the addition of the milk of the cocoa-nut, and to the Curry is added fresh chutneys. The Indian names for varieties of Curry are very numerous, indicating certain special or imaginary features, such as are Doopiaja, Koorma, Bindellio, Kofta, Hussanee- Kawab, Pulwul-Bliajee, Dalchur Churree, &c. The writer previously quoted goes on to inform us that it is a false notion to ascribe to Curry “ one pervading piquant hotness, born of chilli and of turmeric. The true Indian cook can vary his flavours at pleasure, and has a far greater range of resources than his European compeer, having as his chief aids onions, turmeric, garlic, green ginger, chillies, coriander, cumin, black pepper, bay-leaf, cassia-leaf, lemon-grass, and poj)py-seeds, with occasional calls upon cardamoms, cloves, and mace. He has, moreover, a privilege denied to the European Curry-cook in this, that he is able to use these condiments in a green state, freshly gathered, being all natives of the soil. He grinds them every morning for the Curries of the day, adapting the compounds to the meats which are to form their staple.” According to the very best authorities, different Curries are required for different meats ; for instance, a Curry-powder containing ginger is not suitable for fish, but mustard-oil should be sub- stituted ; Curries containing cocoa-nut, or chestnut, should have no coriander or cumin. How can these anomalies be avoided if only one powder, or paste, is at the cook’s command ? And how can the European Curry-cook avail himself of the various ingredients detailed in such a manner as to produce special combinations of his own ? A very good assortment of different Curries will be found below; but are these equal to those made fresh every morning of fresh ingredients P On this point there is a variety of opinion, and some Anglo-Indian gourmets are decidedly in favour of the drier powders, as supplying flavours that are not found in the fresh herbs and spices until they are dried, just as a clove-bud requires to be dried before its full strength and aroma are developed. Very few Curries would be considered perfect without a full flavour of onions, and these should be prepared in two ways, the first by pounding in a mortar to mix with the Curry, and the other by slicing and frying scarcely to browning, to be used as a garnish. Cream, if added just before serving, yields a great charm to a vegetable or fish Curry; or it may be mixed up with the Curry and the meat added; or the meat may he in a bath of cream for some hours before making the Curry. It is a great fault to stint butter in making Curries ; nor should the Curry be swamped with water; nor should flour, except on certain occasions, be used to thicken a Curry. The Indian cook uses ghee for making Curry; this is I Curry—continued. a sort of clarified butter or fat for which superiority is claimed. Another mode of making a good Curry, such as a Country Captain, is to use cooked meat, and cut it up very small. The Curry ingredients are cooked first with butter and onion, and when this is sufficiently done, stir in the meat. All good Curry-cooks admit that it is a mistake to boil Curry, or raise it as high as the boiling-point of water, hence they adopt a system of cooking it by standing a basin containing the Curry in a saucepan of hot water. This has led to the invention of a capital Curry-pan, in- vented by Captain Warren, and known as “Warren’s Curry-pan ” (see Fig. 617). It consists of a shallow tin saucepan with another let in above it, and a lid ovei- that. The lower vessel is filled with water, and in the upper vessel the Curry is cooked. The Begum Company supply some very good Curries, all ready for warming, as well as Curry-powders and pastes. Numerous receipts for Curries will be found through- out this Encyclopaedia under the appropriate headings of the chief material used in the Curry, and under Rice will be found some excellent receipts for preparing rice for serving with Curry. The following Curry-powders and paste have been found to give very excellent results: Bengal Curry-Powder. —(1) Put in a mortar 8oz. of coriander- seeds, 5oz. of black pepper, and Joz. of cayenne pepper. Pound them, and then sift through a fine hair sieve. Put the powder into well-stoppered bottles, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (2) Put in a mortar 12oz. of coriander-seeds, 5oz. of black pepper, 3oz. of cumin-seeds, 2oz. of cayenne pepper, 2oz. of fenu- greek-seeds, and 6oz. of pale-coloured turmeric. When well powdered, sift through a fine hair sieve on to a sheet of paper, and then pour into well-stoppered bottles, which keep in a dry cupboard. Curry Forcemeat Balls.—Put some hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with breadcrumbs, and pound them well together, adding a little Curry-powder and salt to taste, with just enough butter to make it of sufficient consistence to be rolled into balls. Put these into a saucepan with a little stock, and boil for ten minutes. Curry Paste.—Put into a mortar ^lb. of roasted coriander-seeds, loz. of roasted cumin-seeds, 2oz. each of black pepper, dry chillies, dry turmeric, and mustard-seeds, loz. each of dry ginger and garlic, and 4oz. each of sugar, salt, and roasted corn (gram dal), and pound well, pouring in sufficient white-wine vinegar to bring the mixture to the consistence of jelly. Warm some sweet-oil in a pan, and as soon as it commences to bubble, drop in the mixture and fry until it is reduced to a paste. When this is cold, put it in bottles, cork them, and keep in a dry place until wanted for use. Mustard-oil may be substituted for the sweet-oil, but on no account must any water be allowed to get into the paste, or it will be spoilt. Curry-Powder.— (1) Pound in an iron mortar 3oz. each of turmeric and coriander-seeds, loz. each of mustard-seeds, ginger, and black pepper, loz. of lesser cardamoms, and loz. each of cumin-seeds and cayenne pepper. When well pounded and mixed, bottle till wanted for use. This powder is better after a little keeping. (2) Grind in a spice-mill, or buy ready ground, 21b. of turmeric, Rb. of mustard-seeds, l|lb. of poppy-seeds (these may be omitted), ilb. of garlic, loz. of cinnamon, 51b. of coriander- seeds, Jib. of large chillies, 2oz. of black pepper, and a little lemon-juice. When the ingredients are as fine as they can be made, rub all through a hair sieve, and put into tightly- corked bottles. (3) Put 3oz. each of turmeric and coriander-seeds, loz. each of black pepper, mustard, and ginger, Joz. each of allspice