THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 653 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. Those dishes which are specially illustrated are open to considerable variety, according to circumstances and the Fruit used. See also Jams, Jellies, and Marmalade. Chaudfroid of Fruits.—Line a plain border-mould packed in ice with warmed orange jelly, then decorate the bottom and sides with alternate layers of slices of pineapple cooked in syrup, quarters of preserved apricots, and halves of green- gages, fill up the mould with more of the jelly, and let it set firm. Peel eight cooking apples, cut them in quarters, core them, and stew them in syrup: when done, drain, and let them cool. Turn out the mould on to a cold dish, heap the apples in the centre, arranging them in rows, and pouring over each row a little half-set almond blanc-mange, and letting one row get firm before another is put over. Cut half an apple to represent as nearly as possible a cock’s comb, stone a large plum by cutting it into halves, and put together again to imitate a truffle. Garnish an attelette with the half apple and plum, mask them over with apple blanc- mange, place the attelette in the middle of the rows of apples, and serve. See Fig'. 807. Compote of Fruits.—(1) Wash ^lb. of rice, and boil it till quite soft, then beat it to a stiff paste, and press it into a round flat mould. Strain off the syrup from a tin of preserved apricots into a stewpan, and boil it with £lb. of loaf sugar for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put the apricots in the syrup, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire so that they may simmer for five minutes without fear of breaking. Put in another saucepan a small pot of red-currant jelly and 2oz. of crystallised cherries, and boil for five minutes; when done, drain the cherries and apricots, and let them cool. Turn the rice out of the mould into the centre of a glass dish. Cut the apricots in quarters, and put a row of them round the rice ; fix another row on the top of the first one, and so on, keeping' each row of apricots narrower than the preceding one. When this is done, place between each quarter of apricot a cherry and some shreds of angelica cut in the shape of leaves, pour the apricot and cherry syrups over, and serve. (2) Put lib. of stoned cherries, lib. of picked raspberries, and lib. each of picked white and red currants in a basin, cover them with caster sugar, and pour in 2 wineglassfuls of pale brandy; stir the Fruit about, and leave it till all the sugar is dissolved. Fill a border-mould with a sponge-cake preparation, and bake it; when done, turn it out on a round dish, fill the hollow with the Fruit, and serve. Compote of Fruits with Iced Champagne.—Peel, core, and cut in quarters two fine cooking pears, put them in a sugar-boiler with syrup at lGdeg. (see Syrups) and enough prepared cochineal to make the pears a good pink. Peel, core, and cut in quarters also two large cooking apples, and boil them in a sugar-boiler with more syrup at lfideg., and cook some stoned g'reengages in the same way. When all the Fruits are ready, put them on a wire sieve to drain till cold. Pour i bottle of champagne in a freezer, together with 1 tea- cupful of syrup at 30deg.. and let it freeze. Arrange the cold Fruit in a compote-dish, pour over the frozen champagne and syrup, and serve. Croquenbouche of Fruits.—Butter or oil the inside of a plain mould. Prepare and glaze with sugar equal quantities of plums, apricots, and small oranges, and line the mould with the Fruit, sticking them together with the sugar. Make a tuft or plume of spun sugar. Turn the croquenbouche out of the mould, put the spun sugar tuft on the top, and serve. Dried Fruit Fickle (Indian Style).—This is prepared from dry dates or Arabian apricots, Arabian plums or damsons, English prunes, and Normandy pippins, using them in equal proportions. Well wash and dry the Arabian Fruits. Put the dates into a saucepan with a little water, stew them, and cut them up into rings, rejecting the stones. Prepare a syrup, using 4oz. of sugar to each quart of vinegar. Cut the pippins in quarters, put them together with the other Fruits, in layers, in large wide-mouthed bottles, sprinkle each layer over with salt, finely-sliced ginger, peppercorns, and small sticks of cinnamon, pour over sufficient of the vinegar syrup to cover, cork up the bottles, put them in the sun for a few days, and in a month’s time the pickle will be ready for use. Flawn of Fruits a la Viennese.—Line a scalloped flawn- circle with tartlet-paste ; decorate the edge of the border Fruit—continued. with leaves of paste, and brush them over with egg. Cover the bottom and sides of the mould with paper, fill up the centre with flour, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for forty minutes. This is what is called cooking it a blanc. Take it out, empty out the flour, remove the paper, let it cool, turn it out, and mask inwardly with a layer of apricot marmalade. Place the crust on a dish, and fifteen minutes before using fill the centre with a bavarois mixture of rice and almond milk thickened on the ice, putting it in the flawn Fig. 808. Flawn of Fruits A la Viennese. in layers alternately with apricot marmalade, and raising it up in the centre to the shape of a dome. Place it on the ice for a few minutes to get firm, then put a circle of green- gages at the base of the bavarois dome, then a circle of halves of glazed peaches below. Put a pile of cooked cherries on the bavarois in the centre of the circle of peaches. Cover all of the Fruits over with some of their own syrup when quite cold, using a paste-brush for the purpose, and serve. See Fig. 808. Fruit-and-Batter Pudding1. — Any kind of ripe Fruit may be used, prepared in the usual way. Mix 4oz. of finely- chopped beef-suet in lib. of finely-sifted flour and 1 salt- spoonful of salt; stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of milk to make a thin batter, then beat in the required quantity of Fruit. Turn the whole into a well-buttered shallow dish, and bake in a good oven. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Fruit Bowl.—Cut off all the outside pithy part from a quarter of a large pine-apple, cut it up into slices and then into small squares, put them into a basin, and add five or six ripe peaches cut into halves and then into slices, also the same quantity of apricots peeled and cut into slices, 1 or 2 handfuls of stoned cherries, and double the quantity of raspberries and red currants. Pour over 1 wineglassful of syrup and 2 wineglassfuls of claret, and set the basin on ice. Put the cuttings from the pine-apple into a mortar, pound it well, put it into a sieve with lqt. of strawberries, rub them through into a basin, and mix in a quart bottle of champagne mixed with 1 wineglassful of syrup. Pack a thin china basin in ice, pour in the champagne mixture, and stir for twenty minutes; then add the strained juice of two oranges and the mixed Fruits. When the whole is quite cold, serve with small fancy biscuits. Fruit Cake.—Put 2oz. each of flour and ground rice into a basin, and mix with it 2oz. of butter; rub it with the fingers until well mixed with the flour, then put in loz. each of chopped preserved cherries, ginger, and candied citron peel, 4oz. of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of blanched and powdered sweet almonds. Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, beat the yolks first, mix them with the above ingredients, then whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Line a buttered cake- tin with sheets of buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake it in a good oven. When cooked, remove the paper from the cake. Serve it cold. Fruit Charlotte. — (1) Line a charlotte-mould with sweetened short-paste, mask the paste all round the inside with paper, fill it with flour, and bake; when done, take it out of the oven, turn out the flour, remove the paper, turn the paste out of the mould, spread a layer of apricot marmalade inside it, and put it back into the mould, having previously wiped this out with a cloth. Prepare a coarse salpicon with some preserved Fruits, and let them soak in maraschino for three