THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 629 Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Powls—continued. three or four tomatoes cut in pieces, and pints of broth. Stir over the fire till boiling', then move the stewpan to the side and simmer for half-an-hour. Take l j pints of mushrooms cut in slices and some chopped parsley and put into the liquor; boil for ten minutes longer, and then serve on a hot dish. Fricassee of Fowls a la Dauphine.— Prepare a Fuicassee of Fowls (No. 9), but instead of putting the pieces back into the sauce after it has been strained, put them upon a dish and stir into the sauce a liaison of the yolks of six eggs and a pat of butter warmed and beaten into them. Mix the liaison in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it nearly boils, then remove it from the stove, and let it get nearly cold. Dip each of the pieces of Fowl in the sauce, replace them on the dish, and when thoroughly cold roll in breadcrumbs, dip them into beaten eggs, roll them in the breadcrumbs again, and fry a light brown ; then drain them upon a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve Italian sauce in a sauce- boat. Fricassee of Fowls a la Paysanne.—Cut a few onions, carrots, and celery-roots into either small pieces or very thin slices, and put them in a saucepan with a little olive oil, a head of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Care must be taken that the vegetables used are fresh and tender. Cut up two Fowls each into five pieces, put the legs in the saucepan over the vegetables,'sprinkle in cayenne to taste, add a little sauce, and set the pan over a good fire for five minutes or so to cook ; then take the pan off the fire, cover it, and put it in a hot oven, so that the legs will be slowly and thoroughly done. Turn them frequently, and then add the fillets and pieces of the breasts, and a couple of large tomatoes, with the seeds taken out and each one cut into six parts. Cover the pan over again, return it to the oven, and let it remain for fifteen minutes longer : take it out, and place the pieces of chicken-meat in a pile on a dish. Remove the fat from the liquor, take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and put in a few blanched olives; thicken with a little melted glaze, boil up once, add a small quantity of finely-minced tarragon-leaves, pour all over the chicken in the dish, and serve. Fricassee of Fowls a la Heine.—Cut up two Fowls each into twelve pieces of equal size, and place them in a large saucepan with lqt. of cold water on a brisk fire; as soon as it comes to the boil, thoroughly skim, season with salt, pepper, two cloves, and one bay-leaf, also a bouquet garni. Boil slowly for twenty- five minutes, then take out the pieces of Fowl. Put l£oz. of butter into another pan, let it melt on the hot stove, add to it 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and thoroughly mix with a spoon, while slowly cooking without browning. Strain the broth into a bowl through a sieve, return the pieces of chicken to the saucepan, leaving it at the oven door until wanted. Now add, little by little, the broth to the flour, being careful to stir continually until all is added, and boil for two minutes. Have the yolks of three eggs in a bowl with 1 table-spoonful of butter, ^ gill of cold milk, and just a little cayenne (not more than 3- saltspoonful), squeezing in also the juice of half a lemon; mix all well together, and add it to the sauce, stirring continually. Heat the mixture without boiling, and strain it through a sieve over the chicken. Mix well together, adding two truffles and four mushrooms cut into small dice- shaped pieces ; place the whole on a hot dish, arrange paper ruffles at the ends of the legs, and serve with croutons of fried bread round the dish. Fricassee of Fowl with Milk of Almonds.—Disjoint a Fowl, blanch and trim the pieces, and stew them till tender in 1 pint of veloute sauce and ^ pint of chicken broth. Take out the pieces of Fowl, skim the sauce, reduce till half its original quantity, put in the Fowl, and boil all together. Blanch and pound loz. of sweet almonds, adding- 1 teacupful of milk gradually while pounding, and press them through a sieve into a basin. Take the fricassee off the fire, let it stand for two or three minutes to cool a little, stir in the milk of almonds, dish, and serve. Fricassee of Fowls with Rice.—Singe and draw two Fowls, and cut them into five parts; trim the necks, pinions, and backs, cut them up, and soak them in cold water, with the other parts of the Fowls, for fifteen minutes; then drain and put them in a stewpan, cover with warm water, add Fowls—continued. a wineglassful of Madeira, a few mushroom trimmings, and a little salt. When the water boils, skim it carefully. Take the breasts and wings out as soon as the flesh of them is set, and leave the remainder till half done. Take out the legs and other pieces of Fowls, trim them, and put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, two onions, and J-lb. of ham cut in dice. Sprinkle in a little flour, and fry for ten minutes ; add the liquor in which the Fowls were cooked, five or six cloves and peppercorns, a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 gill of Madeira; boil the sauce till reduced to ono-third its original quantity ; add the legs and breasts and one dozen button-mushrooms, and boil for twelve minutes. Skim the sauce, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs beaten with a little cream, but do not let it boil again. Squeeze in a little lemon-juice, add a lump of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Make a mound of boiled rice, turn the fricassee on it, garnish with a border of mush- rooms and cocks’ combs alternately, and serve with the sauce in a tureen. Fricassee of Fowls with Rice Border.—Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, cut them each into five parts—that is, two legs, two fillets, and the breast—break up the backs, chop up the necks and pinions, and put them all into cold water for ten or fifteen minutes. Drain them, put them into a saucepan, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and sufficient warm water to cover, add a few mushroom trimmings, season with salt, and bring the liquor to the boil, skimming fre- quently. When the flesh of the wings and breasts is set, take them out; and when the legs are about lialf-cooked, turn the whole out into a colander. Dip the legs quickly into cold water, put them without the fillets and breasts into another saucepan with a little butter, two small sliced onions, and ^lb. of small pieces of ham; set the pan over the fire, and cook for a few minutes; dust over with flour, pour in the liquor in which they were parboiled, season with cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, place the saucepan on the fire with the lid on, and boil until the liquor is reduced by one-third; now add the breasts and wings and twelve or fifteen button-mushrooms, and boil for twelve minutes longer; skim off the fat, remove the pan to the side, thicken with the yolks of three eggs, without boiling, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, add a small lump of butter, and a little each of chopped parsley and grated nutmeg. Have ready a fluted border-mould filled with rice, turn it out on a dish, put the fillets in the centre (see Fig 778), pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Fried Fillets of Fowl.—(1) Take the fillets from young birds, cut them along the thick part but not enough to sever them, fill up the cavity with a little cooked sweet herbs, and close the hole by luting it with uncooked forcemeat. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, and put them first into whipped egg, then breadcrumbs, and lastly melted butter ; place them on the fire in a frying-pan, and fry to a good colour, turning them frequently. Place them in a circle on a dish, and fill the centre with small quenelles. Pour over a little brown sauce finished with glaze, and serve more of the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut off some fillets of Fowls, lard each one with four large strips of pork, and sprinkle over pepper and salt to season. Take each one separately, dip it first in egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry for about ten minutes or until done. When all