599 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Flounders—continued. petre and 4oz. of salt to every gallon of water, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about six minutes or longer, according to the size of the fish, but taking care that it does not break. Take it out carefully, place it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serre with a sauceboatful of melted butter. (2) Clean and cut two Flounders in halves, put them in a fish-kettle with an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a lump of salt, a few cloves and peppercorns, and sufficient boiling water to cover them. Boil them until tender, then drain, put them on a dish, garnish with red cabbage, pour shrimp sauce over them, and serve. Flounder Boudins.—Remove the skin and bones from some Flounders, and pound the flesh in a mortar; mix with it half its quantity of bread panada and a quarter its quantity of butter. Work the mixture well, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix with it ^ teacupful of bechamel sauce, and bind it with beaten eggs, allowing twice as many yolks as whites. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and steam them for twenty minutes. Turn the boudins on to a hot dish, pour white sauce round, and serve. Flounder au G-ratin. — Prepare and clean the fish as for boiling, put it in an oval gratin-pan with loz. of soft butter spread over it, pour over ^ pint of white wine, and season with salt and pepper ; then pour over £ pint of Italian sauce, and sprinkle the top thickly with bread-raspings. Place the pan on the fire for five minutes to start the boiling, and then put it in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When done, serve, leaving it in the pan in which it was cooked. Flounder Salad.— Clean a Flounder weighing between 31b. and 51b. When boiled, drain it, remove all the skin and bone, flake the flesh with two forks, and put it into a basin. Mix some oil and vinegar together, allowing the oil to pre- dominate ; season to taste, pour it over the fish, and let it soak in it for about kalf-an-kour. At the end of that time put the fish on a colander or fine-hair sieve to drain. Wash a cabbage-lettuce, pull the leaves apart, and put them in a salad-bowl; put in the fish. Pour some remoulade sauce over the salad, sprinkle some chopped hard-boiled eggs and some picked shrimps or prawns on the top, and serve. Flounder Water-soucliet. — Remove the heads and tails from a quantity of small Flounders, and cut the fish into moderate-sized pieces; put the trimmings into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, plenty of cold water, salt and pepper to taste, and a small piece of mace. Boil the above ingredients until the liquor is well flavoured, then strain it through a fine sieve into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of fish, and boil them very gently until tender. Put some finely-chopped parsley in with the fish just before removing it from the fire. When cooked, lay the pieces of fish in a hot dish, pour over a sufficient quantity of their cooking-liquor to cover them, garnish with lemon cut in slices and parsley (see Fig*. 756), and serve at once, accom- panied with thin slices of brown bread-and-butter. Fricassee of Flounders.—Clean and thoroughly wash one or two Flounders, carefully remove the fillets, dust them over with salt and flour, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them. . Finely chop one dozen oysters, put them with then- liquor into a saucepan, pour in a tumblerful of white wine, add also three boned anchovies, and salt, pepper, and grated Flounders—continued. nutmeg to taste. Lot them cook gently for two or three minutes, then put in the fillets, give the pan a shake, warm all up together, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish. Fried Flounders. — Select a few small fish, clean and prepare them as for boiling, score them over the back, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, dip them into milk, and cover well with flour; or dip them in egg and bread- crumbs, pot them into a frying-pan of hot fat, and fry them for four minutes ; then bring the fat to the boil, and fry for three minutes longer. Take them out, drain, dost them over with a little salt, put them on a napkin on a hot dish, and serve with a garnish of halves of lemon and fried parsley. Mirotou of Flounders. -Clean some Flounders, cut each one lengthwise into halves, and remove the small bones; place the flesh on a buttered dish, sprinkle over with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, green onions, mushrooms, and parsley, all finely chopped, a few bread-raspings, and a little butter. Place them in the oven, and when they are baked sufficiently drain off the butter, and pour over them some Italian or caper sauce, with 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies in each pint of sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon. Ne-wliaven Mode of Cooking- Flounders. —Well wash and dry as many fish as are required; sprinkle them with flour seasoned with salt and pepper, then brush them over with egg, and dust them with coarse Scotch oatmeal, repeating the operation so as to have them thickly covered, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley for garnish. FLOUR (Ft. Farine; Ger. Melil; Ital. Farina; Sp. Harina).—The finer qualities are known respectively as Fleur de Farine, Seine Mehl, Flor de Farina, and Flor di Harina, the term Flour being evidently a corruption of flower, that being the finest part of the plant. Blyth describes Flour as being the meal of wheat, and of the seeds of some of the Leguminosse, finely ground and “dressed”; but in a culinary sense we have but one “ Flour,” and that is wheat-flour, all other Flours being qualified by a name, such as cornflour, potato-flour, and others. According to the scheme laid down for producing this EncycloiDsedia, Flour should properly be described under wheat, as cornflour and others are under their specific headings; but as the term, when used by itself, admits of only one kind as the staple commodity, this is described here. There are several varieties of Flour, depending chiefly upon the proportion of bran they contain, and the com- parative sizes of the meshes of the sieves through which they have passed; thus we have fine wheat-flour (Fleur de Farina, &c.), commonly known as pastry- or biscuit- flour, or best whites. Then there will be middlings, seconds, pollard, country households, and some others, according to the fancy of the miller, and mode of “ dressing.” When wheat is ground it increases nearly double in bulk, and a good grain w.ould consist of 38J parts of fine flour, 8 parts of pollard, and 12 parts of bran, these being separated by sifting, or dressing, which is thus described by an expert: “ The process of dressing is by a wire cylinder containing a certain number of sheets of different texture or fineness, which cylinder contains eight hair brushes attached to a spindle, passing through the centre of the cylinder, and laid out so as to gently touch the wire. This cylinder is fed by a ‘ shoe ’ with the meal; then the Flour and ‘ offal,’ after passing through the wire in this way, are divided by wooden partitions fixed close to the outside of the cylinder.” The product of the first operation is: 1, Flour ; 2, white stuff or boxings, or sharps; 3, fine pollard; 4, coarse pollard, or horse pollard; 5, bran. The second product (white stuff) is then submitted to another dressing, through a fine cloth machine, and then yields : 1, fine