529 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. DUBBERS.—These are Indian bottles used for holding ghee, oil, and other things. They are made of gelatine, prepared by boiling cuttings of skin, and shaping them on earthen moulds. They are sometimes spelled Duppas. DUCAT-NUDELS.—See Nouilles. DUCHESSE SOUP.—See Soups. DUCKS (Fr. Canards; Ger. Enten; Ital. Anitre; Sp. Anades).—There are so many kinds of Ducks, most of them edible, requiring such a variety of culinary treatment, that it is advisable to treat them under various headings, confining this article to the domestic Duck and Duckling (Anas bosclias). Of the numerous kinds and breeds in the market, none are superior to the famous large white Aylesbury Ducks. They are bred in great numbers by cottagers in Bucking- hamshire, and some other counties to which the breed has been imported, and as they sometimes weigh as much as 71b. or more, they are of great value to the breeders and the cook. Other kinds of Ducks may be mistaken for these when the feathers are plucked, even by tbe greatest epicures, for the taste of most tame Ducks is indistinguishable one from the other. It is only by their great size when quite young, and beautiful white plumage, that real Aylesbury Ducks can be selected. Ducks are in season all the year round, Ducklings com- mencing as early in the year as it is possible to get them large enough to make a dish, and assuming a more mature dignity about the middle of the year. Ducks are obtainable even when Ducklings are in their prime ; but it is admitted that a Duck more than twelve months old is too tough to make a good roast. Young birds can be detected from those over twelve months old by the colour (yellow) of their feet and bills, which snap easily, and are free from hair. These hairs about the bill may be singed off, and the feet cut away in trussing: a Duck prepared in this way before it is sold should arouse suspicion. The feet should be pliable, and the vent firm and full, otherwise it is doubtful if the Duck is as freshly killed as it should be. For instruction as to Trussing and Carving see those headings. Ducks prepared from the following receipts will be found to produce excellent dishes : Boiled Duck.— (1) Rub salt over a Duck and let it remain two days; then boil it in water or stock for thirty minutes. Make a stuffing of breadcrumbs, boiled onions, sage, butter, pepper, and salt, mixed well together. Take out the bird, stuff it, put it again in the saucepan, and boil till done. Serve with a little parsley and butter poured over. (2) Salt the Ducks in the same way as pork is salted, leaving them twenty-four hours in warm weather and forty- eight hours in cold weather ; then put them in a large saucepan, and cover them with water; when it boils, skim, and add sufficient onions to make a sauce. When the onions are done, mash them, put them in another saucepan, and add a little milk or cream, and a pinch of pepper. When the Ducks are done, dish them, pour parsley-and-butter sauce over, and serve, with the other sauce in a sauceboat. Boned Ducks stuffed and served with. Jelly.— Pick out the pin feathers of two Ducks. Let the Ducks be singed, but not drawn; then rip their skins right down the back, and with a very sharp knife sever the flesh and skin from the bones, without cutting' through; chop through the wing and hip joints with a knife, then cut with the boning-knife close to the breast-bone till the flesh of the Duck comes off in one piece. Bone partly down the wings and legs, chop off the ends, wash and dry the meat, lay it on the table skin down- wards, take scraps of meat from the thick parts and spread them over the thin, then sprinkle over a little pepper and salt, and spread forcemeat over. Pull up the two sides together so as to form the shape of the Duck before it was boned, and sew them up strongly with thread; when both Ducks are so prepared, roll each separately in muslin, securing it tightly at the ends and in the middle, and boil from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. When they are done, put them (with the muslin still on) in oblong rounded bowls Ducks—continued. to keep them a good shape, put a dish on the top of each and a weight on that, and leave them to get cold. When ready to serve, take off the muslin, wipe them with a cloth dipped in hot water, trim off the ragged edges, and mask them over with melted butter. Cut the Ducks in slices, and arrange these on a dish with croutons of aspic jelly. Braised Duck.—(1) Draw and clean a large Duck, stuff the breast with bread or meat stuffing, and truss it. Put some slices of fat bacon or a little butter in a stewpan; when melted, place the Duck over it, on its breast first, to give it a little colour, then turn it over. When the back is slightly coloured, surround it with whole vegetables, such as carrots, potatoes, &c.; add salt, pepper, and seasoning, and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, and simmer over the fire till the liquid has reduced to glaze; then add broth and white wine to reach to half the height of the Duck, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and braise it. When done, take out the Duck and vegetables, and reduce the liquor to half-glaze. Untruss the Duck, and dish it. Strain and skim the stock, and thicken it with a little brown sauce. Garnish the Duck with the vegetables, pour a little of the sauce over it, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. See Fig. 670. (2) Slice two onions, and put them between two plates in an oven for two or three minutes; then take them out, chop finely, mix with them 1 dessert-spoonful of sage, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff a small Duck with the preparation, fasten it securely and truss it, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry to a good brown ; then add one onion cut in slices and gravy to half the height of the Duck, and simmer gently, with hot ashes on the lid of the pan. In three-quarters-of- an-hour take out the Duck (but keep it warm), strain and skim the liquor in which it was cooked, and reduce it to half its original quantity. Put the Duck back in the stewpan, and keep it just below simmering-point at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then dish it, and serve with green peas mashed and rubbed through a sieve. This may either be arranged in lumps round the dish or served in a separate dish. (3) Draw and truss a Duck. Line the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, sprinkle in a little chopped parsley, chives, thyme, and lemon-peel; put in the Duck, add a carrot sliced lengthwise, one onion stuck with three cloves, a little pepper and salt, and sufficient white wine and broth in equal parts to cover it. Simmer till done, basting frequently. In the meantime, have ready several slices of turnip fried brown in butter. Take the Duck out, keep it hot, put the turnips in the gravy, and stew them till they are tender. Remove the turnips, and strain and skim the gravy; if not thick enough, add a little flour, and boil. Dish the Duck, garnish with the turnips and other vegetables, pour the gravy over, and serve. (4) Pluck and draw a Duck, singe it, and rub it over with butter that has been slightly warmed, but not oiled; then put it in a stewpan, and turn it about over the fire until lightly browned. Lift the Duck out of the stewpan for a minute, while the bottom is being covered with slices of carrot and onion, celery, two bay-leaves, and a few cloves and leaves of sage, and then lay it on the vegetables back downwards; pour in a small quantity of water, put on the lid with hot embers on top, and cook the contents at the side of the fire until the vegetables are tender. Season with salt, and as the moisture evaporates, pour in more water in small quantities. When the Duck is cooked, take it out of the saucepan, pass the liquor and vegetables through a fine hair sieve, and skim off the fat. Put loz. of butter in a 2 u