TTTE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PE AC TIC AL COOKERY. 690 For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Glaze, and Glazing—continued. (7) Take a knuckle-bone of veal, some of the skin-bone of beef witk a little meat on it, any bones of cooked meat and poultry, a kam-bone, and some rind of bacon, and simmer tkem in a little water for twenty-four kours. Reduce to tke pro- portion of 4 pints to 1 pint. Tke stock must be very carefully skimmed at intervals. A very little seasoning- of pepper and salt only is required, but tke stock must be kept clean and clear. Strain through a hair sieve, and pour it into a pot or jar. This Glaze will keep for any length of time in a dry cold place. Glaze for Cold Fowl.—Put into a saucepan five parts of veloute sauce to one of chicken stock, reduce to a Glaze, thicken witk yolk of, egg, pass through a sieve, and it is ready for use. If too thick, stir in a little veal'jelly. Glaze for a Cold Ham.—The skin having been peeled off a boiled ham, let it get cold, then brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg-, sprinkle thickly over it some grated crumb of stale bread, cover it with a thick cream, and brown in a hot oven. Glazing in this way gives a delicious flavour to a ham. Glaze for Cold Hams and Tongues.—Put half a shin of beef in a saucepan with lgall. of water, and boil it for twelve hours. Boil a knuckle of veal in water until all the goodness is extracted. Strain the liquors from the beef and veal, mix them together, seasoning with moderate quantities of salt, pepper, and cloves, and boil until reduced to 1 pint. Strain the Glaze through a fine hair sieve, and pour it into a jar. When cold, tie it over and keep in a dry place. The Glaze will keep good for ten or twelve months. When using it, a small portion should be warmed, and with a feather brushed over the article intended for glazing. Glaze for Cold Partridges or Woodcocks.—Put into a saucepan five parts of Spanish sauce with one part of game stock, reduce it, pass through a sieve, and stir it into a little brown meat jelly. If kept in a jar in a cool place it will remain good for a long time. Glaze for Turkeys.—Skim off the fat from some meat jelly, put it in a stewpan, and stir over a sharp fire till it is of the consistency of thick cream. Skim it, and strain it into jars, in which it may be kept till wanted for use. Before using, it should be made hot, and brushed over the bird with a paste-brush. Half-Glaze (Demi-glace).—Put 1 pint of veal broth, 1 pint of Spanish sauce, and 3oz. of meat Glaze in a saucepan, and stir J it over the fire. Boil for five minutes, strain it through a fine hair sieve, pour it into jars, cover them with paper, and keep till wanted. Half-Glaze Sauce.—(1) Put 1 pint of clear concentrated veal gravy in a saucepan, mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira and a bunch of sweet herbs, and set the broth over the fire till boiling. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of potato- flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, then mix it in with the broth, and stir till thick. Move the pan to the side of the fire, and let the sauce boil gently till reduced to two-thirds its original quantity. Skim it well, pass it through a silk sieve, and it is then ready for use. (2) Add 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor to 1 pint of Spanish sauce, also 1 wineglassful of Madeira, a bouquet of herbs, and 1 small teaspoonful of pepper. Remove the fat caffefully, and cook for thirty minutes, leaving the sauce in a rather liquid state; then strain, and use when needed. This is used as a substitute for Madeira sauce. Poivrade Glaze.—Put .jib. each of carrots and onions into a stockpot with 1 joz. of shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, a stick of celery, a few sprigs of thyme, two or three bay-leaves, four cloves, loz. of mignonette pepper, two whole cloves of garlic, and lqt. of vinegar. Boil till the vinegar is all reduced, and then pour in ljgalls. of stock. When this boils, move the saucepan to the side, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, and finish as directed for other Glazes. Yellow Glaze for Cakes.—Beat up the white of an egg with 4*oz. of powdered white sugar, add to it by degrees the strained juice of half a lemon, and beat it well, for the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be. When it is white enough, add to it a small quantity of strained infusion of saffron. Grate I Glaze, and Glazing—continued. the yellow rind of a lemon on lumps of sugar, or if the flavour of lemon-peel is liked, the rinds of two lemons may be used. Scrape off the yellow sugar, pound it, and beat it in, being careful however not to put too much, or it will make the Glaze bitter. Some other Glazes will he found under special headings, such as Fowls, -Fish, Game, &c. GLOBE ARTICHOKES.—See Artichokes. GLORIA.—See Coffee. GLOUCESTER CAKES.—See Cakes. GLOUCESTER JELLY.—See Jellies. GLOUCESTER PUDDING.—See Puddings. GLUCOSE.—The technical term for grape-sugar. It is manufactured in large quantities from rice or other starchy matter, and is used to adulterate cane-sugar and make cheap confectionery. GLUTEN. — A peculiar sticky substance found in grains of wheat. It gives by its presence tenacity to flour, and assists in the manufacture of macaroni, vermicelli, and other similar pastes. It is exceedingly nutritious, and flour containing an unusually large proportion of it is made into loaves (see Bread) and delicacies suitable principally for persons of weak digestion. Gluten Gems.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Gluten in a basin, mix into it one egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and make it into Fig. 851. Gluten Gems. a light paste with 1 pint of milk or water. Put the mixture into well-buttered small pans, place them in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When done, turn them out, and serve. See Fig. 851. Gluten Mush.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Gluten in a basin, mix in j teaspoonful of salt, and make it into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Add l pint of boiling water, stir it in well, pour it into a saucepan, and boil for twenty minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve with cream. Gluten Wafers.—Dissolve 1 saltspoonful of salt in 1 teacupful of milk, and stir in sufficient Gluten to make a stiff paste. Knead it well, roll it out very thin, and cut into round shapes with a biscuit-cutter; put these on a tin (not greased), bake a delicate brown colour in a moderate oven, and serve. GNOCCHI.—These famous Italian “ dumplings ” are now accepted as general favourites in all civilised coun- tries. As will be seen by the following receipts, they admit’ of great diversity of manufacture: French Gnocchi.—Put -jib. each of chicken forcemeat and choux paste into a basin, and work it well with a spoon, adding gradually a little grated Parmesan cheese. Take it out in small quantities with a table-spoon, drop it on to a board with a little flour sprinkled over it, and roll these into the shape of quenelles. Put them into a saucepan of boiling- water, and when they are thoroughly poached place them on a vegetable-dish in layers. Grate over a little Parmesan cheese, pour a little gravy and melted butter over each layer, and especially over the top one, set them to heat in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and serve. Fried Gnocchi.—Mix jib. of flour smoothly with 1 pint of milk and four well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with powdered cinnamon, and add a small quantity of salt. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire in one direction until thickened; then