676 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, rbe,, referred to, see under their special heads. Giblets—continued. or six leeks in pieces, blanch in salted water, drain, and add them to the broth. When the leeks and Giblets are thoroughly cooked, skim the broth, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve hot. Giblet Stuffing' for Turkeys.—Put the Giblets in a sauce- pan over the fire with boiling water to cover, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of salt and J saltspoonful of pepper and boil gently until they are tender. Save the water in which the Giblets were boiled to use for gravy. Chop the Giblets quite fine, put them in a frying-pan over the fire, with 4oz. of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs, and a good seasoning of ' salt, pepper, and any powdered sweet herb except sage; stir all these ingredients together until they are light brown, add 1 wineglassful of sherry or Madeira wine, and the forcemeat is ready for use. Haricot of Giblets.—Wash the Giblets of any bird, and scald and blanch them in a pan of hot water; take them out, drain, wrap up in slices of bacon, put them in a sauce- pan, pour over a little broth to moisten them, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve with brown sauce. Stewed Giblets.—(1) Clean, wash, and dry the Giblets from three or four birds, flour them all over, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry. Take the gizzards, clean them, remove the inside hard skin, cut up into slices, and put them into a saucepan with six onions cut up and fried, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper; add the other Giblets and sufficient stock or water to cover them, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour or so until they are quite done. Take them out, strain, and skim the stock. Pass the onions through a fine sieve, and mix them with 1 table-spoonful of boiled flour ; stir this into the stock, boil up again, add the Giblets, and when they are quite hot, serve either with a few force- meat balls or a puree of green peas or haricot beans, or plain. (2) Clean some goose or duck Giblets, put them into a saucepan with a small onion, some black pepper, and a bunch of sweet hei'bs; pour over a little water, and let them stew slowly till nearly done; add salt to taste, and a very small quantity of mace, and, if they require it, a little more pepper. When the Giblets are quite tender, give them one boil in | pint of cream thickened with flour and butter, and serve hot. (3) Clean a set of Giblets, cut them up, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of gravy, a seasoning of allspice, salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, sage, and a chopped onion ; stew till tender, take them out, plunge into cold water, and trim off any objectionable parts. Strain the gravy back into the saucepan, thicken with a liaison of flour and butter, pour in a wineglassful of sherry, put back the Giblets, warm them up, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Any Giblets may be used. Prepare them, cleaning thoroughly, put them in a stewpan with sufficient well- flavoured clear beef stock to cover, and let them simmer gently until tender. Put the Giblets on a dish and strain the stock into a basin. When the liquor has cooled, skim off all the fat, pour it into a saucepan, put in a sufficient quantity of dried split peas, and boil until very soft. Put the Giblets in with the peas to warm up again, and season with salt and pepper to taste. When ready, turn the Giblets and peas on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. GIGOT.—This term is commonly used in Scotland, and is the French for a leg of mutton. It is probably derived from the Old French gigue—a fiddle, in allusion to its shape. Sometimes the word is spelled Giggets, signifying small slips or slices of any kind of flesh. GILANG.—A Malayan fermented liquor made from rice. GILXAS.—This is the German term for delicately- flavoured kirschwasser and liqueur drinks, mostly affected by German ladies. They are so called after a celebrated manufacturer of liqueurs in Berlin named Gilka. GIMBLETTES. — These are very tasty French biscuits made in the form of rings. Beat up three eggs, mix them thoroughly with 4oz. of sifted sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls of rasped lemon-peel, and then add 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, making a paste neither too stiff nor too soft for rolling well; roll this out |in. thick, stamp out rounds 2in. in diameter with a paste-cutter, and cut out the centre with a lin. diameter cutter, so as to form rings. Have ready a large stewpan of boiling water, and throw the rings in one at a time, removing with a skimmer as soon as they rise to the surface ; drain them on a napkin, and put them on oiled baking-sheets to bake in a moderately hot oven. When nearly done, lightly brush them over with white of egg, and put them back into the oven for a few minutes to dry. GIN.—This word is a contraction of Geneva, by which term it is also known as a corruption of genievre, the French for juniper. The original Gin, we are informed by Blyth, is a soft rich spirit, flavoured chiefly with juniper-berries, and for some time wholly obtained from Holland, and known as Hollands, or Hollands Gin. The Gin now met with in commerce is a very different liquid to that formerly imported. In Holland it is made solely from unmalted rye and barley malt, rectified with juniper- berries. In Britain Gin is for the most part obtained from a mixture of malt and barley; molasses and corn being sometimes employed, particularly when there is a scarcity of grain ; and it is not only flavoured with juniper-berries, but with oil of turpentine, creosote, fusel- oil, various aromatic substances, liquorice powder, orange- peel, and several other matters. Sulphuric acid may also be added to give the spirit a sparkling appearance, tech- nically termed a “ bead.” Cooley tells us that turpentine conveys a plain-gin flavour; juniper-berries or oil gives a Hollands flavour; creosote imparts a certain degree of smokiness, or whisky flavour; lemon and the other aromatics, a creaminess, fulness, and richness. The flavour imparted by carda- moms, when used judiciously, is peculiarly agreeable and appropriate; that from caraways is held in general esteem; cassia in extremely small proportions also tells well. Fusel-oil gives a whisky-gin flavour; and in conjunction with creosote or crude pyroligneous acid, a full whisky flavour. The only danger in the employment of all these ai-ticles, Cooley further observes, is in using too much of them. Creaminess in Hollands results from age, and the English distiller tries to imitate this by adding sugar; hence we have “sweetened” and “unsweetened” Gins. Other Gins take their names from certain traits in their manufac- ture or localities: thus, we have in addition to the two already mentioned, Cordial Gin, Fine Gin, Grog Gin, London Gin, West Country Gin, and Old Tom. Genuine Gin is made by distillation, but there are some kinds in the market made by dissolving flavouring ingredients in plain spirit. The following receipt gives instructions for preparing a very fair imitation: Steep 4oz. of angelica and 11 lb. of juniper-berries in a bottle with lgall. of spirit, leaving them for a fortnight ; then filter the liquor into another bottle, and add |oz. each of spirit of capsicum and spirit of coriander, mixing them well in. Turn this into a cask containing figalls. of over- proof silent or plain spirit, add a little alum finings reduced with water, bung up, and use in a few weeks’ time. Should the Grin be required sweet, add before the finings lgall. of syrup made with 81b. of sugar boiled in lgall. of water, taking care to have it well skimmed, and adding it when quite cold Gin and Cloves Nip.—Clove cordial and Gin in equal propor- tions to fill a wineglass. Gin Punch.—(1) Put 3qts. of thin syrup into a bowl, drop in Joz. of essence of lemon, stir well, and add in the order given, \oz. of essence of Gin, 1 breakfast-cupful of clarified lime-juice, and goz. of tincture of cloves. (2) Put the rind of a lemon in £ pint of old Gin to infuse, and then add 1 gill of maraschino, the juice of