TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 708 For details respect-inn Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Gourmands and Gourmets—continued. Kettner, “ is really a diminutive of groom—a young man, a lad. In its broadest sense it survives in bridegroom. It is peculiarly applied to the young man who looks after horses; and gromet, or grummet is an old sailor’s word for a cabin-boy. In French the word was transposed to gourme, the diminutive being Gourmet—a lad in general, then the wine-merchant’s lad, then a wine-taster, next a good judge of wine, whether professional or not, and lastly anyone with a fine taste and delicate in his feeding.” GOURMET’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. GOURMET’S SOUP.—.See Soups. GRAHAM-FLOUR.—This is a kind of flour that has not been “ bolted,” or passed through a refining sieve after grinding. It is named after one Sylvester Graham, a lecturer on dietetics in America, who argued that the most nutritious part of the wheat was removed by bolting, and others have believed so to this day, preferring coarse-ground, unbolted meal to flour, either for bread-making or any other purpose where nutrition is of consequence. Being somewhat more difficult of digestion than fine flour, it has not met in this country with the favour that it has in the United States. Graham-Flour Bread.—See Bread. Graham-Flour Cakes.—Mix some Graham-Flour with boiling milk to form a light paste, add a little salt, and roll it out about fin. thick; cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, and bake in a hot oven for ten or twelve minutes. If the oven is not hot, the cakes will be heavy. Graham-Flour Crackers. —Mix in lqt. of Graham-Flour 1 breakfast-cupful of Indian-meal and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and stir in sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Boll this out very thin, cut it into squares, and lay them on a baking-sheet; dock them, and bake in a quick oven. The crackers may be sweetened if desired. Graham-Flour Gems. — (1) Put i saltspoonful of salt into 1 pint of water, mix smoothly into it sufficient Graham-Flour to make a stiff batter, add jib. of molasses and 2 table- spoonfuls of the best yeast, and let it stand till it has risen Fig. 872. Graham-Flour Gems. well and is quite light; then put the batter into muffin- rings, and bake in a quick oven. Break them open (see A, Fig. 872), butter, quarter, and serve hot (b), with a cover (c) over. (2) Break six eggs, and stir them till yolks and whites are mixed together, but do not beat them ; then mix in 3 pints of lukewarm milk, and stir in Graham-Flour, adding it 1 spoonful at a time, till it is of a sufficiently thick consis- tence ; then mix in nearly ^lb. of butter warmed very soft and 1 heaped saltspoonful of salt. Continue to beat the batter hard for some time. Bake, and serve as for No. 1. (3) Mix .together pints of milk with enough Graham- Flour to make a batter (warm the milk before mixing the flour with it, but it should not be hotter than lukewarm) ; then mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, loz. of butter warmed very soft, and three well- beaten eggs. Pour the batter into heated muffin-rings. Bake, and serve as for No. 1. Graham-Flour—continued. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Graham-Flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of sugar and l- teaspoonful 'of salt. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of milk ; then stir it gradually into the flour, &c., also 1 breakfast-cupful of water, mixing the whole to a smooth paste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients. Butter some gem-pans, fill them with the mixture, put into a very hot oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the gems out of the tins, and place them on a dish. Graham-Flour Griddle Cakes.—Mix 1 pint of milk, scalded and cooled, with 1 breakfast-cupful each of Graham-Flour and wheat-flour and I breakfast-cupful of liquid yeast. Set this to rise overnight. In the morning-, add % teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of molasses, and I saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. If too thick, add a little warm water. Form the paste into cakes, and cook them on a griddle. These are considered more wholesome than buckwheat cakes. Graham-Flour Muffins.—See Muffins. Graham-Flour Mush.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Graham- Flour in a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and form it into a smooth paste with a small quantity of cold water; then mix in gradually nearly lqt. of boiling water. Turn the whole into a saucepan, and boil it for twenty minutes, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When cooked, turn the mush on to a dish, and serve it with cream and sugar. Graham-Flour Soup.—Wash and trim one head of celery, scrape three carrots, and peel three onions and four turnips ; chop these, put them in a saucepan over the fire with 3qts. of water, and let them simmer. Parboil a small head of cabbage in water in which a piece of common soda the size of a pea has been dissolved, then chop it fine, and when the other vegetables have simmered for half-an-hour add it to them. Let all simmer for a-quarter-of-an-liour longer, add 1 pint of stewed tomatoes and a small bunch of sweet herbs, and let the whole boil hard for twenty minutes. Strain it through a colander, put the soup into the pan again, stir in loz. of butter and 1 teacupful of milk thickened with Graham-Flour, and sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste. Let it boil up, and it is ready to serve. Graham-Flour Wafers.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of wheat and Graham-Flour into a basin, and rub 1| teacup- fuls of butter in it. IVhen quite smooth, add 1 saltspoonful of salt and f breakfast-cupful of sugar, stirring in g-radually sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Sprinkle some flour over the table, place the dough on it, roll it out very thin, and then cut it into squares. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the squares of dough on it, and bake them in a quick oven. Graham-Flour Waffles.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat- flour in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of Graham-Flour. Mix § breakfast-cupful of yeast in 1 pint of milk, then stir it gradually in the flours, mixing till quite smooth. Beat the yolks of two eggs, mix them in the batter, then add the well-whisked whites, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, also 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter. Let the mixture stand for several hours. Heat some waffle-irons and grease them, placing sufficient of the mixture in each of the compartments to about two-thirds fill them ; cover, and cook for one minute on one side, then turn and cook a little longer on the other. Serve the waffles with butter while hot. GRAINS OF PARADISE.—These are also known as “ Guinea grains,” “ Malaguetta pepper,” and other names. They are the seed of the Amomurn Melegueta, an African plant of the ginger family. They are hot, acid, and aromatic, and in other properties somewhat similar to other peppers. In some parts of the world they are used as a condiment, but are chiefly used in this country to give a fictitious taste of alcoholic strength to wine, beer, spirits, and vinegar. GRAND CHAMPAGNE. — The name given to the finest Cognac, or Eau de Vie Superieuse.