549 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. the fish and macaroni, place the cockles round the dish in small gToups, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Stewed Conger Eel with Curry Sauce.—Remove the skin and cut into fillets a thick piece of Conger Eel, soak these for an hour in salted vinegar, rinse them, wipe dry, and divide into square pieces. Chop a large onion and brown it in butter; then put in the pieces of fish, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes ; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful each of flour and curry-powder, and cook for a few minutes longer; add sufficient water and white wine to cover the fish, put in some spices and a bunch of parsley, and cook for five minutes or till the water begins to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently until the fish is done. Remove the bunch of parsley, take out the fish, thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, strain it through a conical strainer over the fish, and serve. EELPOUT (Fr. Lotte ; Ger. Aalraupe).—This remark- able fish (Zoarces viviparus) partakes something of the character of an eel, combined with that of a larger fish Fig. 693. Eelpout or Burbot. (see Fig. 693). It is found in European and some American rivers, where it attains a considerable size. It is not much of a favourite with cooks, the flesh being some- what hard and coarse. By many it may be better known as the Burbot, or by some of its numerous aliases, as Greenbone, Guffer, Bard, Maroona Eel, Lote, and others. It has the very remarkable peculiarity, for a fish, of producing its young alive. Boiled Eelpouts a la Parisienne.—Scrape, clean, and well wash three or four Eelpouts, put them into a saucepan with sufficient mirepoix sauce to moisten them, and cook slowly until done. In the meantime, chop up the livers, and make them hot in a saucepan with oyster sauce. Place the fish on a dish, pour the oyster sauce over them, and serve very hot. Boiled Eelpout a la Prusse. -Put a large slice of fat ham, weighing 4oz. to 6oz., into a saucepan, and warm it until the fat commences to run ; then pour over 2 tumblerfuls of champagne and 1 teacupful each of strong rich gravy and brown thicken- ing, and add a bunch of parsley, an onion cut in slices, and a few chives and laurel-leaves ; place the pan on a rather quick fire, and boil for an hour. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add a scraped and cleaned Eelpout, without the liver, well sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and cook until done. Place the fish on a dish, reduce the sauce, pour it over, and serve. Eelpout-Liver Pie.—Cold.—Blanch the livers of four Eelpouts in hot water that has been slightly acidulated with either vinegar or lemon-juice, drain, put them in cold water till cold, cut into small square pieces, put in a basin with seven or eight raw truffles that have been peeled and cut into quarters, dust some salt and spices over both livers and truffles, pour in about 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and let them soak a short time. Put the trimmings of the livers in a mortar with a few chopped anchovies and three raw truffles, and pound them all together. Chop lib. of bacon and about fib. of pike-flesh, put in the mortar, and pound them; then mix with the other pounded articles. Season the forcemeat to taste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Butter the interior of a cold pie-mould, then stand it on a baking-sheet that has been covered with thick paper, line it with short-paste, mask it at the bottom and sides with the forcemeat, and fill with alternate layers of the livers, truffles, and forcemeat, building it to a dome shape. The last layer in the pie should be forcemeat. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trimming it round the edges, moistening and pressing these together. Gather the trimmings Eelpout—continued. of the paste up together, roll out the mass, and shape out of it a few imitation leaves ; arrange these on the top of the pie ; make a small hole in the centre, cover the opening with a small round of paste, brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and put it in a moderate oven. When the pie has been in the oven ten minutes, cover it over with a sheet of paper, and finish baking for nearly two hours. When cooked, remove the paper, and leave the pie for half-an-hour ; then pour in at the top f pint of warmed aspic jelly in which 1 wineglassful of sherry has been mixed. When quite cold, put the pie on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a cold dish, garnish it with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Eelpout Soup. —Take two Eelpouts, selecting those whoso bellies are enlarged by their livers swelling. Remove the livers, clean well, put them in water to steep, and then put them into acidulated boiling water to blanch. Cut the Eelpouts transversely, dust the pieces over with salt, and leave them for an hour to macerate. Take three onions, two celery-roots, and three carrots ; chop them up fine, and fry them until cooked; then add one tench, one perch (cleaned and cut into pieces), and the tail parts and jowls of the Eelpouts. Put these into a saucepan, and add 1 bottle of white wine, fgall. of water, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; set the pan on the fire, and boil continually until the fish is done ; then pour the soup through a sieve into another saucepan, take off the fat, and let it get nearly cold. Clarify the soup by adding a mixture consisting of 4 table-spoonfuls of caviare or raw fish-flesh with the whites of two eggs pounded together, the juice of two lemons, and a little wine. Put the pan with the broth again on the fire, and work it well with a whisk until it boils; then put it on the side for a couple of minutes, pass it through a napkin, and keep it hot in a basin. Put a little celery-root, finely shred, into a pan with two roots of parsley, a leek finely minced, and a little butter, and fry them, but not sufficiently for them to colour; when they are getting dry, add a little broth, and reduce to a glaze. When all the vegetables are done, add them to the soup, and then add the pieces of fish, washed and wiped dry; let the soup boil up, and then put it at the side of the fire to simmer for ten or twelve minutes. Take out the fish, drain and wipe nearly dry, cut them into thin slices, put them in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over. Stewed Eelpouts. —(1) Clean and wash two or three Eelpouts, put them into a saucepan with butter, warm them, add a moistening of white wine and a seasoning of blanched onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. When the fish are nearly done, add the well-washed livers and a little carp’s roe, place the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the fish are done. Put each fish on a piece of toast on a dish, and serve with the liquor poured over them. (2) Clean and wash two or three Eelpouts, put their livers into a saucepan with a little butter and flour, and brown them. Add the fish, together with a few fine herbs and mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and pour over sufficient white wine to moisten. Place the saucepan over the fire, and cook slowly until they are done. When the fish are ready, put them on a dish, with the mushrooms for garnish, pour the sauce through a fine sieve over them, and serve. EGGS (Fr. (Eufs ; Ger. Eier; Sp. Huevos; Ital. Uova). —The origin of the term as used in our language may be said to be Old English, that is to say Anglo-Saxon, derived from Icelandic, or some such source, and applies to the unhatched young of all kinds of life, whether birds, fish, reptiles, or insects. In cookery, the Eggs of birds are chiefly used, although those of some reptiles, especially of the turtle, are considered worthy of considerable attention. In this article reference is made exclusively to Eggs in general use, whether fowl’s, duck’s, turkey’s, or, more rarely, those of geese. Special Eggs, or those requiring special treatment, such as Guinea fowl’s, plover’s, &c., are treated under their specific headings. Eggs are very nutritious and easily digested. They contain necessarily all the nutriment that is required for the construction of the young chick, and by the peculiarities of their constitution, hardening by the