524 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Dish-covers—continued. recommended for vegetables, soups, and other smaller dishes. A very useful kind of Dish-cover for summer Fig. 657. Wire-gauze Cover. use is one made of line wire gauze (see Fig. 657). This will keep flies off meat and other foods. DISHING-UF (Fr. Dressage).—There is no other language in the world possessing a word which so exactly expresses the action of Dishing-up as the French. Dressage implies more than the mere setting of a joint upon a dish—it signifies that the art of the cook is called into action in arranging, decorating, and garnishing, to render meats convenient for serving, and pleasing to the sight. If well cooked they are sure to be of an appetising odour and taste; and then the work, so far as the kitchen is concerned, is complete. But this cannot be accomplished for a meal of even moderate pretensions without some considerable display of talent, judgment, and discretion, which a cook may acquire in a measure by practice and experience, provided these advantages are accompanied by intelligence. The first great care is that all those foods that are cooking shall be ready for Dishing-up at the same time ; that joints shall not be kept back for vegetables, or entrees kept waiting for sauces. The plan of the service must be so perfectly schemed that when the time comes there shall be no hurrying and scurrying to get ready one single little item that might have been attended to before. For a large dinner there are so many varieties to dress, that unless the cook has everything ready at hand for the purpose, the confusion in the kitchen will be great, and the delays between courses or removes will be awkward for the host, whose table should be kept with a con- tinuous supply of viands, not a perceptible break or interval occurring to mar the occasion. It is not necessary to continue the subject under this heading, as it is one that, technically treated, must be almost illimitable, various instructions depending upon the size of the meal, the constituents, the assistance available, and the apparatus at hand. All these things the good cook will duly consider. See cdso Garnishes. DISINFECTANTS.—In a properly-conducted and thoroughly-cleansed kitchen there should be no necessity to use Disinfectants. Cleanliness is the best Disinfectant of all; although the free use of Disinfectants is not only admissible, but required for the purification of sinks and drains down which greasy washings have been poured, or water in which vegtables or other matter subject to putrefaction have been boiled. Under these circumstances, a free use of chlorinated lime or carbolic powder is advisable. DISTILLATION.—This is described as the process by which evaporation by heat and subsequent condensation of the vapour is effected. The art belongs to the spirit maker, and does not apply to cookery. DOLMAS.—See Cabbages. DOME-MOULDS.—These are much used by cooks for a variety of purposes. They are made either with Fig. 658. Dome-mould. (see Fig. 658) or without a shoulder. Those which are quite plainly domed may be used for puddings (see Fig. 659). They are usually made of copper, but those of stout tin answer very well, and are not so expensive. Patterns resembling quarter- ings, either straight or waved, and other devices, are not un- common. DOMINO CAKES. — See Cakes. DOOFIAJAS.—The literal translation of this Hindustanee term is “ two, or double, onions,” hence it is used to signify forms of curry in which either two kinds, or two Fig 659 Dome.mould (Mode modes of preparing onions, of Tying Cloth over appear in the same dish. More Mould). fat and less water than in the ordinary curry is used, and altogether a very highly- seasoned rich dish results. For four chickens, a leg of mutton, a hind or fore-quarter of kid, or about 81b. of beef, the following ingredients and proportions will be found sufficient: 3oz. of fat, § pint of water, G teaspoonfuls of salt, 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, J teaspoon- ful of ground ginger, I teaspoonful of ground garlic, twelve large onions cut into six or eight slices, and i teaspoonful of ground coriander-seeds if not objected to. Proceed in this way : melt the fat, brown the onions in it, and take them out; add the ground ingredients, and brown them; add the meat and salt, and brown the former; chop up the fried onions, add them with the water, and simmer gently until the meat is tender, and the liquid reduced to a thick consistency. DORADO (Fr. Daurade).—This is a large sea-fish of I the genus Coryphsena. It is described as having a high, long body, edged on the back, and rounding towards the belly. The profile is oval; the skin, reddish over the back and silvery underneath. Eyes very large and staring. The flesh is considered very delicious; it is white, delicate, and has a peculiar aroma. Dorados are mostly caught in spring, as they approach the shore to spawn, and the average weight would be from 81b. to 101b. each, being a very useful size to form a handsome dish. Boiled in court-bouillon with wine is the favourite mode of cooking, and the Dorado should then be served with Genoa sauce; but braised, or boiled in salted water, they are very nice. Small-sized fish may be broiled, and served with maitre-d’hotel butter, or parsley sauce.