668 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dx., referred to, see under their special heads. Garden Parties—continued. time with those pleasing little bonnes bouches, either savoury or sweet, that can be seized and demolished almost unconsciously. The refreshments suitable for a Garden Party will be found bountifully described under Biscuits, Bouchees, Canapes, Panchonettes, Fruit, Galantines, Ices, Jellies, and innumerable other small articles that are pretty and tasty. There will be no need for sandwiches, slices of cake, and such like old-fashioned foods if the hostess can familiarise herself with the good things to be found in every page of this Encyclopedia. Let every care be taken over the garnishes—-not too much of it, but just enough, and a free floral display amongst the dishes. The wines and other liquors will, of course, be of a light and sparkling character, which, with champagne, claret, or other cup, cold and refreshing, will provoke a general feeling of contentment and pleasure, to the credit of the hostess and pride of the host. GARFISH (Fr. Orphie ; Ger. Hornbecht). — The Anglo-Saxon for spear was gar, to which it may be supposed this fish (Belone vulgaris) bears some resern- Fig. 828. Garfish. blance (see Fig. 828). It has been styled Gar, Gerrick, Greenback, Greenbone, Gorebill, Hornfish, Longnose, Mackerel Guide, Sea Needle, and Sea Pike, the meaning of some of these names being sufficiently obvious. It is a European fish of the Tylosurus tribe; but there are numerous very large varieties found along the shores of the Atlantic. By some persons the Garfish is considered a great delicacy. It requires very little cleaning, and is generally boiled as follows : (1) Clean and wash two or three Garfish, cut them up, put them in a dish with a small quantity of finely-chopped sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and a flavouring' of any desired kind; pour over sufficient vinegar, oil, or white wine to moisten, and let them remain for an hour or so. Put them with their liquor into a saucepan, add a little gravy if the liquor should not be sufficient, cover over the pan, set it in a bain-marie, and cook gently until the fish are done. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Prepare and marinade the fish as for No. 1, put them into jars, pour in the liquor to cover them, adding gravy if it should not be sufficient; stand the jars in a saucepan half full of boiling water, and boil until the fish are done, which will take about thirty minutes. Turn the fish out of the jars on to a dish, and serve with anchovy-flavoured butter sauce poured over. GARLIC (Fr. Ail; Ger. Knoblauch; Ital. Aglio ; Sp. Ajo).—There is no other article used in cookery that is so valuable and yet so much despised. It has numerous friends on the Continent, amounting in some provincial parts to enthusiasts, or Garlic gourmands ; but in England the tastes are decidedly inclined towards onions in preference. Garlic (Allium sativum) is a bulb (see Fig. 829) which amidst several membranous sheaths is divided into what are termed cloves—from the word cleave, and not from clavus, a nail, from which the spice i; clove ” is derived. The French call these cloves of Garlic, gousses (pods) d’ail. Garlic—continued. The great art of using Garlic is to so apply it to the dish that it cannot be individually detected, even though supplying the basis of the special flavour desired. Extract of Garlic. -Peel 1 tea- cupful of cloves of Garlic, put them in a bottle, pour in 5 pint of spirits of wine, and cork tightly. Shake the bottle occa- sionally for eight or ten days, and the extract will then be fit for use. A very small quantity of the extract will be found sufficient for flavouring. Garlic Butter. -See Ayoli. Garlic Butter Sauce. — Peel and boil a couple of Garlic as for Garlic Flavouring for Gravies, drain, pound them to a paste in a mortar together with loz. of butter, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and ^ salt- spoonful of pepper; rub the mass through a fine hair sieve, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of butter warmed to melting and the strained juice of a lemon, and it is then ready for use. Fig. 829. Garlic. Garlic Flavouring1 for Gravies. — Peel a few cloves of Garlic, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for five minutes, take out and put them into another pan containing boiling water, and boil for five minutes longer. Continue in this way until the cloves of Garlic are quite tender. Add 1 pinch of salt to the liquor, mix it in with gravy in equal proportions, and it is ready. Garlic Flavouring for a Salad (Chapon).—Cut a thin crust, 2in. long by lin. wide, from a loaf of bread, and sprinkle over a little salt. Rub a peeled clove of Garlic over both sides of the crust, lay it at the bottom of the salad-bowl, place the salad over, and stir it about. Garlic Sauce.—(1) Remove the peel from some Garlic, separate them into cloves, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil ■for five minutes ; change the water three times, boiling for five minutes in each. Strain off the water, add white sauce to the cloves, boil up, and serve. The strength of the flavour is determined by the length of boiling, as the longer it boils the weaker it will be. The Garlic, if properly cooked, will have an almond taste. (2) French.—Pound the peeled cloves of Garlic in a mortar, adding sweet-oil to give it the appeai-ance and consistency of cream ; it is then ready for use, and is generally eaten with roasted or boiled meats. Garlic as a Vegetable. -Peel some Garlic, divide them into cloves, and boil for five minutes in water; change the water and boil again, repeating the process twice more, or four times in all. Drain, and serve hot in a vegetable-dish. Garlic Vinegar.— (1) Peel and chop foz. of Garlic, pound three cloves, and grate half a nutmeg; put them all into a bottle, pour over 1 pint of vinegar, cork the bottle, shake it every day for a week, strain, put it into small bottles, and cork securely. It is then ready for use. (2) Chop 2oz. of Garlic, put it into a large bottle, and pour over lqt. of vinegar. Cork the bottle up, and let it remain for ten days, giving- it a shake daily. Let it settle, and pour off the clear liquor into smaller bottles. It is a very powerful flavouring, and a few drops will be quite sufficient to flavour 1 pint of gravy. Pickled Garlic.— (1) Remove the skin from lib. of Garlic, divide them into cloves, put them on a flat dish or board, and sprinkle over with salt. Let them remain for two or three days ; then wipe, and put them in the open air to dry. Put loz. each of peppercorns and bruised mustard-seed into a saucepan with lqt. or more of vinegar and a little salt, set the pan on the fire, boil, skim well, and plunge the Garlic in, taking care that it is entirely covered with the vinegar. Let it remain in for three minutes, allow the liquor to cool, and put it in a large jar. Tie the jar down securely with skin or wet parchment, and it can then be stored ready for use.