THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 550 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. application of sufficient heat, and being comparatively tasteless, ai’e absolutely invaluable to the cook, pastry- cook, and confectioner, even if they may not be con- sidered to be the very mainspring of artistic cookery. They are applied to such a multitude of uses, for making creams, custards, blanc-manges, liaisons, sauces, cakes, pancakes, omelets, pastes, icing, clarifying, and a host of other good things, that one naturally wonders what cookery would be without them. The composition of an Egg is said to be: White. Yolk. Nitrogenous (flesh-forming) matter.. . 20-4 16-0 Fatty matter ... — 30-7 Saline ... 1G 1-3 Water ... . 78-0 52-0 100-0 100-0 From the foregoing table it will be seen that the white contains more flesh-forming material than the yolk, but the latter consists of nearly one-third fat, which is not found in the white at all. This is accounted for by the fact that the white of the Egg forms the body of the chicken, the yolk filling up the interior as a sort of reserve of stores. The lime necessary for forming the bones of the chicken is absorbed from the shell. By their manner of construction, Eggs are well calcu- lated to preserve an otherwise very changeable or decom- posable material from decomposition. The shell in itself, although exceedingly hard, is freely perforated, hence Eggs kept in musty straw soon taste musty. This shell is lined with a tough membrane; but this also is permeable; nevertheless, the shell receives so much additional assistance from the lining membrane, that its pores are sufficiently closed to resist and keep out the microbes of decomposition for a considerable time. Eggs for cooking should be “fresh,” not necessarily newly laid, but quite free from even incipient decomposi- tion. To ensure this it is as well to have some efficient means of testing them, although a good cook runs no risk of breaking a bad Egg into a basin of others, because each Egg is broken separately into a cup, and added to the others when the cook is assured of its healthy condition. The following rules are given for testing the age of an Egg: hold it to the light, and if it is clear and transparent, that is one sign in its favour; if dark or dull, it should be treated with suspicion; next, dissolve 2oz. of kitchen salt in 1 pint of warm water, and when cold this may be used as a testing fluid. A new-laid Egg will sink to the bottom and stay there; a day or two old, the Egg will rise a little olf the bottom; three days old, half-way; and so on, until a very old Egg projects right out of the surface of the water. Eggs are decomposed by the access of microbes and air absorbed through the shells; the egg-preserver, therefore, exercises his ingenuity to keep these microbes and air out. Various schemes have been proposed, and amongst those which appear to give the best results are : First pack them with the small end down in clean, dry Eggs —continued. salt packed in barrels or tubs, and then set them in a cool, dry situation; or they may be placed in vessels containing milk of lime, alum-water, or strong brine. Some persons cover them with a solution of beeswax or paraffin-wax in warm olive oil—one-third beeswax, two- thirds oil—in which they will keep for more than two years if necessary. Paint- ing them over with liquid gum is also recommended. But however useful this act of preserving Eggs may be so far as ex- ceptional circumstances may require, happily the British cook is so well supplied, that any mode of pre- servation is rather to be discouraged, for there are so many ways of using Eggs that it cannot be necessary to keep them, and such scarcity as to require the use of pre- served Eggs is unknown in this country, enormous quantities being imported from the Continent. When the cook has care- fully broken a certain num- ber of Eggs into a bowl (see Fig. 694), they have to be mixed together, per- haps whites only, or yolks only, and perhaps all to- gether. A very convenient is an Egg-beater, which, whilst resting on the bottom of the basin, mixes them bodily by merely pressing the handle down (see Fig. 695). The lower part, amongst the Eggs, is made up of tin hoops, which revolve rapidly in different directions, and so by just forcing the handle down once or twice—it jumps back with a spring, continuing the revol- ving action of the lioofis as it does so—the Eggs are thoroughly mixed, and the whites and yolks incorpo- rated. For whipping Eggs a whisk is required, and the better kind consists of merely a few loops of strong wire bound into a handle. Since an Egg beaten up with milk has become a favourite nourishing drink amongst teetotalers and others, an instrument for mixing them with- out using an Egg-bowl was found necessary, and led to the invention of the Egg-whip (see Fig. 696). This consists of a cylinder and piston fitted with a perforated disc. The Egg and a little milk are put into the whip, and by forcibly working the piston two or three times the milk and Egg finely mixed can be poured out into the tumbler. The Lightning Egg-beater (see Fig. 697) is worked on a similar principle, and gives most satisfactory results. The following receipts for cooking Eggs do not apply to the innumer- able special dishes in which Eggs are used, nor to Easter Eggs, which are described under that heading. Baked Eggs.—(1) Break the required number of Eggs into a basin one at a time, put them separately on a well-buttered dish, sprinkle over a little salt, and bake them in the oven Fig. 695. Egg-beater (Zeitz and Co.). contrivance for effecting this