640 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sattces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. in another teacupful of broth, place the lid on the pan, and put it on the side of the fire until the peas and chicken-meat J are quite cooked. Take out the meat and put it on a dish; remove the bunch of parsley from the liquor, add a lump of butter to the peas, toss them about in the pan to get well mixed, pour all over the meat, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Mushrooms.—(1) Cut a chicken into pieces, and stew it gently in milk and water in equal parts, with a small quantity of butter added. Put a small lump of | butter into a saucepan on the fire, melt it, add 2 breakfast- cupfuls of button-mushrooms, a seasoning of mace, white pepper, and salt, and stew them. Take out the chicken-meat when done, drain it, put it in the saucepan with the mush- rooms, warm them all up together, and serve. Should more of the sauce be desired, 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet cream may be added to the mushrooms when they are nearly cooked. (2) Fry some fillets of chicken in a little butter, with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and when they are done put them on a dish in the oven to keep warm. Add a little chicken stock to. the butter, thicken with flour, and mix in a few small mushrooms cut in halves. Boil for ten minutes or so, put in the chicken-meat, warm it up thoroughly, and serve. Stewed Fowl and Pork. — Pluck, draw, and singe an old bird, chop off its head, separate the legs from the body, draw out the sinews, stuff the bird with veal stuffing, and truss it. Pour lgall. of water into a saucepan on the fire, season with 3 teaspoonfuls of salt and 1 of pepper, and let the water boil ; then put in the bird, together with all its parts, and add 21b. of salted pork in one piece or cut into quarters, ^lb. of onions, lib. of celery, six peppercorns, and a bouquet of sweet herbs, and boil slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Put 2oz. of butter into a pan, melt it, work in 3oz. of flour, pour in 1 pint of boiling liquor from the Fowl, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. The onions and celery should be cut up into pieces. Boil for about twenty minutes, by which time it should be thick. Place the Fowl and pork on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. The Fowl stock can be used for making either broth or soup. Stewed Fowl and Rice.—(1) Wash 21b. of rice, put it into a saucepan with 2qts. of strong broth, and stew it gently at the side of the fire until tender; then put in with it an onion stuck with three or four cloves and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pluck and draw a large Fowl, and stuff it with a forcemeat mixed with oysters and bacon. Put the Fowl in with the rice and stew it until tender. When cooked, take out the Fowl and keep it hot; stir in quickly with the rice the beaten yolks of three eggs, |lb. of butter, and the strained juice of one lemon. Pour the rice on to a hot deep dish, place the Fowl in the centre, and serve. (2) Draw and truss a Fowl as for boiling, put it in a saucepan, add 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, and a large onion with three cloves stuck in it; cover with water, and stew the Fowl gently for one-and-a-half hours. When done, take out the onion, skim off the fat, pack the rice on a dish, taking care that it is not too sloppy, put the Fowl on it, and serve. (3) Spanish Style.—Clean and prepare a chicken, cut it up in joints, and wipe them well without washing. Put J teacupful of oil or lard into a frying-pan, let it boil, and stir in two cloves of garlic until fried, but without burning; then put in the pieces of chicken, dust them with salt, and stir about in the pan until evenly fried to a golden colour. Now put in a few chopped chillies and one or two small onions, also chopped, and fry them until done, stirring well and fre- quently to prevent burning. Cut four or five large tomatoes into quarters or slices, put them in with the other ingredients, together with 4oz. of cleansed rice, a sprinkling of chopped or dried parsley, and sufficient cold water or weak stock to cover. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, then let it simmer until all the ingredients are quite done, and the grains of the rice separate and not in a pulp. Serve hot. Stewed Fowl and Tarragon Sauce.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Fowl, and truss it as for boiling; stuff it with an onion, 2oz. of butter, and plenty of picked tarragon. Put two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan with a few slices of carrots and onions, the Fowl, a few cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, and salt to taste; moisten Fowls—continued. to height with cold water, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmering gently at the side of the fire until the bird is tender. When cooked, strain a sufficient quantity of the cooking-liquor of the Fowl to make the sauce, and free it from fat. Put a lump of butter about the size of a walnut into a saucepan, and melt it; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and when mixed, pour in the liquor and add plenty of finely-chopped tarragon-leaves. Stir the sauce over the fire, and boil it for ten minutes ; when ready, turn the sauce on to a hot dish, lay the Fowl on it, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Tomatoes.—Cut a Fowl into five pieces, and put the legs, wings, and body part into a flat saucepan with a little oil, two or three small onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of parsley. Place the pan on a moderate fire, and let it remain until the meat is half cooked. Then add the fillets and pieces cut off the breast, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper ; return the pan to the fire, and complete the cooking, giving them a turn over now and again. Take eight or nine large tomatoes, cut them through, remove the seeds, arrange them in a large saucepan with oil, dust them over with salt, and fry first on one side and then on the other ; sprinkle over a little finely-minced parsley, and put the pan over a moderate fire until the tomatoes are cooked. This must be done very gently. Then put them on a dish, and place the pieces of chicken on them. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of good gravy into the saucepan that con- tained the meat, boil for two minutes, pour it over the meat through a conical strainer, and serve. Stewed stuffed Wings of Fowl.—Cut off the wings of three or more Fowls, bone them to the second joint, steep them in water, wipe them, and stuff each one where th ebone has come from with forcemeat. Secure the end of the skin so that the forcemeat will not come out, put them in a stewpan, cover with chicken broth, stew for a short time, dish, and serve. Supreme of Fillets of Fowl. — (1) Select three very fat young birds, clean them well, and scald the legs in hot water. Cut off the fillets, trim and flatten the large ones, stick two of the small fillets together to form one, put them in a saute-pan, cover with melted butter, and sprinkle with a little salt. Fry them lightly on both sides until they are quite firm and done. Drain off the butter from the pan; to the gravy that is left add 3 table-spoonfuls of highly-seasoned bechamel sauce, and hold the pan over the fire, moving it constantly so as not to let the sauce boil. Put the fillets on a dish, place small pieces of fried bread between them, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Split two fat pullets in such a way that the breast and breast-bone will be one piece and the back and legs another. Chop the back and legs into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and boil; then put in the breasts. In an hour’s time, take the breasts out, and set them away till cold. Put a few vegetables into the saucepan containing the liquor and the backs, also a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil the liquor slowly till reduced to half its original quantity; then strain it through a silk sieve into a clean saucepan. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a frying-pan, and stir them over the fire till mixed but not browned; then stir it into the sauce. Boil the liquor gently till reduced to a little less than lqt., keeping it well skimmed; then pour in the liquor from a tin of mushrooms, and continue to boil for a few minutes longer; then mix in loz. of butter, f pint of boiling cream, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a small quantity of salt and cayenne. Cut off the fillets of the breasts of the Fowls, trim them, and make them hot again in chicken broth. Put some boiled asparagus-points in a saucepan with a little butter, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes, being careful not to break them. Drain the fillets, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with the asparagus-points, and serve. (3) Remove the fillets from the breast of two large Fowls, and cut off the legs at the thigh-joints; take the minion fillets, which are found under the large fillets, contise these with truffles cut into rounds about the size of a shilling, lay these in a small saute-pan previously spread with butter, cover with a buttered paper, and put a stewpan lid