THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 689 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc,, referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. hot. Put lib. of flour in a basin with 4oz. of sugar, tea- spoonful each of pounded cloves and pounded cardamom- seeds, and one beaten egg, and mix them all with the flour, also 2 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of water ; pour in the hot butter and treacle, and knead the mixture well. Cover the basin containing the dough with a cloth, and stand it in a cool place for four or five hours. Butter some baking-sheets, take the mixture up in small quantities, lay it on the buttered tins, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. When cooked, the cakes should be dry and crisp, but not too darkly coloured. Keep them in biscuit-tins. GIRASOLE ARTICHOKES. — See Artichokes (Jerusalem). GIZZARDS (Fr. Gesievs ; Ger. Magen).—These are the second or true muscular stomachs of poultry, in which the food is crushed and ground after being softened in the crop. It usually contains a number of stones and other hard matters, which whilst assisting in grinding the food, are scarcely capable of being digested. The Gizzard of a bird is not considered of any particular value in cookery; it is hard and tough, and is usually employed for preparing sauce or gravy. In Italy the lining membranes of some Gizzards are used for making curds and whey. See Gallino. GLACE(E).—Fr. for iced, or glazed. GLAIR.—White of egg used for glazing pastry. GLASS.—Since the introduction of this wonderful material into this coimtry it lias steadily gained ground for the manufacture of all sorts of elegant and useful ware, especially for the table. Several of its adaptations are referred to under special headings, such as Bottles, Decanters, Tumblers, Wine and Liqueur Glasses, and other vessels in which art has combined utility with ornamentation. These are manufactured of different kinds of glass known by specific names, such as Flint, Bohemian, Crystal, &c., which admit of exquisite work- manship and colouring. Toughened Glass, manufactured by dipping the hot Glass in cold oil, has not at present gained much favour. GLAZE, and GLAZING.—Whatever may be the appropriate terms for Glaze in other languages, it is certain that the English or French word Glaze or Glace are alone used in modern kitchens, and these words are used with three distinct meanings. To Glaze a sauce, or boil it down to a Glaze, is really to roast it, for the moisture is so much reduced that the residue “ catches the pan ” and is browned. To Glaze meat is to varnish it with Glaze, and to Glaze cakes or pastry is to varnish them in a similar manner with sugar or white of egg. Meat Glaze is very strong gravy or meat stock boiled quickly down until it is a brown liquid jelly or bright Fig. 849. Glazing-pan. brown paste. Of course, all fat and sediment must have been removed from the stock. It should be kept in a well-covered metal vessel, called a Glazing-pan (see Fig. 8491, ready to warm up at a moment’s notice; or it may be poured into a pot (see Fig. 850) for standing in a bain-marie, and kept hot, ready for use at any time. Glaze, and Glazing—continued. The Glaze is usually applied warm over cold meats, laid on with a soft brush, and the operation has generally to be repeated if a high Glaze is required. A sugar Glaze for cakes is described under Icing ; but that which is commonly used for sweet pastry is a thin syrup brushed over before the baking is finished; for savoury pastry, white of egg or simple beaten egg brushed all over is used. Fig. 850. Glazf.-pot. Varieties of Glazes are prepared as follow, the receipts being contributed by famous cooks : Glace de Viande (Meat Glaze).—(1) Peel and slice an onion, put it in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water and a small bunch of parsley, and boil for half-an-hour; then strain it. Return the liquor to the saucepan, with 2 tea- spoonfuls of extract of beef and Joz. of gelatine, and boil it until the gelatine is dissolved; then move it from the fire and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Turn the Glaze into a basin, and let it set firm. (2) Put lqt. of clear veal and lqt. of clear beef stock in a stewpan, and boil it very fast till reduced to a thick cream. Then pour it into a bladder, and tie up tightly. In this way it may be kept a considerable time. (3) When properly made this Glaze will keep in perfect con- dition for any length of time. It is advised that 4 pint be made at a time in the following manner: Place in a large sauce- pan lOqts. of broth, or 9qts. of consomme, and reduce it on a moderate fire for fully four hours, by which time it should be reduced to 4 pint. Transfer it to a stone crock, put a cover over it—many cooks do not, but they ought to—and keep it in a cool place for general use. (4) Bind up 31b. each of knuckle of veal and veal fillets with 31b. of gravy beef, all the bones having been removed from the veal; put these in a stockpot with llgalls. of water and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then put in Jib. each of carrots, leeks, and onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; move the pot to the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer till the meat is done to rags ; take it out, strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, pour it into a Glazing-pan, and reduce to one-third ; then pour it into a basin, and leave till the next day. When the Glaze is set, trim it at the top, removing all the scum that may have risen, turn it upside down out of the basin, cut off the sediment that has settled at the bottom, put th^glaze into a stewpan, and stir it over a sharp fire till reduced to the consistency of Spanish sauce. Pour it into jars, and cover them with paper, to keep the dust out, till wanted for use. (5) Take a ham of beef, a cow-heel, and a fowl, or a piece of veal, a little salt, and a few peppercorns, and put them in a pot, cover with cold water, and boil slowly for ten or twelve hours. Strain the liquor, and when cold skim very clean. Put the stock into a saucepan, set it upon the fire, and let it boil slowly without a cover till it is reduced to a small quantity. When it is done sufficiently, dip a spoon in it, and touch it with the thumb and finger; if it causes them to stick together, it is ready. Put it into jelly-pots. (6) Boil some very strong clear gravy or jelly over a quick fire to the thickness of cream, stirring it constantly until it will adhere like jelly to the spoon. It must then be im- mediately poured out of the stewpan. The greatest care is required during the time of thickening to prevent it burning. 3 G