THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 660 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Frying—continued. Thick slices of raw fish, fritters, rissoles, and such like, require some time longer. A very important adjunct to the frying-pan is a wire frying-basket (see Fig. 815). It is most useful for whitebait, croquettes, and other small things which require speedy removal when done. The articles to be fried should be arranged at the bottom of the basket, so that they do not touch each other, and will thus be cooked all round. The basket should be first heated in the fat, and charged quickly with a few at a time—an overcharge would chill the fat, and prevent the articles being cooked from browning all round. Larger fish require a vessel called a fish-fryer (see Fig. 816. Fish-fryer. Fig. 816), which is fitted with a perforated or wire strainer. Everything to be fried must be thoroughly dry upon the surfaces that are to be exposed to the fat, other- wise a coating of steam forms between the fat and the surface. Slightly warming the outsides first is a good plan; or slices of fruit, such as apples, may be first soaked in rum or other spirit, the spirit blending with the fat, and dispersing rapidly in the heat. Other watery surfaces are better coated with egg-and-bread- crumbs, or a thick batter. All fried foods must be thoroughly drained before being served. FUEL.—It is not possible to go very deeply into this subject in this Encyclopaedia, for the plain reason that good cooks will adapt their requirements to the Fuel that is at their service. Ooal gas is now a favourite Fuel, and has been so scientifically applied to culinary purposes that it may be considered not only exceedingly service- able but economical and cleanly. These matters are treated of elsewhere (see Ovens, Ranges, Stoves, &c.), and varieties of Fuel are described under their special headings. Of patent Fuels there is little enough to say in their favour so far as kitchen use is concerned; if they are ever to be used for cooking, they will possibly require a special arrangement of the stove. FUMET.—This is a French word much used in Continental kitchens as applied to a “ flavour ” of game (fumet de gibier) given to certain dishes. The process is more fully described under Game, Mush- rooms, Truffles, and other characteristically scented viands. FUN PUDDING-.—See Puddings. FUSEL OIL.—The technical term for this is amylic alcohol, or alcohol derived from starch of potato or grain. Hence it is also known as potato-spirit or oil, grain- spirit oil, &c., and is described by Blyth as follows: “An offensive, strong-smelling oil, produced along with alcohol during the fermentation of grain, potatoes, &c., on a large scale, and which gives the peculiar flavour and odour to raw whisky.” When swallowed it occasions nausea, vomiting, delirium, and in any great quantity is a narcotic poison. GALANTINES. — This word, like many others, appears to have a certain amount of doubt attached to its derivation and meaning. It is, by some etymologists, confounded or confused with gelatine, but this is evidently erroneous, as Kettner explains, for the term is used in a cookery book compiled by King Richard II.’s cooks (1390), in consultation with the physicians and philoso- phers of the Court. The book is entitled the “ Forme of Cury,” and gives, amongst some two hundred receipts, the following “Galyntyne”: Take crusts of bread and grind them small. Do (add) thereto powder of galyngale, of canel (cinnamon), gyngynes (ginger), and salt it. Temper it with vinegar and draw it up through a strainer, and mess (dish) it forth. This would appear to be the sauce for seasoning Galan- tines, whether of lampreys, pork, or any other food, and as in all cases the galingale is mentioned, it is more than probable that galingale originated the word Galan- tine. The galingale is described by Saverly as a plant of the Sedge family (allied to ginger), the root having “ an agreeable spicy odour, in which it resembles the roots of some East Indian grasses that, w'hen moistened, are used by the English to perfume their houses.” Parkinson, in 1650, mentions it as employed in cookery and confectionery, but he also states that its culinary use was then dying out. The change from galin-gale to Galan-tine is simple enough, the terminal “gale” signifying growing in marshy places, and the word “tine” is readily associated with a fork. But it may be argued that the Galyntyne of King Richard’s cooks could not allude to forks for several reasons: first, because they were not invented in those days, and secondly because the Galyntyne was merely a sauce or seasoning. Then we refer to the obsolete word “ tine,” which signified a prickly hedge; the Galyntyne was of a sharp, prickly, or stinging character, almost as hot as some curry powders, and thus again the derivation of Galantine from galingale is established. Fig. 817. Galantine. As we have before shown, the original Galantine was little else than a hot, spicy sauce; as we know it now it is a dish of solid, boned, freely-seasoned meat, tied in a cloth (see Fig. 817) and served cold. Some fine receipts for preparing these will be found under numerous special headings. GALETTES.—Flat cakes or biscuits, which are made either to correspond with a hard, plain sea-biscuit, or, more recently, a rich, light paste cake. The French have a custom of eating Galettes on Epiphany Day, and it is then usual to hide a bean in the cake, the finder being affected with certain luck or privileges. The following receipts are contributed by French pastry- cooks : (1) Sift 1 Jib. of flour on to a board, make a bay in the centre, put in Jib. of slig-htly-warmed butter, a little salt, and J pint of cold water. Work the butter well with the water, gradually mixing in the flour so as to give it the consistency of puff paste. Let it remain for fifteen minutes, and in the meantime work Jib. of butter in a cloth until it is quite firm, then give it a flat square shape. Make the paste into a flat square shape also, put the square of butter on it, and cover it over with the edges of the paste that project; give it five turns like puff paste, and at the last