580 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fermentation—continued. of the decomposition of Fermentation. Fermentation j breaks np putrefying matters, and converts them into useful food for other combinations. “ It is the grand power,” writes an authority, “ that cleanses the Augean stables of nature, at the same time that it (sometimes) provides some of the most esteemed articles of utility and luxury for the well-being and enjoyment of man.” (See Beer, Vinegar, and Wine). FERNS. — The uncurled fronds of yomig British Ferns are sometimes eaten as salad. Although no ' very superlative merit can be claimed for the dish, and it is quite certain that the fronds would be much more | valuable for ornamental purposes; nevertheless, it can be prepared as follows: Fern Salad.—Wash the uncurled fronds in salted water, and put them in hot water, simmering afterwards gently for five minutes. If the stalks are comparatively soft, take them out of the boiling water and plunge them into cold water. Fig. 728. Curled Young Ferns for Salad. This should remove all bitterness, and make the fronds crisp. After being in the cold water for an hour or less, take them out, shake them, and dry in a cloth. Arrange them on a dish (see Fig. 728), and serve with any kind of salad dressing- or vinaigrette. FERRA.—This is a small fish found in Lake Leman. It is not much known, although it has very delicate flesh. It is usually cooked as follows: Clean a dozen of the fish, put them in a saucepan with a little white wine and a few carrots and turnips cut up in small pieces, and a slice of onion; set the pan over the fire, and as soon as the contents begin to boil remove it to the side, keeping it covered, and let it remain for eight minutes or so. Place the fish on a napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with Geneva sauce in a sauceboat. FEUILLANTINES.—These are described in Con- tinental cookery-books as “ ancient pastry, very rarely prepared in these days.” The name is derived from feuilletage. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out to about |in. thick, and cut it into tin. strips and 2in. lengths. Spread a baking- dish thickly with butter, arrange the pieces of paste on it, placing them on their sides, and leaving a small space between them ; put them in the oven, and when they are firm and the sides have spread, glaze them with white of egg and dust with caster sugar. As the Feuillantines are cooked, set them on paper to drain off any extra grease they may contain. They may also be masked, separately, with a small quantity of different coloured jam. Arrange them on a fancy-edged dish- paper or a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. See Fig. 729. FEUILLETAGE.—Fr. for puff paste, said to be so called after one Feuillet, a chef to the house of Conde. FIBRINE (Fr. Fibrine ; Ger. Fuser,stoff ; Hal. Fibrina).—Liebig describes this as an azotized sub- stance, forming the coagulable portion of fresh-drawn blood, and the principal constituent of the muscular or fleshy parts of animals. It is eminently nutritious, and capable of yielding in the animal body, albumen, caseine, and the tissues derived from them FIDDLE-FISH.—See Angel -FISH. FIDELINI. — An Italian paste described under Macaroni. FIELDFARES. — These are a species of thrush, which are sometimes caught in Great Britain during the winter months. They may be cooked in pies, stewed, or roasted on a spit. See Threshes. FIGS (Fr. Figues; Ger. Feigen ; Ital. Fici; Sp. Higos). —The word Fig is supposed to have been derived from the Arabian feg, which is exceedingly probable, seeing that Figs are mentioned in writings that must have existed long before the classical Latin which gives it a botanical name. Our first parents are said to have clothed them- selves with Fig-leaves, and from that time onwards the Fig is mentioned by all creeds with honour and respect, not perhaps on account of its use for clothing, as it not only affords grateful shade in hot climates, but delicious, re- freshing fruits. As behoves such an exceptional tree, the fruit differs in many particulars from others, being the receptacle which holds the flowers. It is thus described by Lindley: “ The fruit is generally shortly turbinated, but some varieties are of an elongated, pyriform shape; the skin is soft, with shallow, longitudinal furrows, the colour yellowish-white, greenish-brown, purplish-brown, violet, Fig. 730. Figs. or dark purple. It consists of a hollow, fleshy receptacle, with an orifice in the top, which is surrounded and nearly closed by a number of imbricate scales—as many as 200 according to Duhamel. The flowers, unlike those of most fruit-trees, make no outward appearance, but are concealed within the Fig or its internal surface; they are male and female, the former situated near the orifice, the latter in that part of the concavity next the stalk. On cutting open a Fig when it has attained little more than one-third its full size, the flowers will be seen in full development, and provided the stamens are perfect, fertilisation takes place at that stage of growth. But it often happens that the stamens are imperfect, and no seeds are formed; nevertheless, the fruit swells and ripens.” The ancient history of the Fig is almost inexhaustible, and full of thrilling interest, but as it has no practical