TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 710 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Grapes—continued. caster sugar; if any are overcharged, blow it off. Hang 1 them up over a sheet of paper in a dry closet or screen, I and leave until the sugar is firm. Place them on a glass dish, and serve. See Fig. 875. Fig. 875. Frosted Grapes. Grape Drink.—Pick 41b. of Grapes from their stalks, bruise them, and squeeze well in a straining-cloth. When all the juice is squeezed out stir into it 6oz. of white sugar, and when this is quite melted add 1 pint of cold water. Let it stand in ice till very cold. Put a lump of ice into a large glass jug, pour the mixture over it, and serve. Grapes Glazed with Caramel.—Select some bunches of white and purple Grapes, divide them into small clusters of four or five on each, dip into boiling syrup, and let them drain till cold. Arrange in a dish, and serve. Grapes Glazed with Sugar.—Boil some syrup as for candy- ing (see Syrups) with the addition of teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Divide a few bunches of Grapes into clusters, dip them into the candy, and lay them till dry on dishes slightly greased. Grape Ice.—(1) Pick some ripe Grapes from their stalks and rub them through a sieve ; then mix with them some strained lemon-juice, and add sufficient powdered white sugar to sweeten ; when the sugar is quite dissolved and thoroughly mixed with the juice, pour it into a mould, put it into a refrigerator, and freeze. (2) Out of 41b. of fine ripe Grapes pick about lib. of the finest, and mash the rest. Make a syrup with ljlb. of sugar to 1 pint of water (see Syrups), and pour it while hot over the mashed Grapes; rub the pulp through a strainer, and pour a little water over the skins while pressing; add the juice of one lemon and one orange, then pour the prepara- tion into the freezer and freeze. Beat the whites of four eggs very firm, and when the ice is nearly frozen mix them with it, also the raw Grapes, and finish freezing. Grape Jam.—(1) Procure the required quantity of ripe Grapes, free them from the stalks, and wipe them over with a damp cloth to remove any impurities; then put them into a pre- serving-pan, and stew over a gentle fire until reduced to a soft pulp. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, weigh it, and return it to the preserving-pan with an equal quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir the jam over the fire, and boil it for about twenty minutes longer. When ready, turn the jam into jars, leave it until cold, then put into each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, and tie down. Keep in a dry store cupboard. (2) Pick over some green Grapes carefully, throwing away any that aro injured, dip them in a little warm water, and wipe them. Put them in layers in a preserving-pan with sugar over each layer, allowing fib. of sugar to lib. of fruit. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and stir the contents continually to keep them from burning; skim off the Grape- stones as they rise to the top. When boiled to the consistency of jam, turn it into jars, and tie them down when cold. (3) Peel and stone 61b. of green Grapes, put them into a sugar-boiler with 61b. of sugar boiled to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), and let them boil gently for a little while; remove from the fire, take off all the scum, pour the preserve into pots, cover them when cold, and put away until wanted. Grape Jelly.—(1) Pick off the stems and put the Grapes into a large stone jar, stand the jar in a saucepan of warm water Grapes—continued. over the fire, lot the water come gradually to the boil, and keep it boiling till the juice flows freely from the fruit, stir- ring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When the juice is out of the skins, empty the jar into a jelly-bag, and let the juice drip through without squeezing the bag. To every quart of juice add lj-lb. of loaf sugai-, broken small, and let it dissolve in the juice; then put it over the fire in a pre- serving-pan, and boil till clear, skimming off all scum as it rises. Take from the fire, let it cool a little, put it into jars, and when.quite cold cover air-tight. (2) Pick green or ripe Grapes off the stalks, put them in a pan, and stew gently until they can be bruised; then pass them through a jelly-bag. Return the liquid to the pan, mix with it an equal quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil until reduced to a jelly, removing any scum that may rise to the top. When sufficiently boiled, turn the jelly into small glass jars, cover, and tie down. (3) Pick some ripe Grapes from their stalks, mash them a little with a spoon, put them in a preserving-pan over the fire, cover the pan, and lot the Grapes boil for ten minutes; then put them into a jelly-bag, and squeeze out the juice. Put the juice in a preserving-pan over the fire, adding at the same time lib. of loaf sugar to evei’y pint of juice, and keep stirring till the sugar is quite melted and it comes to the boil; let it boil for twenty minutes, skimming off all the scum as it rises. Remove the pan from the fire, let the jelly cool a little, and put it into glasses. When quite cold, lay over the jelly in each jar a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the jars air-tight. Grapes in Jelly.—Pour a little warmed sweet jelly into an ornamental mould packed in ice, decorate it with muscatel Grapes, pour in a little more jolly, then add more Grapes, Fig. 876. Grapes in Jelly. and continue in this way until the mould is full, finishing with jelly, and allowing one layer to set before another is added. Turn it out on to a dish when ready, and serve. See Fig. 876. Grape Pudding. — Butter an earthen baking-disli and fill it with alternate layers of ripe Grapes, sugar, and stale bread- crumbs, making the top layer of crumbs. Bake it in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, and serve hot with powdered sugar. Grape Ratafia. — Pick from their stalks some fine Grapes, bruise them, and squeeze through a cloth to get all the juice from them ; add to each pint of juice lOoz. of sugar and 1 pint of brandy, and allow the sugar to dissolve in the juice before adding the brandy; put in some cinnamon to flavour it, then cover the liquor, and let it stand for fifteen days. Strain it, and bottle. Grape Trifle.—Pick the Grapes off their stalks, put them in a basin, dust over plentifully with caster sugar, and put by for a few hours; then pass them through a very fine sieve so as to keep back all the stones. Flavour with curacoa sufficient thick cream to cover the Grapes, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; whip it vigorously with an egg-whisk, skim off the froth as it rises to the top, and plaoe it on a fine sieve to drain. When all the cream is frothed, put the Grape pulp on to a glass dish, pile the cream high on the top, and serve. Grape Wine.—(1) Gather the Grapes when quite ripe. Remove the stalks and crush the fruit, but take care not to crush the stones as they will impart an unpleasant flavour. Squeeze the mass through a ooarse cloth, and to every gallon of juice