522 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Digestion—continued. Vegetable Substances. Articles of Diet. Rice Time of C'liymitication II. M. 1 0 Apples, sweet 1 30 Sago 1 45 Tapioca 2 0 Barley 2 0 Apples, sour 2 0 Cabbage, with vinegar ... 2 0 Beans 2 30 Sponge Cake 2 30 Parsnips 2 30 Potatoes, old 2 30 Apple Dumpling ... 3 0 Indian Cornflour Cake ... ... 3 0 Indian Cornflour Bread ... 3 15 Carrots 3 15 Wheaten Bread ... 3 30 Potatoes, new 3 30 Turnips 3 30. Beets 3 45 Cabbage 4 0 The foregoing tables will enable a shrewd person to gauge the digestibility of other foods ; bearing in mind, also, that the digestive faculties are subject to other con- trolling influences, such as freedom from mental irrita- tion, fulness of spirits, climate, and season. The results recorded by Dr. Beaumont were obtained by him through the medium of a patient with the front wall of the abdomen absent. The actual process was under visual examination, but it is quite possible that the unnatural condition may have interfered in some measure with the action of the stomach; but these experiments were confirmed by heating the same foods in gastric juice to a few degrees above the normal animal heat. DIGESTIVE BISCUITS,—See Biscuits. Dinners—continued. raising him in honour amongst men. It behoves the guest to repay the host in a measure by a show of happi- ness and jollity, keeping up a lively conversation, as witty as may be, or if not witty, at any rate let it be gay and light-hearted. Dinner must be considered the prime meal of the day, therefore it should be a matter of the highest consideration so far as the hostess is concerned. That it is considered of very great importance is shown by those who are kept waiting, by their weary looks of ill-restrained impatience. Glrimod de la Reyniere observed that the value guests attach to a coming repast is clearly testified when they take their seats, not by their chatting, but by their silence of anticipation. Dinner should commence with soup, served boiling hot—it soon cools after service. To follow this, a fine cut of beef with vegetables is never out of place. Stimu- lating hors d’ceuvres disappear about this time, and entrees or side-dishes, when served, follow the soup, giving time to carve the joints, or relieves, which have taken the place of the soups. The article on Carving should be of great service to the host, for joints, poultry, or game badly carved are irretrievably spoiled. Then follow sweets, cheese, and dessert. For information concerning the service of large Dinners, reference must be made to Banquets, and to Wines for those suitable to various courses. At minor Dinners it is usual to set on the table a bottle or so of light wine, and have upon the sideboard jugs of draught beer or bottles of ale. DIP. —Sauce or gravy served at table with a spoon. The term is commonly used in the United States and Yorkshire. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING.—Sec Puddings. DIPLOMATIC SAUCE.—See Sauces. DIGESTIVE CAKES.—See Cakes. DIKA.—This is the name given to cakes of fat, not I unlike cacao-fat, obtained from the seeds of an African tree (Irvingia Barteri). The natives use this chiefly in their culinary operations, for which purpose it answers admir- ably, as it does not turn rancid. Under the name of “ Udika Bread” it is sometimes scraped or grated and put into rich stews. DILL.—Dill-water is familiar in the nursery as an infantine carminative; but it is not generally known that Dill (Anethum graveolens) was at one time cultivated in kitchen-gardens as an herb for soups and sauces. It is said that William the Conqueror gave Tezelin, his cook, j the Lordship of the Manor of Addington as a reward for his making “ a white soup with Dill-leaves, to which he gave the name of Dillegrout.” Dill has no culinary reputation now-a-days. DIMPLE CAKES.—See Cakes. DINDON.—Fr. for a turkey. DINNERS.—The term Dinner is said to be a corrup- tion of the French dejeuner, or breakfast, the Dinner at one time taking place at the modern breakfast-time, ten o’clock. To a rich man there are few pleasures so great as playing the role of host. But it is not money only that is necessary to furnish a good table. It requires careful ) thought, and some knowledge and study of the culinary art. A celebrated gourmet once declared that it was easier to make a large fortune than to know how to | spend a small portion of it in entertaining friends at Dinner. However great may be the ability of the host | to make himself pleasing to his guests, he is compelled to trust to his servants for his cuisine and cellar. A good Dinner is one of the greatest joys upon earth, j attracting the hearts of all to him who gives it, and I DIPPER.—A sort of ladle used for baling out the liquor from the stockpot, and for other purposes of a similar character where a considerable quantity is required Fig. 650. Dipi>er. at one action (see Fig. 650). They are made of various sizes, the average or medium size holding about 1 pint. DISHES (Fr. Plats; Ger. Shusseln; Ital. Piatti; Sp. Platos).—The English word “disk” is derived from the Latin discus—a dish, from which the application is obvious, although extended through an almost indefinite variety of utensils serviceable for holding foods. Modern