483 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c,, referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensi Crullers—continued. table, roll it out thinly, cut it up into long strips, and twist them. Melt some lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the Crullers till they are a pale brown. (3) Rub fib. of butter into some flour, add 1 teaspoon- ful of saleratus, 111b. of moist sugar, and spice to taste; beat ten eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it in with the dry ingredients, using' sufficient flour to form a soft dough, and make this into any shapes preferred, such as Fig. 590. English Ckui.lers. squares or hearts (see Pig. 590). Put some lard in a frying- pan, and when it is boiling fry the Crullers in it till they are a light brown. (4) Beat fib. each of butter and sugar to a cream, mix with them the beaten yolks of three eggs, then quickly beat in fib. of flour, 1 saltspoonful each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and enough cold milk to form a stiff paste; lastly, beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, stir them quickly and lightly into the paste, roll it out fin. thick, and cut the Crullers into shapes. After the Crullers are cut out, put them into plenty of smoking-liot fat to fry brown. Use them either hot or cold. (5) Sift together lqt. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Beat 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar to a cream, add to them one egg, and then quickly stir in the flour, and enough cold milk to make a paste stiff enough to roll out; cut the Crullers in any shapes preferred, fry them in plenty of fat, sift a little sugar over them, and serve. (6) Warm 2oz. of butter in a basin, then mix with it one egg and fib. of caster sugar, and beat the whole well together; then mix in gradually lib. of the finest sifted flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt, the same quantity of powdered cinnamon, and a little grated nutmeg. Work the mix- ture well for a few minutes, adding a few drops of any kind of flavouring essence preferred, such as almond, ratafia, vanilla, or lemon, then mix in gradually sufficient milk to make a thick batter. Put a good-sized lump of clarified fat or butter into a frying-pan, and place it over a brisk fire until hot. Divide the mixture into small pieces, and fry in the hot fat, turning them so as to brown equally. When cooked, drain the Crullers, allowing as much of the fat to run away as possible, then arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve. (7) Put 21b. of sifted flour into a pan, together with 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, a grated nutmeg, and fib. of powdered white sugar, and work them well together ; then cut Jib. of butter into small pieces, mix it into the flour and spices, and knead to a dough with six eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. If the eggs and rose-water are not sufficient to make a dough, a little cold water may be added. Work the dough well on a floured paste-board, then cut it into four or five pieces, knead each piece separately, put them all together again, and knead the dough again in one lump. Roll it out into a square sheet about Jin. thick, then with a knife or a jagging-iron cut it into long narrow slips, and twist them up into different shapes. Fry them immediately in boiling lard, turning care- fully with a small slice and fork. Fry both sides alike a pale brown. Spread them over a large dish to cool, and when cold dredge powdered white sugar over them. CRUMBS (Fr. Miettes ; Ger. Kriimchen; Ital. Bri- ciole; Sp. Migas).—By Crumbs we usually understand small particles of bread that are used in cookery for many purposes; they form an important ingredient in various puddings, and are very useful in forming, together with beaten egg, a covering or envelope for cutlets of different kinds of meat or fish intended for frying, or for rissoles, and many other things. To prepare bread- crumbs nicely, it is necessary that the bread should be at least one day old, and quite dry; the Crumb should then be cut in brick-shaped pieces and rubbed on a fine wire sieve turned upside down on a plate or dish. The Crumbs will fall through the sieve ready sifted on the plater It may be well to protect the hand from contact with the bread by twisting a clean cloth round it, glove fashion. The Crumbs may afterwards be browned in the oven, or before the fire, and if kept in a well-closed tin canister will keep for some time. Crackers and biscuits of all kinds may be made into Crumbs by pounding them in a mortar, or by breaking and rolling them fine with a rolling-pin. The word Crumb is derived from the Anglo-Saxon word cruma, which means a fragment. CRUMPETS.—The probable origin of this word is the Welsh crempog, a pancake or fritter. For some reason or another, probably becaiise they are in some degree similar, and yet differing greatly, it is customary to associate muffins with Crumpets, it being also a rare occurrence for either to appear at the table separately. Both are made of batter, both require re-cooking, and both are served hot and well buttered; yet there is so marked a difference between the two in flavour and constitution that most persons have a decided pre- ference for one or the other. In France tea-cakes, answering to Crumpets, are known as “ galettes.” Crumpets are very rarely made at home, especially in large towns, where they are hawked through the streets during the winter months, the reason for this being most likely the same as that given for not making bread at home—because it is so much less troublesome to buy these things ready made. But it is no exaggeration to say that home-made Crumpets (and muffins) are as different to those usually sold in the streets as home-made bread is to that manufactured by the unscrupulous baker. To bake Crumpets it is usual to use a hot plate, but this is not necessary. A greased baking-sheet in a hot oven answers very well; or the Crumpets may be cooked in a shallow frying-pan set over a fire, or a plain hot plate, such as a griddle. Crumpet-rings are indispensable to ensure an even thickness throughout; these can be pur- chased at any culinary or bakers’ tool-maker, and as the Crumpets cook quickly, a very few rings will be sufficient for one family. See Muffins. (1) Put in a basin 21b. of flour ; dissolve loz. of German yeast in lqt. of warm milk, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and when the yeast is dissolved mix the flour with the milk ; when it is quite smooth throw a cloth over the pan, and let the batter rise in a warm place; this will take about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Blake quite hot in the oven a stone slab, which should be about lin. thick and the size of an ordinary baking-sheet; when the slab is hot, oil it with butter, put some tin hoops, also oiled, in rows on to it, take out carefully large spoonfuls of the batter, and put one in each hoop ; shut the oven quickly, and bake the Crumpets in a sharp heat. When they are done one side, remove the hoops and turn the Crumpets over, that they may bake on the other side. In this way some excellent Crumpets will be procured. (2) Prepare a mixture with lib. of flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and sufficient milk or water to give it the consistence of batter. Set it to rise, and let it remain until it is ready, which can be ascertained by dropping a little in a ring on a greased and heated iron plate. If it sots quickly, it is thick enough. Pour the batter into the rings on the heated plate to about Jin. thick, and when half done scrape across the Crumpets with a knife, levelling them to the rings; put the surplus batter back into the bowl. Turn the Crumpets O j> o