555 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Eggs —continued. of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a basin, pour in the mixture, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir it over the fire until as thick as custard, then move it from the fire. Pour boiling soup into a tureen, take up the mixture in small quantities with a table-spoon, and drop it into the soup. Serve very hot. (4) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, mix with it three well-beaten Eggs, stir in sufficient breadcrumbs to make it consistent, and season with salt and grated nutmeg. Shape the mixture into small balls, and throw these into a saucepan of slightly-salted water. Take them out when firm, drain them, and serve in hot soup or broth. Eggs in Bedgowns.—Select about half-a-dozen sound potatoes, as near of a size as possible, thoroughly wash them, peel them neatly, and put in the oven to bake. When quite done, take them out, cut a hole in their sides, through which scrape out all the insides, pour an Egg without breaking the yolk ' into each, adding a little nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and replace them in the oven. When the Eggs are set, dust the potatoes over with breadcrumbs, and serve. Egg-and-Beetroot Salad.—Peel and slice some cooked beet- roots, put them in a pan with a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them about over a brisk fire until hot. Mean- while, in another pan poach some new-laid Eggs, and trim them. Pile the slices of beetroot in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with the Eggs, dredge them lightly with pepper, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and serve at once. This makes a very good breakfast dish, and takes but little time in its preparation. Egg Boucliees.—Fill a few patty-pans, large enough to hold an Egg, with puff paste, and bake. Take them out, remove the insides, and put in each an Egg seasoned with salt and pepper. Replace them in the oven to set, and serve. Egg Bread.—See Bread. Eggs and Bread. -Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a basin with 1 teacupful of cream, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, put a plate over the basin, and place it in the oven. When the breadcrumbs have absorbed the cream, break six Eggs over them, and beat well. Put lib. or 21b. of butter in a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, and then pour in the mixture. When set and browned on one side, turn it over and brown the other. When cooked, turn the mixture on to a hot dish with a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin, and serve. Egged Bread.—Cut twelve rounds of bread 2in. in diameter without crusts, place them in a dish, spread a little butter over each, and brown them in the oven for one minute. Break four Eggs in a basin, add 1 pinch of chopped parsley, | pinch of chives, 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and a very little pepper, and beat sharply for four minutes ; then add the twelve pieces of browned bread, and mix well. Put 4oz. of clarified butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, and heat thoroughly; then fry one piece of bread at a time for one-minute-and-a-half on each side. As they are done, with the aid of a slice lay them on a hot dish with a folded ■ napkin over it, and keep the dish in a warm place. Repeat this process with the others, and serve when all are ready. Egg Canapes.—Put four Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil for ten minutes or until quite hard ; then remove the shells, cut the Eggs in halves, remove the yolks, and chop them up. Soak two anchovies, dry them, remove the bones, and chop them up with three truffles and six capers; mix in 1 the chopped yolks, add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and ' cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Fill the halves of Eggs with this mixture, place each one on a piece of fried bread, heat them in the oven, and serve very hot. Eggs in Cases.—(1) Make some paper cases about 3in. square, butter them well inside, half fill them with sifted breadcrumbs seasoned with chopped parsley, a small quantity of cayenne and salt, stick small bits of butter over the breadcrumbs, break an Egg into each, and add breadcrumbs seasoned as before till the cases are full. Put them into an oven or on a gridiron over a clear fire for three minutes, and serve very hot. (2) Butter some small paper cases or moulds, sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley at the bottom of Eggs —continued. each, drop in an Egg from the shell, sprinkle crumbs of bread and grated cheese on the top, add a small piece of butter, and stand them in a hot oven for three or four minutes to set the Eggs. Stand the cases on a dish, and serve. Eggs and Caviare Canapes.—Cut a French roll in slices of a moderate thickness, and butter them ; spread over each a layer of Russian caviare, and squeeze over a little lemon-juice. Boil some Eggs until hard, and when cold peel them and cut into slices ; lay a slice of Egg on each slice of roll, and press them slightly together. Put the canapes on a dish with a folded napkin or a dish-paper, garnish them with green parsley, and serve. A very small quantity of finely-minced parsley strewn over the tops of the Eggs will be found an improvement. Eggs with Cheese.—(1) Put nine well-beaten Eggs into a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and l-j- table- spoonfuls of butter; season with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire till the cheese is melted. Toast some slices of bread, cut off the crusts, butter them, put them on a dish, pour the cheese mixture over, and serve. (2) Beat six Eggs, and add to them 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Melt jib. of butter in a stewpan, pour in the Eggs, and stir over a slow fire till thick, but do not let the butter boil; add 3oz. of Gruyere cheese cut in dice, and stir for two minutes long-er. Pour all on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, a,nd serve. (3) Grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese on to a dish, place it over a slow fire, add | wineglassful of white wine, a little each of chopped parsley, chopped chives, pepper, and grated nutmeg, also 2oz. of butter. Stir thoroughly while cooking, and as the cheese melts, break in twelve Eggs, and cook for five minutes longer. Surround the dish with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, set it on another dish, and serve very hot. Egg Clieese-cakes. —Boil hard six Eggs, lay them in cold water for a few minutes, and then peel them. Rub them with fioz. of butter through a fine wire sieve, and mix in 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants, two crumbled stale sponge cakes, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, moistening with the beaten yolks of two or three Eggs and J wineglassful of brandy. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with puff paste, trim, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn them out of the pans, and serve either hot or cold. Eggs with Cheese and Parsley. -Grate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese, and finely chop a few sprigs of parsley. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, put in the parsley, and fry it for a few minutes ; then add the cheese and 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the cheese is melted ; break in one Egg, stir it well, then add another Egg, and so on until eight have been used. Turn the mixture on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Eggs in Cocottes.—Take some small china cups (called cocottes), put a little butter in each, and break in a new- laid Egg; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, set them on hot ashes, and salamander the tops until the Eggs are done and quite soft. Serve in the cups. Egg-cordial ;Nip.—Put the yolk (unbroken) of an Egg into a wineglass, fill up with noyeau, lemon-cordial, and peach- brandy, in equal parts, and serve. Eggs and Cream.—Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, and boil it until it is reduced to J pint. Beat ten Eggs, mix them with the cream, and season with salt and pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until the Eggs are curdled; then turn it on to a hot dish, strew a small quantity of grated nutmeg on the top, brown under a salamander, and serve. Egg-and-Cream Pudding.—Beat six Eggs to a stiff froth, then mix with them 1 pint of thick cream, and sweeten to taste with oaster sugar; continue to beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over it, garnish with stewed fruit, and serve.