THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 543 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. Eel Patties.—(1) Wash and clean an Eel, chop it into small pieces, and put them into a basin of vinegar to soak. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add gradually 1 table-spoonful of flour and a little broth without fat. Chop fine the rind of half a lemon, a few capers, and a little parsley, season with salt and pepper to taste, and add to the mixture in the saucepan. Drain the pieces of fish of vinegar, put them into the saucepan with the other ingredients, and stew until done. Line some patty-pans with paste, put two or three pieces of fish in according to size, cover over the patties, and make a hole in the top to let the steam out. Brush a little egg over them, and put in a quick oven to bake ; when done, take them out, and serve hot. (2) Clean an Eel, remove the skin, cut it up into lin. lengths, put the pieces into a saucepan with a little salt, pepper, vinegar, and water, and let them cook slowly on the fire. When they are quite done, take them out, and remove the backbone, slitting each piece lengthwise in halves. Line some patty-pans with paste, bake, put into each a little of the fish and gravy, and serve. Several flavourings may be used to these patties, such as mushroom ketchup in one, essence of anchovy in another, and so on. Eel Pie. — (1) Line a pie-dish with short-crust, fill it with some Eels, skinned, cleaned, and cut into 2in. pieces, sprinkle in some cloves, powdered mace, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, add a few well-washed and dried currants, a piece of butter, and 1 teacupful of sherry; cover with more crust, stick the edges together, make a hole in the top with a knife, bake in a moderate oven, and serve hot. (2) Cut 11b. of cleaned Eels into 3in. pieces, and stew their heads and tails in i- pint of stock. Take out the heads and tails when they are done, and put in the stock a squeeze of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and 1 pinch of pepper and salt. Arrange the pieces of Eel in a pie-dish, pour in the gravy, cover with either a puff or short-paste, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Skin and clean an Eel, cut it into 2in. pieces, and put these in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mush- rooms, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a small shallot, the juice of one lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and % saltspoonful of pepper. When boiling, move to the side of the fire, and simmer for five minutes. Take out the pieces of Eel, and lay them in a pie-dish, thicken the liquor with flour and butter, and add some hard-boiled eggs cut in halves. Pour the gravy over the Eels, cover over with puff paste, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (4) Pill a large cup (without a handle) or small basin with highly-seasoned broth, put a pie-dish on the top, and with a quick movement reverse their positions, so that the cup will stand in the middle of the dish, and still retain the gravy. This can be ensured by buttering the rim of the cup. Skin some Eels of equal size, clean them, cut them into 3in. pieces, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll them in flour, and put them in the pie-dish with a sprinkling of button-mushrooms, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, cocks’ combs, forcemeat balls, and dice of veal; add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of one lemon, and i pint of veal broth. Cover with short or puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. (5) Skin and clean an Eel, chop off its head, cut the body into pieces 2in. long, bone, season the inside, and tie them up. Fry 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions in a little butter; when brown, add the pieces of Eel, and fry them for ten minutes, turning about constantly; add 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and fry till the moisture is reduced; add 1 teacupful of strong glaze, and let the pieces of Eel remain in this till cool. Prepare a quenelle forcemeat, using l|lb. of the flesh of pike. Line a hot pie- dish with short-paste, mask the sides and bottom with force- meat, arrange the pieces of Eel, well sprinkled with the fine herbs, in the centre of the dish, cover the top with paste, sticking the edges together, cut leaves out of paste and stick them on the top, brush the pie over with beaten egg, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Put \ pint of brown sauce in a stew- pan with one dozen button-mushrooms and § teacupful of Madeira wine, and reduce over a sharp fire. Make a circular Eels—continued. opening in the top of the pie, pour in the sauce and mush- rooms, and serve hot. (6) Clean the Eels thoroughly, skin them, cut them in pieces about 2in. or 3in. long, season with salt and pepper, and put them in a pie-dish; stick small bits of butter over them, pour in a little water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake. Eels Roasted in Ashes.—Skin and clean two or three Eels, roll them in coils—fix them in this position by tying two skewers together, one on each side—sprinkle salt and pepper over, fasten them up in buttered paper, then roll some plain paper round that, and tie each end with string and in the middle. Make a bed of the hot ashes underneath the fire, lay the Eels in it, cover with more hot ashes, and roast for about three-quarters-of-an-hour ; then take them up, remove the papers, dish them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with parsley-butter in a sauceboat. Some epicures consider this the best way to cook Eels, so as to preserve the flavour in its fulness. Eel Soup.—(1) Skin a large Eel, bone it, and cut it into small pieces ; put these with the bones in a saucepan with £ pint of water, i teacupful of vinegar, one onion cut into four pieces, a bunch of sage, and salt, pepper, and spices to taste. Boil till tender, then take the pieces of Eel carefully out of the liquor with a slice, strain the gravy into a saucepan, leave it until cold, then skim off the fat, and pour in broth to make about 3 pints of soup. Peel and thinly slice a few carrots, turnips, and any other vegetables, put them in the soup with 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas, and boil gently until the vegetables are tender. Any kind of minced herbs may be put in to flavour the soup. Make about l|lb. of fish forcemeat, mould it into small balls or quenelles, and when the soup is nearly cooked put half of them in and boil them, frying the remainder in butter until browned. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, move the soup to the side of the fire, and when it ceases boiling stir in the beaten eggs quickly with a wooden spoon. Continue stirring the soup for five minutes, then put in the fish-balls and the Eels, make them quite hot, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve immediately. (2) Clean 31b. of Eels, put them into a saucepan with two peeled onions, a bunch of lemon thyme, winter savory, and parsley, a piece of mace, and a few peppercorns ; pour in 3qts. of water, put the lid on the pan, and set it over the fire. When the water boils, move it to the side, and boil gently until reduced to half its original quantity. Strain the soup into a soup-tureen, put in a few small croutons of bread browned in butter, or sippets of toast, and serve. (3) Put 31b. of small Eels nicely cleaned into a saucepan, together with a piece of carrot scraped and washed, a crust of bread, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, 1 teaspoonful of whole pepper, three blades of mace, and igall. of water, and let it simmer gently till the fish is boiled to pieces. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, stir in 1 teaspoonful of flour blended smooth in ^ pint of cream, and boil for ten minutes. Cut some slices of toasted bread into dice, put them into the tureen, and pour over the boiling' soup. (4) Remove the skin and the heads of a few small Eels, cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan with some heads and trimmings of other fish, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, two or three cloves, six peppercorns, and a small lump of salt; pour in equal quantities of white wine and water, and stew the fish gently till tender. When cooked, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and put into it a variety of young vegetables, putting those in first that require the longest cooking, and boil them. When tender, thicken the liquor with a small piece of butter kneaded with flour. Peel and blanch a few small pears and apples, cut the apples into halves or quarters, according to their size, put them and the pears into the soup, and cook them. When the fruits and vegetables are done, put the pieces of Eel in the soup, season with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, about 2 table-spoonfuls of freshly-chopped sweet herbs, and 1 wineglassful of vinegar. A few small dumplings may be added to the soup if liked. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Take off the skin from three good-sized Eels, cut them up into lengths, put into a bowl with salt, and let them remain for an hour or so. Take them out, well wash