639 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Stewed Fowls a la Saliare. — Singe and draw two large Fowls, disjoint them, out tlieir backs in halves, put them into a saucepan with three or four onions, a bunch of parsley, and jib. of butter, and fry till lightly browned ; then sprinkle salt, pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour over them, add a little cayenne, cover with broth, and stir over the fire till boiling ; move the saucepan to the side, put the lid on with hot ashes on the top, and stew till the Fowls are tender. Mince the livers and gizzards of the Fowls with one large onion and about fib. of mutton freed from all fat, sprinkle over a little pepper, salt, pimento, grated ginger, and 1 tea- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, and work it into a mass with an egg; divide this into small equal parts about the size of walnuts, roll them round with floured hands, put the balls in with the Fowls, and boil for a few minutes. When done, arrange the pieces of Fowl in the middle of the dish, garnish with the balls, strain the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Fowl a la Turque.—Draw and clean a Fowl, split it lengthwise in halves, and put it in a saucepan with 21b. or 31b. of the middle of a neck of mutton ; pour in water to cover, season with salt, and keep it gently boiling' at the side of the fire. When the Fowl is about half cooked, take it out of the saucepan, drain it, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter and lib. of onions cut in slices, and fry them till lightly browned, then drain off the butter; boil 1 pint of chick peas till rather soft, skin them, and put them in with the Fowl and onions. Skim and strain the liquor in which the Fowl was boiled, pour it over the Fowl, pour in f teacupful of malt vinegar, and season with salt and pepper. Stew the Fowl at the side of the fire until it is quite cooked and the peas are tender, then place it on a hot dish, pour the liquor, &c., round, and serve. Stewed Fowls a la Villeroi.—Draw and singe a couple of Fowls, remove the breast-bones, stuff them with a mixture of butter, lemon-juice (of half a lemon will be sufficient), and salt and pepper to taste; tie them up in shape with string, and put into a saucepan of water. Pour a little Marshall’s sauce into another saucepan, also 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar ; place this pan on a sharp fire, and let the liquor reduce quickly to half its original bulk, then add 6 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over to taste, add the yolks of two eggs, and mix well. In the meantime, place some slices of lemon and bacon over the Fowls in the saucepan, and put a few slices round them, place the pan over a good fire, and cook for half-an- hour, when the flesh should be done. Place the Fowls on a dish, having previously removed the string and drained them, add a lump of butter to the sauce, work it well, pour it over them, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Asparagus.—Cut up a chicken into quarters, put it into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry it; when it begins to steam, dust over with flour, and fry to a pale brown. Sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a little salt. Break off the tender parts of a couple of bunches of asparagus, well wash them in salted water, boil them slightly in more salted water, and drain them. Put a lump of butter and 1 table-spoonful of cream into a saucepan on a slow fire, place half the asparagus on top, dust with pepper, then arrange the pieces of chicken over it; cover with the remainder of the asparagus, put a few small pieces of butter on top, pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, and stew gently until done. Turn the whole out on a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Cheese.—Singe and draw a fat Fowl, break the breast-bone, and truss it as for boiling. It is better to singe the breast again, as this will set the flesh. Mask the bird inwardly with some chopped ox-marrow, then with a larding-needle lard it carefully with thin strips of bacon, and put it in a large stewpan, covering it with slices of bacon, and onions, carrots and turnips, all sliced; add f pint of broth, put the cover on the stewpan, and boil till the liquid is reduced to glaze, then add sufficient broth to nearly, but not quite, reach the top of the Fowl, and when the liquor boils, stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, put some live coals on the lid, and stew for three-quarters- of-an-hour longer. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-washed and drained rice in a stewpan with one onion, chopped and Fowls—continued. fried, and sufficient broth to cover. When the rice has boiled dry, add the stock in which the Fowl was cooked, and simmer till the rice is tender, keeping the Fowl hot in the meantime. When this is done, mix with the rice 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, 4oz. of butter, and i teacupful of tomato sauce. Dish the rice, put the Fowl on it, having cut off the trussing string. Serve hot. Stewed Fowls with Dried Apricots. — Cut two chickens into quarters, fry them slightly in butter with 1 table- spoonful of flour dredged in it, then pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of rich stock, and stew until the flesh is quite tender. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of dried apricots in a saucepan, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, put the lid on the saucepan, and boil them. Sweeten to taste, and afterwards drain them, then put them into the saucepan with the chickens, warm all together, and serve hot. A very small quantity of salt should be added to the chickens while cooking. Stewed Fowl with Dumpling's. - Cut a Fowl into slices suitable for serving, wash the pieces, put them into a deep stewpan, add 3 pints of boiling water, and set over a fire to boil. Put three slices of carrot and the seme of turnip and an onion, cut fine, into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and cook slowly for half-an-liour, stirring frequently ; then take up the vegetables and put them on a sieve, place the sieve in the stewpan with the chicken, and pour some of the broth over the vegetables. Mash the vegetables with the back of a spoon, and rub as much as possible through the sieve. Skim 2 table-spoonfuls of fat from the liquor, put it in the pan in which the vegetables were cooked, and when boiling add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir this over the fire until of a dark brown, then stir it in with the chicken, and simmer all until tender. Season well with pepper and salt. The stew should only simmer while it is cooking, and not boil. About two hours will be sufficient to stew a young chicken. Twelve minutes before serving draw the stewpan forward, and boil up ; then put in some plain dumplings, and cook ten minutes. Take them up, and keep hot while dishing the chicken; then arrange the dumplings round the edge. Stewed Fowl for an Entree.—Pluck and clean a chicken, cut it into joints, dip them into seasoned flour, put them into a pan witli a little butter, and brown; then put them into a saucepan with flavoured brown stock, season with chervil, basil, marjoram, and bay-leaf, also a few small mush- rooms, and stew slowly until done. In the meantime, put 2oz. of cornflour into a saucepan, pour boiling' milk over it, but without making it too moist, and stir well for three minutes over the fire ; then take it off, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and add also 1 table-spoonful of rich cream. Pour it round a dish, smooth the surface, place the chicken on top, pour over the sauce or gravy, and serve, with the mushrooms for garnish. Stewed Fowl with German Sauce. — Pluck and draw a Fowl, put it in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of white stock to cover, and stew gently. When tender, divide the bird into joints, and pile them up high in the centre of a dish. Put 1 pint of clear white stock into a saucepan with a few sliced mushrooms that have been rubbed over with lemon-juice, and boil it until reduced to J pint; then move it to the side of the fire, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk thickened with a few table-spoonfuls of potato-flour and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Season the sauce to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and stir it until thick and hot, but not boiling. Strain the sauce over the Fowl, and leave it until quite cold ; then garnish round the dish with cocks’ combs, a few sprigs of chervil and small croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Stewed Fowls with Green Peas.—Singe and draw two young Fowls, and cut each one into five pieces ; place these in a saucepan with a little butter, two or three small onions, salt and pepper to season, and put the pan over a good brisk fire. When they are of a good colour, add 8oz. of fat bacon cut small, also 1 teacupful of broth, and reduce to glaze. When the liquor is sufficiently reduced, drop in 1^ pints of young green peas, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley. Toss the meat and peas over the fire for a few minutes, then pour