TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. through a fine sieve into a basin, and mis in 1 teacupful of rich cream. Have ready the required number of small, plain moulds (see Fig. 769), butter them well, and arrange round the bottom and sides pieces of slices of truffles and mushrooms cut into various designs; press them well against the butter, fill the moulds with the mixture, put them in a flat saucepan half full of water, and let them steam for twenty- five minutes. Turn them out carefully, arrange them in a circle on a dish, and pour over a sauce made with the trim- mings of the truffles and mushrooms finely chopped, butter, a little browned flour, salt, and pepper. They must be served as hot as possible. (4) Prepare a salpiijon with cooked truffles and chicken forcemeat, mixed with reduced brown sauce. Separate the mixture into small quantities, put them on a well-floured board or table, and roll them into balls with the hands ; then flatten them slightly to make them oval, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling' water, and poach them until they are quite firm. Take them out, drain, and trim them ; then dip each one separately into a little slightly-beaten egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until brown. Take them out, put them on a dish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- paper, and serve. (5) Free the white flesh of a cooked Fowl from skin and bone, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar until quite smooth; pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar, and pound it again with the yolks of three eggs and 1 teacupful of cream, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the smallest quantity of finely-minced shallot. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, which should only half fill it, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam the boudin for an hour. While it is cooking-, prepare either some bechamel, truffle, or tomato sauce. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boudins of Fowls a la Heine.—Cut off the breast and fleshy parts of cold cooked Fowls, chop them into small pieces of an equal size, put them into a saucepan with a little bechamel sauce, add a seasoning, and boil until the mixture is quite thick. Turn it out on to a dish, and while it is cooling, make it into a good shape with a knife, cut it in halves, and roll out like rolling-pins to the length of the dish. Next roll them in breadcrumbs, then dip them in egg beaten with salt, and then breadcrumbs again, taking care that the ends are well covered. Place them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until brown. Take them out, drain them, remove all the grease by wiping' them with a cloth, dish them up, pour a little thin bechamel sauce round them, and serve. Braised Fillets of Fowl.-Cut off some fillets of Fowl, and with a larding-needle lard each of them with four strips of fat pork ; put a slice of fat pork for each fillet on the bottom of a braising-pan, and on the top of the pork a little piece of onion; sprinkle the fillets over with salt, pepper, and flour, place them on the top of the pork and onion, pour in 2 pints of stock, cover over the pan, and cook for an hour or so, basting frequently. A little more water or stock may be required if the other boils away, so that when it is completely done at the end of the hour there will be about 1 pint left in the pan. When done, take out the fillets, drain them, cover them with slightly warmed butter, and dust them over with flour again; then place them on a gridiron over a good fire, and broil them until they are a light brown colour. After the meat has been removed from the gravy, skim off the fat; put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of flour into a saucepan, and cook until of a light brown; then add it to the gravy, and boil up again. Place the fillets on a dish, and pour the sauce round them, or put them on a heap of mashed potatoes, with a little parsley at the edge and the sauce poured round. Braised Fowls. — (1) Clean and prepare three young’ fat chickens, and cut each of them up into quarters. Put a little butter at the bottom of a saucepan, and when it is melted put in it a layer of sweet herbs, a little onion, shallot, and mushrooms, all finely chopped, and a large bunch of parsley. Place the legs first and then the remainder of Fowls—continued. the Fowls on them, sprinkle over a little more sweet herbs, cover over the pan, set it on the fire, and place hot ashes on the lid. Let this cook for twenty minutes or so; then put the meat on a dish, pour a little melted glaze over the herbs, pour them over the chicken, and serve. (2) Hungarian.—Clean a couple of chickens, singe them, and cut them up into five pieces each ; chop the back-bones in halves, dust them over with a little paprica (a kind of pepper prepared in Hungary), and put them into a saucepan with their pinions, a large onion finely minced, 5oz. of un- cooked ham cut in small pieces, and a little salt and pepper to season. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and cook until their moisture is reduced a little; add a few table- spoonfuls of good gravy, cover over the pan, and put hot ashes on the lid, so that the Fowls will braise without too much moisture. When they are nearly done, add 1 breakfast- cupful of sour cream to the liquor, to thicken it, and let it simmer for twelve minutes longer. Take out the Fowls, put them on a dish, and place the pan on a quick fire to reduce the liquor. Stir well, and add a little more paprica, the juice of a lemon, and a little piece of butter. Pass this through a fine sieve over the Fowls, and serve. (3) Milanaise Style. — Prepare and truss the bird as for boiling, lard it with thin fillets of bacon, and put an onion inside. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, and onions, put in the Fowl with a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, add stock to nearly cover it, and braise it over a gentle fire. Baste the breast of the Fowl occasionally with its cooking stock. Thoroughly wash 4oz. of rice, throw it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it until the grains burst. Drain all the water from the rice, put a cloth three or four times doubled over the saucepan, and leave it at the side of the fire until the rice is quite dry. Work 1 breakfast-cupful each of tomato sauce and strained cooking' liquor of the Fowls in with the rice, and strew in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese ; stir the mixture over the the fire for a few minutes, then pack it in a buttered border- mould, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. When the Fowl is cooked, strain and free from fat a sufficient quantity of its liquor to make a sauceboatful of gravy; turn the border of rice out of its mould on to a hot dish, place the Fowl in the centre, brown the breast under a hot salamander, and serve with the gravy. Braised Fowls a la Conde.—Prepare and cook a couple of Fowls, as for Braised Fowls a la Montmorency, omitting the dipping' of the breasts in water. Make a few incisions with a sharp knife, put in the cuts some thin slices of truffles and tongue cut into the shapes of cocks’ combs, and braise them. Serve with German sauce poured over them. Braised Fowls a la Montmorency.—Take a couple of Fowls of equal size and whiteness, draw and singe them, fill the insides with a paste made of butter, lemon-juice, salt and pepper, and tie them up into shape. Put a saucepan of water on the fire, and when it boils, dip the breasts of the birds in for a few minutes to make the meat firm. Lard the breasts with thin strips of fat bacon, put the Fowls into an oval-shaped saucepan, and put several layers of bacon round but not over them, add a little good broth (that has only just been made, for if it has been made any time it will turn the meat red) to them to moisten, place the pan on the fire, and cover the lid over with hot ashes to cook the bacon quickly; when this is a good brown colour, the ashes may be taken off and the Fowls left to cook for thirty minutes quite gently. Take them out, drain them, remove the string, and place them on a dish, with a ragout a la Finaneiere served with them. Braised Fowl a la Printaniere.—Singe, draw, and truss a large Fowl, put it in a stewpan, add 8oz. of chopped bacon, and fry the Fowl lightly. Scald and chop in small squares about ^lb. of streaky bacon, put it in the stewpan with four small carrots and onions, season with salt, add 1 teacupful of broth, put the lid on the stewpan with some live embers on the top, stand it over a moderate fire, and finish braising. Dish the Fowl, mix some cooked peas with the vegetables, and garnish the dish with them. Stir and mix an equal quantity of white sauce with the liquor, boil for a few minutes, strain, pour it over, and serve.