TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 683 For details resecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. mixture at a time, drop it in two or three different places on the sheet, spread it out with a spoon to about 4in. in diameter, and as any bubbles come up flatten them with the tip of the spoon. When they are a little dry and crisp, put a knife under them, lift them off, and roll in shapes like a horn or pointed sugar bag. Put them in a dry warm place, and they are ready for use. They may be made very small, say about 2in. in diameter, and after they are rolled and dry they may be filled with whipped cream, and a strawberry or preserved cherry put on the top (see Fig. 840). (2) Mix joz. of ground Ginger with 8oz. of sifted flour, stir in 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and form the whole into a paste with cream. R ill this out very thin, cut it into shapes with a biscuit-cutter, prick them all over with a fork or docker, put them on a baking-sheet dusted with flour, and bake for a few minutes in a moderate oven. Take them out, and when cold they may be packed in tins for future use. Ginger Water-Ice.—Pound (11). of preserved Ginger in a mortar together with 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger, and add 1 teacupful of water. Take a few lumps of loaf sugar and rub off the rinds of two lemons with them, and put them into 1 pint of syrup. Into this stir 1 breakfast- cupful of lemon-juice and the same quantity of water ; then put in the pounded Ginger, and when it has been left for an hour or two to soak, pass it all through a cloth into a freezer, and freeze. Ginger Wine.— (1) For every 4galls. of water allow 121b. of moist sugar, 5oz. of bruised Ginger, eight oranges and eight lemons. Put the water, Ginger, sugar, and thinly-pared rinds of the fruit into a large pan, and boil for forty-five minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Turn the liquor into a tub, allow it to cool, then put in a small quantity of yeast on a piece of toast, and leave it to work for three or four days. Afterwards turn the wine into a barrel, putting in with it the juice of the oranges and lemons, and lib. of chopped raisins for every gallon. Bung the cask closely when fermen- tation has ceased, and let it stand, slightly tilted, for six months. Procure the necessary number of pint bottles, put in each table-spoonful of powdered sugar-candy and the same quantity of brandy, fill them with the wine, cork them tightly, and put by until wanted. (2) Put ilb. of bruised Ginger into 5qts. of boiling water, and boil until reduced by 2 pints; strain the liquor, mix with it Gib. of coarse brown sugar and the beaten whites of five eggs, return it to the pan, and boil for about fifteen minutes; next pour in 1 pint of cold water to bring the scum to the top, which must be taken off as it rises. Move the wine from the fire and leave it all night ; on the following day, mix with it 1 pint each of rum and whisky, and squeeze in the juice of ten large lemons and five or six Seville oranges; peel off thinly the rinds of half of the fruit, cut it into small pieces, and mix it with the wine, adding three drops of oil of cinnamon. Pour the wine into a cask that will just hold it, and bung tightly. In six months’ time, the wine may be drawn off and bottled. (3) For this, the best white Ginger should be used. Put 31b. of it, after it has been bruised, into a pan with the thin rinds of three lemons and twelve oranges, pour in a syrup of 201b. of loaf sugar and lOgalls. of water (.see Syrups), and boil well. Now pour the whole into a tub, add a little yeast to start it fermenting, and let it remain for two days. Skim well, pour it off into a cask, add the whites and shells of six eggs beaten up in a little of the wine to fine it, taking care not to add these until the after fermentation has ceased, bung up securely, and bottle in three months. (4) To every gallon of water add 31b. of sugar, lib. of Ginger, the paring of one lemon, and Jib. of stoned raisins; boil all together for half-an-hour or so; then let it stand until it is lukowarm, put it into a cask, with the juice of a lemon, j add 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast to every gallon of wine, and stir it every day for ten days ; then add ( pint of brandy to every 2galls., (oz. of isinglass to every Ggalls., bung down, and in about eight weeks it will be fit to bottle. (5) Peel two lemons, and slightly bruise loz. of whole Ginger in a mortar, put them in a pan with lqt. of water, i Ginger—continued. and boil for half-an-hour. Half fill a barrel with cold water, put in 31b. of loaf sugar and (lb. of Valencia raisins cut into halves but not stoned, loz. of sugar-candy, the juice of the lemons and the peels, and the water in which they were boiled, then fill up the barrel with cold water. Leave the barrel open for two days, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let the wine work for a fortnight, putting 1 tea- spoonful of sugar into the barrel every day. Afterwards bung it up tightly and leave for six weeks. It may then be drawn off and bottled. Put a lump of sugar soaked in brandy in each bottle before pouring in the wine. Cork the bottles, and stow them away. (G) Put 4galls. of water into a large pan, dissolve 31b. of ■ loaf sugar in it, and add lOoz. of Ginger and the rinds of eight lemons. Boil for an hour, and when it has cooled, put it into a cask with the juice of the eight lemons, a little yeast, and lib. of raisins finely chopped. Let it work, stirring it up from the bottom occasionally. When the fermentation has ceased, add 1( pints of brandy and a little isinglass. Bung up the cask, and in about three weeks’ time the wine will be fit for bottling. (7) Put 61b. of loaf sugar, 2oz. of bruised white Ginger, and the thin rind of three lemons into a saucepan with 9qts. of water, and boil for half-an-hour, skimming frequently. Chop fib. of stoned raisins, put them in a cask, pour over the water when only warm, and add the strained juice of two lemons and lj table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast. The water should be strained free of the lemon-peel before being poured in the cask. Stir daily for several days, add 1 tumblerful of brandy and .joz. of isinglass, bung up tightly, and in six or seven weeks’ time the wine will be fit for bottling. Green Ginger Beer.—Put some green Ginger into a mortar, bruise it, put it into a tankard, pour over 1 pint of iced beer and ( pint of Ginger beer, strain the liquid into glasses, and serve with crushed ice. Green Ginger Juice.-—This is obtained by pounding green Ginger in a mortar with a little water or brandy, and straining or squeezing it through muslin. Very useful in confectionery. Imitation Preserved. Ginger.—(1) Peel off the outer skin or coating of the stalks of lettuces running to seed, cut them in pieces of about 1 (in. or 2in. long, weigh, and put them into cold water, adding 1 teaspoonful of cayenne and a small quantity of salt to each pound of lettuoe-stalks, and let it stand for forty-eight hours ; drain, and wash it in clean oold water. Clarify lib. of loaf sugar for each pound of lettuce- stalks, allow to each pound l(oz. of Ginger, soak it in boiling water, cut it in slices, and boil in the sugar for fifteen minutes. Have the lettuce-stalks well drained, strain the syrup over them while boiling hot, cover, and let it stand for three days; drain the syrup off, put the Ginger into it, and repeat the process; let it stand for two or three days, and again drain the syrup off. Put the Ginger into the syrup as before, add the strained juice of two or three lemons, boil it up, and pour it boiling hot over the lettuce. When cool, pack in jars, and cover closely. (2) Wash and dry two vegetable marrows, selecting them not over ripe but just getting so, cut them into quarters, take off the outer peel rather thickly, and remove all the seeds and inner part. Put the peel, seeds, and inside parts into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, boil for half-an-hour, and strain off the liquor. Weigh the marrows, and cut them up into pieces 2in. long and lin. wide. To each pound of marrow put lib. of sugar into a preserving- pan together with 1 teacupful (to each pound) of the liquor from the peel; boil up, add the grated rind and the strained juice of a lemon to every 21b. of sugar, put in the pieces of marrow and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence or strong tincture of Ginger, and boil until the pieces of marrow become nearly transparent; then pour the preserve into jars, and cover them over in the usual manner. (3) This is made with cucumbers or pumpkins. Remove the peel and cut them up into shapes like green Ginger, and throw them into syrup made as follows : Put lib. of sugar and £ pint of water into a sugar-boiler, add 1 table-spoonful of essence of ground Jamaica Ginger and the juice of a lemon, and boil up three times. Put it into jars, and it is ready for use.