536 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes,. Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—con tinned. well, add it to the liver mixture, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped, cooked fine herbs; add spice and salt to season, place the mixture in a basin, and add two more well- chopped raw truffles and the Madeira in which the livers were marinaded. Cover the bottom and sides of a terrine with a layer of the mince, putting it a little thicker at the bottom than on the sides ; put the livers and truffles in layers in the centre, with a little of the mince between the layers, make it of a dome shape, and cover over with slices of fat bacon. Put the terrine into a deep baking-dish, cover it over with paper, and set in a moderate oven to bake, basting it frequently with the fat on the baking-dish. When it has baked for two Fig. 677. Terrine of Duck’s Fat Livers. hours, place the cover over, put a little water into the liquor in the baking-dish, and leave it for an-hour-and-a-half longer. Take it out, and let it cool a little ; then put a piece of wood, cut in shape, on the top, and let it get quite cold, with a weight on it. Let it remain for a day, then dip the terrine into warm water, and turn the mixture out. Remove the rough parts, cut it up into slices, and each slice again into long square shapes. Wipe the terrine well with a cloth, place it on a dish, arrange the slices in circles one above the other in the shape of a pyramid, and fill the hollow in the centre with chopped aspic jelly. Decorate the base of the pyramid with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. See Pig. 677. DUKE’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. DULSE.—A seaweed of a reddish-brown colour, which in some parts of Scotland and Ireland is used as a savoury food by those natives living along the shores. It exists in many varieties, which are generally termed “ Dillisk,” the commoner kind (Sarcophyllis edulis) being dried for chewing. In Ireland, especially along the West Coast, it is eaten as a relish with potatoes. Along the shores of the Mediterranean it is held in high esteem for ragouts, and Soyer immortalised it by making it one of the ingre- dients of his famous St. Patrick’s soup. Fig. 678. Pepper Dulse. Pepper Dulse (Laurencia pinnatijida) (see Fig. 678) is a very aromatic variety, answering the purpose of a spice. DUMPLINGS.—In culinary parlance this term may be considered to be strictly British and a diminutive of dump—a thick, ill-shapen piece. The Germans, under the name of Klosse, surpass our efforts in the variety of their manufacture. Dumplings are famous amongst country people for their satisfying qualities, and are regarded as an important part of the farmhouse cuisine. The following receipts can be enlarged upon by those who desire to produce fine delicacies upon the principle of the Dumpling. Other receipts will be found under their various headings. Dumplings for Broth.—Sift 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of flour, add 1 pinch of salt, and mix to a smooth soft dough with water. Drop small quantities of this with a spoon into the broth, where they should float, and put on the lid. When they are three- parts done, put the saucepan in the oven, first removing the lid, and brown the tops of the Dumplings, basting them once with the liquor. Dumplings for Stew.—Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt in 1 teacupful of milk, and mix in 1 pint of flour, adding as much more milk as will be required to make the dough soft enough to be easily handled. Divide the dough into small pieces, round them with the hands, and drop them into the boiling stew. The Dumplings will require ten minutes’ cook- ing. The dough may be made quite soft, and dropped from a spoon into the stew. German Dumplings.—(1) Remove the crust from two or three small rolls, and cut the crumb into small pieces; put these into a basin, pour over boiling milk, and let them soak. Press them to drain off the milk, put them in a saucepan, and beat over the fire with a spoon till hot; then move to the side, and season with salt and pepper. Cut Jib. of bacon into small pieces, and fry them with some of the crusts of the bread cut into small pieces. Mix the fried crusts and bacon with the soaked bread, add 5oz. of butter in small lumps and sufficient beaten egg to bind the mixture without making it too soft, then divide it into small equal-sized masses, and roll them evenly round, flouring the hands freely for the purpose. Plunge the Dumplings into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes, keeping the lid on the saucepan. When cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour over brown clarified butter, and serve. See Fig. 679. (2) Rub loz. of butter in Jib. of flour, add a little salt, three or four beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to obtain a smooth, firm paste; cut some crumb of stale bread into small squares, fry brown in butter, and then mix them with the paste. Take the paste up with a spoon in lumps the size of a hen’s egg, drop them on a floured board, and roll them into balls; plunge these into a saucepan of boiling water, put on the lid, and boil for eight or nine minutes ; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and leave them for ten minutes. Drain on a cloth, put them on a hot dish, pour over brown clarified butter, and serve. (3) Chop 6oz. each of cold meat and beef-suet, together with nine or ten leaves of parsley and a medium-sized onion ; mix with these lib. of flour, a small quantity of mixed herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Make this into a stiff dough with four beaten eggs and milk. Divide the dough into Dumplings, plunge these into boiling’ stock, and boil hard for an-hour-and-a-half. Serve hot, with brown gravy poured over them.