TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 670 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Garnishes—continued. Spanish sauce, with the addition of a wineglassful of sherry. It is principally used for garnishing fowls or fillets of beef. (1) Made up also of sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, olives, forcemeat quenelles, chicken livers, and Madeira sauce, pre- pared as follows : Blanch a sweetbread, cut it into dice, put it in a saucepan with two truffles, six mushrooms, twelve stoned olives, six godiveau forcemeat quenelles, and two blanched chicken livers cut in pieces. Moisten with f wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; pour in 1 pint of Madeira sauce, cook for ten minutes, skim, and use when required. Flemish Garnish (a la Flamande).—(1) This is made with a cooked knuckle of ham, boiled bacon, sausages, German sausage, boiled carrots and turnips, and glazed onions. The larger part of the Garnish is composed of well-boiled white cabbages which have been thoroughly dried in a saucepan ; Brussels sprouts may also be used. This is an excellent Garnish for rump steak, fillet of beef, or a roasted ham. (2) Made up also of bacon, cabbages, carrots, and turnips, as follows : Blanch and boil the required quantity of squares of smoked bacon; braise some small cabbages, and blanch and braise equal quantities of carrots and turnips cut as nearly as possible to imitate pears. Arrange in alternate groups. Forest of Senart Garnish (a la Foret de Senart).—This is composed of parsley tied up in bunches and fried in butter. Place them as close as possible round the joint, so as to give the appearance of a forest. Garnish for Game.—This is made up of calf’s kidney, ham, parsley, tarragon, and seasoning, prepared as follows: Scald half a calf’s kidney and two small slices of ham, and cut them into little pieces. Put 3oz. of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is hot lay in the meat ; add a little parsley and tarragon, salt and pepper to taste, and three slices of lemon. Pry until the liver is of a light colour and a little gravy has run from it. Godard Garnish (a la Godard).—(1) This contains truffles, cocks’ combs, sweetbreads, and forcemeat quenelles, seasoned and prepared as follows : Boil the required quantity of truffles, cocks’ combs, and sweetbreads studded with fillets of truffles, separately in rich stock seasoned with salt and pepper, and boil also in the same liquor some large forcemeat quenelles. Arrange this Garnish in small heaps round the dish. (2) Or it may be made with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, cocks’ combs and kidneys, and Madeira sauce, prepared as follows: Put six forcemeat quenelles into a saucepan with two truffles cut in dice, six cocks’ combs, six cocks’ kidneys, and three mushrooms cut into squares; pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and season with salt and pepper. Boil for five minutes, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Madeira sauce, boil for five minutes longer, and use as desired. (3) Or it is made up of forcemeat quenelles, truffles, fillet of beef, mushrooms, and sweetbreads, prepared as follows : Decorate some large forcemeat quenelles with pieces of truffles, and cook them in stock. Lard, broil, and glaze some thick slices of fillet of beef, and boil in stock some large whole truffles, mushrooms, and small sweetbreads. The quantity of each to be used depends upon taste or fancy. Before using, the quenelles and mushrooms should be slightly masked with appropriate sauce and the truffles should be glazed. Gourmet Garnish (a la Gourmet).—This is made up of artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, ox-palates, and Madeira wine and sauce, prepared as follows : Cut a cooked artichoke- bottom, either fresh or canned, into six pieces of equal size, put them in a saucepan with four mushrooms, two truffles, and a small quantity of cooked ox-palate, all cut into dice ; add f wineglassful of Madeira wine, and cook for five minutes. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira sauce, cook for five minutes longer, and it is then ready for use. Greek Garnish (a la Grecque).—For this, okra gumbos are prepared as follows, with Madeira and bearnaise sauces: Cut off both ends from a dozen okra gumbos, parboil them in boiling water for five minutes, drain, and put them into a saucepan with a little Madeira sauce. Cook for ten minutes longer, and serve arranged in groups, with 1 teacupful of bearnaise sauce. Hussard Garnish (a la Hussard).—This consists of mush- rooms, godiveau quenelles, ox-tongue, prepared with Madeira Garnishes—continued. and tomato sauces as follows : Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira sauce into a heated saucepan on the fire, add 1 tea- cupful of tomato sauce, six mushrooms cut into small pieces, 4oz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into rounds, and a dozen godiveau quenelles. Cook for about five minutes, and it is ready for use. Journeaux Garnish (a la Journeanx).—This is composed of chicken livers, seasoned and cooked with Madeira sauce, as follows : Cut the gall away carefully from twelve chicken livers, wash them clean, wipe dry, put them with loz. of butter in a frying-pan, and fry for three minutes. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper. Turn them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Madeira sauce, and boil for five minutes. Mariniere Garnish (a la Mariniere).—This fish Garnish is composed of mussels, crayfish, truffles, and fish quenelles, prepared as follows: Blanch some mussels and trim them; boil some truffles and crayfish, removing the tails and keep- ing them whole ; and prepare some fish quenelles, highly seasoned with cayenne. Put some veloute sauce into a frying-pan, with a little of the liquor in which the mussels were blanched, let it thicken over the fire, then add the mussels, &c., and stir until hot. Matelote Garnish (a la Matelote).—This is made up of carps’ soft roes, mussels, crayfish, mushrooms, truffles, and onions, prepared as follows: Boil some soft roes of carp, blanch some mussels, cook also some crayfish, and take out the meat from the tails, keeping them whole ; glaze some truffles, mushrooms, and small onions. Should the Garnish be required to be dished in heaps, matelote sauce must be served in a sauceboat; but if to be served otherwise, all the ingredients should be put into a saute-pan with some matelote sauce, and stirred over the fire for a few minutes, so as to thicken the sauce.* Milanese Garnish (a la Milanaise).—This is composed of truffles, mushrooms, ox-tongue, rice, and cheese, cooked as follows with Madeira and tomato sauces: Cut two truffles, six mushrooms, and an equal quantity of cooked smoked ox-tongue into pieces, put them in a saucepan with 2 break- fast-cupfuls of boiled rice, f pint each of tomato and Madeira sauces, 1 table-spoonful of salt, a little pepper, and 3 table- spoonfuls of grated cheese (either Parmesan or Gruyere). Cook for ten minutes before using. Montebello Garnish (a la Montebello).—For this, truffles with tomato and bearnaise sauces are prepared as follows : Pour 1 pint of tomato sauce in a saucepan, and add an equal quantity of bearnaise sauce and three sliced truffles; place the saucepan in the bain-marie, warm up without boiling, and it is ready for use. Normandy Garnish (a la Normaude).—(1) This consists of fish quenelles, mussels, oysters, crayfish-tails, mushrooms, and Normandy sauce, as follows : Prepare the required quantity of quenelles, moulded with teaspoons, made of any kind of fish forcemeat, also blanch as many mussels and oysters as are wanted; cut some cooked mushrooms in rather thick slices, and have ready some boiled crayfish-tails, taken out of the shells. Put the whole of these into a frying-pan with sufficient thick Normandy sauce to moisten, and stir them over the fire until hot. The Garnish is then ready for use. (2) Or it is made up of celery, carrots, onions, and white broth and cider, prepared as follows : Peel and well wash twelve heads of celery, drain them, put six of them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, salt and pepper to season, and 1 teacupful of white broth, and cook for twenty minutes on a moderate fire ; mash, and set them in a warm place till wanted. Take the other six heads of celery, and cut out the centres with a vegetahle-scoop, leaving about fin. uncut at the bottom to prevent burning; season with salt only. Stuff them with the warm mixture, and place them in a saucepan with half a scraped aud sliced carrot, half a peeled aud sliced onion, and 1 table-spoonful of butter; cook for three minutes on a moderate fire, add 1 wineglass- ful of cider and 1 teacupful of white broth, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Arrang'e the mashed celery that is not used in the centre of a hot dish, place the meat to be served over it, surround tho dish with the stuffed celery, strain over the gravy, arrange a floret of cooked cauliflower on top of each piece of celery, and serve hot.