506 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., Curry—continued. and cardamom-seeds, and joz. of cumin-seeds on a sheet or dish in a cool oven for twelve hours or so, to dry. Take them out, put in a mortar, and pound them well, taking care to have them well mixed. Put the powder into bottles, and it is ready for use. (4) Put 3oz. of turmeric in a mortar with 4oz. of coriander- seeds, loz. each of ginger, black pepper, and cumin-seeds, ^oz. of cardamom-seeds, and | teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and pound them thoroughly ; then sift them through a fine hair sieve on to a sheet of paper. Dry the mixture in a slow oven for a few minutes, fill some bottles with it, and cork them down tightly. The Curry should be kept in a dry place till used. (5) Pound to a fine powder 2oz. each of cayenne pepper, mace, nutmeg, white ginger, coriander-seeds, and turmeric. Sift it all through a fine sieve, bottle it, and cork well. Curry Sandwich.—Boil three eggs hard and put them in cold water; when cold, shell them, put the yolks in a mortar, with about loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of Curry-powder, 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and salt to taste, and pound to a smooth paste, mixing in gradually a small quantity of tarragon vinegar. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread the Curry mixture over half of them, cover with the remaining half, press together, cut into fingers or strips, and arrange these on a folded serviette or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish ; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. More than the given quantity of Curry may be used in the mixture if desired. Curry Sauce.—(1) Peel and slice four onions and two apples, put them in a stewpan, add 4oz. of butter, six peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and two bay-leaves, and brown the onions over a moderate fire. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Curry-powder with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it in with the onion mixture ; then add j pint of white sauce and lqt. of white stock, season with salt and £ teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil for a-quarter-of-an hour, stirring continually; strain it through a sieve into another stewpan, boil again, skim, and use when required. . (2) Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and chopped onions in a saucepan and cook them for five minutes, being careful not to let them burn. Mix 1 table-spoonful of Curry-powder with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, add it to the butter, pour in gradually 1 pint of hot milk, and stir over the fire for a few minutes till thick and perfectly smooth; season with salt and pepper, and serve. Curry Soup.—(1) Cut a few onions in slices, fry them in butter, and put them in a saucepan with a little Curry-powder and butter; pour in sufficient stock to cover, make this hot without boiling, and pass it through a fine sieve. Have ready a dish covered with rice boiled in stock, pour the Curry over, and serve as hot as possible. (2) With the flesh of a fowl and a little crayfish butter prepare some quenelles with teaspoons, and poach them in broth. Cut the flesh of an eel into pieces, and fry in butter. Put the bones and trimmings of both fowl and eel into a saucepan with two sliced onions, 2qts. of chopped mushrooms, and a seasoning of parsley, bay-leaf, allspice, mace, basil, thyme, leeks, and cayenne, pour in lqt. of rich fowl soup, and boil for fully an hour. Strain the soup into another saucepan containing 6oz. of blanched rice, add another quart of boiling soup, with a little infusion of saffron to colour it slightly, and boil for an hour long'er. Put the pieces of eel together with about four dozen cooked crayfish tails at the bottom of a tureen, add the quenelles to the soup, warm them, pour the whole into the tureen, and serve. (3) Cut the fillets of two lampreys into small pieces, cover them with salt, let them stand for about an hour, wash and drain them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them. Prepare about 2qts. of rich fowl soup, and also make about two dozen salmon quenelles, about the size of filberts. Put the bones and trimmings of the lampreys and salmon, together with a carp cut up into pieces, into a saucepan with lqt. of the soup, add two onions cut into slices, 2qts. of button-mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, a few leeks, and a seasoning of four cloves, two bay-leaves, and a very small quantity each of allspice, mace, basil, thyme, and cayenne. Boil for an hour, strain into a saucepan containing C urry—conti nued. the pieces of lampreys, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Take out the pieces of fish, put them into a tureen, and keep them as hot as possible ; strain the liquor from them into another saucepan containing lOoz. of washed and blanched rice, pour in the remaining quart of the soup, add a slight infusion of saffron to give it a yellow colour, and boil for an hour; then add the salmon quenelles and poach them for a few minutes. Turn the whole into the tureen over the pieces of lampreys, and serve very hot. (4) Prepare and strain about 2qts. of rich soup ; put half of this into one saucepan and keep it boiling, and the other half into another saucepan with two fowls, tied round with slices of fat bacon, add a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, four cloves, a little each of thyme, basil, mace, allspice, cayenne, and pepper, and boil slowly for fully forty-five minutes. Take out the fowls, skim the soup, strain it into another saucepan over lOoz. of well-washed and blanched rice, add a very little infusion of saffron to give it a slight yellow colour, and boil for about one hour. Cut up the fowls into small pieces, put them at the bottom of a soup-tureen, pour over the soup with the rice, together with the other quart of boiling soup, and serve. Prepared in this way, the soup should have a slight flavouring of the herbs and spices, as well as a taste of cayenne. Indian Stick Curry (Hussanee).—Cut into pieces lin. square about 21b. of beef, mutton, or veal, and put them on skewers, alternately with half an onion and a slice of ginger. Put 3oz. of fat or butter into a saucepan, stir in 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, teaspoonful of ground ginger, \ teaspoonful of ground garlic, and 1J teaspoonfuls of salt; brown these in- Fig. 618. Indian Stick Curry. gredients thoroughly, add the sticks of meat, and brown them also, stirring continually ; then add 1 teacupful of milk warmed and thickened with a small lump of butter, and allowed to remain in a warm place for about ten hours before being used, and simmer gently until done. Beef will require about two hours to simmer, veal one hour, and mutton half-an-hour. Place the meat on a dish without removing the skewers, pour the Curry over, and serve. See Pig. 618. Madras Curry-Powder.—(1) Put in a mortar 2oz. each of cumin- and coriander-seeds, foz. each of cardamom-seeds and caraway- seeds, 1 table-spoonful of cayenne pepper, & table-spoonful each of black pepper, fenugreek-seeds, and cloves, and 1 tea- spoonful each of mace and cinnamon, also lOoz. of turmeric. Powder the above mixture well, sift it through a fine hair sieve on to a sheet of paper, and dry the powder in front of the fire, or in a slow oven; then put it into a bottle, cork it tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard. (2) Put equal quantities (say a teacupful) each of turmeric, coriander-seeds and poppy-seeds into a mortar, with five or six chillies and 1 teaspoonful each of mustard-seeds and cumin- seeds, and pound them well. Put the powder into a bottle, and use it as required. Portuguese Indian Curry (Bindelho).—This should only be made with beef, pork, or duck. Take about 21b. of the meat, cut it up into squares, put these into a basin, and pour over a mixture composed of 1 teacupful of vinegar, 1 table-spoonful each of ground ginger, ground garlic, and bruised garlic, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground chillies, J teaspoonful of roasted and ground cumin-seeds, 1 teaspoonful of roasted and ground coriander-seeds, a few peppercorns, five or six roasted and ground cloves, two or three bay-leaves, and six small sticks