494 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Curds—continued. Curds—continued. wineglassfuls of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Beat the mixture until all the ingredients are thoroughly- incorporated. Butter some large patty-pans, line them with short-paste, fill with the mixture, and bake. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve; or they can be left until cold. Curds and Cream.—(1) Make 3 pints of milk moderately warm, stir in 3 dessert-spoonfuls of rennet, let it stand till quite cold, take up the Curds with a skimmer, and lay them on a sieve. When the whey has drained, lay them on a dish, sprinkle powdered white sugar and grated nutmeg over them, pour cream over, and serve. (2) Add to each quart of milk 1 table-spoonful of rennet; when it curdles, take out the Curds, tie them loosely in a thin cloth, hang it up, and let it drain. When well drained put the Curds into a bowl and set this in very cold water, or stand in a refrigerator. When very cold, lay it in a deep dish, pour cream over, and serve. Grated nutmeg and sugar greatly improve this dish. Curds with Cream.—Dissolve a small quantity of gelatine; mix Curds with an equal quantity of cream, whisk them well with an egg-beater, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with any kind of essence, and then mix in the dissolved gelatine. Turn the cream into a dome-shaped mould, and pack it in pounded ice and salt for a few hours. When the cream or cheese is quite firm, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a fancy dish. The cheese may be garnished with croutons of jelly. Curd Fritters.—(1) Put lqt. of new milk over the fire, let it come to the boil, and then throw in 1 teaspoonful of rennet made liquid in 2 glasses of white wine ; take it from the fire and let it stand till well separated into Curds and whey. Drain off the whey and lay the Curds on a soft cloth for three or four minutes to dry thoroughly. Beat up the yolks of five eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, then whisk in the Curds, and continue to whisk till they are well mixed. Next beat in 2oz. of self-raising flour, a little grated nutmeg, and the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and form the whole into a smooth thickish batter. Fry quickly in table-spoonfuls in butter. Lay them on a warm sieve to drain; then arrange on a napkin on a hot dish, dredge powdered sugar over them, and serve hot with jelly sauce. (2) Pass 1 pint of Curds through a sieve, and add the whites of two and the yolks of four eggs, well whisked, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and a little ground cinnamon. Mix all together, drop the batter into a frying-pan containing plenty of boiling lard, and fry until they are a light brown : then drain, and serve very hot. Curd Pudding's.—(1) Boil a stick of cinnamon in lqt. of fresh milk, then take the cinnamon out and stir into the milk 1 table-spoonful of white wine and eight well-beaten eggs; let it boil up again and strain it through a sieve. Put the Curds in a bowl, beat into it by degrees loz. of butter, enough finely-powdered white sugar to sweeten, and 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; put it into a mould and let it stand in a cold place for a few hours. When turned out, a sauce of white wine, cream, and sugar may be poured over it. (2) Warm 3oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then mix in gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, 3oz. of caster sugar, and 3oz. of Curds that have been rubbed till smooth. Blanch and pound 4 table-spoonfuls of almonds, and mix them with the above ingredients ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it until firm. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over it, and serve. (3) Put igall. of milk into a bowl with a little rennet to turn it, pour the whole on to a sieve, press out the whey, and rub the Curd through into a basin. Mix in the crumb of a small roll, 4oz. of warm butter, caster sugar to sweeten, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and 1 wineglassful of white wine mixed up with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Three-parts fill some small buttered pans with the mixture, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the puddings out when done, stick a few small pieces of blanched almonds and orange-peel on the tops, dredge over a little caster sugar, and serve with a sauceboatful of any rich sweet sauce. Curd Puffs. —Take lqt. of milk and add sufficient rennet to curdle it: this should produce 3oz. of Curd. Scald it and drain quite dry. Put 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with loz. of butter, boil it, add 2oz. of flour, and mix to a paste, stirring over the fire for a few minutes. Take it off the fire and add the Curd and 2oz. of finely-grated cheese. Stir thoroughly, Fig. 603. Curd Puffs. and mix in three eggs, one at a time, well beating the mixture upon each addition. It may be baked either in small patty- pans lined with a thin tart-paste, in a slow oven, or the paste may be cut into thin flats, and 1 table-spoonful of the mixture put in the centre, pinched up at the sides like a cocked hat (see Fig. 603), and baked on a baking-sheet in a slack oven. Curd Soup.— This is a favourite Turkish dish. Put 2|lb. of crumbs of French rolls into a mortar with fib. of Curd, and pound them well; then leave the mixture for twelve hours. If pounded over-night, it can be used in the morning. Put the pounded mixture into a saucepan, pour in gradually the requisite quantity of clear stock, beating it well with a wooden spoon all the time. Put it over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for an hour. Cut some slices of bread into small squares, and fry them in butter till browned. Mix 1 teacupful of cream, or 4 pint of milk, with the soup, and boil it up again ; then turn it into a tureen, and serve with the fried bread on a plate. CURING.—Under this heading salting, drying, and smoking are correctly included as parts of the entire process of curing; hut as salting, or pickling, is described under its own specific headings, or the names of the foods thus treated, such as Bacon, Beef, Fish, &c., it will not be necessary to repeat them. Attention is here required principally for that part of the curing process which gives such wonderful flavours to dried meats, and is known as Smoking. For this purpose a room or chamber of some kind is required, in which the articles to be smoked are hung, and into which smoke of burning wood is conveyed. The usual smoke-house is a sort of hut about 12ft. square, having walls 7ft. high and a hole in the roof; joists are laid across in the inside, upon which to hang the articles to be smoked. The floor is covered 5in. or 6m. deep with sawdust, which is kindled, producing a good deal of smoke with very little flame. Such a smoke-house as this would be very effective for wholesale purposes ; but the requirements of a family or single institution would not exceed more than could be smoked by a very small apparatus. For such a purpose the following is recommended as being efficient and simple. The sectional illustration (Fig. 604) explains the con- trivance so thoroughly that very little description is necessary. The smoke-chamber (a) is a large barrel with both ends knocked out, and the top covered by a few boards fastened together, a piece of old oilcloth, tarpaulin, sacking, or other coarse canvas. From the centre of the barrel a short trench (b) with a downward inclination is cut, about Gin. wide, into which is dropped a length of drain- or stove-pipe, opening at the upper end into the smoke-chamber, and at the other end into a pit