TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 591 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish—continued. with the Fish, and stir in a little cream, seasoning with cayenne and nutmeg. Butter a plain mould, turn the Fish preparation into it, bake for half-an-hour, then turn it on to a dish and spread some breadcrumbs moistened with liquefied butter over the top; set it again in a moderate oven, or brown with a sala- mander ; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. (3) Free about lib. of cold cooked Fish from skin and bone, chop it, put it in a mortar with |lb. of skinned and chopped beef-suet, 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and | 2oz. of butter. Pound the mixture until perfectly smooth, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce and two beaten eggs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, and with lioured hands mould them into round cakes. Put a large lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises put in the cakes, a few at a time, and fry them. As each lot are browned, take them out of the pan and lay them on a sheet of kitchen- paper in front of the fire to drain off the fat. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the cakes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Remove the skin and bones from ljlb. of white Fish, and mince as fine as possible. Put it into a basin and mix in j teacupful of sifted breadcrumbs, loz. of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, f teaspoonful of salt, and i teaspoonful of pepper, also 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, two well-beaten eggs, and f teacupful of milk. When thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture into a buttered plain mould, cover over with buttered paper, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over Dutch or oyster sauce, and serve with a garnish of thin slice of lemon. If preferred, the mixture may be put into small moulds, and will only require about twenty minutes to steam. Fish Chowder.—Put sufficient slightly-fried thin slices of pickled pork at the bottom of a stewpan, cover over with a thickish layer of any firm-fleshed Fish, such as bass, cod, &c., sprinkle over these with finely-chopped onions, then with crushed crackers or hard biscuits, adding salt and pepper to taste. Place another layer of Fish over this, then onions, next crackers, and continue in this way until a sufficient quantity of the ingredients is used. Dredge over rather thickly with flour, pour in sufficient lukewarm water to cover the Fish, place the stewpan on a moderate fire, and stew gently for half-an-hour or so, according to the quantity of Fish used. Take out all the Fish and keep it hot on a dish in an oven; add to the liquor in the pan loz. of flour well rubbed into ^lb. of butter. Place the saucepan back on the fire, cook for two or three minutes longer, add a little wine or any ketchup, stir well, turn it out on to the dish with the 1 Fish, and serve. The pork must be taken out before serving. Fish Consomme.—Put fib. of butter, four sliced onions, three heads of celery cut up small, five carrots cut into slices, four shallots unpicked, two bay-leaves, one sprig of thyme, three cloves, one clove of unpicked garlic, and twelve sprigs of parsley into a 2gall. stewpan, and fry to a reddish-brown colour. When they are nicely done, pour in 5qts. of water and 1 bottle of Chablis or Sauterne. Place the pan on the fire, and boil, skim, and add a little mignonette pepper, ljoz. of salt, 61b. of any Fish (gurnet preferred) cut into pieces, and the heads and bones of six large whiting, cod, or conger eels, but keeping their fillets to clarify. Place the pan on the side of the fire, simmer for two hours, then strain the contents through a napkin. Pound the fillets with the whites of two eg’gs, stir them in the liquor, replace the pan on the fire, and boil for a few minutes longer. Strain again, and it is ready for use. Fish Consomme with Whiting Quenelles. — Take two leeks, one large onion, and one carrot; chop them very fine, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter, adding 41b. of any bony Fish, such as gurnet, perch, or tench, the head of a turbot, or the head and shoulders of a cod or conger eel. Put in sufficient white wine and hot water in equal quantities to cover the Fish, then add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a few cloves, peppercorns, and a little salt; cover over the pan, put it on a brisk fire, and boil for twenty minutes ; when done, strain it, skim off the fat, and let it stand. Meanwhile, take lib. of whiting or pike, and chop it up very fine, put it into a stewpan with three eggs, Fish —continued. and moisten first with a wineglassful of white wine and then with the Fish broth ; put the pan over a moderate fire, and add a few celery-roots, carrots, and locks, all chopped fine. Stir the liquid until it boils, move it to the side, and let it stand until quite clear. Strain it through a cloth, and keep hot. Take two teaspoons, and with them form two dozen small quenelles of whitings, poach them in broth, take them out, drain, and put them in the soup-tureen. Skim off the fat, and strain the consomme5 over the quenelles. Fish Cutlets.—(1) Season 1 pint of any cold cooked Fish with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and make it into a paste with a little th'ck cream sauce made quite hot. Put the paste on a dish to about jin. in thickness, and when it is cold form it into the shapes of cutlets. Put them first into bread- or cracker-crumbs, then egg, and then crumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of hot fat, and fry until brown. If lobster is used, insert a small claw at the thin end of each cutlet for a bone, and for other kinds of Fish use a rather thick piece of bone. Drain off the fat, and serve. (2) Any cold remains of Fish may be used ; free it from all the skin and bones, and finely mince it. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and loz. of butter, pour in sufficient water to cover, and boil it gently for two hours. Strain the liquor, return it to the stewpan, boil up again, then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of one or two eggs and the Fish. Spread the mixture on a dish, and leave it until cold; then cut it into equal-sized pieces, trim to the shape of cutlets, and dip them in beaten egg-and-bread- crumbs. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises put in the cutlets and fry them until browned ; as they are cooked, take them out of the fat, and drain them for a minute or two on a sheet of paper. Spread a fancy- edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cutlets in a circle on it, fill the centre with a bunch of fried parsley, and serve. Fisli Forcemeat.—(1) Choose any solid Fish, such as brill, turbot, &c., take away the skin and bones and mince the meat very fine. Put an onion into a stewpan with a little butter, and stew it until quite tender. Pound it in a mortar with jib. of butter, adding a little at a time. Put 6oz. of crumb of bread into a little milk, and when sufficiently soaked take it out, squeeze dry, and add it to the onion mixture, also two well-beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, with salt and pepper to taste. These must be all well mixed, then add the Fish, previously passed through a sieve, and the paste can be made into balls, and either boiled or fried. (2) Remove the bones and skin from about ^lb. of the white flesh of raw Fish ; pound the flesh, and put it into a saucepan with |lb. of bread panada, 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, ilb. of butter, the yolks of three or four eggs, the juice of half a lemon, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Beat the ingredients over a slow fire till quite smooth. Fish Fritters.—Take any cold boiled Fish, pick it free of all bones and skin, and pound it in a mortar. Peel a small onion, cut it into slices, and pound it with the Fish ; season to taste with salt and pepper, add an equal bulk of mashed potatoes, mix well together, and make all into a paste with beaten egg. Spread the paste out on a board, cut it into small pieces about 3in. across, either round or square, and fry them in boiling lard to a light brown. Fold a napkin over a hot dish, pile the fritters on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with any Fish sauce. Fish Glaze.—Put 41b. of gurnet in a stock-pot with 41b. of whiting and 61b. of soles, all cleaned and skinned; add lqt. of Chablis, 2jgalls. of water, and three whole cloves of garlic. When boiling, skim, and add lib. each of onions, carrots, and leeks, a large bunch of fresh sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of salt. Simmer till the Fish are cooked ; take them out, strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, and reduce it to one-third. Let it stand until the glaze is set, then cut off about jin. from the top and the sediment at the bottom, put the remainder in a stewpan, and stir it over a brisk fire till it is reduced to the consistence of thick cream. Then pour it into a basin or crock till wanted for use. Fish Gravy.—(1) Put 21b. of any kind of Fish-flesh cut in pieces into a saucepan with 4gall, of water, and add a blade