667 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—co n tinned. Ravioles of Game in Consomme.—Remove the skin and sinews from two fillets of any uncooked Game, chop them up, and pound in a mortar with half their bulk each of cooked calf’s brains, raw ox-marrow, and grated Parmesan cheese. Add the yolks of two eggs to form the mass into a stiff paste, and with it prepare sixty or seventy ravioles. Plunge them into a saucepan of boiling wrater, boil for one or two minutes, remove the pan from the fire, cover it over, and let the ravioles remain for another two or three minutes. Take them out, drain, put them in a soup-tureen, pour over 2qts. or 3qts. of hot Game consomme, and serve. Salmis of Game.—(1) Cut the meat from some cold roasted Game into small pieces; break the bones and put them with the trimmings in a stewpan, add 1 pinch of sweet herbs, two cloves, two peppercorns, and some cold water, set them on the fire, and boil. Fry two small sliced onions in butter till brown, sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir till cooked. Strain the liquor in which the bones were boiled, mix with it the flour and onions, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester- shire sauce, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, 1 pinch of salt, and the pieces of meat. Simmer for fifteen minutes, and add a few button-mushrooms. Fry some slices of bread without crust in butter, put them on a hot dish, pour over the salmis, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Take off all the skin and cut the meat from any cold roasted Game into neat joints or slices. Put all the skin, fat, and trimmings into a saucepan with 1 pint of gravy, a couple of onions sliced and fried in butter, a bunch of parsley, savory and marjoram, four or five cloves, a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and simmer for an hour. Take it from the fire, and let it stand till the fat rises; then skim, strain, and return it to the saucepan on the fire, and when it is very hot stir in l|oz. of butter and sufficient browned flour to thicken it. Continue to stir till it boils, and let it boil hard for five minutes; then put in the pieces of Game, and do not let it boil again, but place the saucepan in a pan of boiling water or bain-marie for ten minutes. Lay the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with pieces of fried bread, and serve hot. (3) Cut off the legs, wings, and breasts of any half-roasted Game, and trim them, taking off every bit of skin. Cut Jib. of lean raw ham into very small squares, put it into a saucepan with two dozen button-mushrooms, 2oz. of sliced carrot, four chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, a couple of sprigs of thyme, sixteen or eighteen peppercorns, four cloves, and a bunch of parsley, also 2oz. of butter; put the saucepan over the fire, and stew, stirring frequently for a short time ; then mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, let it brown a little, and add by degrees £ pint of veal broth and J pint of sherry. Bruise the carcases of the birds, put them and the trimmings of the joints into this gravy, and boil for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Strain the gravy, skim off the fat, pour it over the Game, place it over the fire, let it get very hot, but remove from the fire before the gravy boils. Lay the meat on a hot dish, pour over the gravy, garnish with small pieces of fried bread placed round the edge of the dish, and serve hot. Vol -au-Vent of Cold Game.—Cut the meat from any cold cooked Game into small pieces, and mix with it an equal quantity of cold ham or ox-tongue also cut into small pieces. Break up the bones of the bird, and put them with the trim- Fig. 827. Vol-au-Vent of Cold Game. mings into a saucepan ; add a blade of mace, two or three allspice, a small quantity of salt and nutmeg, and about | breakfast-cupful of white stock, and boil gently for half- an-hour. Rub the skin off a few small button-mushrooms Game—continued. with a piece of flannel dipped in salt, put them in a stewpan, strain the gravy from the bones over them, and stew gently. When they are nearly cooked, put in the meat, with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of minced truffles, 1 teacupful of thick cream, and loz. of butter worked into 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir the whole over the fire until boiled and quite thick. Prepare a vol-au-vent case by rolling out some paste, lin. thick, laid on a greased baking-sheet, and cutting a round as large as a dinner-plate; mark out with the point of a knife an inner circle about lin. from the edge, and not more than Jin. deep, bake it, and after removing the thin inner circle pile up the centre with the Game preparation. Cut up the thin slab from the centre into shapes, and lay over the Game -mixture, previously brushing over with white of egg each place where the ornament is to be laid. Pass the sala- mander over the top, and serve on a hot dish. See Fig. 827. GAMMON.—A term applied to tlie thigh of a hog when pickled or dried. See Bacon. GARBURE.—Some of our Continental cooks hailing from the South of France are very fond of not only using this term hut also of preparing the dish, but unfortunately the word seems to suggest so decidedly a reference to our garbage that it is not, popular in this country. The word is probably derived from gerbe— a sheaf, which in the old French was spelt garbe. Wheatsheaves are called garbs in heraldic language, and as garbs or wheatsheaves require a fork to remove them out of a field, Kettner considers that Garbure signifies a soup containing garbs, or Bits of food that require a fork to lift them. Ude gives instructions for a Garbure to be prepared somewhat as follows: Put into a large saucepan 61b. of flank of beef, a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, and two or three carrots and onions, one stuck with two cloves; pour in J pint of broth, put the lid on the pan, and let the contents sweat over a slow fire. When the meat is cooked, pour in sufficient boiling water to cover it, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours. Thoroughly wash and blanch two cabbages, put them in a saucepan between layers of bacon, and braise them ; moisten the cabbages with the strained broth from the meat. Put some smoked sausages in with the cabbages, and stew gently till cooked. Cut some slices of brown bread, lay them in the bottom of a deep dish, put over them a layer of the cabbage after draining it in a cloth, pour over a little of the broth, and cook in a slow oven for a few minutes. When the bread is sufficiently moistened, put in some more layers of bread and cabbage, and return to the oven for a few minutes longer. Put the ham in the centre on the cabbage, arrange the bacon and sausages round, and serve with the soup in a tureen. GARDEN PARTIES.—These may be sufficiently described as “picnics at home,” having one very great catering advantage over picnics abroad: the facilities at hand for preparing the necessary refreshments are immeasurably greater, and lead visitors to anticipate something of a very tasty and pleasing character. A clever hostess will understand that very much of the success of a Garden Party depends upon the quality of the refreshments. Solid food is not desirable, there being no set table to sit down to; and if there were, those guests who were bent on garden recreation might feel indisposed for further excitement after a heavy meal. But it is astonishing the amount of light, sweet, and tasty food that a Garden Party will consume. A good plan, where the hall is sufficiently capacious, is to erect a temporary buffet therein, providing small tables and plenty of comfortable chairs outside on the terrace, verandah, in summer-houses, or under trees. Let there be a few attendants, but have the gentlemen principally to wait upon the ladies, rather than servants on both, for therein consists one of the great charms of a Garden Party—freedom of formality and liberal intercourse. At a Garden Party appetites are exceedingly irregular, so that it is advisable to have the buffet covered all the