THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. (33 i For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c,, referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. chives, cut the green tops into thin rings, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes. Put some clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire to get hot. Dip the pieces of chicken in flour mixed with a small quantity of pepper and salt, then put them into the pan of hot fat, and fry for ten minutes, turning them occasionally. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan and melt it; drain the chives, wipe them on a towel, put them into the melted butter, and fry them, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. When the pieces of chicken are cooked, take them out of the fat, put them on a piece of thick paper to drain, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, strew the chives over them, and serve hot. Fried Fowl with Okra Gumbo. — Clean a very tender chicken, cut it into joints suitable for frying, season with salt and pepper, and roll them in flour. Wash two dozen pods of okra gumbos and thinly slice them, throwing away the stems. Peel and slice one medium-sized onion, cut ^lb. of ham in lin. dice, and chop fine one small red or green fresh pepper. First fry the chicken and ham brown, putting them into enough smoking-hot lard to half cover them ; then add the okra gumbos, onion, and pepper, and sufficient broth, cold gravy, or boiling water to cover all. Season to taste with salt, and stew gently until both chicken and vegetables are quite tender. If, while cooking, the broth becomes thicker than ordinary gravy, add to it a little boiling water. Fried oysters are sometimes added to the preparation just before serving. A dish of plain boiled rice is usually served with it. This dish is sometimes called Fowl Gumbo. Fried Fowl served with Salted Pork.—Clean and cut up into pieces a very tender chicken, and roll the pieces in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Cut Alb. of fat salted pork into thin slices, put it into a frying-pan, and fry brown ; then take it up, and keep hot. Put the pieces of chicken into the drippings, and fry them brown. When they are done, cover them with boiling water, season the gravy with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and then serve the chicken and fried pork on the same dish, sending the gravy to the table in a sauceboat. Fried Fricassee of Fowl.—Draw a Fowl, disjoint it, blanch the pieces in boiling water, drain them, and stew them in veloute sauce. When the pieces are tender, take them out. | Thicken the sauce with the beaten yolks of two eggs, but do not let it boil, and strain through a fine hair sieve. When cold, dip the pieces of Fowl in the sauce, roll them in bread- crumbs, egg them, and then breadcrumb them again. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when boiling put in the pieces of Fowl, and fry both sides till brown. Dish them on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, put the veloute sauce in a sauceboat, and serve. Fried Marinaded Fowls.—(1) Select a couple of young birds ; singe, draw, and truss them, put them in a saucepan with sufficient broth to half cover them, and boil for about twenty-five minutes; then take them out, drain, and let them cool. Remove the string and skewers with which they were trussed, and cut each bird into five pieces, removing the skin and bones. Put the pieces in a basin, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour over the juice of two lemons. Take each piece separately, dip it into frying- batter, put it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until the batter is dry. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish on a folded napkin, and serve. (2) Choose a couple of fat chickens, draw, and singe them until the flesh is quite firm, then cut them up into ten pieces each as if for fricassee, and put them into an earthenware pot with a little onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and let them remain for a couple of hours or so, stirring frequently. Beat the whites of two eggs in a basin, dip each piece of Fowl separately into this and then into flour—seeing that every part is well covered — plunge them into a frying-pan of fat not quite boiling, and fry until done. When the meat is of a good brown, but not quite done through, take out the pieces, drain, and put them on a dish with brown sauce under them. Galantine of Fowl.—(1) Take a chicken that has been boned, stuffed, and boiled in a cloth, and whilst still hot in the cloth put it into a plain mould with a weight on the top, and let it remain for a time. When it is cold, take it out of this Fowls—continued. mould and put it into one a little larger, having- previously removed the cloth and wiped the chicken all over with a napkin. Fill the vacant space in the mould with a little warmed aspic jelly, and place it on the ice to set. Dip the mould in a little warm water, wipe it dry, turn out the galantine, and serve. (2) Secure a chicken with plenty of flesh on it, pluck, draw, and singe it, and take out the bones without injuring the flesh. Cut some strips of ham and truffles into pieces of equal length and thickness. Slit the chicken-meat into fillets without injuring the skin, and place them with a few slices of veal in such a way that when they are cut they become chequered. Sprinkle salt, pepper, and spices over, and sew up the back, making it as near as possible its original shape. Have ready some calf’s-foot jelly. Place the chicken in a saucepan, cover it with slices of bacon, season with parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, clove, spice, a few carrots, slices of veal, two or three onions, and a little salt and pepper; then add a little of the jelly and a small quantity of broth. Place the pan on the fire, and boil for a little less than an hour. Take the pan off the fire, and let the chicken cool in the liquor, so that the slices of meat will not stick together through the jelly, for if so it would break on the galantine being cut. It may be served hot with some Spanish sauce poured over it, or cold with jelly, as follows: Beat the whites of three eggs in a basin, and add a little of the chicken liquor and jelly, place them in a saucepan, put this over the fire, and stir until the liquor is quite white ; then let it boil gently. Take it off the fire, and put it on one side with a few hot ashes on the lid ; when it is quite clear strain it through a cloth, let it cool, and serve with the galantine. (3) Remove all the bones from a Fowl, but do not cut off the wings, and turn the thighs inwards. Cut up half an ox- tongue, about lib. of ham, lib. of mushrooms, and lib. of truffles, in slices, add sufficient veal forcemeat, season all with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mix well together, and stuff the Fowl with it. Make it into a good shape, turn the wings under, and tie the Fowl up in a buttered cloth. Slice up a carrot, an onion, and a little celery, and put them in a stewpan with three bay-leaves, eighteen allspice, and a bunch of parsley. Put the galantine into the stewpan, cover it with stock, and simmer for an-hour-and-a-half; when done, take the galantine out of the stewpan, tie the cloth tighter, put something flat and rather heavy upon it, and let it get cold. By having a flat top it looks better. When served, ornament with aspic jelly and other suitable garnishes. (4) Having plucked and cleaned the Fowl, bone and trim it. Chop lib. of lean veal and Jib. of fat bacon, put them in a mortar, and pound well, seasoning moderately with powdered spice and sweet herbs, with salt and pepper to taste; then pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Cut three or four slices of boiled ox-tongue into pieces about lin. square, and cut six truffles into small squares. Lay the Fowl open on the table, season it inside with pepper, salt, and pounded spices, spread the pounded mixture over, and arrange the pieces of tongue and truffles on the top. Roll the Fowl up, bind it tightly, and tie it in a cloth. Put the trimmings of Fowl in a large saucepan with those of the bacon, a calf’s foot cut into pieces, a few pieces of onions and carrots, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, composed of thyme, parsley, marjoram, and a bay-leaf, and add cloves, peppercorns, mace, and salt in moderate proportions. Pour in plenty of cold water, and put the saucepan over the fire until boiling, then move it a little on one side, and simmer for two hours. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and return it to the saucepan. When it boils again, put in the galantine, and boil it gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Great care must be taken not to allow it to boil fast. When cooked, take out the galantine, and let it cool a little ; then remove the cloth, tie the galantine up in a fresh one, put it between two dishes with a moderate weight on the top, and leave until quite cold. Eemove the cloth, and glaze the galantine. Spread an ornamental dish- paper or a folded napkin on a dish, put the galantine on it, garnish with a few bunches of washed and dried parsley, and serve. Galantine of Fowl garnished with Jelly.—Pluck, singe, and thoroughly clean a large Fowl, bone it, and remove the legs and wings. Cut the flesh from the wings into dice, and chop the meat from the legs ; put the latter into a mortar