482 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Crotitons—continued. more even colour, but the frying-pan, with plenty of fat. butter, or oil, may be used if more convenient. Drain on a cloth or paper before using. Fig. 586. CRObTONS of Aspic Jelly. For Soups.—Cut the slices of bread £in. thick, and then into dice. Fry them as before, drain, and serve in a deep plate, or silver-covered dish. CEOWBERBIES (Fr. Camarines). — Small black berry-like fruit, sometimes called Crakeberry, containing about half-a-dozen stones. They grow on a small shrub (1Hm/petrum nigrum) in most of the northern parts of the world. The plant is very hardy, standing cold, bleak atmospheres even better than the common heath. The berries are slightly acid, and are sought for greedily by children in the extreme north of Scotland; the Russian peasantry also eat them, but they are not generally considered as of much value for food. In Kamtchatka they are used in great quantities to boil with fish, and form also an ingredient in some Kamtchatkan puddings. CROWDY-This is sometimes spelled “ Crowdie,” the latter being peiliaps a more modern version of the original Scotch term. It is described as a thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water, a food of the porridge kind; but here again modern innovations have evolved the following variety: Into 2qts. of the cold skimmed liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled stir ^ pint of medium oatmeal, two partly-cooked onions chopped fine, and pepper and salt to taste. The oatmeal should be first worked into a smooth paste with some of the mutton liquor. Let this boil up for twenty minutes or more, stirring freely, and serve with bread or toast sippets. CRUETS.—According to Webster this term is the diminutive of the old French crues, or cruies, flasks. As we know the meaning of the word, it is a set of small flasks, made to contain pepper, vinegar, oil, and mustard, some Cruet-stands being fitted with two or three extra bottles, in which cayenne pepper, sauces, or varieties of vinegar, such as tarragon or chilli, may be set on the table. Another name for Cruets is “ casters,” but this conveys the idea of a pepper-pot from which pepper is cast, or of a vessel from which very finely-powdered sugar, called “ caster ” sugar, may be distributed over viands or sweets; but the term does not apply to flasks that contain fluids. Fig. 587. Cruet-stand (Adams and Soil). Cruets—continued. A very useful Cruet-stand is shown in Fig. 587. and others for table-corners, containing mustard, pepper, and salt only, are much used at breakfasts, lunches, and large dinners; but since the advance of cookery, in houses where experienced cooks are employed the Cruet-stand or frame should be delegated to the kitchen, seasoning being left to the cook, that is if he knows his business. A very excellent adaptation and association of the various flavourings and condiments found in Cruets has been brought to light and introduced to cooks under the name of “ Crueteen.” It contains some proportion of spices which are too often disregarded by “ plain cooks.” CRUET SAUCE.—The British name for Vinai- grette, a French sauce that is described under that heading. CRULLS.—This term isnot much used now ; it is evidently a corruption of tlieword “curls,” which exactly describes the article it is used to denote. Potato Crulls, or Krulls, are potatoes cut into curls. This is done by passing a fine corer or vegetable-cutter through the centre of the potatoes, and then, after peeling very evenly, cutting the potatoes round and round, permitting the point of the knife only just to enter the central holes cut out by the corer. The result will lie exceedingly pretty Curls or Krulls (see Fig. 588), which, when fried in plenty of boil- ing fat, make a very tasty garnish. CRULLERS.—These were originally a kind of sweet cake, cut in strips or curled anti twisted, from which peculiarity they derive their name—Crullers (sometimes spelled Krullers) or Curlers. They are then fried crisp in boiling fat. The following' receipts give a fine variety: (1) Bub 1 table-spoonful of butter into a little flour, add 1 teacupful of sugar, ^ saltspoonful of ground cinnamon or mace, £ saltspoonful of salt, and one* egg, the yolk and white beaten separately; work the ingredients well, adding sufficient flour to make them stiff. Boll the dough out Rn. in thickness, Fig. 589. American Crullers. cut it into oblong- pieces 2|in. by 3jin., or squares, then make five incisions lengthwise, cutting to within jin. at each end (see Fig. 589, a). Take up every other strip, fold each together slightly in the middle (see Fig. 589, b), and fry them in hot fat. (2) Mix 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking-powder in lib. of flour ; melt a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and beat it up with two eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 teacupful of milk, and 1 pinch of salt; pour this into the middle of the flour, and work it; knead the dough on the