THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 544 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels —continued. and drain, put them into a saucepan with as much rich consomme as will be required, add a little blanched chervil and 1 pinch of pepper, and boil for half-an-hour, skimming carefully as required. Put some pieces of toast or fried bread at the bottom of a tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. (6) Skin and clean 31b. of Eels, put them into a saucepan with 2 pints of water, add one onion, a small quantity of mace, a little whole pepper, sweet herbs, and a crust of bread; cover down close, and stew until the flesh separates from the bones; then strain the liquor. Toast six slices of bread a deep brown, cut them into triangular pieces or squares, cut a piece of carrot about 2in. long into four slices lengthwise, put them into a tureen with the toast, pour over the soup, add a little boiling cream thickened with flour, and serve. (7) Brown.—Take about 31b. of Eels after they have been washed and cleaned, cover them with flour, batter, or breadcrumbs, and fry until quite done; then cut each into pieces and remove the bones. Chop a few onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown ; then add sufficient flour to thicken the soup, pour in slowly some stock or water, season with a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, two dozen peppercorns, a slice of lemon, and a little salt. Add the pieces of Eel, and boil until cooked. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. (8) Dutch Style.—Clean an Eel, cut it up into lin. lengths, put these into a bowl, cover over with salt, and let them remain for an hour; then wash off all the salt, and wipe the pieces of fish quite dry on a cloth. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and add 2qts. of mushrooms, two leeks, carrots, and onions, and a head of celery, all cut up small, seasoning with a little mace, garlic, pepper, a bay-leaf, and two cloves. Cook these over a slow fire for a minute or so, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of stock, and simmer gently for an hour. Put the pieces of Eel into a saute-pan, strain over the liquor from the mushrooms, &c., and cook slowly for about twenty minutes, or until they are done. Take them up with a skimmer, and keep them warm in the tureen in which the soup is to be served. Prepare a puree by rubbing through a fine sieve about 21b. of sorrel, stewed in stock with two lettuces and a handful of chervil, put the puree into a mortar, pound it well, and mix with 4oz. of breadcrumbs well soaked in broth or stock ; rub the whole through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add about 1 pint of stock to it, and boil, skimming frequently. Have ready about 3 pints of chicken broth, well seasoned with vegetables and strained into a saucepan ; add to this a liaison of the yolks of ten eggs, mix in the sorrel puree, pour the whole into the tureen containing the pieces of Eel, add a handful of blanched chervil and about a dozen or so glazed small onions, and serve with pieces of toast floating on the top. (9) White. — Put a bunch of sweet herbs into a large saucepan, with a blade of mace, three slices of lemon, ^ tea- spoonful of peppercorns, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, or salt to taste ; pour in 2qts. of water, set the saucepan on the fire, and when the water boils put in the fish, previously cleaned. As soon as the fish are done so that the flesh will easily leave the bones, remove them from the pan and take out the bones. Each Eel in this way will make two separate pieces, which must be kept unbroken. Put a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a saucepan, with a chopped onion, also a little of the fish broth, and cook until the onion is quite tender ; then strain the remainder of the broth, add it also, and stir in 1 gill of milk; next put in the pieces of fish, and place the pan on the side of the fire until the fish are quite hot. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little of the broth, add it to thicken, and then serve piping hot. Eels Stewed in Beer.—Skin and clean two Eels, cut them into pieces 2in. long, throwing away their heads and tails, and steep them for thirty minutes in salted water. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan, and melt it; then put in the pieces of Eels, with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, two or three thin slices of lemon, and J pint of beer; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg or mace, put two or three small bits of butter on the top, and cover the pan closely. Place the pan over the fire till the liquor begins to boil, then move it to the side, and let it simmer slowly for one hour. When cooked, turn the Eels out on to a hot dish, and serve. Eels—continued. Eel-and-Tench. Pie.—Skin, bone, and clean two large Eels, and clean two tench, cutting the Eels in 2in. pieces. Stew the bones and trimmings in water for one hour with three blades of mace, two small onions, two anchovies, a pinch of pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of herbs. Put the Eels, tench, some hard-boiled eggs, and chopped parsley in a pie-dish, strain in as much of the prepared liquor as is required, cover either with short or puff paste, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Fricassee of Eel.—(1) Skin and clean some Eels, and cut off their heads, chop them up into small pieces, put these into a frying-pan with sufficient white wine and water in equal parts to cover them, season with mace, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, sweet herbs, allspice, and salt, according to taste, set the pan on a good fire, and boil until the Eels are quite tender, then put them on a dish. Pound- two anchovies in a mortar and add them to the liquor, with a little butter and yolks of eggs to thicken. Pour this over the fish, and serve. (2) Skin and clean five or six small Eels, cut off their heads, and chop the remainder into pieces about 4in. long. Place them in a saucepan with sufficient white wine and water in equal proportions to cover them, and put in an onion stuck with half-a-dozen cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, twenty oysters from which the beards have been re- moved, a taste of cayenne, chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; set the pan on the fire again, and stew for an hour. Take out the pieces of fish, add 1 pint of cream and loz. of butter, well rolled in flour, to the liquor, and boil. Place the fish on a dish, pour over the gravy through a strainer, and garnish with scraped horseradish. (3) Skin and clean two large Eels, score them lengthwise, and cut each one into five or six pieces. Put them into a basin of cold water, and let them remain for half-an-hour; then put them into a saucepan, with 2oz. of butter, a little finely-chopped parsley, and one onion cut into pieces, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; pour in 1 break- fast-cupful each of white wine and broth, sprinkle over a little ground mace, salt, and pepper, and cook slowly for thirty minutes; add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little finely-chopped parsley and grated nutmeg, simmer gently for five minutes, add the juice of a lemon, toss the saucepan, and turn the contents out on to a dish. Garnish with slices of lemon cut in quarters, and serve. Fricassee of Eels served with Lettuces. — Skin the Eels, cut them into large pieces, wash these in plenty of cold water to clean them thoroughly, put them in a saucepan with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, dredge with flour, and stir over the fire for a few minutes without browning them. In five minutes pour a little stock over the Eels, add a few pieces of sweetbread, mushrooms, morels, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and salt and pepper. Let the fricassee simmer by the side of the fire till cooked. Thoroughly wash some large lettuces, and boil them in salted water; when tender, drain them, put them in the saucepan with the Eels, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, mix the beaten yolks of two or three eggs with the liquor, stir it by the side of the fire till thick, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and sprinkle over black pepper. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Fried Eels.—(1) Skin and clean a large Eel, cut it up into thick slices, put these into a basin with vinegar, the peel from two or three lemons, and a little each of salt and pepper, and let them soak for a day or so. Take them out, drain, dip them into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. When done, drain them, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of reduced stock, mixed with a little lemon-juice and pounded boned anchovy. (2) Clean a few moderate-sized Eels and cut them up into pieces about 3in. in length; roll these in flour, then in egg, and lastly in breadcrumbs ; put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry until quite done. Take them out, put them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, and serve. A little shrimp sauce is nice with this. (3) Clean two or three Eels, remove the backbones, cut them up into pieces about 3in. in length, sprinkle them