DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. xxii most. When it is first cut, it should be ki the hollow part of it, in the direction of o, b, and the knife should be pas- sed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge; and is to be cut out in thin slices in the di- - rection e. If many are at table, and the hollow part cutt in the line a, b, is eaten, some eery good and delicate slices * may be cut out on each side the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dotted lines is that in the direction'of which the edge or rids of the blade-hone lies, arid cannot be cut across. .See Pic!': i. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutlon (which is ; lie - best flavoured) may be know by a round lump of fat t the edge of tlie broadest part, ns at a. The best part is in the. midway, at 6, between the knuckle and farther end. be- gin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices toe. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to/. This partis most jury; but many prefer the knuckle, which in fine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are verv fine slices on the back of the leg • turn it up, and out the broad end; notin the direction you did the other side, but longw ays. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at ii; then'pass the knife under the crarop-boue in the direction d c. Set' Plate 2. Afoi Quarter of L>::nb.—Separate the shoulder from the scoven (which is the breast and ribs.) by passing the knife under in the direction of a,b,c,d , keeping it towards yon horizontally, to prevent cutting the moat too much oil “he bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville or- ange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little sail and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the pU i in the line e, c; and help either from that, or from the ribs, as may be chosen. See Plate 2. Haunch of reniton.—Cut down to the bone in the linen, ft, e, to let out the gravy ; then turn the broed end of th° haunch toward you, nut in the knife at ft, and cut as deep as you can to the end of the haunch d; then h'elp in thin slices, observing to give some fat to each person. There is "tore fat which is a favourite part) on the left side of' and a than on the other: and those who help must takr to proportion it, as likewise the gravy accordin'* to the number of the company. See Plate 4. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut sr as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helped at m tne same manner. Saddle of Mutton,—Cut long thin slices from the tail tc