xxv DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. each part is taken off. it should be turned neatly on the dish : and care should be taken that w hat is left goes pro* perly from table. The breast arid wings are looked upon as the best parts ; but the legs are most juicey. in young fowls. After all, more advantage will be gained by ob- serving those who carve well, am! a little ptaetice, than by any written directions whatever. See Plate 5. A Phfisant. The bird is as trussed forthe spit, with its head under one of its wings. When the skewers are taken oat, and the bird served, the following is the way tc ear ve it. lx vour fork in the eentre of the breast; slice it dowr in the line a, b; take off the 1 on om* side in the dotted lineb, d \ then cut off the wing on the same sid* in the line c, •i. Separate the leg and win:r on ihe otV.fe, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be. careful how you take off the wings; for if you should cut too near the neck, as at g. you will hit on the neck-bone, from which the whig must'be 'Cparated. Cut off the mer- rythought in the line/, g, by passing the knife under it to- wards the neck. Cut the other parts ns in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most esteemed; but the leg has a higher'flavour. See Plateti. Partridge.—The partridge is here represented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skew- ers must he withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken oil in the line a, b, and the merrythought in'the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge nre the wings, breast, and merrythought; but the bir! being small, the two latter are not often di- vided. The wing is considered as the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole. Sec Plods 6. Pigeons.—Cut them in half, either from top to bottom, or across. The lower part is generally thought the best; hut the fairest way is to cutfrom the neek too. rather than from c to h, by a, which is the most fashionable. The fig- ure represents the back of the pigeon ; and the direction of the knife is in the line c, b, by a, if done the last way. See Plate 6. s*