xiii THF. MISTRESS Of A FAMILY. t^ntiou, even to their own future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly;'such as paper, soap, and candies. Of these more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted, foT people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances; tut it is presumed that a judicious.arrangement according to them, will be found equally advantageous to all. The ir,inutile of management must he regulated by every one’s fortune and rank. Some ladies, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out. once in a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household arti- cles, as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, reserving for their own key the large stock of things;usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should,’(here be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and tare versa. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignor- ance of their employers’; and if th y are, their services will not compensate for want, of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maid in the capacity of house-keeper ; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than stran- gers, become very valuable servants. To such, the e;ou- omical observations in this work<will be as useful ns the cookery; and it is recommecdable in them to be strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strictlaccount. Some part of every person’s fortune should lie devotrd to charity; by whicn, “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, whileshekhatis foolish (i e. lends noth- ing to the Lord.) pulls it down with her hands. ” No one can complain of the want ofgifts to the poor in this land : —but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, ami such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some bints for preparing the above are given. By goo< hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in tne morning, there will be more tin c to execute them; and servants, by doing their work with ease, v/ill V More equal to it, anil fewer will be necessary.