THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XI w ' i'TK* * O r.r payment should ho taken in writ::,-. ; likewise an es- tim .uf the supposed amount of each article of expense ; ami those who ar early accustomed to calculations on domestic article' will acquire so accurate a knowledge of '■.hat, their establishment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, with- out acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few bronchos of female education ar< so Ireful, as great readiness at figures. Accounts .mould be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted l bp entered; a d if balanced every week and month. the income and outgoings v ill be ascertained with facilii . end thei- proportions to each other be duly observed. Some people fix ou stated sums to be appropriated to each different ar- ticle, and keep tl)P nloney in separate purses, r.s house, clothes, pocket, education of children, &-Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain mode should be adopt- ed, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortun- at ly ignorant of the slate of their husband's income; and others are on!v made acquainted with it, when - ome spec- ulative project, or profitable transaction leads tbem to make a false estimate of what can he afforded ; and it too often happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squander money in ways that they would even wish to forget: whenas marriage should be'a state of i» i fusi and perfect confidence, and similarity of pursuits which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel ns wives, that it is :i fair inference there would he few extravagant ones, were they consulted bv their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual i nterests of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages, many families have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs , and though rn these occasions ti c women were blamed, it has afterwards ap- peared that they never wt re allowed a voice of inquiry, or suffered to reason upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to tin Tnpru‘iy of female management, as to the know- led.:" an activity of l He 1 ther. The lady of a general officer observed to her man cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Home ex- cuse was offered;—to which she replied “ Such is the sum I have I "died to house-keeping: should it be ex- eeedul one week, the next must, repay it. TIip general