DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. XXIV Hare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point • of the knife under the shoulder at a, and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-hone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed The shoulder must be cut oft'in a circular line, and lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them : and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy to every person. This way can only bo practised when the hare is young : if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm ; but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at th« joint; which vou.. reusl c ndeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a line collop on each side the back ; then divide the back into as many pieces as you pl' ase, und take off the shoulders, v. inch are bi many pre- - ferred, and are called sportman s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head ; put vour knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will en. able you to lay the upper Hat on vour piate ; then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut tin* head into UT°- The cars and brains may be helped then to these wlio like them. See Plate 5. Carve Rabbits ns directed the latter way for hare ; r uttin*» the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime" A Fowl.—A boiled fowi’s legs are bent inwards, ami tucked into the belly; hut before it is Served, the skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate ; and lnace tno joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wine ofi in the direction of a to b. onlv dividing Ihe joint with yoftr knife; and then with ynur fork lift up the pinion, and draw the Wing towards the legs, and the muscles will sep- aTate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone ; then with the fork turn the leg hack, and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. When the fore quarters are thus re- moved, take off the merry-thought from o, and the neck it la8tv.bj P,uttinR ,he kllif« and pressing • it under the long hroad part of the bo le in the line r 6; thui hft it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to tr!oebrP'‘St' .The"?** thing is. to divide the breast from J c“rcjs:'’ bJ' nutting through the tender ribs close to the quite down to the tail. Then lay the back upward,, p it your knife info the hone half-wav from the neck to eaPdilvraPTmm f." ,rsiSinVhe l0"Pr A>Tra!e ?<r.uy: T the rumI' from y°u. and very neatly tike off the two sidesmen, and the whole will be done. As