XXI DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. hould be drawn out before it is served up; or, if it is lecossary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Syloinof Beef may be begun either ut the end, or by utting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether he outside or the inside is pr ferred. For tne outside the lice should be cut down to the hones : and the same with very following helping, biice the inside likewise, and ive with each piece some of the soft fat. The inside done ns fellows eats excellently : Have ready ome shallot-vinegar boiling hot: mince the meat large, nil a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour be shallot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a poon, ns quick as possible, on hot plates. See plate 3. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet f veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all ver. When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but nt it smooth A deep slice should be cut off the heel he- rre you begin to help, ns directed above for the edge-bone. Fillet of ye tl.— In nil ox this part is round of beef. Ask ■heiher the brown outside he liked, otherwise help the ext slice. The bone is taken out, and the meat tied close, efore dressing: which makes the fillet very solid. It aould he cut thin, and very smooli. A stuffing is put into te flap, which completely covers it: you must cut deep ito this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From arelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is ametimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the arver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is lickest, and hasgristles; put your knife about four inches •om the edge of this, and cut through it, which will sep- rute the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and elp accordingly. See Piute 11. Calf's Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if properly lunag 'd. Cut slices from a to h, letting the knife go close ) the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end o, there es the throat sweetbread, which you should help a slice f from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye: ’liich you must cut out with the point of your knife, ltd divide in two. If the jaw-hone he taken off, there •ill be found some fine lean. Under the head is tlip pal- te, which is reckoned a nicety: the lady of the house muld be acquainted with ail things that are thought, so, lat sh may distribute themaraong herguests. Seeplatel. Skou ucr of .Mutton—This is a very guod joint, and by lany preferred to the leg; it being very full of gravy, if roperly roasted, and produces many nice oits. The fig- re represents it as laid la the dish with its back upper-