XIX DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. a ston ■ jar on a hot iron hearth: or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water -bath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, barb, Sec, be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals land cinders; for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of |a covered tui bucket Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, [but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly [wet give a great degree of heat, ai.*l are better than coal [for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and oven The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, |tapcs ror the collared things, Src. which, if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant llavour when text used. Cold water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cau ;e it io crack. In the following and indeed a'l other receipts, though ihe quantities may be as accuranly directed as poss.hle, k et much must be left to the discretion of the person who Jiscs them. The different tastesof people require noreor floss of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter See. which 'Aan never be ordered b) general rules; and if the cook. :#ias not a good taste, and attentionto rhatof her employers :*not all the ingredients which nature anti art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper ai ti- tles should be at hand, and she must proportion them un- til the true zest be obtained, and a variety ot flavour ba |’: ven to the different dishes served at the'sarao time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in his little work; and where they are not strictly go. by iuet or bacon being directed into stuffings, the cook must lise butter instead; and where meat gravies (or stock as they are called! are ordered, those made of fish must he ftuiopted. DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. The carving-knife for a lady should he light, and of a aiddling size'and fine edge. Strength, is less required than iddress m the manner of using it: and to facilitate this the cook should give orders to t ie butcher to divide the pints of the bones of all carcnss-joints of mutton, lamb, ud veal [su -h as neck, breast, and loin ;) which may then 5e easily cut into thin slices attached to the idioining ton. 'if the whole of the meat belonging to c-acrt bone 2