!TS< ELLASEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR , ,r .1,. t,;„Vinrpl»*iie« • but if two or three dishes are well'server with the usi.;d sauces. the tabic linen clean, the smiisideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be •it h-iud the expectation of the husband and friend will be Unified because no irregularity of domestic a ran gem eat \vill disturb the social intercourse. The same observation ho da good on a larger wale. In all situations of hfe. the entertainment should be no less suited to the station than fothe fortune of the entertainer, and to the number art ’■“The'rn!ahnoerno'f carving is not only a very necessary bruicb of information, to enable a young lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable different < in the e msumptionof a family : and though in large p - ties she is so much assisted ns to render this kno apparently of less consequence, yet she mufti at bmesfee the deficiency: and should not. fail to acquaint here, with an attainment, the advantage of which w evident C Imfeeth as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than proba- ble that before the end of this country, great attention to •me ts may he again the mode, as it was in the commerce- ment oi the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to ' e able »o help half a dozen persons decently from a , ,ce tongue, or l sirloin of beef: and the dish goes aw v with tfie appearance of having been knawedhy nogs. liiZdaughters if the family we-e to take the head of the table und; r the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duti.-s with grace, in the aroe easy manner as an cailv practice in other domestic affairs; gradually Ids them for iheirown future houses. Habit alone can make g: d cart- ers : but some principal directions are her.'alter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress ol a fatnilv should always 1 member that the welfare and good management of the li-^use depend on the eve of the superior; and consequent! that nothing is too trilling fox her nonce, - hereby waste may be avoided; and this attention is of more importance now that the pr ■ e of every necessary of life is increased to an enormous ,]Pff ee'lady |ias neTPr ^(;Pn accustomed, while single, to think of family at rangement, lm her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it. she may consult others who are more experienced, and acquaint liersell mti he ne- cessary quantities of the several articles oi favn.ly •. vuen- ditnre, in proportion to the number it consists ol. .ne proper prices to pay. Sc. &c. A minute account of the anuual income, and the time?