MISCELLANEOUS observations for Wll „ill have no public Jay this week.” The fault was never reSla‘ch;s *• Family Book-keeper” is a very n*efu» 'vovl; and saves much trouble; the various articles of expense bein' priced, with a column for every day in the year. » that atone view the amount of expenditure on each, ,ni^SoV“.C&teSldtoV •» -chthiv.?S as come to^ In some articles a discount of five per cent, isallow- «d for ready money in London, a nd other large eiti . , those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the ’dea of bi ying cheap, many go to new sh'>P», hut !t U Saf- >st to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods bv under-selling . . . To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them 'reallv. besides that a higher price must be paid : and in Pong bills, aitides never bought are often charged. 1 r- haps the irregularity and failure o. payment may ha e inn 'h evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest. . . , _ , Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money af- fairs will be known with esse; for it i delay of paymen that occasions confusion. A common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, snd other observations, as are givenby sensi- ble experienced people. Want of attention to what is ad- vised, or supposing things too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on neces- sary subjects, among those who are not backward in lrtvol- °UIt i- very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, andi ot the best times as well as places of purchasing them, blie should also he acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute those that aTe most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, but winch are more codiy. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase as bargains, what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would re- main foT other purposes. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put oft'a larger quantity of goods, by assurances that they arc advancing in price ; aud many who supply fancy articles aTe so successful in persuasion, that pur- chasers not unfrequently go far beyond the’r origins, iu-