DIRECTIONS TOR CARVING. X.X should be too thick, a small slice may betaken off between eVTlfeT.orbe°fleshr joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of the bone in the mutton and beef join's .. The dish should not be too far off thethe«rew, as K gives an awkward appearance. and * difficult. Attention is to be p.atd.to help every one part of such articles as a.e c0,(s'^^'l^nau0s • which * Tnhelnin" fish, take care not to break thi Danes, wim.it . in cod and very fresh salmon are W. and contnbuw much to the beauty of its appearance. A <.ish-km.e,i,ot being Sharp, divides it best on this amount. I f Ip a part nf the roe milt, or liver, to each person. The beaus 01 c ,rr natt of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod, and . fins ol turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and arc to l>t atlncuttinVup°anygwiid-fowl. duck, goose or turkey., for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion.’without making wings, there will be moie ’ r' P>C/Mid. — F1 sh in general reguires very little carv- ing the fleshv parts being those principally esteemed. j\ " od’s head and shoulders, when In season, and properly t 1 h mv geift. I and handsome uish. « hen cut. it should he done with a fish-trowel. ami the parts about the back-l ne on the shoulders are the most firm and the best Take off a piece quite dow n to the bone, in tin di- rection a 6. c, d, putting in the spoon at a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of tne sound, ’whicli ho un- derneath the bach-bone and lines it, tl e meat of wi ich it thin and a little darker coloured than the body of the n itself- this may 1 egot by passing a kntle or spoon under- Heath, in the direction d f About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of jelly lund. Tne j nart lies about the jaw, bones, and the firm parts withit tliehei.d. Some are fond of the palate, ana others th( the tongue, which likewise may be got by putting a spoor into the mouth. See plate 1. . , , .. E.lgeJbouettfBccf.-Cutoffa slice an inch hick all th< length from a. b, in plate 1. and then help. 1 hesoftfa ■which resembles marrow lies at the hack of the bone, be low c ; the firm fat must be cu t in horizontal slices at tb ed-sp of the meat if. it is proper to ask which is prefer red, as tastes differ. The skewerthat keeps the meat pro perly together when boiling is here shown at a. iin