TUE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. X\ 11 monopoly of rags: of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causeing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as w ell as economical:— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be be avoided, viz. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweet- meats require a dry place; so does salt.—Candies cold, but not damp—Dried meats, hams, See. the same.—All soils of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, &c. should be close covered to preserve from insects ; but that will not prevent it, if long kep't. Bread is so heavy an article of expense, that all waste should be guarded against and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent, it. Since the scarcity in 170.5 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keen it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered; but with discretion, as they are very pungent The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ; and they should be shaken occasionally,'’ When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted m a large jug of water, some of which pc ur into the tubs and boiler; and when the lather be- comes weak, add more. The new improvement in soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity ; and though something dearer than the hard reduces the prbe of washing considerably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the op- eration with less friction. 8oap should Ijc cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that