DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. XX1U the end, beginning close to the back-bone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from theaides. Ham may be cut three ways ; ihe common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to b, from the centre through the thick'fat. This brings to the prime at tirst, which is likewise accomplished by' cutting a smalt round bole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging thnt by cutting successive thin circles: this preserves the gravy, and keens the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and proceed onwards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut trom the under side, drat taking oft-a thick slice. See i’late 4. .fueling Pig.—The cook usually divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the disli with tne jaws and ears. The tirst thing is, to separate a shoulder from tlie car- cass on one side and then the leg, according tu the direc- tion given by the dotted line a, b, c. The ribs are then to he divided into about two helpings; and an ear orjaw presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The ioin'.s may either be divided into two each or pieces may be cut from them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck-end, between ihe shoulders. See Piute 4. Goose.—Cu t off the apron in the circular line a, b, c, and pour into the body a glass of port wine, and a large U*a-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg. by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and having passed tlie knite at d, turn the leg back, and if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take oft' the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to Ihe body ; then putii. the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction it. e. Nothing but practice will en- able people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When tne leg an.i wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is net often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side- bones by the wing, which may be cut off; as likewise the back and lower side-bones but li e best pieces are the breast and the thighs after being divided from the drum eticl 3. See Plate 10.