THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XV in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better ■ban the example and instruction given by themselves. It was tlie observation of a sensible anil experienced woman, that she couidalways read the fate of herservants •who married : those who had been faithful and industrious in her service, continued there good habits in fneirown families, and became Tespectabk- members of th? com- munity ;—those who were the contrary, never were suc- cessful, and not uufrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the country. A bill of pare Is and receipt should be required, even if the money tie paid at the time of purchase ; and, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one's hon- esty, vnd perhaps mistakes have been unintentional, yet it is prudent, to weigh meat, sugars, dec. when brought in, and '■ompare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to end the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examided when the weekly bill shell be delivered, Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company. if servants are required to prepare the table and Sideboard in similar order daily. All things iiiely to he wanted should be in readiness; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry; spices pounded, and kej.i ia very small bottles closely corked ; not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be poumleJ at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served (and in every house some preparation i9 necessary for accidental visitors) care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either: a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and if duly managed, will be dtended with little expense and much conveniene. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which when returned will show the number to be pai i for ; as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. 'Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a bonk for entering the dates' which w ’l not only serve to prevent overcharges, out will show the whole year’s con- sumption at one view.