45 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 2| pints, in another 3^, in a third no less than 4 pints or pounds of water to the pound of beef. Here is an immense range, and between these extremes there is immense variety of opinion ; the difference is incalculable between a broth made by adding a pint of water, and one made by adding four pints, to every pound of beef. And observe that the difference goes further than the simple broth or bouillon ; it affects the character of the double or consumed broth which ensues. The first point of distinction between broth and double broth is simply in strength—the liquid used for the first being cold water, the liquid used for the second being the resultant broth of the first. But it can easily be understood that simple broth or bouillon made from equal quantities of beef and water is stronger and better than double broth or consonimd which has been made from bonillon that has been diluted with four times its weight of water. All this shows the danger of being over-precise. A good deal must be left to the judgment of the cook, who has to take into account the result which he or she desires to obtain. A middle rule was laid down by the French chemist Parmentier, in the last century: let the water be double the meat—a quart for every pound. This is the ordinary practice of French kitchens. If the bouillon is wanted very light, redouble the water; if strong, reduce it. Another detail, and one not less important: the difference between bouillon and consomme^^ broth and double broth,, is not merely in strength, it is also in character. The bouillon is a beef broth ; the consomnii is a beef broth which has been doubled with veal and fowl—the former to give it gelatine, the latter to give it flavour. But read the receipts for making up the stock-pot, or pot-au-feu, and producing its broth or bouillon. In all of them it is stated that while the beef is the essential considera- tion, we are free to add to it whatever else we have at command, veal, calves' feet, the remains of fowl, a trussed fowl if we want one for table, a leg of mutton, any trimmings of meat, pig-skin, a ham-bone, or even a whole ham if that should be in the way ; and some of the great cooks