TffE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 6o the details of flavouring, which might have come under this head, but which was perforce anticipated in dealing with them. To succeed in flavouring you must not only be active and tasteful in the preparation of food ; you must take care not to be passive in allowing defects to arise and flavour, once present, to escape by carelessness. The following observations on this head are those to which I referred in the introduction, and are pregnant with common sense:—" One of the most conspicuous faults in English cookery is the presence of water. Sometimes the soup is little more than hot water. The boiled fish is sent up surrounded with hot water. The Irish stew has lost all savour by reason of water added to that which the vege- tables in it have already yielded ; and in the sending up of vegetables it is too apparent that the draining and evapo- rating processes have been omitted. Besides the objection that tepid water is not a sauce, there is the further objec- tion that the water sent up has a disagreeable taste, and is unwholesome from the vegetable juices contained in it A careful cook will press, squeeze, strain, drain, dry, or evapo- rate all vegetables that are cooked by boiling, and on the occasions when water is an ingredient in a dish, she will never exceed the quantity indicated. When broth is used to dilute a dish whilst it is cooking, only a small quantity is to be poured in at a time, and after that has been ab- sorbed in stewing, a second dose may be administered. The practice of adding water to the gravy in the dish is to be severely reprehended. The gravy ought to be the pure juice from the roasted joints. " Greasiness is a fault imputed to German cookery, not always without ground, but it is also to be met with in other countries. Grease, fat, butter, and cream, are im- portant factors in most savoury dishes ; butter and cream in sweet dishes also. Where then is this mistake when a dish is called greasy ? In the case of soups, it is that the stock-pot has not been skimmed, and that the stock has not been allowed to cool till the fat cakes on the top, and can be removed. The same rule holds good with gravies and