THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. sauces, we are as far as ever from giving you the informa- tion you may desire. Let me, at any rate, begin by defining the distinction between butter melted (oiled butter) and melted butter (improperly so called). To the last the French give the name of white sauce, which is much more appropriate. Oiled butter is the simplest (next to oil), as it is the cleanest, of all the sauces served. It is equally good for boiled fish or for asparagus. To make it, all you have to do is to warm your saucepan in warm water, to take care that it is clean and dry, to put in the quantity of fresh butter required, and let it melt on the hot plate or in the bain marie. This oiled butter is the base of black butter, a sauce almost unknown in England, but invaluable to serve with skate. Here you allow it to become a rich brown, and then pass it through a strainer into another saucepan containing vinegar, salt, and pepper (three tablespoonsful of best vinegar to the \ lb. of butter) ; warm all together, and serve. Melted butter is the basis for many English sauces. The simplest way to make it is to work some flour into the butter with a knife or spoon ; then pour boiling water on them, stirring meanwhile ; pour into saucepan, and just let it boil up. The great fault with English cooks is that they put too little butter and too much flour. The white sauce of the English cooks is melted butter with milk instead of water. If it is wanted particularly rich, cream is used instead of milk. Take care of burning and boiling over. Of course you may vary this to advantage by flavouring with various ingredients and white stock. Again, for sweet sauce for puddings, you may take melted butter, add a little sugar, the yolk of an egg, a glass of white wine, or a teaspoonful of brandy, lemon, cinnamon, etc., or colour it with currant jelly. Another base for brown sauces is that termed in French rotix (pronounced rod). It is flour browned in butter. " To make it, place in a stewpan \ lb. of butter, and heat it E 2