THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 59 careless cooking. Flavour is given by Dame Nature to gratify our senses. It is one of the most legitimate plea- sures in which we can indulge, always, be it well understood, in moderation. It is particularly valuable in the sick room, for by it you may tempt a patient who would otherwise refuse food. In this case, the sound old English phrase, " tickle the palate," is applicable. Inasmuch as almost everything has a flavour of its own— I speak here of the additional flavour you impart to food by herbs, &c., or their extracts—I shall, with such exceptions only as may prove my rule, throw aside as illegitimate to my purpose manufactured sauces with which our shops team, and ask you to sieze on spices from the East or herbs from your garden, and employ your taste in utilising them. One of the exceptions which will prove my rule will be curry powder, because you have not the materials fresh to hand by which you can make it for yourselves, and it is therefore that you shall employ a manufacture by others, it so be that you know where to purchase it. The proper merit of a soup is the herbal flavour which it may possess. Not all soups certainly, because oyster soup, for instance, has a flavour due to oysters, and game soups the flavour of the game used. But your everyday soup, of which the liquid may be a bouillon, consomnii, beef-tea, or broth (I use the words indifferently), resulting from the ex- traction of the juices of beef or mutton, will be flavoured most legitimately by the vegetables or herbs obtained from the garden.* Of extracts from herbs, or the like, which you will always keep by you, the most noted and the best is mushroom catsup. Of spices, black or red pepper, tabasco (a liquid extract from an American spice of a dif- ferent flavour from, but allied to cayenne). By the combi- nation of these with your vegetables or herbs will your taste be judged, and the art of the cook exemplified. You must turn back to sauces to observe a great deal on * A piece of bread on the point of your knife when pseling onions will prevent your eye-ducts being affected.