THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 75 represented by the word zakouska in Russia, smorgasbord in Sweden, and by antipasto in Italy, meaning a collection of prepared but, with some exceptions, little cooked dishes that are placed on the dinner or, by preference, a side-table for consumption before dinner. Before dinner, or the principal meal, I say, in the case of Russia and Sweden, but in France as much at the breakfast as at the dinner-table. I rather think that the raison d^etre of this ante-prandial food differs according to climate. In the south of Europe I should divine that it was established as a whet to the appetite; whereas in the North it has grown up as a useful stay for the appetite of the guest who arrives sharp set and hungry from the keen northern air, and has this placed before him by the ever-hospitable hosts of northern climes. I recollect myself that, after a fifteen-mile drive across the frozen gulf at St. Petersburg, we were very glad, on arriving at our destination, to spend the half hour necessary to get dinner prepared in a very large consumption of this zakouska. With us this anti-pasto has never obtained, and in dwelling on its constituents I may be accused of making this simple Handbook a passport for the gourmet; but such is not my intention. Kickshaws are a recognised article of food, and the preparation, if not the cooking, of them comes within some of the principles, the compilation of which is the raiso7i ditre of this Handbook. What are kickshaws or hors d'cetivre? Here I have to depart from the principle I laid down in my remarks on sauces, and include manufactured articles. But my reason may be made clear. In dealing with manufactured sauces I had to deal with unknown proportions of various con- diments. In dealing with manufactured kickshaws or hors dceuvre, I shall but rarely have to refer to compositions other than those recognised for their ingredients or as simple foods. Of such are smoked salmon, cooked (or uncooked) haddock, herrings, sardines, tunny, anchovies, pickled fish,