THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 52 gradually ; stir in four to five spoonsful of flour or potato starch with a w ooden spoon ; let it cool a little, and then mix in your stock, taking great care that it mixes smoothly. Place it on a distant part of the hot plate, i.e. away from strong action of the fire, and let it simmer for one hour; skim off the grease. Then put the stewpan on the warmer part of the hot-plate, that it may reduce or boil down. The sauce must not be too thick, or too thin, or too dark. Pass through a tamis, and use for mixing with flavour sauces. Remember that flour and water are not made savoury by butter alone, and that flour and water slightly cooked, and with a surface of butter, is not a sauce, but a nauseous substitute for sauce." {Reeve?) It is convenient to keep flour ready browned in a bottle. Corn flour mixes more smoothly and is better than potatoe starch. A little amber gelatine previously soaked in cold water adds much to the richness of any sauce or gravy. For sauces you require the measuring-glass mentioned under the head Weights and Measures, as by accurate proportion in blending flavours, combined with care in using fire, can you alone succeed. Here you will find the faggot or bunch of fine herbs another essential base for refined sauces. For particulars of what a faggot of herbs consists, I must refer you to the division " To Flavour." In piquant sauces which are so varied you employ lemon- juice, vinegar, shallots, capers, &c. If I were to give you the names of the most prominent known sauces, with their ingredients, you would realise how easy it may be to make two dishes in a very simple meal in discord one with the other ; as, for instance, if you were to treat your guest to grilled salmon with sauce tartare, and at the same repast inflict on him some dish with which Remoulade sauce was served, he or she would think that you had a singular aptitude for the use of mustard flour; or, supposing you gave him vermicelli soup, with grated Parmesan handed round, and afterv/ards turboj