66 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. chives. Sometimes there is parsley, but it is quite unneces- sary beside the tarragon and the chervil, and it is a good illustration of the indiscriminate fashion in which cooks throw in one good thing after another. It is the old story of the artist who could paint a cypress, and therefore put a cypress into all his pictures, no matter what the subject. Parsley is a good thing, and therefore cooks will strew it everywhere. (4) Faggot of Duxelles.—Dubois and Bernard have called this Fine Herbs, and Gouffe, without adopting the name, has given his opinion in favour of it. There are reasons why we should still keep to the old French name of Duxelles. Ever since Beauvilliers laid down the law, the faggot of Duxelles has consisted of equal weights of mushrooms, parsley, and shalots, minced finely together, and fried for five minutes with rasped bacon, pepper, and salt. In later times, those who can get it add an equal weight of truffles. It is a question, however, whether the quantity of parsley and of shalots is not excessive. In the mind of the inventor, the mushrooms were intended to predominate. But if to half a pound of mushrooms you put half a pound of parsley, and on the top of that half a pound of shalots, it scarcely stands to reason that the mushrooms should have much the best of it. (5) Faggot of Mirepoix.—Two carrots, two onions, two shalots, two bayleaves, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, half a pound of fat bacon, and possibly half a pound of ham. Chop these finely, and pass them in butter for five minutes with pepper and salt. See under Sauces " Mirepoix." (6) Faggot of Potherbs.—The following receipt is nearly identical with what the French cooks call Poele, only that it wants veal and ham. " Take two carrots, two onions, two cloves, and a faggot of sweet-herbs ; mince all finely with half a pound of beef fat, and melt it on a slow fire, with a little broth and salt, and the juice of at least one lemon. It will be observed that the chief difference between this and the Mirepoix is that it has less of the onion tribe in it, that it has a quantity of lemon-juice, and that fresh fat is