26 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. Fry in boiling fat, and with a lively fire. Do not fry some time before you are going to serve, but time the operation so that you may serve direct from the pan to the table, allowing for draining off the fat. The smallest delay lessens success, for it permits the article fried to lose its crispness, and to become flabby. To this there is no exception. You use dripping, lard, butter, and oil when you can afford and can get the latter. If you have occasion to skim a broth in which vegetables form a part, take such skimmed fat or grease, and put it aside for frying certain special articles. The flavour which such fat has gained from the meat and vegetables of the broth adds a pleasant qualification for the palate in the case of frying certain things. In like manner, if you have a pdti de foie gras, pre- serve the fat on the top of it, as it is sure to have some deli- cate flavour of the truffle. Except in the case of whitebait, lard, butter, or clarified dripping are preferable for frying. For whitebait, rendered beef fat is the best medium. "Frying," says Mr. Mattieu Williams, "is one of the processes in which the heat is communicated by convection, the medium being hot fat instead of the hot water used in the so-called, and miscalled, ' boiling ' of meat. " I say ' when properly conducted,' because it is too often very improperly conducted in domestic kitchens. This is the case whenever fish, cutlets, &c., are fried on a merely greased plate of metal, such as a common frying-f)an. Pancakes or omelettes may be thus fried, but no kind of fish or meat. These should be immersed in a bath of fat sufficiently deep to cover them completely. To those who have not reasoned out the subject, such complete immer- sion in so large a quantity of fat may appear likely to pro- duce a very greasy result. The contrary is the case. " Let us take, as an example, the frying of a sole. On immersing this in a bath of fat raised to a temperature above that of boiling water, a violent hissing and crackling noise ('frizzing') is heard. This is caused by a series of small explosions due to the sudden conversion of water