THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 69 such as the cook may send up, we should not have one guest expecting ketchup, another anchovy sauce, and, almost all, potatoes to every dish. Even with this people are not contented, but will look for other vegetables as well, as if vegetables were produced by Nature for no other purpose than to be accumulated on a plate by the side of meat On this point I may well quote what I said in a previous essay, viz., " that the English will not under- stand that a vegetable should be served, if cooked, as a plat to be criticised gastronomically by itself, and not as a concomitant or accident, if we may so express it, to more solid food." And as I have spoken of English fashions in the dining- room, I cannot but say that if it were the rule that red and white wine, with an accompanying carafe of water, were placed within reach of each guest, and that each were expected to help themselves, a great labour would be taken off the hands of those who serve. In writing this I feel that I am going beyond due bounds, because this Handbook is not necessarily written for persons who have red or white wines at their table ; but even be it wholesome table beer, I insist that it should be placed within reach of each guest, and not left for the maidservant to pour out. It should be our duty and pleasure to lighten her services in every possible way. Under this head "To Serve" I ought to include the words " service" or " course," and explain the principles which should govern the rendering of them, and I trust that it will not be thought foreign to the purpose of this Handbook. Yet I fear that any one capable and disposed to write on this subject can hardly do otherwise than assume a somewhat dogmatic tone, that may be ungrateful to an English public. As a rule it may be said that what a " course " should be is little understood with us, as Dr. Mitchell says in the letter which appears in my work (p. 51) named in the introduction :— " Those who are familiar with the gastronomical art and