28 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. registering up to 500° Fahr. As Dallas says, if you would realise the difference between frying and half-frying, con- sider what a frying-kettle will do versus a frying-pan, always supposing the kettle full of fat, and the pan half full, after the usual English system. The following is a recipe for preparing dripping-fat for the purposes of frying, but it must be understood as not applying to fish, omelettes, or pancakes, which cannot be fried in fat too clear of any kind of foreign flavour :— " Melt all the residues of fat you have with a leaf of sage, a little celery, and a couple of sliced onions. When the onion becomes coloured, strain the whole through a clean sieve and pot it; well covered, it will keep a long time." The Italians are the most scientific and artistic in the matter of frying. They call the result a fritto. One of their commonest dishes is the mixed fritto, composed of veal cutlets, calves' brains, sliced artichokes, potatoes in short thin strips, &c. The secret of the fritto is that all these component parts are first soaked in a batter, and this batter will vary in its ingredients according to the character of the component parts. Take the above, for instance. The batter will be composed of a quarter of a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of vinegar or, better still, the juice of half a lemon, and from 10 to 20 drops of oil. [The rarity of good olive-oil does not encourage me to include this in an English recipe, but such is the Italian formula.] You beat these all together, adding a little water or beer or white wine, sufficient to make the batter liquid. You beat the white of the egg apart and to a foam, and add it to the batter at the last moment just as you are about to fiy. We now go back to the component parts of this fritto, which you are going to put into the prepared batter. The calves' brains you will clean, skin, and rinse, or even boil for a few minutes before you fry them, and the same with sweetbread if that is to be your dish, and then leave them to cool. When cold cut into small pieces about the size of half a walnut. Soak them first in a little oil, salt, and vinegar. Then dry them