THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 15 core, e.g. to take out the core of an apple or pear. To Peel, to Butter, e.g. to line a mould with a thin layer of butter, to Skim, to Reduce, to Scald, to Dress, to Brown or Colour, to Sci-ve. Of these verbs the following comprehend the elementary principles on the successful realisation of which your cooking will be good or the reverse. Roast, Bake, Grill, Fry, Boil, Simmer, Stew, Sanier, Flavour, Clarify, Clean, Brown ; and serve. The illustration of these verbs may well be preceded by some observations from the pen of a scientific man— Dr. Youmans, illustrating the action of heat upon meat— even although I may have to repeat in a different form elsewhere the substance of what he says. " If the pure fibrine of meat is exposed to a moderate heat, it parts with a large portion of its water, which it held like a sponge, and loses the power of taking it up again. It consequently shrivels and shrinks. If the heat be carried high, further decomposition and charring takes place. The effect of boiling upon fibrine is not to make it more tender, but to increase the hardness and toughness. A low degree of heat changes liquid albumen to the solid condition, altering remarkably all its physical properties. It neither dissolves in water, hot nor cold, and is impene- trable to it. If diffused through one or two hundred times its weight of water, it coagulates, forming fine fibrous meshes throughout the liquid sufficient to entangle any mechanical substances that may be floating in it, and bring them to the surface or carry them to the bottom. In this way albumen is used as a clarifying agent. If its pro- portion be much larger, the entire water may combine with it and pass into the solid state. The egg for example, contains 74 per cent, of water, and 10 of oil. Yet its contents are all solidified by boiling, through the action of 14 per cent, of pure albumen." It will also be useful for you to retain in your memory the general loss that takes place in beef and mutton in the processes of cooking. Thereby you may check roughly the