36 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. minute more of that sort of cookery than one of full London flavour. " The proper mode, as I pointed out years ago, in my first book on Norway, is to place the egg in boiling water, then remove the saucepan from the fire altogether, and leave the egg in the water from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour.* About half a pint for one egg, three-quarters of a pint for two eggs, or a pint for four eggs, is the quantity demanded if the saucepan is well covered. " The cold egg, or eggs, speedily reduce the temperature from 212° to near the cooking temperature, and before the egg is warmed throughout, it is quite down to 160°, so that it matters little whether it now remains five or ten minutes longer in the water. In making experiments with eggs, I have discovered that the temperature of coagulation of the yolk is lower than that of the white, and thus, if the egg is kept in water at 160° for a long time, the yolk may become harder than the white, the centre having time to become nearly as warm as the outside. But for this, the egg might be kept in the water at about 160° for an hour or two. " I have here exhibited, by Mr. Burton, an apparatus spe- cially constructed for the cooking of eggs. It is called an ' egg coddler.' Being made of bright metal, and well covered, the heat of the water is retained, and a smaller quantity than I have named is sufficient. The eggs are supported in a moveable frame, which can be taken out, carrying the eggs with it; nothing more is necessary than to place these on the breakfast table duly charged with eggs, fill it with boiling water about ten minutes before the attack on the breakfast is anticipated, and if this should be delayed ten minutes later, no serious mischief is done beyond ; the eggs are not hard, and are still hot. Coddle your eggsi never boil them." In cooking such a simple dish as porridge, the difference between boiling it sharp for ten minutes, which some cooks, forsooth! call cooking it, and simmering it gently ♦ Note.—Practical experience has convinced me that this is the only true way of cooking eggs in the shell, but I give them from eight to eleven minutes.—S. B.