78 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. upon the Word seem to distinguish the Olera (which were never eaten Raw) from Acetaria^\^\i\(^ were never boil'd ; and so they derive the Etymology of Olus from Olla, the Pot ... as it concerns the business in hand, we are by Sallet to understand a particular Composition of certain Crude and fresh Herbs, such as usually are, or may be safely eaten with som^ Acetous Juice, Oyl, Salt, &c., to give them a grateful Gust and Vehicle ..." I suppose Evelyn would have classed Celery among the Olera, although he looks on Artichokes and Cardons as possible to eat without the intervention of the cook. Of Basil he says it is to be sparingly used ; of Baulm that it strengthens the Memory, and chases away Melancholy, of Beet that it is laxative, of Elite (English mercury), that it is insipid, of Borrage, that it is purifying. I have not space to detail his curious analysis of all the herbs, but what he says of cucumber may interest a good many. " Cucumber, tho' very cold and moist, the most approved Sallet, or in Composition, of all the vinaigrets, to sharpen the Appetite, and cool the Liver, &c., if rightly: prepared ; that is by rectifying the vulgar Mistake of altogether extracting the Juice, in which it should rather be soak'd ; nor ought it to be over OyVd, too much abating of its grateful Acidity, and palling the Taste from a contrariety of Particles ; let them, therefore, be pared and cut in thin slices, with a Clove or two, of Onion to correct the Crudity, Macerated in the Juice, often turned and moderately drain'd. Others prepare them by shaking the Slices between two Dishes, and dress them with very little Oyl, well beaten, and mingled with the Juice of Liinon, Orange, or Vinegar, Salt and Pepper. Some again (and indeed the most approved) eat them as soon as they are cut, retaining their Liquor, which being exhausted (by the former Method), have nothing remaining in them to help the concoction. Of old they boil'd the Cucumber, and paring off the Rind eat them with Oyl, Vinegar and Honey; Sugar not being so well known. Lastly, the Pulp in Broth is greatly refreshing, and may be mingled in most Sallets, without the least damage