76 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. including cockles and mussels, potted shrimps, lobster, &c., brawn, gelatine, caviare,/"^J// de foiegras, terrines de Toulouse or de Perigord, but not, as some have included, venison pasty, goose-pie, or the like. Also are there forms of sausage, such as the Bologna and the Aries, which are eaten without further preparation. I am uncertain under what class to rank the marrow-bone or rather the contents of it, with toast, but assuredly it can scarcely be treated as a hors dceuvre. Then we have, or perhaps I should have given them the preference, radishes, spring onions, watercress, olives, raw celery, cucumber, red cabbage, gherkins,walnuts, mangos, &c. Of these last few are prepared, and you may think that I leave you in face with certain manufactured articles which you buy and others which you are not to be at the trouble of preparing. But this would be an error. The cook's dex- terity will be shown in assorting and preparing these divers forms of food in such a manner as to make the zakouska or anti-pasto a delicate preparation for the meal to follow. Here are a few original forms which you may serve on fancy paper. 1. Norwegian anchovies on thin strips of brown bread and butter, with radishes between, and a bunch of watercress in the centre. 2. Dried salmon in thin strips on brown bread and butter, with garden cress cut short and sprinkled. 3. Sardines scraped, boned and cut into strips, laid cross- ways on thin rounds of bread and butter cut from a French roll, with a caper in each square, and a sprinkling of chili vinegar. 4. Sardines scraped, boned and halved, laid on brown bread and butter, with the yolk and white of a hard boiled egg chopped fine, and chopped parsley, little heaps between. A few drops of tarragon vinegar on the sardines. 5. Slices of a large lemon cut thin, and a well soaked anchovy curled on each, with four or five capers in the middle, and three-cornered bits of bread and butter between ; the whole garnished with parsley.