THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 42 To make a soup, whether it be thick or whether it be clear, you must first have stock, or broth. Mrs. Reeve thinks (and I quite agree) that where it be possible, a kitchen should have two stock-pots, one for making broth from fresh meat, the other in which carcases of roast chickens, game, rind of bacon, bones, &c., are thrown. Perhaps if you have the earthenware pot described among the utensils, it may be held to represent this second pot and be utilised for other than fresh meat. Copper is better than iron, and next to copper is earthenware. You may make stock from beef, mutton, or veal, or any two of them, with chicken or the trimmings of chicken, if convenient. The fresher the meat the cleaier the broth. The proportion of meat to water is about one pound to one quart. {Reeve) The amount of bone to meat should not exceed one sixth. You will let your meat simmer in the stock-pot for five hours, clearing off the scum as it rises, and you will intro- duce your vegetables when the skimming is finished. Whatever vegetables you put in you will recollect that their purpose is to give a general flavour and not a pre- dominant one. Nor is it intended that these vegetables are put in to be reproduced at the table. In cases where you have a vegetable, clear soup like Julienne, you cook your vegetables apart and add this broth. All good cooks make their broth or stock the day before it is required, straining and putting it away carefully in an earthen pan in a cool place. " To give a little colour," says Soyer, " as required for all clear soups, use a little brown gravy or browning, but never attempt to brown it by letting it colour at the bottom of the stewpan, for in that case you would destroy the greater part of the osmazone (the savouring element in meat)." The general consensus of opinion among the best cooks is that you should leave the pot uncovered. Towards the close, when the skimming is complete, you may put the lid partially, not wholly, on. Yet this view is not universal, and the very experienced lady superintendent of one of