6i THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. sauces. When butter has to be mixed in with vegetables, if the butter is allowed to oil, the dish becomes greasy ; the mode of obviating this is to work flour in with the butter, and to allow the vegetables and butter and flour to be on the fire for a short time only, and not at all on a fierce fire. The overheating of fat is sure to result in oily, greasy dishes—this the cook can control. The soft, bad fat in meat, which is the result of the grazier's treatment of the animal, is not her fault. In frying, the defect of greasiness is the result either of the lard, butter, or oil, not being of the right temperature when the thing to be fried is put in it, or of the neglect of placing each thing after frying on a wire sieve, or on a paper on a dish before the fire, so that the fat which clings round may drain off on the sieve, or be absorbed by the paper placed under. " There exists so great a difference of taste as to flavour- ing, that it is desirable for the lady of the house to explain to the cook what the standard of taste is to be on the fol- lowing points :— " Whether much pepper, curry powder, &c., are to be used in the dishes of which they are ingredients. " Whether vinegar and lemon juice are to be used sparingly or lavishly. " Whether spices and grocers' sauces are to be used at all. "Whether sugar is to be put into puddings in such quan- tities as to satisfy those who like sweet dishes of the sweetest, or in moderate quantities, permitting addition to such as wish the dish sweeter. " If the cook says she knows her business, the answer must be:—' You cannot know whether we prefer very highly seasoned dishes, or dishes of very delicate flavour; and it is no imputation of want of skill, when I explain that we like clear soup without wine, and very little pepper ; that creams are, in our view, best without gelatine ; or that an apple tart, in which there were cloves, would be sent untouched from our table." In France, the standard of taste is uniform, or nearly so, and the tradition of the kitchen may be trusted even where there is no chef to direct.