THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 54 true worth the direction of the French cooks to put ham into all sauces and soups which are to be very good. The introduction of ham, or of anything smoked, in however faint a degree, into white sauce, is opposed to its character. It is quite possible that the creosote in the ham may be toe feeble to do any harm : the question is, what good does it do?" Some remarks by Dallas on Mirepoix sauce seem to me to involve a principle, and therefore I give them you in full. Like everything he wrote, they are replete with information, " Take two carrots, two onions, two shalots, two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic ; mince them very small with half a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of raw ham, and pass them in butter with pepper and salt. The Mirepoix is from this moment complete." [Mirepoix, I ought to add, is called from the Due de Mirepoix, one of the Court of Louis XV.] " It will afterwards, according to need, be moistened and heated with wine, and then it will be a Mirepoix of white wine or of red—to be added to stock or sauce, to simmer in it and give it a flavour." " The published recipes say nothing about tlie mincing. (Here is the principle referred to.) The direction is tc simmer the Mirepoix for a couple of hours in order tc extract the flavour, and then to strain it. On the other hand, it will be found that to mince the Mirepoix fine with a three-bladed mincing-knife will, in ten minutes, save a vast amount of time in cooking. It may require two hours to cook an onion or a carrot whole, and to extract all their flavour, but onions, carrots, and bay leaves, reduced to minute particles, yield all their excellence in a minute or two, In another point the foregoing receipt differs from the received authorities. They enjoin a quantity of veal and much more ham. But the veal is waste—there is little or no flavour in the infant beef, and its only use is to render the Mirepoix gelatinous. There is not the same objection to the ham ; but it is not too much to say that, since Spanish notions on cookery became fashionable in France now nigh two hundred years ago, the great cooks of