a small sprinkling of boys, and a number of pretty and pleasant looking girls, who are all dressed alike in a becoming costume. All are more or less engaged in feeding and attending to the wants of a ponderous hydraulic engine (a greedy monster) which swallows quarter pounds of dry loose tea at one part, and disgorges them solid at another, with a rapidity of action, taking into consideration the heavy work done, which excites our admiration in much the same manner as the clever antics of the performing elephant at a circus. Each quarter pound of Tea is crushed to a solid block, and indented so exactly into eight divisions weighing half-ounce each, that each half-ounce can be broken off for use, and thus daily consumption regulated, and petty theft checked. That this is not unimportant, the following anecdote will illustrate:— A gentleman who suspected his landlady of pilfering his Tea, determined to put her to an incontrovertable test. He put a pound of Tea in his caddy, and kept another pound privately which he used from, not touching the Tea in the caddy himself. He was much amused to see the Tea in the caddy decrease daily, until at last it was all gone, while he had still some left in his private pound. His landlady told him his Tea was used out, when he triumphantly produced the remainder of his pound of Tea, and explaining the matter to her, exclaimed, “You see, madam, my pound of Tea has lasted longer than yours.” Now, returning to the subject, we may as well try the Tea; this is easily done. We break off a half-ounce piece from the quarter pound block, drop the small piece into the teapot, and without further ceremony pour about six teacups full of boiling water upon it; we let it stand two or three minutes, then take a teacup (first seeing that it is properly dusted out, as we are not like the old woman who did not care what colour her tea-set was, as long as it was a colour which did not show the dirt), the Tea is poured out, and pleases both palate and sight. It is as bright as amber, strong as elephants, fragrant as tea roses, and with a flavour which far excels the “ finest loose Tea the world produces and if you have always drunk our “Solid Tea” you may, at least, be sure that you have not had any portion of the 150 chests of Tea which had been under water in the Thames, was re-dried, analysed by a well-known public analyst in London, pronounced fit for sale in the market, and which, I believe, the Custom House authorities received duty upon as sound Tea. This Tea, and hundreds of tons as bad and worse, is annually passed, and appears in the shops under the various high sounding brands which we will recapitulate, but which are very simple when translated. Hyson means “ before the rains,” or “ flourishing spring,” that is, early in the spring; hence it is often called young Hyson. Bohea is the name of the hills in the region where it is collected. Pekoe means “white hairs” or the “down or tender leaves.” Powchong, “folded plant.”