CITY TRESS. “ Clever and artistic models in coloured sugar; the likenesses in miniature are ■wonderfully correct, and the dresses of the well-known actors and actresses are given to perfection.” THE BRITISH TRADE JOURNAL. “ An elaborate example, embellished with figures illustrative of one of the tableaus in the opera of ‘ Genevieve de Brabant.’ The object is ono which manifests considerable artistic skill in the design and execution.” FUNNY FOLKS. “ The piece of the North Pole, exhibited by the Brothers Massey, is unique, and we only suppose this has been obtained out of gratitude for the comfort the Arctic Expedition have derived from the compressed tea sent out with them. But this is their secret; and after all it is less im- portant to know how they got the Pole than that it marks where the- public can get the tea.” THE LONDON PROGRAMME. “The subjects are taken from well-known operas by Offenbach, Herve, Lecocq, &c., and combine the effects of pictures and statuary. The exhibition, being the only perfect specimens known of this class of work in Europe, is worth a visit.” VISITORS' GUIDE. “At the Brothers Massey’s the admirers of excellenee in art will find ample food for gratifying their tastes in the novel form of sugar, from which the Messrs. Massey have produced various life-like and beautifully- modelled scenes from the operas, without the aid of any other materiaL From ‘ Madame Angot’ to the ‘North Pole ’ they are equally at home.” BATTERSEA AND WANDSWORTH OBSERVER. “ Messrs. Massey, the well-known ‘ Artists in Sugar,’ have not let'slip the recent festive season without some fresh proof of their art, in which,, through their deserved success, they are unapproachable.” THE RETFORD AND GAINSBOROUGH TIMES. MARRIAGE OF THE EARL OF GROSVENOR WTTH LADY SIBELL LUMLEY. “ The arrangements for the reception and accommodation for the vast assembly of guests who were present w'ere carried out with much taste and skill. The fancy sugar work for the wedding breakfast was entrusted to the Brothers Massey, Artists in Sugar, of London. A grand ball was given at Sandbeck in the evening.”