little tea parties on the strength of it with the ladies of his acquaintance. Tea also comes from India and Japan. In the latter country it is also a beverage common to most classes of persons ; they often reduce it to a fine powder, which they place before the company in a box forming part of the Tea equipage. The cup being filled with hot water the powdered Tea is taken from the box on the point of a knife and thrown into the cups, which are then handed to the company. A French chymist a few years ago, said, that nearly half our Tea was wasted, being thrown away in the Tea leaves after being used in the tea-pot, and that if we followed the Japanese plan of grinding it to powder, there would be no waste and greater strength and flavour: this is evidently quite correct, but this plan was more than counterbalanced by many inconveniences, amongst which, loss of strength by exposure, and a confusion of the contents of the Tea box, pepper box, and snuflf box, are not pleasant to contem- plate. “Solid Tea” possesses every advantage without a single disadvantage to counterbalance it. Although large quantities of Tea come from India and Japan,, our associations connected with it are mostly Chinese. This may probably be owing to the famous Chinese scene depicted on most of our ordinary plates and dishes, and known as the “Willow Pattern.” As every one may not know the romance connected with this celebrated design, it will not be out of place to give; and as the romance is of a very sentimental and emotional nature, I hope you will sympathise with, instead of laugh at it. Once upon a time, a great Mandarin lived on a beautiful island in China. His house (as you see it on the plate) was built rather eccentric, but was very comfortable, and was surrounded by an orchard of peculiar trees which bore a luxuriant crop of fruit alone,, without leaves: wonderful specimens of botany which would cer- tainly gain the first prize at the Crystal Palace. This Mandarin had a very pretty daughter—this pretty daughter met a very poor, but handsome young man; the young man and pretty daughter fell in love, and when the old gentleman heard of it he fell in a passion —the young man fell in a brown study and proposed an elopement, and the young lady fell into his views, and into his arms too. The elopement is depicted as they are crossing the bridge—the Chinese Lothario leads the way—the lady follows with her jewel casket, and the old gentleman who has woke up in a hurry, is bringing up the rear as fast as he can hobble with a whip in his hand, and entreat- ing them to come back and receive fifty lashes each. Strange to say they do not respond in a filial manner to this affectionate appeal, but embark in the Noah’s Ark looking sort of a boat you see on the water and cross over to the opposite island, where they lived happily for many years, until they died, when their spirits