were transfused into the two birds seen above ; and as such were supposed to bill and coo for ever afterwards. The position of the birds in the air as they are depicted by the Chinese artist who illustrated the legend is certainly more suggestive of quarrelling than billing and cooing, but I suppose he thought it much the same thing, and perhaps after all he is not so far wrong. I will now introduce you to the “ Solid Tea ” I have referred to before, and endeavour to correct you by practical description and logical proof to the same opinion as myself, viz., that our “Solid Tea” is the strongest and best Tea to be obtained, and will, ulti- mately, be one of the largest Tea trades in England. It originated thus:— An ingenious inventor and gentleman, well known in the com- mercial world, conceived the idea of subjecting dry Tea to an enormous hydraulic pressure, so that the leaf, and even the small microscopic cells containg the very essence of the Tea should be so thoroughly crushed as not to allow a single particle of the strength or flavour to escape the action of the boiling water. In the subsequent experiments this was so successfully accomplished, that one pound of Tea by pressure was made equal in strength to one pound and a half of good ordinary loose Tea ; and the leaves left in the teapot were fit for no practical use but, perhaps, to sweep carpets with. The idea was then secured by patents in England, Ireland, Scot- land, the Channel Islands, France, Belgium, India, and America. The next point was to find a practical Tea Merchant, who, above prejudice, would see the great importance of the invention, buy the patent, and bring technical experience to bear upon it, to give it the commercial success it deserved to have. This was soon found. It was exhibited in the International Exhibition, and was awarded the medal for Tea, and it has also run a successful course of Pro- vincial Exhibitions and received the highest commendations from the press ; and although it has never been advertised like most new articles, it has, purely by its own merit, already obtained a far more than equal success—may it continue to prosper. We can mentally drink the toast in a glass of “ Robur,” which the mention of pro- fuse advertisement naturally recalls to mind under the circum- stances. We will now make a visit to the works, and in getting there, having tripped over ropes, dodged under cranes, and jostled against an innumerable quantity of large horses, small trucks, rough porters, and ready clerks, we at length reach the new pre- mises, and having taken a hasty view of the various departments— the clerk’s offices, mixing rooms, packing rooms, store rooms, &c., we are anxious to view the more interesting process, and for that purpose we descend to the “ lower regions ”—“ lower regions ”■ does sound rather ominous though—we will therefore call it the “ basement.” There are seen a few men : stokers, engineers, &c..