L OND oy JO URN A L. “Some idea of the completeness of this collection may he formed when we state that there are no less than sixteen distinct classes of puddings for which full receipts are given, as well as a very lai’ge number of sauces. To the housewife, as well as to the professional cook, this book Avill be equally valuable, as many of the puddings are particularly adapted for families, and are relishable and by no means expensive. There are, altogether, upwards of a thousand receipts. We recommend it to our fair readers.” ENTR'ACTE. “ The Brothers Massey exhibit two cakes in the International Exhi- bition; one is an elegant Venetian Wedding Cake, and the other a decided novelty in the shape of Twelfth Cake, surmounted by a perfect Transformation Fairy Scene. There are Coraline Grottos, Fairy Palms, Ferns and Cascades. The Fairy Queen, a sweet creature, reigns at the hack, attended by handsome Amazons. Roguish and curly-headed fairies are almost invisably suspended in the air; pretty classical blondes are ranged under golden temples; beautiful brunettes recline on the banks, and the orthodox pantomime characters are perfectly represented; while, to complete the illusion, the Scenic Artiste, in full evening dress, bows his acknowlegements in front. The subject is instinct with life, and the colouring true to nature.” ENTR'ACTE. “ The Brothers Massey, known in fashionable an(t theatrical circles for their models in sugar work from operas bouffe subjects, as exhibited by them in the saloons of the principal London theatres, are making their mark in the City. The crowd round their bright and attractive little window puts one in mind of that generally seen round the premises of the fashionable west-end photographic establishments.” THE GROCER. “Was it not Voltaire who remarked that in England we had fifty religions but only one sauce ? Voltaire must have been altogether unacquainted with the sauce trade. The latest to the list is the ‘ Drogan,’ the proprietors of which are the Brothers Massey, the Belgravian cooks. The title of this sauce is derived from the character of Drogan in the sparkling opera ‘ Genevieve de Brabant.’ On each Bottle of Messrs. Massey’s Sauce is a portrait of Miss Soldene, who brilliantly enacts the role of Drogan. Many people would prefer it to better known and higher priced sauces whose name alone is a tower of strength. ‘ Le Drogan ’ has an agreeable piquancy of flavor, and is so generally relishable, that it will soon become a popular favourite.” THE GROCER. “ These are certainly splendid specimens of ornamental confectionery, and show great artistic perception on the part of the makers, who are, we noticed, the Brothers Massey, of Battersea Park Road.” 13