glance, he rushed out again, and when the poor young hermit woke the next day he found his nap recorded in all the morning papers. The young hermit possessed all the virtues but that of ^‘patience.” He raised a “great storm in a tea cup,” and swore he would prosecute all the editors for libel, and at last in a pious fit of rage cut off his eye-lids and threw them into his garden; a fit of repentance followed the next day and he went into the gar- den to find his eye-lids, but was surprised to find instead, they had taken root, and produced a perfectly new shrub. A business inspi- ration induced him to try a decoction from the leaves, which he and his friends found to be so good, and which kept them so wide awake, that they at once adopted it as a beverage. The young Prince Darma’s reputation as a hermit being spoilt, he set up a tea drinking drachm shop, and in time got a monopoly of the Restaurants at all the railway stations in China, and died a very rich man. I have every reason to believe this legend is true, as, according to the “ Spiritual Telegraph,” the ghost of this same young hermit was called up in a dark seance, and he authenticated the legend, and also declared that “ Solid Tea” is a great improvement upon the original and is the best to be got at the present day. I will not go into a tedious description of how Tea is grown, prepared, and exported, as nearly all have read or heard sufficient about it to be aware, that although some may grow against the great wall of China—it is not consequently a wall flower, but an evergreen shrub with firm, shining, and delicately marked leaves, and that in spring and winter it produces an abundance of white flowers. You also know that the leaves are gathered—that it passes through complicated processes of baking, rolling, separating, mixing, packing, exporting, bonding, and speculating; processes, the reputation of which would raise more yawns than applause. Tea was first introduced into Europe by the Dutch East India Company; and about 1660 a small quantity was brought from Holland to England by the Lords Arlington and Osbury. At first it was sold at 60/- per lb., and for many years its great price limited its use to the most opulent, and about that time it was coupled with Coffee, Chocolate, and Sherbet, in an Act imposing a duty of 8d. per gallon on all quantities of these liquors sold in coffee shops. That it was, however, in no very extensive demand, even among people of fashion, and as a foreign luxury, may be conjectured from a memorandum of that pleasant little swell, Pepys, who says in his Diary, 25th September, 1661 “ I sent for a cup of Tea (a China drink) of which I had never drunk before.” Three years after, two pounds two ounces of it were considered a present which it was not unworthy King Charles the Second to receive from the East India Company, and it is reported, but is most probably scandal, and cannot be true of such a sedate Monarch, that he had several