CHAP. II. ROASTING. 114 be baked as for roasting, but season more highly. A fillet of veal, if not very high fed, will bake as well as it will roast. The oven is equally suitable to a leg of pork, but a loin requires to be sweated in roast- ing—it is too greasy when baked. A pig, if not very old, and if the baker is careful to anoint the crack- ling as in roasting, bakes very well. His ears and tail must be put in buttered papers, if you would hope ever to see them return from the oven. Geese and ducks may be baked, if not old and rank; in which case they must be sweated before the fire, to overcome the flavour. A leg of mutton, with potatoes parboiled and peeled, and an onion shred, makes, when baked, an excellent plain family dish, the mucilage of the potatoes combines so kindly with the fat of the meat. The noble sirloin disdains to be cribbed in the oven; but a rump of beef slightly salted for a few days, washed, highly seasoned, and baked with plenty of butter in a deep covered vessel, is esteemed a de- licacy.* A hare or rabbit may be baked, allowing plenty of butter in the dish, and putting a large piece or a rich stuffing into the inside of the animals. Her- rings, sprats, salmon, haddocks, and eels, may all be highly seasoned and baked with advantage.—See Potted Herrings. Bakers’ ovens have one great draw- back they are accused of being sad suckers in, in- deed real sponges for gravy ; so that they often con- trive to indemnify their owners for the trouble saved to the cook. Besides, meat is seldom got in season from those wholesale receptacles for all manner of joints ; and about the dinner hour, great dismay is often created by the face of the maid,— “ Who comes with most terrible news from the baker, That insolent sloven !— Who shut out the pasty when shutting his oven.” Hams are often soaked and baked, where they are used in great quantity, and where the object is to cut thin.f • The Cleikum Club did not prove this receipt. -f A few years since the proprietor of Vauxhall Gardens lost his celebrated carver of hams, when he advertised for a new operator in that department of harmless anatomy. One of notoriety applied,