CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 403 Potato-Pudding with Meat.—Mash the potatoes. Make them thin with milk, and season them as above. Cut either fat beef, mutton, or pork, into very small bits, and season these well with salt, pepper, allspice, and shred onion. Place a layer of meat at the bottom of a baking dish, then potatoes, and proceed thus till the dish is filled. Pour all the potato-batter that re- mains equally over the top, and stick some butter over that. Bake of a fine brown, covering with paper to prevent scorching. Ohs.—This dish is in no material respect different from baked Irish stew. The meat may be kept in steaks ; and the pudding is then called a rump-steak pudding. Chicken or veal, with currie seasonings, may be dressed as above, using boiled rice-batter. A Mutton-Pudding is also made with potatoes as above. Kidney-Pudding, or Dumpling.—Split, soak, and season one or two kidneys. Line a basin with a hot paste made of suet, flour, and hot milk. Put in the kidney with a little shred onion and suet, and pinch in the paste ; cover witli a cloth, and boil for two hours. —For Blood-Puddings and White-Puddings, see Na- tional Dishes, and French Cookery for several excellent meat puddings. DUMPLINGS. Dumplings are made of all sorts of fruit, either fresh or preserved, and also of meat and other things. They are convenient, and sometimes economical, though not particularly elegant, and far from being of easy digestion. The boiled paste of dumplings is dough in its heaviest form. Suet-Dumplings.—Chop from four to eight ounces of suet fine, and take double the weight of flour and grated bread. Beat two or three eggs with a glass- ful of milk. Mix all well together, and put a little salt and allspice to the mixture. Work it up into the shape of large eggs, and tie each up separately in a pudding-cloth dredged with flour. Boil three quar- ters of an hour. Plum, Apple, Currant, Raspberry-Jam, Slrawberru- Jam, Gooseberry, or Damson Dumpling.—Line a but- tered tin basin with a plain crust, and fill with the fruit, either preserved or prepared as for pies and