CHAP. I.—BOILING. 70 table. To dress it in the best manner is therefore well worth the attention of the cook, the economist, and the judicious epicure. TO BOIL A ROUND OF BEEF WITH GREENS, &C. A ROUND or buttock of salted beef may either be boil- ed whole, divided into two, or cut into three pieces, according to the size of the meat, and the number of the guests or family. It is a common error ot vanity to boil too much of a ham or round at once. If boiled whole, the bone may be cut out; if divided, it is de- sirable to give each piece an equal proportion of the fat. Wash the meat, and, if over salt, soak it in one or more waters till it be sufficiently softened or fresh- ened. Skewer it up tightly, and of a good shape, wrapping the flap or tongue very firmly round. Bind it with broad strong tape or fillets of linen. The pot should be roomy, and the water must fully cover the meat. Heat very gradually ; take off the scum, of which a great deal will be thrown up, till no more rises, and throw in some cold water to refine the liquor if needful; cover the pot close, and boil slowly, but at an equal temperature, allowing about three hours to from 12 to 16 pounds, and from that to four and a half hours for a weightier piece. Turn the meat once or twice in the pot during the process. Put in the car- rot and turnip about two hours after the meat. If the liquor is to be afterwards used for soup, these roots in- stead of hurting will improve the flavour. Greens may be either boiled in the same pot, or better sepa- rately in some of the pot-liquor. When the meat is dished, take off, with a clean sponge, or a cloth moist- ened in the pot-liquor, any scum or films which, in spite of the most careful skimming, will often hang about salted meat; replace the skewer that holds the flap with a plated or silver one; garnish with large sliced carrots, or with greens instead, and serve mashed turnip and greens in separate dishes. Obs.—The dry outside slices are to be laid aside by the carver; the meat must be cut in smooth, thin, horizontal slices, keeping the surface level. The soft fat eats best when the meat is warm, the firm fat