365 CHAP. III. SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. classy part of the eyes, and scrape the head and trot- ters, and brush till perfectly clean and white; then split the head with a cleaver, and take out the brains, &c.; clean the nostrils and gristly parts, split also the trotters, and take out the tendons. Wash the head and feet once more, and let them blanch till wanted for the pot. Take a cupful of barley, and twice that quantity of soaked white or old green pease, with a gallon or rather more of water. Put to this the head, and from two to three pounds of scrag or trimmings of mutton perfectly sweet, and some salt. Take off the scum very carefully as it rises, and the broth will be as limpid and white as any broth made of beef or mut- ton. When the head has boiled rather more than an hour, add sliced carrot and turnip, and afterwards some onions and parsley shred. Ahead or two of celery sliced is admired by some modern gourmands, though we would rather approve of the native flavour of this really excellent soup. The more slowly the head is boiled, the better will both the meat and soup be. From two to three hours boiling, according to the size of the head and the age of the animal, and an hour’s simmering by the side of the fire, will finish the soup. Many prefer the head of a ram to that of a wether, but it requires much longer boiling. In either case the trotters require less boiling than the head. Serve with the trotters, and sliced carrot round the head. Sheep’s-head not too much boiled ****** was for some years a professor in S College ; and, as might have been surmised, in the lapse of those years of exile, experienced a natural and national longing for that savoury food, which, to a Scotsman, is like mother’s milk. A sheep’s-head was accordingly procured by his orders, and sent to the black- smith’s to be singed. The hour of dinner arrived ; the chops of the learned professor watered with expectation ; when, lo ! to his dis- appointment and horror, the fleshless skull was presented, and, doub- ly worse, accompanied with a bill, setting forth,—“ To polishing a sheep’s-head for Professor , one shilling and fourpence !”— Thus making the unfortunate philosopher come down with Is. 4d. for being deprived of the exquisite pleasure which he had anticipated in polishing the skull himself. The village of Duddingston was long celebrated for “ sheep’s- head,” and consequently a favourite resort of the frugal citizens of Edinburgh. Sheep’s-head clubs were not unfrequcnt throughout the country, and “ T he Tup’s-head Dinner” about Michaelmas-day is still a high festival with the dignitaries in certain of our royal burghs.