142 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. Obs.—The gusto may be heightened and the fla- vours varied to suit the palate of the consumer. Curry-powder was a favourite addition of the Nabob, and also a spice of ginger, which made a sort of imi- tation Mullagatawny, nothing inferior to the original, at least to those who dislike^/or/c-soups and stop-soups. Dr Redgill heightened the flavour of his onion-soup with mushroom catsup, or eschalot. As the taste for onions,* like that for olives and peppers, increases with age, we do not fix the precise quantity to be used, but merely give the medium in the above re- ceipt. Some cooks thicken onion-soup with the yolk of two or three eggs well beat and stirred into the soup when it is dished, or with cream, as in last receipt; but we see no use for this liaison, as French professors term it, in a high-flavoured onion-soup. ONION SOUP MAIGRE. Chop and fry in clarified butter a dozen large onions, two heads of celery, a large carrot, and a turnip. Pulp the roots through a tammy-cloth, and put them to two quarts of boiling water thickened with six ounces of butter kneaded up with potato-flour, and sea- * Onions are supposed to possess a considerable quantity of nou- rishment. It is even asserted, that no substance of only equal size affords so much. This is at least doubtful. Onions in their raw state are much relished by some persons, while others find them wholly indigestible ; when dressed they are very generally accept- able in soup or sauce. They used to form the favourite bon-bons of the highlander, “ who, with a few of these and an oat-cake, would,” says Sir John Sincalui, “ travel an incredible distance, and live for days without other food.” The Egyptians adored the onion nearly as much as the ox ; and the Spaniards have the same fondness for this pungent root, whether to give savour to their rich dishes, or to relish the crust from the wallet, and the draught from the brook, which forms the gay repast of the poor and light-hearted sojourners one likes so much to meet with in the Spanish novels. The Scotch peasants season their chappit potatoes with shred onion, and some- times their brose ; and the grave and high authority of Mrs Han- nah More recommends “ an onion from their own garden, which makes every thing savoury and costs nothing” to the poor of Eng- land. “ Soupe a 1’oignon” is thought highly restorative by the French. It is considered peculiarly grateful, and gently stimulating to the stomach, after hard drinking or night-watching, and holds among soups the place that champagne, soda-water, or ginger-beer, does among liquors.