436 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. clients are well mixed, they ought immediately to be put into the oven, that the fruit may not sink; but if yeast is used, the cake must stand for some time to rise. Yeast should be sweet and thick. It may be improved by blanching it with water, allowing it to settle, and then pouring the water off. The thing next to be attended to is the state of the oven. It must not only be thoroughly heated previously, but have a quick heat when the cake is put in. Folds of paper ought to be put about cakes when put into the oven, lest the top get scorched. Plunging a large knife into the heart of a cake, and drawing it quickly out, is the best mode of judging whether it be ready. If not enough, the blade of the knife will be glary, and the cake must be instantly returned to the oven. The heat ought to be kept up throughout, by adding fresh fuel occasionally till the cake is drawn; but, above all, attention must be given till it is once pro- perly raised. Cakes ought to be kept in a dry place, wrapped up and set in a jar to keep them from har- dening. They will keep thus a very long time. To ice and glaze Pastry and Cakes.—This is done with the whites of eggs and sugar ; and in a common way is a very simple process. Yolks of eggs glaze cakes the most effectually, but sifting fine sugar over little cakes and biscuits before they are put into the oven will do them well enough. To ice or frost a Bride s-Calee, or very large Plum- Cake.—To a half-pound of fine sifted sugar put the whites of two eggs, beaten with a little orange-flower water, or simple water, and strain. With this whisk the sugar for along time, till it is quite smooth. This may be tinged with the juice of strawberries or currants, or with prepared cochineal. For a bride’s-cake confec- tioners use lake or cochineal. Lay the icing on large cakes with a spoon. Brush small ones with a few feathers dipt in the mixture. Lemon-juice well beat with the sugar and white of eggs will make a white icing. No other white icing is admissible. A plain Pound-Cake.—Beat a pound of cold butter to a cream, and put to it nine eggs well beat. Beat them together till well mixed and light; and put to them a little shred lemon-peel, or a few blanched al-