240 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. strong thickened gravy. To prevent the butter from oiling, stir the sauce for some time. When wanted very poignant, lemon-juice may be added to this simple and tasteful sauce, or it may be flavoured with the tarragon or burnet vinegar, instead of plain vinegar. If for fish, as skate, &c. a little essence of anchovy will be found an improvement, with pepper and salt to taste. Mock Caper-Sauce is made of gherkins or na- sturtiums cut in bits, with lemon-juice and melted butter. Vinegaret for cold Meat or Fowl.—Chop young mint, parsley, and shalot together, and mix them up with salt, oil, and good vinegar. Sauce d la Tartar.—Add to vinegaret chervil and tarragon, with a little made mustard. Lemon-Sauce.—Pare a lemon, taking off all the white part; cut it in thick slices, pick out the seeds, and on a plate cut the slices into dice, and mix them with melted butter, taking care to stir it up lest it oil. Miser’s Sauce.—Chop two onions, and mix them with pepper, salt, vinegar, and a little melted butter. When made with oil and young onions, add a little parsley and scraped horseradish. Poor Man’s Sauce, to serve with Turkey Poults or grilled Birds,—a French Sauce.—Mince ’a little pars- ley and a few shalots. Stew this in broth or water, and add vinegar and peppercorns. Carach-Sauce.—Mix pounded garlic, cayenne, soy, and walnut-pickle in good vinegar. Bread-Sauce.—Put grated crumbs into a small saucepan, and pour a little of the liquor in which mutton, veal, or fowls was boiled over this. When it has soaked, simmer with a sliced onion, white pep- percorns, salt, and mace; take out the onion and peppercorns, and add melted butter or cream. llice-Sauce.—Stew two ounces of rice in milk, with an onion, white peppercorns, and a little salt. Take out the peppercorns and onions, and rub the rice through a colander. Heat this up with more milk or cream, and flavour it to taste. This looks whiter, but it is not so light as bread-sauce. Butter may be put to it.