83 CHAP. I.—BOILING. coloured, and, to prevent this, particular attention must be paid to the boiling. It is eat with bacon, or sausage, like fowls. .We—Parsley and butter, or onion-sauce of young onions.—See Made-Dishes of Veal, pages 283, 334. TO BOIL VENI90N. A neck, and even a haunch, is sometimes boiled. Let it hang from three days to a week. Boil as mut- ton. It is eaten with turnip or cauliflower, with which garnish.* Sauce—Melted butter, and a little of any of the flavoured vinegars you choose.—See Vinegars and Venison Soup ; see also Civet de Chevreuil, French Cookery, p. 332—3. poultry.t As a house for the wayfarer, and the solitary chance- traveller, poultry was at all times a main article in the larder of the Cleikum, where great dinners and nu- merous dishes were seldom required. So plump, so white, so tender were the fowls, whether boiled or roasted, and the chickens, whether brandered or dressed as Friar’s chicken, that Mr Touchwood, so tenacious on other points of the art, gave up this de- partment entirely to Meg herself, reserving only some practical directions for curried fowls, and the feeding and fattening of young poultry, which will be found in another section of this erudite work. “Take the fattest and youngest eerocks" (yearlings,) said Meg, “ and the whitest, for a white skin is a good sign, whether of beast or body,”—looking gra- * It is only in the hunting grounds of America that one could bear to hear of venison so scandalously used ; but when very plen- tiful it may be made into soup, which possesses the wild flavour so prized by lex hommes de bouche. •f So little is the proper keeping of fowls previous to dressing attended to in country inns and families, that, warned by ex- perience, the arrival of a stranger is the signal for the whole poultry in some places to run off and burrow among the nettles, to eschew their fate for another day. The bounty of a penny sterling, which travellers have sometimes heard offered on the head of “ the old cock to make brandered chicken for the gentleman’s dinner,” is often earned by the galopin loitering about the inn door with the sweat of his brow, so knowing do those old stagers become.—P. T. 2