CHAP. XI. ROASTING. 100 venison or full-aged heath mutton. Boil them up to- gether, skim, add a tea-spoonful of walnut catsup, and pour the same round the roast. Instead of the walnut catsup any of the flavoured vinegars most con- genial to venison, and to the taste of the Gastronome, may be substituted.* * * §—See Made Dishes of Venison. TO ROAST VEAL. P. S. T., ESQ. The fillet, the loin, the shoulder,t and the breast, are roasted; the back ribs are best used for pie or cut- lets ; and the scrag should be either cut to pieces and stewed, and served in stew soup, or made into rice- broth. Stuff’ the flap of the fillet with forcemeat made as directed for boiled turkey, but with rather more lemon-peel; sew in the stuffing. Some of it may be worked up with yolk of egg into the shape of pigeons’ eggs, parboiled, and fried and browned below the roast, drained, and served as a garnishing, or made into a small accompanying dish.if Be careful to brown the outside nicely, which can only be well done by attention to the state of the fire.§ * After the third venison dinner, it was the opinion of the Club, that it is downright idiocy, a wanton and profligate sacrifice of the pa- late and the stomach to the vanity of the eye, to roast venison when it is not fat, while so many more nutritious and palatable modes of cookery may be employed. The noix, or large muscle bedded in firm fat near the neck, is the tid-bit of the Parisian epicure. £ Forcemeat must be left in a great measure to the genius and invention of the Cook. Like spiceries and seasoning, it may, in the exercise of good discretion, be used ad libitum, bearing in mind, that it is intended to enrich and give piquance to the relish of tire more insipid meats. Relishing ingredients of all kinds enter into die com- position of forcemeat, such as grated ham or beef, sausage, pickled oysters, caviare, anchovy, sweet herbs, eschalot, mushrooms, truf- fles, and morells, curry powder, cayenne, &c. &c. “ Plodding perseverance,” said .1E k y i. t. , “ may make a good roaster, and care- ful observance of rules, a tolerable compounder of a made-dish, but the true maker of forcemeat, like the true poet, must be born.” § “ A bit. of the brown” is esteemed the most delicate part of this roast. It was with this, liberally supplied from MrSTRAHAN’s veal, that the demagogue Wilkes not only overcame the preju- dices, but actually gained the heart of Dr Johnson,—a success which far outdoes that of Richard over Lady Anne. Rut dien he helped a slice of the lemon or bitter orange, which formed the garnishing, along with the browned outside. Ever as you would gain the heart of a judicious epicure, garnish roast veal with slices of lemon.