40 DIRECTIONS.FOR CARVING. Gigot.—This joint is familiar where veal is small. It is either cut in horizontal slices, or as a leg of mut- ton, but beginning nearer the broad end. Shoulder and loin of veal are cut as mutton. The kidney fat of the loin is prized, and sometimes sliced at table and heated over a lamp. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut thin slices lengthways, di- viding them if too long, and helping fat and lean to- gether. Some persons think that, besides being a more economical way of carving, the meat is more delicately-grained, and eats better, if a deep incision is made along the bone, and slices be taken crossways from thence. Roasted Pig.—We could wish that the practice of having this dish carved by the cook were universal ; for, in this fastidious age, the sanguinary spectacle of an entire four-footed animal at table is any thing but acceptable. Like the larger poultry, pig is also very troublesome to the carver, who must have a sharp knife, with which the head is to be taken off in the first place ; then cut down the back from neck to rump ; afterwards remove the shoulder and leg on each side. The ribs are then to be divided into foul- portions, and the legs and shoulders cut in two. The ribs are, or rather were, esteemed the most delicate part of this dish ; now the neck of a -vvell-roasted pig is the favourite morsel. The carver must use his dis- cretion in distributing ear and jaw, as far as these will go, and help stuffing and sauce more liberally. Turkey.—Where the party is not very large, and the dishes numerous, a good many small delicate slices, with very thin portions of the stuffing, may be helped lengthways from the breast. If this is not sufficient, proceed as directed for a goose, page 44. Hams are cut in three ways. You may begin at the hock, which is the most economical method; in the middle, or at the broad end. The chief thing to be attended to after an incision is made, is the delicacy of the slices. Tongue.—The best part is the thick, and the meat is most delicate when cut across in very thin slices. It is, how-ever, more economical to cut it in thin slices the long way. Tongue and ham cannot, when cold, be too delicately cut.