148 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. this favourite class of glutinous soups. This class, be it noticed, comprehends not only the oriental Mulla- gatawny and the oleaginous Ox-rump, but even the spicy and luscious Turtle.* MULLAGATAWNY-SOUP. Mullaga tawny differs little, save in the curry pow- der or other seasonings, from the excellent Scotch dish, “ Stewed Knuckle of Veal.” Break and wash a knuckle of good veal, and put it to boil in nearly three quarts of water, with a quarter-ounce of black and Jamaica peppercorns. Place wooden or tinned skewers in the bottom of the stew-pan, to prevent the meat from sticking to it. Put a few slices of bacon, if the flavour and oily qualities of this meat are admired. Skim this stock carefully when it comes to boil, and let it simmer an hour and a half before straining it off. Cut three pounds of breast of veal into small bits, add- ing the trimmings, bones, and gristles of the breast to the water in which the knuckle is put to boil. Fry the bits of veal and six sliced onions in a deep stew- pan, of a delicate brown. Put the strained stock to them; skim carefully, and when the soup and meat have simmered three quarters of an hour, mix two dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, and the same quan- tity of lightly-browned flour, to a smooth batter, with salt and cayenne to taste, and add these to the soup, and stew and simmer till the meat is quite tender. Obs.—This soup may be made of fowls cut in pieces, or of rabbits; but is best when made of well-fed veal. For East Indian palates, eschalots, mace, and ginger, * We give no receipt for dressing Turtle, an affair on which a volume might be written, so complicated and various are the processes. Rousseau tells of a German who composed a whole volume on the zest of a lemon. What then might not be said on that which comprehends all zests,—“ the Sovereign of Sa- vouriness,” the Olio compounded “of every creature's best?’’ As none but thorough-bred men of science are ever intrusted with dressing a Turtle, the (Jlcikum Club did not presume to instruct them, and thought the receipts found in cookery-books for this article merely so many make-bulks. Female cooks are good enough in their own way ; but no woman ever yet succeeded in writing an Epic or dressing a Turtle.—P. T.