CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 243 little salt, to a half-pint of melted butter. Let them heat up, but not boil, lest the butter oil. Obs.—Liver and parsley sauce is a good common sauce, and is made by parboiling the parsley and liver, and, after they are minced, stirring them in melted butter. The Marquis's Sauce for Wild Fowls.—-A glass of claret, a spoonful of catsup, the same of lemon-juice, a minced shalot, a few thin slices of lemon-rind, four grains of the best cayenne pepper, two blades of mace pounded, and a large spoonful of the essence sold at the shops under the name of Sauce a la Russe. Sim- mer these ingredients for a few minutes, and then strain them to the gravy which comes from the wild fowl in roasting. Place the fowl on a dish heated by a lamp, and cut it up, so that the gravy as it flows out may simmer with the sauce. Obs.—The above preparation is very much admir- ed. The gravy of wild fowl is often scanty; but but- ter, or even meat-gravy, would hurt the wild flavour a little. Game-gravy may, however, be made by par- roting, and then stewing a partridge, by those who hesitate at no expense in the gratification of the palate. This essence of game, French artists procure by slow- ly stewing the cut birds in a vessel closely covered, till they yield a strong consomme. VENISON-SAUCES. Venison may have a sweet, a sharp, or a savoury sauce. Sharp Sauce.—A quarter-pound of the best loaf-sugar, or white candy, dissolved in a half-pint of Champagne vinegar, and carefully skimmed. Sweet Sauce.—Melt some white or red currant-jelly with a glass of white or red wine, whichever suits best in co- lour ; or serve jelly unmelted in a small sweetmeat- glass. This sauce answers well for hare, fawn, or kid. Gravy for Venison.—Make a pint of gravy of trim- mings of venison, or shanks of mutton. Broil the meat on a quick fire till it is browned, then stew it slowly. Skim, strain, and serve the gravy, adding a little salt and a tea-spoonful of walnut-pickle. Savoury Venison Sauces, see page 99.