CHAf. I. MADE-DISHES. 291 Put some of them in the bottom of a small nice tin pan, or earthenware vessel. Strew chopped parsley over them, with seasonings; then thin slices of veal and ham, or veal and ham separately beaten to a paste in a mortar. Place thus alternate layers of egg, pars- ley, and meat, till you have enough. Stick bits ot butter over the top, and add a little water or gravy; cover the saucepan very close, and set it in an oven. When done, which will be in about three quarters of an hour, take off the covering, and press the meat down. When cold and firm, turn it out. It may be baked in an oval or fluted earthenware shape, turned out, and garnished with curled parsley, stars of orange-skin, &c. To dress a Calf’s-Hcad plain.—Wash it and soak it in hot water that it may blanch. Take out the brains, and cut away the black part of the eyes. Boil it in a large fish-kettle, putting it on with plenty of cold water, and some salt to throw up the scum. Sim- mer it gently for an hour and a half. Take up the head, cut out the tongue ; score the head (but not deeply) in diamonds; brush it over with beat egg, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and seasonings. Stick a few bits of butter over it, and brown the head in a Dutch oven. Meanwhile, wash, scald, skin, and parboil the brains, and chop them up with parsley and sage first parboiled and chopped, white pepper and salt. Stir them into hot melted butter. Add the squeeze of a lemon, or a lit- tle lemon-pickle, a small quantity of cayenne, and a minced shalot. Skin the tongue, and serve the brains dressed as above directed, around it, as a small dish to accompany the calf’s-head. Serve also parsley and butter. Curled slices of toasted bacon, a piece of ham or bacon, a pig’s-cheek, or sausage, are indispens- able with calf’s-head, even when highly dressed. Calf or Lamb’s Head an.d Ragout, a Scotch Dish Having parboiled the head as above, cut down the one half of it, with the skinned tongue, the palate, &c. into dice and other neatly-shaped bits. Trim and brush the other half with egg, and strew crumbs, chopped parsley, &c. over it, and set it to brown, sticking butter over it, and basting it with more