CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 412 jelly the day before the dish is wanted. Clean and slit four cal ves’-feet, and boil them slowly in five quarts of water till rather more than the half is wast- ed. Skim the stock, strain off the liquor, and when cold and firm, remove the top-fat and the sediment. Put this jelly-stock, when wanted, into a nice pre- serving pan, with white sugar to taste, the thin peel of two lemons, and the juice of from four to six; a half-bottle of Madeira or Sherry, the whites of six eggs well whisked, and the shells crushed and thrown into the pan. Stir this well together, and set the pan on the fire, taking care not to agitate the jelly after it begins to heat. Let it boil slowly for from twelve to fifteen minutes, then throw in a little cold water, and let it boil another five minutes. Set the pan, with a flannel cloth thrown over it, to settle for a half-hour, pour the jelly into a flannel jelly-bag, and strain till it be perfectly pellucid. N. B.—If you have any doubts of your jelly not keeping the shape, add a little melted isinglass. Obs.—This jelly may be made of cow-heels, or a proportion of them; and it may be flavoured with many things, some of them cheap substitutes for what is ordered above. Curacoci, noyeau, or sweet wine, may be substituted for wine, or less may be used, and a little good vinegar or verjuice does for part of the lemon-j uice. Some very great economists even substi- tute porter or ale for wine, and flavour with coriander- seeds, allspice, cinnamon, and cloves. Finely-flavoured ale is indeed an excellent substitute. It must not be too much hopped. Madeira-Wine Jelly.—Make this precisely as calves’- feet jelly, but with more wine, and a glass of brandy after the jelly is clarified ; and as this diminishes the strength of the jelly, a little melted isinglass to give firmness. ORANGE-JELLY. Take twenty oranges, infuse the rind of six in a basin with boiling water. Divide and squeeze the whole number, as in making orange-marmalade. Cla- rify a pound and a quarter of sugar, and when it has reached the second degree, (see clarifying,) put in the