127 CHAP. IV.—FRYING. are bought at cooks’ shops, where it is the practice to put the crumb of fresh roll soaked in a certain pro- portion of water into them, which immediately fer- ments and turns the sausage meat sour. Very little butter or lard is required to fry pork or beef sau- sage ; veal must have more. If in danger of bursting they may be pricked with a darning-needle; but if gradually heated, unless they are fermenting, this pre- caution will not be necessary. They must be drained from the fat, laid on a dish before the fire, and dredged with flour to froth them. Ohs.—Sausages were wont to be fried with apples pared, cored, and quartered, and garnished and serv- ed with the same: the practice is nearly obsolete. Poached eggs and fried bread, mashed, roasted, or scalloped potatoes are more suitable to this rich and savoury commodity. With turkey, fowl, or veal, sau- sage is often more acceptable than even tongue or ham. To make sausages see the Index; also to fry Fritters, O-melet, &c. TO FRY EGGS WITH BACON OR SAUSAGE. P. T. But for this homely dish many an honest traveller would go without his dinner. The general fault is, that the bacon is too hard, and cannot be cut into pro- per slices; to steep the slices even for a few minutes in lukewarm water would tend to remedy this defect; they must then be dried in the folds of a cloth. The colour of eggs is very easily hurt, so be sure that the frying-pan is delicately clean. This in all cases is best known, by melting a little fat in it, pouring it out, and wiping hard while the pan is still hot. Let the bacon be nearly fried, draw it aside, and if the fat look in the least dark or burnt, pour it off, and, if nice cookery is wanted, let fresh material get hot before the eggs are broken and gently slipt in. Pour boil- ing fat over them with an iron tinned spoon. When done on the under side, dish the bacon in a hot dish, and either turn or hold the pan before the fire a mi- nute, to take the ram off the upper side of the eggs. I rim them as they lie in the pan ; take them up with a slice, and drain the grease off, before dishing them