481 CHAP. III.—OF CURING MEAT, &C. by occasionally adding fresh supplies as it wastes, and using a sinking-board. If the pickle becomes turbid, and a scum gather on it, either pour it off, and boil and skim it well before returning it, when cold, to the meat, or use afresh pickle, which may no ,v be afford- ed cheaply, and is perhaps better, because purer than the original liquor boiled up. Meat preserved in this way is never disagreeably salt, and will keep for a long time. An excellent general Picklefor Meat, Hams, Tongues, t^c.—Take in the proportion of six ounces of salt and four of sugar to the quart of water, and a quarter- ounce of saltpetre. Rub the meat with salt, let it drain, and pack it, and over it pour the pickle, first boiled, skimmed, and cooled. To cure Butler in the best Manner.—Having wash- ed and beat the butter free of butter-milk, work it quickly up, allowing a scanty half-ounce of pounded salt to the pound. Let the butter lie for twenty-four hours, or more, and then for every pound allow a half- ounce of the following mixture:—Take four ounces of salt, two of loaf-sugar, and a quarter-ounce of saltpetre. Beat them all well together, and having worked up the butter very well, pack it for use in jars or kits; or use more sugar and less salt. Ohs.—We confidently recommend this method of twice salting butter, which only requires to be known to come into general use. It effectually preserves the butter, without so much salt being employed as to give it a rank and disagreeable taste. Summer-butter requires a little more salt than what is cured in au- tumn ; but the above proportions are used in some of the best-managed dairies in Scotland, though less might preserve the butter. Instead of strewing a layer of salt on the top, which makes a part of the butter useless for the table, place a layer of the above mixture in folds of thin muslin, stitch it loosely, and lay this neatly over the jar, which will effectually exclude the air. The turnip-flavour is a general complaint against butter made in winter and spring. Many experiments have been made, but we fear it is not possible wholly to remove this offensive taste. It may, however, be much ameliorated by mixing