440 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. the cake, shaking the mould to loosen it. Sponge- biscuits are baked in small tin shapes, and iced ox- glazed with sifted sugai-. Obs.—These light cakes, or the remains of them, are well suited to puddings or trifles. Macaroons.*—Blanch and pound with the whites of four eggs a pound of Jordan almonds. Add to this two pounds of fine sugar, and pound these ingredients to a paste ; then put in eight more whites of eggs. Mix the whole well together; fill a biscuit-syringe, and squirt the macaroons through this on wafer-paper, and fii-e them slowly on tins. Ratafia-cakes may be made as above, by using one-half bitter almonds. Drop the biscuit from a knife, instead of a squirt, if you like. Plain Gingerbread.—Mix with a pound and a half of flour four ounces of butter, four of brown sugar, a half-ounce of ground ginger, and some allspice. Make this into a paste with two ounces of hot treacle, and shape and bake the cakes. Fine Gingerbread.—Two pounds of floux-, a half- pound of brown sugar, a half-pound of orange-peel cut into bits, an ounce of gx-ound ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, cloves, mace, and some allspice. Mix with these a pound and a half of treacle, and a half-pound of melted butter. Mix the ingredients well together, and let them stand for some hours before rolling out the cakes. The paste will require a little additional flour in rolling out. Cut the cakes, mark the top in diamonds with a knife, and bake them on tin plates. Gingerbread-nuts may be made of the above paste, but a little more of the ginger and other spices should be employed, and a good deal more flour. Bake on paper. SMALL TEA-CAKES. Good Tea-Cakes.—Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour, and mix with this six ounces of cleaned currants, the same of beat sugar, and three * An endless variety of small biscuit is made in the manner ot macaroons, as light lemon-biscuit, by using grated peel and the yolks of three eggs, chocolate biscuit, orange and common biscuit. &c. &c.