286 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. onions sliced, mace, four bay-leaves, some white pep- per, and slices of very fat bacon over all. Let this stew for more than two hours over a very slow fire, and keep the stew-pan closely covered, unless when basting the upper side of the fricandeau with the li- quor. The gravy will be very strong. Take up the fricandeau and keep it hot; skim the fat from the gravy; pour it from the sediment, and boil it quickly down till it thicken,—or, as it is technically called, become a glaze, which pour over the meat. Serve with sorrel or tomata sauce. Obs.—The lean part of a large neck may be dressed as a fricandeau, drawing a glaze from the bones. Truffles and morels, artichoke bottoms, and mush- rooms, are all served with this dish. Fricandeau is a French dish naturalized, though it does not always suc- ceedin this country. Like many other dishes, itis much improved by having fire put over the stew-pan, especi- ally towards the conclusion of the process; and that is seldom done in this country. To ragout a Knuckle of Veal, (an excellent And economical Dish.)'-—Cut off the meat the- cross way of the grain in slices rather thinner and smaller than for cutlets. Make very slowly nearly a quart of broth of the bone broken, the skins, gristles, and trimmings, with a head of celery, an onion, a can-ot and turnip, and a small faggot of parsley, lemon-thyme, and basil. Season the slices with salt and cook’s-pepper; dredge with flour, and brown them in a small stew- pan ; and, pouring the strained broth over them, stew the whole very slowly over the embers, or at a considerable distance from the fire, for a half-hour. Thicken the sauce with flour rolled in butter, and just before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon, and pounded mace.—To stem a Knuckle with Rice, see page 156. To braise a Neck or other Piece of Veal.—Cut the scrag in bits, and lard the best end with chopped bacon, minced parsley, pepper, salt, and mace. Lay the larded meat in a shallow stew-pan, with hot wa- ter to cover it, and put around it the cut scrag, some slices of bacon, four onions, a turnip, a head of celery, two carrots, and three bay-leaves. Stew till tender.