CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 340 two hours slow boiling, wipe it dry, and serve with brown Espagtiole, or, if cold, on a napkin.* IIURE DE COCIION. Pig’s Face staffed.—Make the head as large as you can, by cutting * down to the shoulders. Singe it carefully. Put a red-hot poker into the ears. Clean and carefully bone the head without breaking the skin. Rub it with salt, and pour a boiled cold brine over it, with a large handful of chopped juniper-ber- ries, a few bruised cloves, and four bay-leaves, with thyme, basil, sage, a head of garlic bruised, and a half-ounce of saltpetre pounded. Let the head steep in this for ten days, and turn it and rub it often. Then wipe, drain, and dry it, and make a forcemeat for it thus :—Take equal quantities of undressed ham, and the breast of bacon. Season highly with cook’s- pepper, and fine spices if you choose. Pound the meat very small, and mix with it some seasoned lard, parsley, and young onions, finely mixed. Prove the quality of the forcemeat as directed at page 347- Im- prove it if deficient. Spread it equally over the head. Roll up, and sew it and bind it in a cloth, and stew it in a braise made of any trimmings and seasonings left, with broth enough to cover it. It will take near- ly four hours to cook, and will be still better if larded before it is stuffed. Try to pierce it with a larding- pin. If the pin enters easily, it is done. When cool, take off the binding-cloth. Trim the ends of the col- lared head, and serve it on a napkin. * Dr Redgill, whose experiments on pig, from first to last, are extremely interesting, totally lost one stuffed pig by overboiling : and had another considerably injured by the sewing rending the skin. But his final success was triumphant; and he wrote down, as a canon of cookery, that all stuffed meats, as pig n la moine blanc, haggis, sausage, &c. are not to be boiled by their apparent size, but by their solidity ; for forcemeats of any kind will cook in a third or a half less time than a joint of meat of compact texture. The sew- ing should be the stitch surgeons use in sewing up wounds. If the cook would avoid the catastrophe of her pig, goose, or haggis burst- ing, she will boil these important articles on a fish-drainer, that, if an accident do occur, ready help may be administered. Silk thread is more apt to tear the integuments than any other thread ; the cook should therefore for her purposes use soft thread made of cotton. 3