CHAP. VI. FISH. 205 TO STF.W MUSCLES FOR FISH-SAUCE. Do them as oysters, with pepper, butter, and a little vinegar. TO MAKE STORE FISH-SAUCE.* To an English pint of red port (Burgundy or claret is better,) add fifteen anchovies, chopped and prepared by steeping in vinegar in a close-covered vessel for a week; add to this a stick of horseradish scraped, two onions, and a handful of parsley chopped, a des- sert-spoonful of lemon-thyme stripped of the stalks, two bay-leaves, a nutmeg, and six blades of mace wholesome, though not a favourite fish. Carp and tench are consi- dered wholesome. Whitings, flounders, and soles, being of a moist juicy nature, are light, and very easy of digestion. There seems, according to Sir John Sinclair., to be a general understanding among mankind, that fish ought to be eaten with butter and acids. “ Fisn and milk,” says the same authority, “ are seldom conjoined.” Salmon and a dram, he ought to have added, are never separated. “ Fish,” says Sir John, “ do not agree with vegetables, except the potato.” Here he is wrong ; the people in Orkney and Shetland, who live a great deal both on fresh and salt fish, consume cabbage in large quantities with it, and are entirely free from the scurvy,"and those cutaneous diseases which overrun the people of the Hebrides who raise no vegetables. “ Among all fish,” says Lynch’s Guide to Health, “ whether of sea or river, the middle-sized are the best; also those that have not hard and dry flesh, that are crisp and ten- der, and have many scales and fins.” The meat of the turtle, the sea-turtle, is considered not only as a high-flavoured expensive de- licacy, but as salubrious and highly nutritious, though those sickly half-dead animals, which are spiced and drugged for city-banquets, may not possess those qualities. Fish were held in such esteem by the ancients, that persons constantly rode post with live fish to Home. Note by JDr Redgill—u It is strongly recommended to those who mag, like me, have the misfortune to swallow a fish-bone, to take four grains of tartar emetic dissolved in warm, water, and immediately afterwards the beat whites of four eggs. This mass will, instantly coagulate, and will probably bring the bone from the throat or stomach. The bones of pike, which are sharp and pronged, and so very hard that they will not dissolve in the stomach, ought to be watchfully avoided.” • N. B—-The Cleikum Club were favoured with this and the following original receipt from an intelligent Highland lady, who has contributed several valuable original receipts to this volume This sauce boasts neither the name of Burgess nor Harvey, but we would advise those who wish to combine economy with what is healthful and elegant, to make a fair trial of it. I