283 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. which is the best ingredient that can enter into the composition of any hash or mince. Dish the mince on toasted sippets. A French Mode of dressing cold Beef—Cut the part most underdone in slices, and stew them over embers in a sauce of weak broth, a glass of red wine, a small spoonful of tarragon vinegar, an onion, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, pepper, salt, and cloves. Serve, either hot or cold, with the strained gravy, to which, however, more vinegar must be put if the beef is served cold. The wine may be omitted. To broil cold Beef—Cut the slices as steaks, broil them over a clear fire, or in a Dutch oven, and serve them with fried eggs, or scalloped potatoes, and steak- sauce, or piquante sauce made hot.—See Sauces. Another may.—Divide the ribs, and shorten them with the cleaver. Leave the meat on the upper side about the breadth of a half-inch. Sprinkle the steaks well with salt and mixed spices, and place them in a Dutch oven, basting them with the gravy of the roast, bread-crumbs, and chopped parsley. Serve with grill sauce in a sauce-boat. Bubble and Squeak.—This dish is made either of cold roast or boiled meat, and is best of meat salted. Cut the slices not too thick nor very large; fry them in fresh butter with plenty of pepper, and keep them warm before the fire. Chop, and fry, or bruise some boiled cabbage, and lay it on the slices of beef; or keep the cabbage high in the middle of the dish, and lay the meat round it. For sauce, chop and stir a few slices of pickled cucumber and onion into a little thick melted butter, and add a tea-spoonful of made-mus- tard. Fried beet-root, eggs, or apples, may be used. A ragout of oysters, mushrooms, or onions, makes the dish superb. Bubble and Squeak of Veal.—Make this exactly as beef, but use no mustard. Obs.—This last dish deserves to be better known. MADE-DISHES OP VEAL. To stem a Fillet of Veal.—Take oft’ the knuckle either to stew or for soup, and also the square end, which