282 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. may be poured over the meat in the hash-dish, and that set in a hot-water bath, a cool oven, or vessel of boiling water, till the hash is hot through. Place toasted sippets in the dish. A currie-hash of beef is much liked. Fry a few large onions; add the hashed meat and seasonings. Garlic may be used when liked. Obs.—The varieties of Hashes are endless, but the above is conceived the best mode of making this dish, whether the hash be of beef or mutton. Hashes of veal or poultry require a white sauce, and a sea- soning of lemon-rind, and the juice of lemon; or the flavour of tarragon given by vinegar, which makes a French-flavoured hash; or a currie-hash of veal or fowls answers very well with plenty of small onions par-roasted, and then stewed whole in the hash-sauce. If meat comes back from the table which you know must be hashed next day, carve it before it get cool; it will then imbibe all the gravy which lies on the dish, and be far more rich than if allowed to remain uncut till next day. This should be particu- larly attended to in hashes of venison, hare, or mutton. Beef-Cecils.—Mince the white part of the meat very nicely, and mix it up with bread-crumbs, sliced onions, a chopped anchovy, and parsley, pepper, salt, and a little onion or walnut-pickle. Stir this mince over the fire in a small stew-pan, with a little melted butter, and when cold enough, make it up into large oval balls with a little flour; egg the balls, and roll them in crumbs; brown them before the fire, and pour hot gravy, seasoned with shalot and pepper, over them. Cold Beef scalloped, or Sanders.—Mince the meat as in the last receipt, with the same seasonings and a little scraped tongue or ham. Moisten it with gravy and walnut-pickle, and fill up the scallop-shapes, lay- ing mashed potatoes neatly marked over the mince. Put some bits of butter over each shape, and set them to warm and brown in an oven. To mince Dressed Beef.—Mince the beef finely with a little suet, and warm it up in a small stew-pan, with a little broth or water, minced shalot or onion, and a little vinegar, and what meat-gravy you have saved.