458 CHAP. I LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. Red-Gooseberry Wine.—Take equal measure of wa- ter and bruised fruit, or more of the fruit if it be plen- tiful. To every twenty pints (Scotch) of the mixture add fifteen pounds of good loaf-sugar, and a pound of sliced beet-root. When cashed and fermented, add a quart or more of brandy. British Rhenish.—To every gallon of fresh apple- juice, add two pounds of loaf-sugar. Boil, and skim this till quite limpid. Strain it. Ferment it as other wines; and when the head flattens, rack it off clear, and tun it. Next season rack it off again : add a pint of brandy to every three gallons. Obs.—This is a highly-reputed wine, but we have no actual experience of its qualities. Red-Currant Wine.—To twenty Scotch pints of wa- ter put thirty-six pints or more of red currants, and one of raspberries. When these have fermented, add twenty pounds of good sugar, and, after the wine is casked, two pints of brandy. This will make eighteen gallons of wine. N. B.—Red tartar in fine powder, and a pound and a half of sliced beet-root, may be added to the above to deepen the colour. The hull of the black currant boiled, and the liquid strained and used as water, an- swers very well for the purpose of deepening the co- lour of wines. A cheap Wine of mixed Fruit.—Take equal mea- sure of water and such fruits as you can get; such as raspberries, cherries, strawberries, gooseberries, and currants, either black, red, or white. Ferment and add fifteen pounds of treacle or coarse sugar for every twenty gallons. Perfume with a quarter-pound of ground ginger, and a handful of sweet marjoram, and lemon-thyme. Add two quarts of whisky. N. B.—A more delicate compound Wine may be made by using loaf-sugar and brandy: the colour may be enriched by two ounces of red tartar. Elder-flower Wine, or English Frontiniac.—Whisk six whites of eggs in six gallons of water, and put to this sixteen pounds of good loaf-sugar. Boil and skim it well. Put to the boiling liquid eight pounds of the best raisins chopped, and a quarter-peck of elder- flow'ers. Infuse these, but do not boil them. When