CIIAP. II.—ROASTING. (i ]0G goose is often rubbed with salt for ten days before roasting. Where they are rank this may be advisable, but not otherwise, as it dries the flesh. After the goose is carefully picked and singed, let it be well washed and dried with a cloth. Stuffing—Four well- sized onions, about half their weight of sage undried, and half the liver; parboil slightly, and chop these very fine: Add a bit of butter, yolk of egg, the crumbs of a penny loaf, or an equal quantity of mashed potatoes, and season rather highly with pep- per and salt. With this stuff the goose.* Spit the goose; fasten tightly at the neck and rump. Paper the breast, but remove the paper when it has swelled. A goose requires a brisk fire, well kept up ; and will take from two hours to two and a half to roast. The breast must not be allowed to sink. Apple sauce is by prescription served with goose, and this bird re- quires a drawn gravy in the dish, its own being often rank and oily. Ohs.—To apple sauce the Cleikum Club preferred onion sauce ; better still. Dr Redgill’s sauce for roast pork, duck, or goose, and sauce Robert.—See Sauces. The sauce may either be poured into the goose by the carver making for this purpose a slit in the apron, or served in a tureen in thick melted butter. In Scot- land it is customary to garnish with slices of raw onion, but the practice is on the wane. Green Geese are roasted in the same manner; but for these young- lings the sage and onion is better omitted. Season high with pepper and salt, and put a piece of butter * All stuffing containing bread-crumbs should be allowed room to swell, and indeed all forcemeat whatever, as it expands more or less in the dressing. The livers of geese and poultry are esteemed a great delicacy by some qourmands ; and on the continent great pains arc taken to pro- cure fat overgrown livers. The methods employed to produce this diseased state of the animals are as disgusting to rational taste as revolting to humanity. The geese are crammed with fat food, de- prived of drink, kept in an intolerably hot atmosphere, and fastened by the feet (we have heard of nailing) to the shelves of tire fattening cribs. The celebrated Strasburg pxes, which are esteemed so gTeat a delicacy that they are often sent as presents to distant places, are enriched with these diseased livers. It is a mistake that these pies are wholly made of this artificial animal substance.