10 EXPLANATION OP UNFREQUENT end of a repast, as the cold pies, hams, or potted meats placed down the middle of a table at large entertainments. Dormant, a, a centre-piece which is not removed, and which is commonly used by the French, who never change the table-cloth. Drappit Eggs, eggs poached in sauce, 361. En Compote, things served in syrup, generally fresh fruits, 350, 430. En Chemise, fruits rolled in pounded sugar, 432. En Crustade, said of things served in crusts, or crust shapes, 3J2. N. B. In like manner French dishes are said to be d la Maitre d’Hotel, a VEspagnole, a la Venetienne, &c. from the sauces with which they are dressed or served. En Papilotte, generally said of every thing served in twisted paper, as salmon and mutton cutlets, 173, 180, 297- Entrees, the French term for first-course dishes. Entrees de Desserte, dishes made of left meats. Entremets, the French term for second-course dishes. Forcemeat, or Farcemeat, Stuffing in general, whether for meats, poultry, fish, balls for soup, pies, &c. Force, to, or farce, to stuff with forcemeat. Garnish, any tiling useful, relishing, or ornamental, served around, or with dressed meats. Garnish, to, to decorate, to ornament, Note, p. 48, 175. Gigot, the French and Scottish term for the leg of mutton or lamb, as distinguished from the loin. Glaze, die rich juices of meat extracted by heat at a high tempera- ture, and thickened by boiling and evaporation to a jelly. Glaze, to, to cover meats with glaze, 272. Godiveau, a sort of French forcemeat, 347. Gratin, a forcemeat, generally of poultry, ib. Haricot, so called, from the French word for beans, with which it was originally made; now understood as a thick stew of beef, mutton, or veal, cut in pieces, dressed with vegetables and roots. Herbs, Savoury or Fine, are parsley, mushrooms, chives, rocam- bole, &c. Herbs, Sweet, are lemon-thyme, mint, basil, bay-leaf, &c. &c. Hotch-potch, any thin stew, or stew-soup, of meat cut to pieces, with fresh vegetables ; also die name of a Scottish nadonal dish, see page 357. Kitchen-Fee, dripping, probably so called as being formerly the perquisite of the cook. Lard, to, to enrich meats, poultry, &c. by introducing stripes of lard into them with an implement used for that purpose.