CI1AP. III.—BROILING. J16 sils, and the tiny furnaces and chafing-dishes, which enable them to deal in all manner of ways with the smallest bit of meat, while their contemporaries in London have too often but the one resource,—the Sun- day oven,—for the large expensive joint, which loses much of its weight and succulence in baking, and, at all events, must be eaten cold by the family till it is finished. Such families never see soup, roots, nor vegetables, save perhaps a few potatoes on the hot day. The cottage cookery of Scotland is much supe- rior to that of their neighbours, from their canny skill in the potage, and in the use of roots and vegetables; and this with no additional expense of fuel. Broiling is not, however, the cookery of the cottage economist, and it is of broiling we now treat. The state of the fire is the primary consideration. It must be clear and radiant, consequently free of smoke. A fire nearly two-thirds burnt is best. The gridiron should rather be over long than too short, and ought to be so contrived that it can be placed at the dis- tance of three, four, five, or six inches above the fire. If a gridiron is a veil polished at first, there can be no good cause for the bars ever becoming black. Let it be always rubbed when put aside, not only bright on the top of the bars, but clear of soot and grease between them. The bars should be narroAvest at top, that they may not intercept the heat of the fire. It is Avell to have one gridiron for fish, and another for poultry and steaks. The gridiron must be hot through, (which will take five minutes,) before any thing is put on it. It must then be rubbed with a piece of fresh suet, to prevent the meat from being branded, or sticking to the hot bars. There is great convenience sometimes in the per- pendicular gridirons, and there is a trifling kind made double, of strong Avire, Avith a hinge, which permits the steaks or fish to be turned by merely turning the implement, Avhich, on the small scale ol cookery, are very convenient. TO BROIL BEEF-STEAKS. F. T., ESQ. In England, the best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump. In Scotland and France, steaks which are