CHAP. II. ROASTING. 93 accompany it. To the gravy which has flowed from the meat, the Nabob, after repeated experiments, found, that the best addition was a very little boiling water (a large wine glass full) and salt, poured through the hole from which the spit is withdrawn, and gently laved on the browned outside under bits of the roast. To the gravy of venison and veal, when found scanty, which will sometimes be the case, the Committee ordered a little thin melted, butter in pre- ference to drawn gravies. The assets for roasts should be furnished with a gravy-fountain, for comfort if not for elegance; and the jelly gravy that flows from young meats, the very essence of meat, ought to be carefully preserved, as it forms the most delicate of all gravies to enrich sauces, ragouts, hashes, &c. Of this, veal gravy is the most delicate, and it is ac- cordingly in great requisition among all cooks; but beef gravy is fit for almost all purposes. The Na- bob, in the course of his discursive readings, though he was more a practical man than one of research, discovered that many things have been anciently used for bastings which the simplicity of modern practice rejects. Sweet herbs and seeds pulverized, butter and claret, yolks of eggs, pounded biscuit and spice- ries, have all been employed. But these antique re- finements were all rejected except butter and claret, which, for venison, and all the dry meats that some- times go under that generic name, were used at the Cleikum with unanimous approbation. Much more did our Nabob, in the fulness of his heart and sto- mach on this day of his triumph, say on the subject of roasting in general; and this his Essay roast in particular, which we must take the liberty to skip, and come at once to the receipts for roasting. TO ROAST A SIRLOIN OP BEEF. P. S. T., ESQ. Study the above discourse, and bear in mind that, next to broiling, roasting is the most difficult of all elementary culinary processes ; and when well done, is valued accordingly. Instruction may teach even a bungler to compound a tolerable made-dish, which, if faulty, may be Improved, disguised, or altered. d 2