CHAP. r. MADE-DISHES. 321 (which should be two days laid) with the point of a knife that the meat may slide gently out without breaking. Turn the shell above the egg as you dip it into the water to gather in all the white. Take off the stew-pan, and slide them gently into the boiling water, taking care to break their fall. Let the sauce- pan stand by the side of the fire till the white has set, and then put it on the fire for a minute or two. Take up the eggs with a slice; trim away the broken parts of the white, and serve on toasts, slices of cold meat, broiled pork-sausage, spinage, brocoli, sorrel, or also with veal-gravy. Obs.—Poached eggs may be served with a sauce of grated ham, shred "onion, parsley, pepper, and salt. Stew this for ten minutes in weak broth. When rea- dy, thicken and strain the sauce, and when it is a lit- tle cool, cover the eggs. They may be poached in butter. Mushroom and Egg Dish.—Slice, fry, and drain some large onions and a few button-mushrooms. Slice hard-boiled eggs, the yolks and white sepai-ate- ly, and either simmer the whole in fresh butter with pepper, salt, mustard, and shalot-vinegar, or in good gravy. Put in the sliced yolks last, and only let them remain about a minute. Serve very hot, and garnish with curled parsley and a few rings of the white of the eggs. Swiss Eggs.—Mix two ounces of grated cheese and two of melted butter with six beat eggs. Sea- son with salt, pepper, shred parsley, and young oni- ons. Cook the mixture lightly in the frying-pan. Brown the upper side with a salamander, and serve very hot. profusely, then ;i layer of cold roast beef, with mustard and horse- radish, and then on the top of all a superstratum of Cheshire tho- roughly saturated while in the process of toasting with cwrte, or, in its absence, porter—genuine porter, black pepper, and shalot-vine- gar. 1 peril myself upon the assertion, that this is not a heavy sup- per for a man who has been busy all day till dinner in reading, writ- ing, walking, or riding,—who has occupied himself between dinner and supper in the discussion of a bottle or two of sound wine, or any equivalent, and who proposes to swallow at least three tumb- lers of something hot ere he resigns himself to the embrace of Som- nus. With these provisoes I recommend toasted cheese for supper.” 6