230 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. them in plenty of water, and, if they are very acrid, change the water ; chop them fine, and with a wooden spoon press them through a sieve; stir them into thin melted butter, and heat up the sauce, or roast them. Obs.—For tripe, made mustard may be mixed with this sauce,—for smothering rabbits, boiled ducks, &c. cream may be added. Some cooks use veal or clear beef gravy instead of melted butter, and others mash a turnip or apple along with the onions where the fla- vour is thought too strong. Young onions, when very small, may be served whole in the sauce. The French make onion-sauce of cream, and season with nutmeg. Brown Onion-Sauce.—This is a highly-relishing sauce, suitable to many different dishes, and a gene- ral favourite with thorough-bred gourmands. Slice large mild Spanish onions, brown them in butter over a slow fire, add good brown gravy, pepper, salt, cay- enne, and a bit of butter rolled in brown flour. Skim this, and put in a half-glass of Burgundy, claret, or port, the same quantity of mushroom-catsup; or, if more suitable to the dish the sauce is to accompany, a dessert-spoonful of walnut-pickle, or shalot-vinegar, to give piquance. Also essence of ham. Obs.—This standard sauce is susceptible of many va- riations. It may be flavoured with any pungent vine- gar, rendered more poignant by a little minced shalot, onion, or made mustard; or more mild by using ce- lery, turnip, or cucumber, instead of one-half of the onions. to dress onions for garnishing Bouilli, <§-c. Top and tail small firm silver onions; blanch and peel them; stew them in good broth till they look clear and pulpy. Obs.—If to be browned, do not blanch, but fry them. If for garnishing bouilli, use larger onions; put fire over the stewpan, and let them fall to a glaze. Pour a little broth into the pan to float the glaze, which must be poured over the beef. If the onions are not very mild, put a bit of sugar to the broth. Sage and Onion Sauce.—Chop together a couple ot onions and eight sprigs of sage ; stew them in water