CHAP. VI. FISH. 196 it brackish with salt, (on the coast sea-water is used ;) brush and put in the lobsters. Take off the scum, of which a great deal will be thrown up, and let them boil from thirty to fifty minutes, according to the size. If boiled too long the flesh will get thready and coarse; if not long enough, the spawn will not have a fine colour. Wipe the lobsters with a damp cloth, then rub the shell with butter, and wipe it off again! Break off the great claws, and crack them at the joints without mangling. Split down the tail, and place them neatly on the dish, serving the following sauce: The hard yolks of two eggs pounded in a mortar with a little vinegar, and the soft spawn of the lobster. When beaten quite smooth, mix this with a large spoonful of salad-oil and a glassful of the best vine- gar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and a little cay- enne and salt. For crabs, the same sauce. TO POT LOBSTERS AND CRABS FOR SANDWICHES, DEVILED BISCUIT, &C. Parboil the fish ; crack the claws, &c. and pick out the meat. If for sandwiches, beat it in a mortar with pounded mace, white pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. If to keep for eating, or for a cold relish, mix the meat neatly cut in small bits, and the coral and of sharks and fishermen, they sometimes attain an immense size, and have been found from eighteen inches to upwards of two feet in length. Apicius, who ought to be the patron saint of epicures, made a voyage to the coast of Africa on hearing that lobsters of an unusually large size were to be found there, and, after encountering much distress at sea, met with a disappointment. Very large lobsters are at present found on the coasts of Orkney. Some naturalists affirm (Olaus Mag- nus and Gesner,) that in the Indian seas, and on the wild shores of Norway, lobsters nave been found twelve feet in length, and sis in breadth, which seize mariners in their terrible embrace, and, drag- ging them into their caverns, devour them. However this may be, uie lobsters and crabs for being devoured are best when of the mid- dle size, and when found on reefs or very rocky shores. They arc found on many parts of the British coasts, and during the summer months there is generally a plentiful supply in the London market. In places where crabs are good and plentiful, a very pretty supper- plate is made of a few pairs of the thumbs ; and an excellent sub- stitute for lobster-sauce is made of them, particularly of the small delicate species known by the provincial name of Caries. The age of shell-fish may be known as that of a tree is by the bark, from the roughness and incrustations which gather upon the surface.