330 CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. Let this reduce a little, and add to it the trimmings of the game, and a little Espagnole. Let this stew till it is very good; season it with salt and pepper; skim and strain it. This sauce is served over salmis of partridge, duck, &c. Poivrade Sauce.—Cut six ounces of ham into bits, and fry them in butter with a few sprigs of parsley, a few young onions sliced, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, a sprig of sweet basil, one of thyme, and two cloves. When well fried over a quick fire, add pep- per, cayenne, a little white-wine vinegar, and a half- pint of consomme. Let it simmer by the side of the fire for a good while, skim it and put it through a tammy-cloth. Ravigote Sauce.—This is compounded of fine herbs, and is used both cooked and raw. Dressed Ravigote.—Take a suitable quantity of burnet, chervil, tarragon, and celery, with two leaves of balm. Clean and boil them. Throw them into fresh water, and drain and pound them with a little salad-oil, and vinegar, pepper, and salt. Rub this when sufficiently done through a search. Cold or uncooked Ravigote.—This is, in fact, just a salad sauce. Clean, mince, and pound the above herbs with a few capers and a boned anchovy or two. Pound the whole well with a raw egg, and add a little good vinegar to keep the ingredients from clagging. Mustard, or any stimulating ingredient, may be added. Rub through a search. Mushroom-Sauce, byBcauvilliers’ Receipt.—Taketwo handfuls of mushrooms, wash them in several waters, rubbing them lightly ; put them into a drainer; mince them with their stalks ; put them into a stew-pan, with the size of an egg of butter ; let them fall over a slow fire, and when nearly done, moisten them with two skimming spoonfuls of veloute ; let them simmer three quarters of an hour more ; rub them through a search, and finish with cream, as is directed for the onion puree, with this difference, however, that this ought to be ra- ther clearer. La Ducelle-Beauvillicrs.—Mince mushrooms, pars- ley, young onions or shalots, the same quantity of each ; put some butter into a stew-pan with as much rasped bacon; put them upon the fire; season with