301 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. Another Way.—Fry the steaks for five minutes in butter; drain them, clip them in egg and bread- crumbs, and finish them on the gridiron. Lamb-Sweetbreads Ragout.—Blanch what will make a dish with scalding water. Soak and stew them in good clear gravy for twenty minutes, adding white pepper, mace, and salt. Thicken with butter rolled in flour. Beat up two yolks of eggs and a glass of sweet cream, with a dessert-spoonful of minced pars- ley, and a little nutmeg. Take off the stew-pan, and gradually mix in the beat egg and cream. Make the sauce hot, stirring it diligently lest it curdle, but do not let it boil. Asparagus points, or cut French beans, first parboiled, may be stirred into the ragout. Obs.—If the sweetbreads are very large they must be cut. Lamb-Chops with Potato, a favourite Dish.—Cut the back-ribs of a large lamb into handsome chops, trimming off the bone with a cliopping-knife. Season and brush the chops with a beat egg; dip them in crumbs and minced parsley, and fry ‘them nicely. Place mashed potatoes, (made somewhat thin with butter and cream, and again heated,) high in the centre of a dish, score this neatly, and lay the hot chops around them, leaning each chop on the side of the adjoining one. Obs.—A finely-minced onion may be added to the mashed potatoes if the flavour is liked. To dress Lamb’s Liver, see p. 128. To dress Lamb’s- Head, see page 291. To dress a Leg of Lamb with Vegetables.—Cut the loin into handsome steaks, and fry them nicely. Boil the gigot slowly, skimming it well, that it may look white and plump. Place the gigot in the middle of the dish, lay the steaks around it, with sprigs of nicely- boiled cauliflower on each steak ; or it may be served with spinage, sorrel, or stewed cucumber. Pour some hot melted butter over the gigot. Obs.—This is an elegant variety in dressing lamb, and is attended with no additional expense whatever. Besides the above methods of cookery, lamb may be dressed as ragout, collar, currie, cutlets Mainte- N