CHAr. VI. FISH. 187 and, having rubbed them with salt and mixed spices, dip them in beat egg, and roll in crumbs. Fry in plenty of boiling lard, drain from the flit on a sieve before the fire, and serve with chervil, or parsley and butter, or melted butter, or melted butter shaipenec with vinegar or lemon-juice. N. B.—The fat in which eels are fried does not an- swer well for frying other fish. TO COLLAR EELS. Bone without flaying a large eel. Season it highly, by rubbing with mixed spices finely pounded, chop- ped parsley, sage, and a sprig of lemon-thyme._ Roll up and bind the collar with tape, and boil it in salt and water till tender. It may be served whole with a sharp sauce, or cut in slices. It will keep in a pickle of the liquor it was boiled in, adding salt and vinegar. Eels may be stewed as carp, but are rather a luscious dish. TO SPITCHCOCK EELS. Clean them well, and rub with salt and skin them. Slit open the belly and take out the bone. Wash and dry them, cut in pieces about four inches long, dredge with flour, which wipe off, that they may be quite dry. Dip them in a thick batter made of melted but- ter, yolk of eggs, with a little minced parsley, sage, and a very little shalot, pepper, and salt. Roll the pieces in fine grated bread-crumbs, or biscuit pound- ed. Dip them and roll them again, and broil on a eel, and even to the bronze-coloured. Fresh-water fish of all kinds are best when found in clear streams. The natives of turbid slug- gish streams are even considered more difficult of digestion. This is said to be peculiarly the case with salmon. The cruelty inflicted on eels is proverbial. Instead of skinning and cutting alive, a humane method of putting them to death is recommended by Dr Kitchener, whicn deserves to be generally known. With a sharp-pointed skewer pierce the spinal marrow through the back part of the skull, when life will instantly cease. A modern French cook gives the following receipt:—“ Take live eels, throw them into the fire, and as they are twisting about on all sides, lay hold of them with a towel in your hand and skin them !”