292 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. crumbs, &c. Meanwhile stew the hash in a little good veal-broth, or jelly of cow-heels, or any rich fresh stock you have: season with mixed spices, the grate and juice of a lemon, mace, or whatever seasoning is most approved. Dish the ragout, and place the browned head upon it. Garnish with brain-cakes and forcemeat-balls, or fried sippets. Obs.—Pickled oysters, catsup, &c. ma}^ be added to this ragout, which may, at the discretion of the cook, be either a white or brown ragout. This we conceive the best way of dressing a calf’s-head, though the hash or fricassee of the second day must, by the experienced gourmand, be considered as preferable to any other mode of cookery, and only objectionable from not making so important an addition to the ap- pearance of the table as the full-dressed head does. If it be a lamb’s-head you are to dress, the scrag (which is generally cut off with the head in Scotland) will make a great addition to the ragout. To fricassee a Calf’s-Hcad.—Clean and parboil the head; cut the cheeks, tongue, palate, &c. into nice bits, and stew them in a rich white gravy, with a lit- tle of the broth in which the head was parboiled, sea- soned with white pepper, mace, herbs, onion, and salt. Thicken with butter rolled in flour, and just be- fore dishing the fricassee, add a little cream or beat yolk of egg. Simmer this, but do not allow it to boil. Garnish with brain-cakes and forcemeat-balls, or curled slices of bacon and egg-balls. To hash a Calf’s-Head.—Clean and parboil the head; or take what is left of a plainly-boiled cold head, and cut it into slices of a rather larger size than for fricassee. Peel and slice the tongue. Take up- wards of a quart of the liquor in which the head was boiled, with the bones, trimmings, and a shank of veal or mutton, and boil these for the hash-stock, with a faggot of sweet herbs, a, good bit of lemon-peel, onions, and white pepper. Boil this gravy till it is good and well-flavoured. Thicken it with flour knead- ed in butter, and strain it into a clean saucepan. Season with pounded mace, catsup, or lemon-pickle, or a little of any piquant store-sauce, and warm up the hash, without suffering it to boil, though boiling