322 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. To butter Eggs.—Beat six eggs well up in a basin. Set three ounces of fresh butter to melt in another basin placed in boiling water. Stir the eggs and but- ter together ; add pepper and salt, and a finely-minced onion, if it is liked. Pour the mixture into a small saucepan, and toss it over a slow fire for a few se- conds, then pour it into a large basin; and thus skink the mixture backwards and forwards, setting it on the fire occasionally, but keeping it constantly briskly agitated till ready. Serve on toasts, or as an accom- paniment to salt fish or red herrings, or serve on a toast and garnish with sprigs of brocoli. Scotch Eggs.—Five eggs make a dish. Boil them as for salad. Peel and dip them in beat egg, and co- ver them with a forcemeat made of grated ham, chop- ped anchovy, crumbs, mixed spices, &c. Fry them nicely in good clarified dripping, and serve wTith a gravy-sauce in a tureen. Obs.—Eggs may be boiled half-hard, wrapped in puff-paste, dipped in egg and crumbs, fried and serv- ed as a side-dish or supper-dish. Eggs for a small dish may be boiled hard, sliced, and served in a white ragout-sauce, dishing them with a whole yolk in the middle. Curled slips of bacon, toasted sippets, fried parsley, mushrooms, &c. form appropriate accompa- niments and garnishings to dishes of eggs.—See French Cookery for other preparations of eggs. An Omelet.—Beat up six eggs with salt, pepper in fine powder, a large spoonful of parsley very finely shred, half the quantity of chives or green onion, a small bit of' shalot, if liked, some grated ham or tongue; or, if for maigre days, to which this dish is considered appropriate, lobster-meat, the soft part of oysters, shrimps, or grated cheese, may be used. Let the several things be very finely minced, and well mixed with the batter, adding a large spoonful of flour, and some bits of butter. Fry the omelet in plenty of very hot butter in a nicely-tinned small frying-pan, stirring it constantly till it firm, and then lifting the edges with a knife, that the butter may get below. It must not be overdressed, or it will get tough and dry. Carefully turn the omelet, by placing a plate over it, and return it into the frying-pan to