224 CHAP. VII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. though they afford little nourishment of themselves, they make a pleasant addition to other aliments, and a graceful appearance on the dinner-table. Lettuce, of the different sorts, or salad, as it is often called, is the principal ingredient in those vegetable messes. It should be carefully blanched and eat young; when old, its juices become acrimonious and hurtful. Let- tuce possesses soporific powers, and is recommended as a supper-article to bad sleepers. Radishes, when young, are juicy and cooling, but a very few days change their nature, and they become woody and acrid; when not very young, they ought to be scraped. Cress and mustard are cordial and grateful, and of an agreeable pungency; and celery, when young and properly blanched, by its peculiar nutty flavour, con- tributes much to what Evylyn calls the “ harmony in the composure of a sallet.” A variety of other herbs mingle in full well-selected salads, such as sor- rel, young onions, cucumber, tomatas, endive, &c. Many wild herbs were formerly employed, and are still used on the continent and in America, as salad- ings. As this is quite a delicate, jaunty branch of the culinary art, we would recommend that young ladies residing in the country should gather their own salad herbs, and dress salads for their families, which will give a better chance of a duty being well done, which, in the hurry of the stewpan, the spit, and the stove, the poor distracted cook must often perform with haste and slovenliness. Never make a salad till near the dinner-hour, as it will flatten and lose its light appearance by standing. AN ENGLISH SALAD AND SALAD-SAUCE- Let the herbs be fresh gathered, nicely trimmed and picked, and repeatedly washed in salt and water. Drain and cut them. Just before dinner is served, rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs very smooth on a soup-plate, with a little very rich cream. When well mixed, add a tea-spoonful of made mustard and a lit- tle salt, a spoonful of olive-oil, one of oiled butter, or two of sour cream may be substituted, and when this is mixed smooth, put in as much vinegar as will