CHAP. I.'—MADE-DISHES. 313 powder and a spoonful of flour, both rubbed very smooth, and carefully stirred into the sauce. When just ready, add also a glass of good thick cream, and either the juice of a lemon or a proportionate quantity of citric acid. Skim off all fat, and it the sauce is not rich enough (before dishing) stir in a small quantity of melted butter. If the sauce be too thick, add a little broth to thin it. Some cooks pound part of the meat and all the scraps to thicken the currie, and also the boiled livers, &c. Obs.—Currie may be made of cold chicken, slices of veal, lamb, &c., and is a very acceptable variety at table in place of ioujours hash, though very inferior to currie of undressed meat. Some cooks add a few small onions that have been cooked in the broth; others a few capsicums or a fresh chilli, which is pe- culiarly acceptable to those who like liot-spiced dishes. Currie-Balls.—Take stale bread-crumbs finely grated, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Add currie-pow- der, and beating these ingredients to a paste in a mortar, make the mixture up into small balls, with raw yolk of egg and a little flour. To boil Rice for Currie.—Pick and soak the rice, and boil it quickly in boiling water and salt till it be tender but not soft; drain it, and put it to dry be- fore the fire on a sieve reversed. Either heap it lightly on a dish by itself, or if the dish of currie be small, it may be served round the dish in which the currie is placed in the centre.—See also page 369. Obs.—Rice for currie is seldom properly boiled. It is either in a mash or the grains are quite hard. To avoid both defects some cooks shower hot water upon the boiled rice, and set it to evaporate before the fire, so that every several particle may be distinct, and yet the whole tender enough to eat. When over- boiled, *the rice may, after draining, be smoothed, brushed over with yolk of egg, and browned in the oven,—though this necessity ought never to be courted Handle it very lightly. Spooning spoils it. Brain-Balls and Cakes for Made-Dishes These may be made either for lamb’s or calf’s-head by the