464 CHAP. II.'—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. ing the water. Simmer with a bit of lemon-peel till the berries look transparent. When nearly done, add aromatic spices, i. e. nutmeg, mace, and cloves, to taste, with wine and sugar. Give the whole a boil up before dishing it. Obs.—Sago and patent cocoa, pounded in equal quantities, and a spoonful boiled in milk, make a nu- tritious breakfast, with sugar to taste. Arrow-Root Jelly.—This may be prepared with either water, milk, or white wine and water, accord- ing to the purpose for which it is wanted; and sweet- ened or seasoned to taste. Rub about two tea-spoon- fuls of the flour well with a little cold water, as in making starch. Stir it the whole time it is on the fire. Five minutes will dress it. Obs.—This jelly, made in a shape and turned out, makes a light and pretty supper-dish, garnished with bits of red-currant jelly, or may serve for luncheon to young persons and children. Gloucester Jelly for Invalids.—This is made of equal parts of rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn-shavings, and eringo-root; four ounces of the ingredients to nearly two quarts of water. Simmer slowly for an hour, and strain it. The jelly may be dissolved at pleasure in milk, wine, soup, &c., and is reckoned nourishing and light. Obs,—This is sometimes called Dr Jebb’s Restora- tive Jelly. It makes a good breakfast for invalids, when warmed in milk and sugar. Dr Hunter’s Dinner for a delicate Person.—Cut a piece of veal into slices, beat, and put these into an earthenware can with plenty of stewed turnip. Cover the vessel, and let it stand up to the brim in boiling water. Add salt and pepper, and serve when done. This simple dish, says the learned Doctor, contains all the juices of the veal, with the addition of saccharine matter afforded by the turnip. The Romans were acquainted with this mode of cookery; it was what they meant by per duplex vas coquere. Barley-Water.—Wash common or pearl barley, and take in the proportion of an ounce to a quart of water. Give it a b6il for a few minutes in a very little water, and strain o(F this, and take fresh water, which will