CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 298 larded and broiled in a Dutch oven, and stew a little boiled rice in the gravy of the rumps. Dish the rice in a shallow dish, and lay the rumps on it, the points meeting at a centre; place a kidney between each of these, and garnish with cut pickles. Obs.—This dish is very good dressed plain in the Dutch oven, and either served on rice stewed in broth, or with stewed cucumbers. Besides the above me- thods of dressing mutton, a haunch may be cut and roasted as venison. A Jillet may be braised* by co- vering it with buttered paper or veal-caul, and then coarse paste, and roasting and glazing it,—serving it * Braising.—We are afraid that the young beginner in cookery may not find the account of the process of braising which is given in this chapter sufficiently circumstantial. This process, which is of French invention, is, by thorough-bred gourmands, esteemed the ne plus ultra of cookery. It is eminently suited to white meats, lean, or what was anciently called “ rascal venison,” turkey, and domestic fowls. It is not quite so well adapted to delicate stomachs ; nor is it relished by those whose unsophisticated palates can still distinguish and enjoy the native, decided flavour of meats. Braised turkey, or rather Dinde en daube, is now a very favourite dish, and, when old and dry in the flesh, braising is requisite for this bird, of which it has been somewhat irreverently sung— “ Turkey boiled is Turkey spoiled; And Turkey roast is Turkey lost; But for Turkey braised, the Lord be praised. ” Braising is comparatively an easy process, and the same rules apply either to meat or poultry. Clean, season, and stuff or lard, where necessary, the article to be dressed. Line a thick-bottomed stew-pan or baking-dish, just large enough to hold the meat, with slices of good bacon or fat beef, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip. Strew in a few chopped herbs, with salt, mace, and black and Ja- maica peppercorns, and a few bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, &c. &c. observing to vary and suit the saasonings to the'nature of the pre- paration. Lay the meat or poultry on this spicy bed, and cover it with a superstratum of the same ingredients. Over this place a sheet of cambric-paper ; wrap a cloth about the lid of the stew-pan, and press it closely down, setting a weight over it to keep it so, and to prevent the escape of the savoury steams which the meat or poul- try ought to imbibe till completely saturated. Set the stew-pan over embers, have embers above it, and let the process be very slow. Dishes which are braised are finished by glazing, thus:—Take out the meat and keep it hot; strain the gravy into a clean pan ; give it a quick uncovered boil for a few minutes, and brush the meat with the jelly once or oftener till it look well, allowing one coat to firm before another coat of the varnish is put on : or you may have a ,<7/0*0 ready prepared. French cooks glaze every dish. The English re- lish varnish as little on their meat as rouge on the cheeks of their countrywomen P. T.