350 CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. Sea Kale for the second Course.'—We do not know that this vegetable is naturalized in France even yet; but after boiling it in plenty of water with salt, French cooks in this country drain it, and serve with sauce blanche or veloute.* Artichoke-bottoms en Canapes.—Have the boiled ar- tichokes nicely trimmed, and the chokes removed. When cold, fill them with anchovy butter, and deco- rate them with pickled capers, gherkins, and beet- root carved, attending to the effect of contrasted co- lours. Artichokes a 1’Italienne.—Trim and quarter the ar- tichokes, and boil them in salt and water. Take out the chokes. Drain and arrange the quarters with the leaves outwards. Pour a white Italian sauce over them, and garnish with cresses. French Beans a la Poulelle.—When boiled, as else- where directed, very green, drain them. Reduce some sauce tournee. Thicken it with beat yolks of eggs, and pour this over the beans. Windsor Beans a la Poidetle.—Boil fresh young beans. Stew them, first taking off the coats, and sauce them a la poulette, i. e. with veloute. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peel boiled potatoes, and turn them the size of thick corks. Cut them in half-inch slices. Put them into a stew-pan with some skinned green onions and parsley, pepper, salt, and butter. Moisten with broth, and toss them till the parsley is cooked. Endive for the first or second Course.—Clean the en- dive by frequent washing, and plunge it, head down- most, in salt and water, to draw out those insects which often lodge in the leaves of vegetables. Blanch the heads, drain them, and when cold, chop them fine. Stew them in veal-gravy with salt. When tender, add a little Espagnole, and serve with poached eggs for the second course, or under fricandeaux, or with hash- ed mutton. Compote de Cerises, preserved Cherries.—To a half- * Sauce blanche, i. e. melted butter, is perhaps the most appro- priate sauce for all vegetables, but for the danger of its running to oil, which makes veloute or cream preferable in nice cookery.