CHAP. III.—OF CURING MEAT, &C. 480 manner, but their relish is not nearly so high. If the iat of geese be thus esteemed by our continental neigh- boin s, there is certainly in this department much waste in English kitchens. To press Beef.—Take the bones from the brisket or liank, or the thin part of the ribs. Salt and season it well with salt, sugar, and mixed spices, and let it lie a week; then boil till tender, and press the meat under a heavy weight till cold, when it will either eat in slices or do for sandwiches. 1 o collar Beef.—The top of the ribs and the flank are the pieces usually collared. Salt the meat, and keep it lying in salt for ten days; then take off the inside skin, take out the bones, and roll up the meat as tightly as possible, wrapping it in strong cloth, and binding the whole with strong broad tape. Boil it for six hours, and press it till cold, when the bandages may be removed. Obs.—Many cooks strew shred herbs over the meat before binding it, such as lemon-thyme, marjoram, &c. We would recommend merely a little pepper and shred parsley, if any thing is used. The breast of veal and mutton, pork or lamb, are sometimes col- lared,—seasoning veal and mutton with lemon-peel, &c. These young meats, when collared, should be baked. They all look well sliced. A Porker’s and a Calf’s Head are also sometimes collared. A porker’s head must be previously salted ; for a calf’s head the same seasonings are used as when the head is hashed.—See page 292. To salt a Mart, or whole Bullock.—The following approved receipt has been communicated to us for salting meat for family-use, in those families in the country where a winter-store, or mart, is still annual- ly cured:—For an ordinary-sized cow, take as much spring-water as you think will cover the pieces of meat, and with Liverpool salt or bay-salt make of this water a pickle so strong as to float a potato. Stir till the ingredients are dissolved; and afterwards boil the pickle till all the scum is thrown off. When quite cold, pour it over the meat in the salting-tub or beef-stand. Obs.—The meat, and all meat or vegetables salted, must be wholly and constantly covered with the pickle,