CHAP. VI.—PISH. 192 or veal gravy broth highly seasoned with pepper, cay- enne, and catsup, and thickened with butter rolled in flour. Stew the fish in this with the meat of a lob- ster, and a few oysters in their juice. Season with es- sence of anchovy, and a little wine if you like. TO CURRIE HADDOCKS, CODLINGS, OR WHITINGS. Have a quart of good beef or veal stock, in which a carrot or turnip and two onions have been boiled. Thicken it with butter kneaded in‘lightly-browned flour. Having cleaned, skinned, and boned the fish, cut them in neat bits of about three inches in length. Rub them with flour, and fry them of a fine golden- brown in good butter. Drain them, and mix very smoothly with a little of the stock from a dessert- spoonful to a table-spoonful of currie-powder, two onions beaten in a mortar, and a large quarter-pint of good thick cream, if a little sour so much the better. Stew the fish very slowly in the stock till they are tender, which will not take long. Place the pieces neatly in the dish, the largest in the centre, and hav- ing skimmed the currie-sauce, pour it over them. Obs.—This has become a favourite way of dressing fish, though it finds no place in any book of cookery. It is cheap, convenient, and even elegant. Instead, however, of using currie-powder as obtained in shops, we would advise every cook to keep the several ingre- dients, each good of its kind, in well-stopped vials, and to mix them when they are wanted, suiting the quantities of the various ingredients to the nature of the dish. Fish, for example, requires more acid than fowl. Some people like a great deal of cayenne, others detest the taste and smell of turmeric, and some are all for ginger. To use currie-powder mixed in the same proportions for every sort of viand and of taste may do very well for those who entertain a mysterious ve- neration for the oriental characters inscribed on the packages, but will not suit a gourmand of any know- ledge or experience. Prawns, oysters, or muscles, may be added to the currie.