CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 231 a brisk fire till it becomes brown. Skim it, dredge in lightly-browned flour, and stir it briskly round with'an iron spoon, till it boils and is smooth. A little vinegar or lemon-juice, with cayenne, &c., makes this a good plain fish-sauce. TO MELT BUTTER WITH CREAM. Let a half-pound of butter well broken melt in a glass- ful of sweet cream. This is used for lobster or oyster sauces, for turbot, turkey, &c. when the sauce is to be presented in the very highest style of cookery. ROUX,* BROWN AND WHITE, TO THICKEN SAUCES, &C. White Roux.—Melt some good butter slowly, and stir into it, over embers, the best sifted flour, till it is as thick as a thin but firm paste. Stir it over the slow fire for a quarter of an hour, but do not let it get brown. Brown Roux.—Melt what quantity of butter you like, very slowly. Stir into this browned jlour, till of a proper consistence. Small cooking will make the Roux if the flour is browned previously ; and this will prevent the danger of the empyreumatic flavour, which, by the common methods, and even this French method, is inseparable from browning made of but- ter.f Pour the Roux into an earthen dish, and keep it for use. It will keep a long while, but we conceive the method of having the flour browned better, as it will keep for ever. * This thickening, or route, as the French term it, comes in place of our extempore butter kneaded in dour, and of our hastily-made browning—“ a wretched resource,” of which the mere name drives a French cook in England au desespoir. Jesting apart, the pre- pared roux is certainly superior to our insular, off-hand, kneaded flour, which often communicates a musty flavour, at any rate a taste of flour to the sauce thickened. We gladly and gratefully adopt the French Roux.—P. T. •+■ We find no account of this simple and useful preparation in the many volumes of cookery which we have perused, though it highly merits the attention of the cook. Where browning or brown thickening is required for any dish, browned flour may be employed with much advantage. It is easily prepared by laying a quantity of flour on a plate, and placing it in an oven, or before the fire, till it takes the shade desired ; for it may be of any tint, from that of cinnamon to the deepness of coffee. Turn it occasionally, that it may colour equally.