119 CHAP. III.—BROILING. BEEF-STEAKS WITH POTATOES. An excellent French Dish. Flatten and season with salt and mixed spices, neatly cut rump-steaks. Dip them in melted butter to keep in their native gravy whilst broiling. Have ready a very little finely-shred parsley, with butter, pepper and salt, in a hot dish. When the steaks are broiled, as directed in the last receipt, lay them on this, and quickly turn them over once or twice, and ar- range very hot fried potatoes around them. TO BROIL MUTTON AND LAMB CHOPS, &C. Mutton and Lamb Chops, Rabbit cut in quarters. Sweetbreads, and Kidneys, may all be broiled in the same way; but particular care must be taken that the fat which drops from mutton does not smoke the chops,—to prevent which turn them frequently, and remove or hold the gridiron aslant while the smoke rises. Kidneys must be stretched on a skewer to prevent their curling with the heat. Each of these things may be higher .dressed by dipping them in egg, and then in a mixture of bread-crumbs and sa- voury herbs, which may be strewed over them as they broil. Sauces for Mutton-chops the same as for beef-steaks. For Lamb, the Catsup is better omitted, and Cucumber Sauce, or Sauce Robert, substituted. Sweetbreads and Kidneys are better fried than broiled. sharpened by exercise, rose between him and the well-replenished board that now courted his advances ; and the Doctor moralized on the vanity and nothingness of all sublunary pleasures, while he handed round the mock-turtle, soup. “ No beef-steak, after all, equal to that of my friends the Abyssinians,” said Touchwood. Tlie Doctor anathematized the savage and bloody process,—“ Nor any receipt to that of Macbeth,” said Winterblossom—“ not he of the hotel, but of Shakspeare, Doctor and he spouted “ If it were done, when ’tis done, Then ’twere well that it were done quickly.” “ Stolen from the New Monthly,” said Jekyi.i., only half-askle : and the Doctor, more than ever convinced that little assistance for the great work could be obtained either from the young man or the flighty old beau, gave himself in seriousness to the serious business of dining. o ■j