CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 280 proportion of beef, or, which we consider the best way of dressing it, is prepared as a cheap stew'-soup thus:— Clean and cut the heart in large pieces lengthways. Put these into a stew-pot of cold water with salt, and carefully skim away the blood, which will be thrown up in large quantities. Take up the parboiled pieces, and carve them into mouthfuls; return them into the strained liquor with plenty of shred onion, a shred head or two of celery, pepper, and allspice, and a dozen peeled potatoes. This is a highly nourishing, ■well-flavoured, and economical stew-soup, as the half of a good fat bullock’s heart will be sufficient to make it.—For Roast Beef, see page 93; for Steaks, Co/lops, $c. pages 116, 119,125,- Tripe, page 129. Beef-Skirts.—These make a nice small dish dressed as palates. The French braise and farce them with mushrooms or oysters : they may be served with a ra- gout of cucumber, or over spinage or fried toasts. Beef-Liver may be used, when sound, and is con- stantly used on the continent either in a stew-soup with carrot and onion, or slowly cooked in butter as calf’s-liver, or as directed for lamb’s-liver in the Scotch mode, page 128. MADE-DISHES OF BEEF THAT HAS BEEN DRESSED. Few persons come to the years of eating-discretion like cold meat, and though the days are quite gone when the hospitality of the landlord was measured by the size of the joint, it still happens that where a table affords any variety of dishes, much meat will be left cold. The invention of the culinary artist is thus ut on the rack for new forms and modes of dressing, and new names for various dishes which are intrinsi- cally one. The most common and the best methods of dressing cold beef are broiling, heating in the Dutch oven, or hashing. To dress the Inside of a cold Sirloin.—Cut the meat in long and rather narrow slices of an inch thick, leaving a little of the firm fat upon each. Season them with salt and mixed spices, dredge them with flour, and heat them, without any thing like violent frying, in the gravy saved from the cold joint: sea-