305 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. them, and put them into a jugging-can which will just hold them, with a slice or two of good bacon or beef, a faggot of herbs, a few onions, with a half-do- zen cloves stuck in them, a couple of bay-leaves, the rind of a lemon, and a little water. Cover the jug- ging-can closely, so that the steams may not escape. Set it in a kettle of boiling water, or a slow oven, for three hours. When done, skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy; thicken it; add seasonings if neces- sary, and dishing the pieces of hare neatly, pour the hot sauce over them; or, if they have become cold, heat them up in it. Obs.—Red wine, instead of water, and the juice of a lemon, may be added to the jugged hare, which will then make a highly-flavoured ragout. Serve venison- sauce; but the natural sauce is the best that can ac- company this dish. To broil a roasted Hare for Supper or Luncheon. —Cut off the legs and shoulders, and flatten and sea- son them ; broil them on a quick clear fire; froth with cold butter, and serve them hot with venison-sauce. Obs.—Hare may also be dressed as directed for goose. To hash Hare.—Cut down the hare into thin bits, and warm these in a gravy made of the head, bones, &c. Season with mixed spices, an onion, and herbs, and a little wine. Pick out the onion and herbs, and serve the hash on toasted sippets. Hare-Cakes.—Mince the best parts of the hare with a little firm mutton-suet. Season the mince highly. Pound it in a mortar, and making it up with raw eggs as small cakes or sausage roll, flour and fry them, or do them in a Dutch oven. See Gateau de Lievre. To smother Rabbits.'—Truss them and boil them ; smother them with white onion-sauce, melting the butter with milk that it may look very white. Obs.—In Scotland rabbits wont to be smothered in an onion-sauce made with strong clear gravy instead of melted butter, and though the dish looked less in- viting, it was at least equally good. Rabbits cannot be too slowly boiled. Bring them very slowly to boil, and finish by the side of the fire. Those who dislike onion-sauce for this food may use. a part of apples, turnips, or bread. Celery, artichoke-bottoms, young