CHAP. X.—MADE-DISHES. 294 bacon, back into the stock-pot. Fry some minced shalot in plenty of butter browned with flour. Put the cut meat to this browning, and give it a toss for a few minutes, then strain a sufficient quantity of the stock over it, to make the dish not much thicker than a stew-soup. Season with mace, pepper, salt, and a half-pint of Madeira. When the meat has stew- ed very slowly, rather soaking in the gravy than ac- tually boiling, and is nearly ready, put to it cayenne to taste, a small glass of catsup, a very little soy, and a couple of spoonfuls of chopped basil, tarragon, chives, and parsley. When skimmed to be dished, add the juice of a lemon. Serve in a large but not deep soup-dish, ornamented with a cut paste-border, and garnish with forcemeat-balls and egg-balls, with a few green pickles intermixed. Obs.—This highly-flavoured dish may be enriched by parboiled sweetbreads cut, oysters, turtle-balls, &c.; or, if the head be lean or small, good cow-heel cut down will make an excellent addition to it, but will require more boiling, and must be put into the stock-pot an hour before the head. For Potted Head see National Dishes. To dress Calves’-Feet.—Clean and blanch them. Boil them well; divide and serve them with sauce Robert, or sauce a la tartar, in the dish, or they may be served as a fricassee like calf’s-head, thickening the sauce, and seasoning with lemon-peel and mace. MADE-DISHES OF COLD VEAL. To ragout cold Veal.—Cut the cold meat into small cutlets, trimming off all gristles, skins, bones, &c. With the fragments, an onion, a turnip, and carrot, make a little good gravy. Melt some fresh butter in a frying-pan, and flour and brown the veal of a light brown ; take it up, strain the made-gravy into the pan, and thicken the sauce to a proper con- sistence with flour first mixed with water. When smooth and well mixed, put in the cutlets, and let them simmer very slowly. Season with pepper, mace, catsup, and anchovy, or mushroom-powder, if you choose, bearing in mind that meat re-dressed having lost much of its native flavour, requires more season-