CHAP. XV. FRYING. 123 substances, pure “ British oil,” is the most delicate substance in which meat can be fried, as it communi- cates no predominating taste. Oil, lard, or, what an- swers equally well, clarified fresh suet or dripping, (the “ kitchen-fee” of the Cleikum,) are better adapted than butter for fish, eggs, potatoes, or any thing watery. Fritters and sweet things must have either good butter or good lard or oil. The fat must be in plenty in the frying-pan. The fire must not be too fierce, nor yet too slack, as fat is susceptible of that intense degree of heat which will scorch whatever is placed in it before the substance to be fried could be heated through ; and, on the other hand, if not hot enough, the fry will be merely sodden in fat, broiled and not fried. If fish, they would be limber, apt to break, of a bad colour, and have no crispness. Fish are far more difficult to fry than meat, from the soft- ness of the fibre. They consequently require a great- er degree of attention. Have an oval-shaped frying- pan for fish, as this form requires much less of the frying material than a round one. When butter for frying is clarified, it is not nearly so apt to burn, which effect is commonly produced by the water or milk it contains. Ascertain the degree of heat of the fat, by throwing a bit of bread into it, as you try the heat of an oven by a bit of wet paste placed in it. Fat that has fried veal-cutlets, lamb-steaks, &c. may be used afterwards, if allowed to settle, and poured clean from the sediment; but what is used for fish would spoil any sort of meat. Fat becomes richer from having meat fried in it, and if carefully taken up, may be used repeatedly.* TO CLARIFY BUTTER FOR POTTING OR FRYING, AND SUET AND DRIPPING FOR FRYING. Cut the butter in slices; put it into a jar, which set in a pan of boiling water ; let it melt and heat. Skim it, take it out, and when it has cooled a little, pour it * A test of the proper degree of heat for frying fish Dip the tail into boiling dripping, or whatever material is used, and if it be crisp at once, the material is ready.