CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 308 and pour over it any white or green vegetable ragout that you may have left over. Parmesan grated is used to heighten the gout of this dish. To braise a Goose.—Every thing to be braised is trussed as for boiling. Put slices of bacon over the goose, and line the stew-pan with the same. Put in the goose with the giblets and seasonings. Moisten with stock. Braise as elsewhere directed, and serve it above either apple or onion sauce, or onion sauce mol- lified with white turnip. N. B.—A hare may be cooked thus. Obs.—Wine is used in braising both goose and Turkey, but we do not approve of it. To fricassee Chickens white.—Cut up each chicken into eight parts, as in carving them at table. Wash, dry, flatten, and season them with mixed spices, using only white pepper. Take a pint of clear veal or mut- ton gravy, or other good clear stock, and put to it a roll of lemon-peel, two onions, three blades of mace, and a few sweet herbs. Stew the chicken in this very slowly for a half-hour, keeping the stewr-pan co- vered. Strain the sauce, and thicken it with butter rolled in floiu’, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg. When ready to be served, add a quarter-pint of good cream, and the yolk of one or two eggs well beat. Mix this very carefully lest it curdle, and be sure it does not boil. A glass of white wine and the squeeze of a lemon may be put to the fricassee. Obs.—Besides the above methods of dressing fowls and chickens, they may be stewed with pease and lettuce in good broth, seasoned with parsley, young onions, salt, and spices. If large fowls, they may be cut down the back. Young chickens may be trussed as for boiling, and stuffed. Put in the pease, and a cut lettuce a quarter of an hour after the chickens. Fill up the dish with the gravy, laying the pease and let- tuce over the chickens. (See in French Cookery Fricassee Nalurel, and a la Paysannc.) Davenport Fowls are stuffed with a forcemeat made of the hearts, liver, &c., an anchovy, yolk of hard- boiled eggs, onions, mixed spices, and a piece of but- ter or shred mutton-suet, or veal-kidney fat. Sew up the necks and vents, brown the fowls in a Dutch