4:*2 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. wide-mouthed bottles, with some fine sugar. Fill up with brandy, and cork and place the bottles in a hot- water bath or cool oven for some hours. Cherries en Chemise, a very pretty little Dish.—Take the largest ripe cherries you can get. Cut off the stalks with scissors, leaving about an inch to each cherry. Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and roll them in it one by one, and then roll them lightly in sifted sugar. Lay a sheet of paper on a sieve reversed, and set them in a stove till they are to be served. Obs.—The same may be done with bunches of cur- rants, strawberries, hautboys, &c. Fruits en chemise look well and cost little. Cucumbers, a beautiful Preserve.—Lay the cucum- bers in a weak pickle of salt and water for two days, and then for the same length of time in fresh water, changing it twice. Green them as directed for pickles, and strew a bit of alum over them to assist the process. When alternately scalded and cooled till they look of a fine green, boil them for a few minutes in water with fresh leaves above and below them, and when cool, cutabit out of the flat side, and scrape out the seeds and pulp. Dry the fruit gently in a cloth, and put into the inside a seasoning of bruised cloves, sliced ginger, thin lemon-rind, mace, and a few white peppercorns. Tie in the bit cut out with a piece of narrow tape. To every pound of fruit clarify a pound of sugar, and when cold, pour it over them. Press them down with a plate on which a weight is placed, that they maybe covered ; and when they have soak- ed two days, boil up the syrup, adding one-half more of clarified sugar to it. Repeat the soaking and boil- ing up of the syrup three more times during a fort- night, and, last of all, add to it the juice and fine grate of two lemons for every six cucumbers, and boiling them in it for ten minutes, pot them up. They may' be preserved by a more simple process, by cutting them in quarters, but look best when done •whole and served in a glass dish. A little pine-apple rum put to the syrup gives the flavour ot West India sweet- meats. Melons are preserved in the above manner, and also whole Seville oranges, first carving the skins of the oranges with a sharp knife in form ot leaves.