132 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. nourishing and restorative. It is the food of child- hood and extreme old age, of tha declining and the debilitated, for whom the soup-pot performs half the offices of the digestive organs. With these invigorat- ingand salutiferous qualities, the mildest, the richest, and the most poignant relishes may be combined, by the judicious employment of the numerous ingredients which go to the composition of soujjs. The capital de- fect of soups is generally not so much the want of meat as of the time necessary to the due concoction of a rich fluid composed of so many ingredients. These defects it is vainly attempted to conceal, by the ex- cessive use of pepper and herbs. The following ele- mentary rules, from the French of the chemist Par- mentier, were assumed by the Club as practical di- rections to the cook. RULES FOR MAKING NOURISHING BROTH. I. Sound healthful viands. II. Vessels of earthenware in preference to those of metal, as a less degree of heat keeps them boiling ; and once heated, a few hot cinders will maintain that slight degree of ebullition which is wanted. III. Double the weight of water to that of the meat used. IV. A sufficient quantity of common salt to facili- tate the separation of the blood and slime that coagulates under the form of scum. family can consume, but I will give him a thousand other prepa- rations.” “ Besides the elegant variety of Mr George Rose’s salt-her- ring, and Corbett’s toujours fat—very fat—bacon,” said Je- kyll, who scented a long prosing harangue and w'ished to cut it. “ But let Mrs Dons proceed with her discourse.” “ My discourse ?” retorted Meg, “ I’m neither minister nor pre- centor, Captain Jaykill ; but I have een in my head.” “ Ay. and brains too,” replied Touch wo on. “ Weel a weel,” cried the Landlady, greatly mollified, “ be 'it sae; and let the English- ers stech till they burst for what Meg Dods cares. What’s in their wame is no in their testament.” But here the Doctor called the party to order, and resumed the real business of the day,—Gravy Soap.