490 CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. pen in spirit of turpentine, and touch the spot as soon after it is stained as possible. When dry, rub the place. To take Stains out of Silk.—Scrape French chalk over the spot, and repeat this till the grease comes out. To take out Iron-Moulds.—Hold the spot stretched wet over a jug of hot water, and rub it with salt of lemons, or juice of sorrel,and salt; then wash it im- mediately, lest the aciu injure the fabric of the cloth. To take out Stains of Wine, Fruit, Qc.—Wash well, rub with starch, and expose the linen to the sun till the stains come out. Exposing the spot, slightly wet- ted, to the fumes of burning sulphur for an instant, will remove these stains. A common match will an- swer the purpose. To remove Mildew.—Rub the spots with soap, and scrape some fine chalk over this. Rub it in, and ex- pose the cloth to the sun. Repeat this till the spots disappear. Clothes-Closets.—These small apartments should be lined with wood very closely fitted; furnished with shelves and wooden pegs, on which to suspend ladies’ dresses, and things which folds would injure. Tur- pentine, cedar-shavings, Russia leather, &c. should be strewed about them, and green linen curtains should be drawn closely round the shelves, on which pieces of charcoal may be laid. ' Fur,—to preserve.—Sew the articles closely up in linen of a close texture, with camphor or F sia leather about it. Air them occasionally before tiie fire. Ink-Spots.—Wash these immediately, first in cold water, then in soap and water. Use also lemon-juice or vinegar. Oil of vitriol will take ink from maho- gany. Rub it quickly out, and put a little oil on the spot. To clean Marble Slabs and Chimney-Pieces.—Mix verdigris and pumice-stone with new-slaked lime in soap-ley. Make a paste of this mixture, and rub one way with a woollen rag. Wash and repeat this till the* stain comes out. It is not, however, easy to take out these stains. ^ To chum papered Rooms.—Clear awa^y the dust with bellows and a long hair-brush; cut a stale loaf into