138 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. is the basis of many French sauces, and of clear gravy soups.* clear gravy soup, the basis of many Soups. Have eight pounds of a shin of beef chopped across in two places, and a knuckle of veal or a scrag and some shanks of mutton, with any fresh trimming the larder can furnish, and apiece of ham, if the ham fla- vour is admired. Heat and rub hard a nicely-tinned stew-pot; melt in it some butter, or rub it with mar- row. Let the meat, with a slice of carrot, a head of celery, onions, the white part of two leeks, and a turnip sliced, catch, but not burn, over a rather quick fire; then add four quarts or better of soft water. Carefully skim, as formerly directed. When it is once skimmed, throw in a pint of cold water to refresh it, and take off what more scum is detached till it become quite limpid. Let the stew-pot simmer slowly by the fire for four hours without stirring it any more from the bottom, till all the strength is obtained, but not so long as to cause the soup to become ropy. Let it settle on the hearth; skim off the fat, and strain gently what flows freely through a fine search. Obs.'—This clear soup, for it must be very clear, is served under many different names; as vermicelli, with this grain separately boiled and put to it; carrot-soup, with carrots cut in straws; turnip-soup, with turnips scooped ; celery-soup, asparagus-soup, green peas-soup, Sec. by adding the ingredient which gives the name. N. B.—All these additions must be separately cooked. * French cookery is imagined to be a very complicated affair. It is, in fact, more easily understood than our own, because its princi- ples are more fixed, and its language more scientific. The lleauvil- lerean, the Udean and Vitryean systems, are laid down as clearly as the Linnean. Modern French professors have a few grand sounding names which they bestow on elementary gravies and sauces, as Espagnole, grande Espagnole, Espagnole trava/lic, Italiennc blanche, Italienne rousse, &c.; and these, once defined and properly understood, remain ever the same. Our sauces, like our native melodies, arc so overlaid with everybody’s variations, that it is diffi- cult for the most correct ear, or the most discriminating palate to re- cognize them. And with all our culinary deficiencies, our cookery- books, give double the number of transmogrified and unintelligible receipts that are to be found in the best French systems ? Of their comparative value I do not judge.—H. J.