115 CHAPTER III. BROILING. I have no dainties for ye, gentlemen, Nor loads of meat to make the room smell of em ; Only a dish to every man I dedicate. Beaumont and Fletcher. Broiling is the most delicate manual office the com- mon cook has to perform, and that which requires the most unremitting vigilance. She may turn her back on the stew-pun or the spit, but the gridiron can never be left with impunity. A valuable and large portion of society is inter- ested in this culinary process. It is the simple mode of cookery best suited, and generally the most ac- ceptable, to the sickly fickle appetite of the invalid and valetudinarian. It is also recommended by com- fort and economy to solitary diners and small families, as by this means the least morsel of meat can be dressed hot as delicately as the largest quantity ; and few grown persons relish cold provisions if they could help themselves. The French are admired for their skill in blending flavours, heightening relishes, im- parting sapid qualities to what is dry or harsh, and giving piquancy to what is naturally insipid. But, as a nation, they are more entitled to praise for that graduated scale of cookery which descends to the very lowest class of society, and gives comfort and relish even to the meal of the Parisian tub-woman. Every French man and woman is something of a cook. Hence the proverb, “ as many Frenchmen as many cooks." This they owe chiefly to the scale of their uten- when tlie worthy proprietor asked him how many acres he could cover with one fine ham ; upon which he replied, “ he did not stand upon an acre or two, more or less, but could cover the whole of his gardens with one ham upon which he was instantly hired, and told he was the very fellow for this establishment, and to cut away lor the benefit of the concern and mankind at large. To grow a shoulder or leg of mutton This art is well known to the London bakers. Have a very small leg or shoulder ; change it upon a customer for one a little larger, and that upon another for one better still, till by the dinner hour you have a heavy excellent joint in lieu of your original small one.—.P. T.