CHAP. I.—-MADE-DISHES. 309 oven, then stew them in broth, and serve with mush- room-sauce, or melted butter and catsup. To stem Giblets.—Clean and cut them as directed for giblet-soup, p. 157- Season with mixed spices. Stew them in a little broth, and before serving thicken the sauce, and add a glass of good cream to it. To pull cold Turkey or Chickens.—Skin them, and pull the meat off the breast and wings in large long flakes. Brown these in a Dutch oven, basting with butter, or very quickly in a frying-pan, so as not to dry the meat. Drain from the butter, and simmer the pulled meat in good gravy, seasoned with mixed spices. Thicken the sauce. Meanwhile cut off the legs, sidesmen, and back. Season and broil these, and serving the pulled hash in the middle of the dish, place these over and around it. Garnish with fried sippets. Turkey may be warmed as above; but the leg should be scored, seasoned, and grilled, and the hash served around it. To stew Pigeons brown.—Season them, and truss them with the legs inward. Return the livers into them, with a bit of butter and chopped parsley. Lay them in a small stew-pan, with slices of bacon below them. Twenty minutes will cook them—serve well- seasoned brown gravy-sauce with them. To ragout Pigeons.—Clean and stuff them with a seasoning of mixed spices, salt, parsley shred very finely, a piece of fresh butter, and a few bread-crumbs. Tie them at neck and vent, half-roast them, and finish in the stew-pan in good gravy, to which -a glass oi white wine, a bit of lemon-peel, and a few nicepickleu mushrooms may be put. Thicken the sauce with but- ter rolled in flour. Dish the pigeons, and pour it over them. Garnish with asparagus laid between the birds. Obs.—Cream, or the beat yolk of an egg, may be put to this, and to any white ragout, taking care to prevent these ingredients from curdling. The pi- geons may be stuffed with a forcemeat of the livers, with bread-crumbs, minced parsley, butter, spices, and a little cayenne, and dressed as a brown ragout, by browning them in the frying-pan previous to stew- N 2