CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 336 with a little blanched parsley, nicely minced, and a squeeze of lemon. Calf’s Liver, with fine Herbs.—Cut a sound white liver into oblong slices an inch thick. Form these into the shape of hearts about two inches broad, dredge them with flour, and put them to fry with onions, mushrooms, parsley, pepper, and salt, previ- ously shred, and stewed in butter. Fry all this gent- ly till ready, and dust it with pepper. Keep the li- ver hot, put a little broth or gravy to the herbs to moisten them, and stew for a minute, and serve them over the liver which may be dished in order, arrang- ing the bits neatly. Obs.—This dish is served for the dejeuner dla four- chette, and must then be rather highly seasoned, and very hot. Blanquettes of Veal.—Cut a cold roast loin or shoul- der of veal into nice small cutlets, using only the white part. Trim away the browned outside fat, and mince the veal. Stir it till warm in veloute well reduced ; but do not let it boil. Thicken with the yolk of an egg or two, and add a squeeze of lemon when ready to serve. Blanquettes with Cucumbers.—Cut cold veal as above into scollops, and heat them in sauce tournee. Quarter and cut four or five cucumbers also into scollops. Cook them also in sauce tournee. Drain them ; reduce the strained sauce; thicken it with the beat yolks of two eggs. Put in a little cream, salt, and a bit of sugar. Serve the sauce over the meat and cucumbers. Blanquette d la Paysanne.—Prepare the veal as above in scollops. Heat the meat in a reduced sauce tournee. Thicken with egg, and season with minced parsley, and, just before serving, a good squeeze of lemon. To dress cold Sweetbreads.—Cut them into scollops or square bits. Stew them in strong gravy only to heat through. Fry scollops of bread, dish with these alternately, and garnish with fried parsley. Veal Cutlets a la Chingara*—Cut and trim cutlets from the fillet. Put them into the stew-pan with but- “ These were the favourite cutletsof the Nanon. Jf.kyll nre- ferred cutlets a Vltalienne, i. e. dipped in butter, nicely broiled, and served with a white Italian sauce.