CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 433 flowers, &c. or of a pine-apple; when steeped, the in- side must be scooped out, by cutting a large hole at the top for this purpose. The great art in preserving fruit is to avoid having the syrup too rich at first, which would infallibly shrivel them, particularly if they be boiled in it, or have it poured hot over them. To preserve Strawberries.—Sprinkle sifted fine su- gar, equal to half their own weight, over the finest fruit of the scarlet kind, not over ripe. When they have lain in this for a night, take as much sugar again ; or, in all, equal weight to the fruit, and with currant-juice make it into a thin syrup, and simmer the fruit in this till it will jelly. Serve in cream, or in a glass dish. To preserve carved Oranges whole.—Choose large well-shaped and well-coloured smooth oranges. Rub them hard with a towel, and with a sharp penknife, or a knife made for this purpose, carve the rind in deeply-indented leaves, groups of dancing nymphs, &c. (Sec. according to your fancy (to do this well the thing must be seen.) Boil them thus carved in plenty of spring water, and when quite soft take them up and drain them. Cut a piece out of the top with a sharp knife, and with a mustard-ladle scoop out all the pulp and seeds and fibres. Boil them Jilted and floated in clarified syrup for forty minutes. In four days repeat the boiling for twenty minutes, and do this four times. Last of all boil the syrup candy-high with more syrup, and keep them well covered with it. If the colour fall, boil them and add fresh syrup. Obs.—Several pretty dishes are made with preserv- ed oranges. They may be filled with rich custard, with calves’-feet jelly, or other jellies, or with a mix- ture of beat almonds, sugar, cream, and seasonings.— See Oranges in Sugar. TABLETS AND CONFECTIONARY DROPS. A few receipts in this department may be useful in most families, as these things are cordial and some- times even medicinal, and may be very cheaply and easily prepared at home. To make Cinnamon, Lemon, Ilorehound, or Ginger