CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 317 Sandwiches.—These are a convenient and economi- cal, but, at the same time, a rather suspicious order of culinary preparations, especially in hotels and public gardens;theyarethereforegettingintodisrepute. Sand- wiches may be made ofham or tongue, sliced, grated, or scraped: of German or common pork sausage, cold salted rump, anchovies, shrimps, sprats, potted cheese, or hard yolks of egg and Parmesan or Cheshire cheese pounded with butter: forcemeat, and potted meat ot various kinds, cold poultry, with whatever seasonings of mustard, currie-powder, &c. &c. are most suitable to the meat with which the sandwich is made. The only particular directions that can be given are, to have them fresh-made, and to cut the bread in neat even slices, of any shapes that are fancied, and not too large nor thick. A Cheese-Sandwich.—Take two-thirds grated Parme- san or Cheshire cheese, and one of butter, and a small proportion of made-mustard ; pound them in a mor- tar ; cover slices of bread with a little of this, and over it lay thin slices of ham, or any cured meat; cover with another slice of bread, press them toge- ther, and cut this into mouthfuls. Obs.—An anchovy may be pounded with the mix- ture. Anchovy-Toasts.—-Cut slices of bread as for sand- wiches, and fry them nicely in fresh butter. Spread them with anchovy-butter, or anchovies and butter freshly pounded, and lay some quartered anchovies above all.* Hub these together till they become smooth, and add a table-spoon- ful of catsup, a glass of Madeira, and die juice of two Seville oranges. Throw this sauce, along with the birds, into a silver stew- dish to be heated by a lamp. Cover it close, and keep gently sim- mering, occasionally stirring, until the flesh has imbibed the greater quantity of the liquid. When you have reason to suppose it is completely saturated, throw in a small quantity of salad-oil, and stirring it all once more well together, serve it round instantly.” The only remaining direction the writer of this admirable receipt gives is, that as in picking the bones your fingers must necessarily be impregnated with the flavour of the devil, you must be careful in licking them, not to swallow them entirely. These are Table Salmis. * Toasts—The old French Cookery possessed an endless variety of Toasts, some of which are still worthy of attention; as Friar's