134 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. a trough or large vessel of spring water.* When soup is to be warmed, take up the cake of fat which settles on the top, and hold back the lees and sediment. Strain before you set it away. Give all soup ample time in the making. Four to six hours is not too much ; but the finer flavouring ingredients for soups, gravies, or a made-dish, need not be added, but for the length of time necessary to blend the various zests into one harmonious relish, without exposing them to that degree of continued heat which drives off their subtle essence. This observation is peculiarly applic- able to catsups, aromatic spices, Avines, flavouring vinegars, lemon and orange juice, &c.; and a much smaller quantity of these costly ingredients would answer the purpose if this were attended to. In certain cases it is proper to put in the half of these ingredients at an early stage of the process, that the flavour may be intimately blended with the prepa- ration ; adding what remains to give pi qua nee near the conclusion. In all English books on cookery there is too much Avine ordered for soups, and sometimes too little meat. The former error is less dangerous, as what is levied from the cellar does not always find its way to the soup-pot. AU roots, bread-raspings, barley, and meal, for plain common soups, ought to be put in as soon as the pot is skimmed, Avhen the roots are merely intended to thicken and flavour the soup. When to be cut in pieces and served in the broth, an hour’s boiling is fully enough for carrot, turnip, onions, &c. Many things are used to thicken and give consistence to common soups and sauces. The best perhaps is fine toasted oatmeal, potato mucil- age, or bread not too stale. When the soup or gravy is too much boiled in, the Avaste must be supplied with boiling Avater or broth ; and though Ave strenuously re- commend, in general, close-covered pots, yet when the soup is watery and Aveak the lid may be taken off till the watery particles evaporate; for thickening gives consistence, but not strength. It facilitates the ope- ration, if meat for soup or gravy be cut into pieces of * Where there is no ice-house this is a good way to keep cream or milk sweet.