CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 409 set the cream ancl eggs on the fire to thicken, put isinglass to it, and fill the mould. WHIPT COFFEE-CREAM. Infuse two ounces of coffee, so as to have a break- fast-cupful of a strong tincture. Whip a quart of sweetened cream, and lay aside the froth as it rises, on a sieve reversed, to drain. Add the white of an egg if it will not rise well. Boil the remaining cream, and put it to the beat yolks of three or four eggs, or the clear coffee-tincture. Serve it in a glass dish and the whip over it. N. B.—Whips will be easier made if the cream, where convenient, is whisked over ice. Another Cofee-Cream.—Have a pint of clear jelly of calves’-feet, free of blacks and fat. Clear a large cupful of strong coffee with isinglass till bright and deeply brown. Mix it with the jelly ; add a pint of good cream and fine sugar to taste ; and after mixing well, boil up for a few minutes till you have a weak jelly. This is an easily-made and favourite cream. llatajia-Cream.—Mix a quarter-pint of ratafia or noyeau with the same quantity of mountain wine, sugar to taste and the juice of a lemon and of a Seville orange. Whisk this with a pint of good cream, add- ing more sugar if necessary, and fill the glasses. Ra- tafia-cream may also be made of the beat yolks of four or five eggs, with a quart of cream and two glasses of brandy scalded together, but not boiled over the fire. If moulded, add isinglass, and proceed as for other creams made in shapes. A plain Cream.—Boil a pint of milk and one of cream with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, fine sugar to sweeten, a dozen almonds, and three bitter ones, beaten to a paste, with orange-flower water. Thicken with a little rice-flour rubbed with milk, and give it a scald. When cold, put a little lemon-juice to the cream, and fill the glasses or cups. A little nutmeg or cinnamon may be strewed over this and other creams. Orange-Cream, an elegant Cream.—Wipe with a wet towel, and grate off the thick coarse parts of a .Seville orange-rind; then pare and boil the skin till