297 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. from the loin, or cutlets from the gigot. Fry some chopped shalot and mushrooms in butter, and in this brown the cutlets. Season them with cook’s-pepper, and strew them with crumbs and chopped parsley, and twisting them in buttered papers, finish them on the gridiron. Serve with cucumbers, or any sauce that is liked. Mutton-Steaks.—Cut down the back-ribs, a rib in each steak, and chop the bone short. If very fat trim away some of the suet, and it will answer very well for pie-crust, puddings, &c. Broil them as beef-steaks, and serve hot and hot. Put salt and a bit of fresh butter in the dish, or serve with sauce Robert. Mutton-Collops and Cucumbers.—Pare and slice the cucumbers. Sprinkle them with fine salt and pepper, and pour vinegar over them. Brown the collops in a frying-pan, and then stew them with the drained cu- cumbers in a little broth. Skim and season the stew, and serve it hot in a ragout-dish. Obs.—Lamb chops are excellent dressed as above, but they must not be over fat. Some cooks add slices of onion to the above stew, and the practice is com- mendable. To roll a Loin of Mutton.—Keep the meat till quite tender and just beginning to turn. Bone it, and sea- son it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, mace, nutmeg, and cloves, (all in powder,) and salt. Let it lie a day in this seasoning. Flatten it with a rolling- pin, and cover it with forcemeat as for hare. Roll it up, and bind with fillets of linen. Half-roast or bake it in a slow oven. Skim off all the fat when cold, and finish the dressing of the loin by stewing it in the gravy drawn from itself, first dredging it ■well with flour and more spices. Put to the sauce, ten minutes before dishing the meat, a glass of red wine, catsup, an anchovy, and a large spoonful of lemon-pickle. To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Parboil six rumps, which are the number necessary for a dish, in mutton-broth. Let them cool, and take off the cake of fat from the gravy. Brush the rumps with egg, dip them in crumbs and chopped parsley, and a little lemon-thyme, and brown them. Have six kidneys