CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 437 monels chopped, sugar, and a pound and a quarter of dried and sifted flour. Bake in a pan for an hour, in a rather quick oven ; or two small cakes may be made of the same ingredients. Ohs.—This maybe made a 'plain plum-calce, by put- ting to it a half-pound of currants, a few raisins, and a half-pound of candied lemon and orange peel, with nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. This may also be converted into a fine seed-cake, by adding caraway and coriander seeds to the plain cake. A very rich Plum-Cake.—Take equal weight ot currants and flour •—about a pound of each will make a cake of good size; a pound and a half will make a large one. Beat twelve ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Beat also sixteen eggs to a cream with a whisk in a tin pan, and set them over the fire with a pound of sifted sugar, whisking all the time. When warm take them off, and continue to beat till they are cold, when the butter must be well mixed with them; and then the currants, which should be previously picked, dried in a cloth, and rubbed in flour. Put to this a half-pound of candied citron, lemon and orange peel cut in long bits, a half-ounce of bitter almonds beat to a paste with a little sugar, two ounces of sweet al- monds blanched and cut the long way, half an ounce of pounded cinnamon and mace, and a little curaejoa, or any highly-flavoured liqueur, or plain brandy. Pa- per a hoop, and pour in the cake. A plain Plum-Cake.—Use as much flour, butter, and sugar, as are ordered in the above receipt, but take only half the quantity of fruit, candied peel, and eggs. Season with cloves and nutmeg. Melt the butter in a half-pint of hot cream. Mix with the beat eggs three spoonfuls of good yeast. Put the whole toge- ther ; and if the stuff be too thick, add a little sweet wine to it, or more cream. Pour it into a buttered pan, and let it rise before the fire before it is put into the oven, which should be strongly heated. Rice-Cake.—Mix half a pound of sifted rice-flour with a half-pound of loaf-sugar sifted, and put this to six eggs well whisked and strained. Season with a little ratafia and orange-flower water, and a drop or two of essence of lemon, or some finely-grated rind of