38 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. deal small and serve all” must be the carver’s maxim. Venison fat,—the Pope’s eye in a leg of mutton,— veal and lamb kidney,—the firm gelatinous parts of a cod’s head,—the thin part of salmon,—the thick of turbot, and other flat fish, are reckoned the prime bits;—the ribs and neck of a pig,—the breast and wings of fowls,—the legs of hare and rabbit,—the breast and thighs of turkey and goose, cutting off the drumsticks,—the wings and breast of pheasants, partridges, and moor-game, and the legs and breast of duck, are also reckoned delicacies. There are, besides, favourite bits highly prized by some gour- mands, though it is sometimes not easy to discover in what their superior excellence consists; as dr}' shank of mutton,—turbot fins,—cod’s tongue,—the bitter back of moor-game,—the back of hare,—the head of carp; and in stew-soups, meat, and forcemeat balls. A knowledge of these things will be of use to the carver as a guide in that equitable distribution of good things, which is the most pleasing part of his duty. It is well known, that a person of any refinement will eat much more when his food is served in hand- some slices, and not too much at once, than when a pound clumsily cut is laid upon his plate. To cut warm joints fairly and smoothly, neither in slices too thick, nor in such as are finically thin, is all that is re- quired of the carver of meat, whether boiled or roast- ed. For this purpose he must be provided with a knife having a good edge; and it will greatly facili- tate his operations if the cook has previously taken care that the bones in all carcass-joints are properly- divided. It is impossible for the most dexterous carver to proceed with ease or comfort if this be ne- glected. In carving game or poultry for a large party, where many look for a share of the same deli- cacy, what is called " making wings” must be avoid- ed, the first helpings cut the long way, and not made too large. Turbot.—The thick part is the best. The Jins are fancied. Make an incision in the thickest part down to the bone, and take out slices with a fish-knife, helping part of the fins with each slice along with the appropriate sauce.