415 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. juice and fine grate of a lemon, and a few bits of cin- namon. Take oft' the froth as it rises, with a sugar- skimmer or silver fish-trowel, and place it to drain over a bowl on a sieve reversed. Whisk till you have enough of the whip, allowing for what it will fall down. Next day place in a deep trifle-dish, six sponge- cakes broken, or rice trifle-cake, or remnants of any good light cake, cut down ; a dozen ratafia-drop- biscuits, and some sweet almonds blanched and split. Pour over them enough of white wine, or ginger wine, to moisten them completely, and add a season- ing of grated lemon-peel, and a thin layer of rasp- berry or strawberry jam. Have ready a rich and rather thick custard, (see Custards,) and pour it over this to the thickness of two inches. Heap the whip above this lightly and elegantly, and garnish with a few sprigs of light flowers of fine colours, or a few bits of very clear currant-jelly stuck into the snow- white whip, or a sprinkling of harlequin-comfits. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle.—Scald, pulp, sweeten, and season the fruit, if apples, with cinnamon or le- mon grate ; mix it over the fire with a thin custard; put it into the trifle-dish, and when cold, cover it with a whip made the day before, as no whip will be solid unless it has stood a good while. CUSTARDS. Custard for a Centre Dish.—Make a strong whip of sweetened cream, and have a little of the same cream tinged with cochineal before it is whipt. Heap the white over a rich custard, and drop the pink-coloured froth fancifully round that. Garnish with bright green preserved fruit in slices to contrast the colours. Almond-Custard.—Blanch and pound nearly a half- pound of sweet and a half-ounce of bitter almonds, using a little rose-water to prevent them from oiling. Sweeten a pint or rather more of boiling sweet milk and another of cream, and mix these gradually with the yolks of six eggs, stirring them well as they cool. Rub the almond-paste through a sieve to this, and set it over the fire to thicken, carefully stirring it. Pour it into a jug, and stir till it cools. Instead of boiling, this may be baked in cups, or in a dish with an ele- gantly-cut paste-border. Flour of rice may be used