514 FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. JEKYt. 1/0, lie struggles with him—tears in his eyes—as ever did St An. thony !—Now, Doctor !—now, Devil!—that silver fork the tongs that But who has put rancours in the vessel of our peace ?_» Why looks our gracious hostess so terribly askew as she leans be- hind the Nabob’s chair ?—Ha !—the gentlemen of the press ! I see where her eye fixes ;■—nay, that way madness lies ! MEG DODS. So, Nawbob, this Maister Weighbauks is ane o’ the Englishers found fault wi’ the haggis, is’t ?—and pretended to gcomfish at sheep’s-head?—Setup their dainty gabs, to skunner at what Sir Walter, himsel, worthy auld Me Christopher North a saunt on earth,—and mony mair bom gentlemenlick their lips after ! —Ye needna wink and nod to me, Nawbob.—I’ll speak my mind to die Southron on my ain floor-head—and what for no ? touchwood, rising. Our worthy hostess REVIEWER. Nay, Sir, no apology is needed, save on the other side In the days of our ignorance, Madam, we do plead guilty to having talked somewhat irreverently of those distant orbs—which, once known, must ever remain the objects of our fondest idolatry. MEG DODS. Weel, Sir, I’se no dispute your ignorance.—It’s very like ye may ha’e eneuch o’ that amang ye. REDGILL. Sir, I can well understand and sympathize with your present feel- ings ; for even I myself, in the superfluity of early prejudice, had nearly treated widi neglect, if not absolute opprobrium, a composi- tion not materially differing, when properly concocted, from the best forcemeats of France, save indeed in the at-first-sight unseemly ve- hicle in which it is served. Yet even that has its uses :—it fricassees. In the course of our experiments, Sir, our travelled friend, to whom the best interests of the culinary art are so much indebted, has half con- vinced me, that the admirable lamb’s haggis of our worthy hostess, is neither more nor less dian the amourettes of the brightest period of French cookery—namely, the latter years of the reign of Louis XIV., when, under the auspices of the sage and matured Maixtexox, the art attained its utmost perfection.—The calf’s haggis, 365, commu- nicated by a highly-esteemed correspondent, is worthy of Beau- villiers himself.—Sir, we must let Scotland alone!—I thank Heaven that I have surmounted many early gastronomical preju- dices: and that I can find merit occasionally even in the curries