364 CHAP. III. SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. the ingredients mentioned in pages 190, 191, or with the fleshy parts of a lobster, or good crab, minc- ed, a boned anchovy, the chopped yolk of an egg, grated bread or pounded biscuit, white pepper, salt, cayenne, a large piece of butter broken down into bits, with beat eggs to bind, and a little oyster-liquor. A plainer and perhaps more suitable stuffing may be made of the roe of haddock or cod parboiled, skinned and minced, mixed with double its bulk of pounded rusks or bread-crumbs, a good piece of butter, shred parsley, and seasonings, with an egg to cement the forcemeat. sheep’s-head broth.* Choose a large fat head. When carefully singed by the blacksmith, soak it and the singed trotters for a considerable time in lukewarm water. Take out the * This national preparation was wont to be a favourite Sunday - dinner dish in many comfortable Scottish families. Where gentle- men “ killed their own mutton,” the head was reserved for the Sun- day’s broth ; and to good family customers and victuallers, a prime tup’s head was a common Saturday’s gift from the butchers with whom they dealt. By the way, nationally speaking, we ought to say fleshers, as our countrymen would, till very lately, have been mortally offended at the designation of “ butcher.” Sheep’s-head broth is reckoned medicinal in certain cases; and was frequently prescribed as an article of diet by the celebrated Dr Cullen. This dish has furnished whole pages to Joe Miller and his right witty contemporaries. In one of the most pleasing pieces of biogra- phy that ever was written,—“ The Life of Lady Grizel Bailie,”— there is an amusing “ Sheep’s-head anecdote,” which at once af- fords a glimpse of tne. simplicity of the national manners, and of the dexterity and good sense of the affectionate and very juvenile he- roine. Her father, Sir Patrick Home, proscribed after the Resto- ration, was hidden near his own mansion,—his lady and their daughter Grizel being alone privy to his place of concealment. It was the duty of this young girl, not only to carry food to her father during the night, but to abstract these supplies from the dinner- table, so that neither the servants nor younger children might be aware that there was an invisible gjuest to feed. Her inordinate ap- petite and stratagems to procure food became the source of many jokes at table ; and one day, when a sheep’s-head,—a favourite dish with Sir Patrick,—was produced, she haa conveyed nearly the whole into her lap, when her young brother, afterwards Earl of March- mont, looked up, and exclaimed,—“ Mother, mother, look at Grizel; while we have been taking our broth, she has eaten up the whole sheep’s-head!”—The consternation of young Home could not, however, exceed that of a learned gentleman, who at present fills a chair in the Edinburgh university, upon a somewhat similar occasion. Before filling his present honourable situation, Professor