CHAP. XV. PASTRY, PIF.S, &C. 391 butter. Put a spoonful of cream to the mince, and season with white pepper, salt, and mace. Veal and Ham Fatties.—Make and season them as for chicken and ham patties. Beef-Patties or Podovies.—Shred a tender under- done piece of lean beef with a very little ot the firm fat. Season with pepper, salt, onion, an anchovy boned and chopped, and a very little shalot or Chili vinegar. The podovies may either be made by put- ting the mince into hot paste like apple-pasty, and frying them, or be baked in patty-pans in a good plain crust made of dripping or lard. To prepare Meal for small Pies for Supper, hot Lun- cheons, or for Patties.—Take in the proportion of a pound of fillet of veal, a pound of beef, and a half- pound of suet. Mince the meat roughly, and the suet less than the meat. Season with salt, pepper, and all-spice. The meat thus prepared will keep some days if pressed into a pot. When to be baked in saucers, or as little raised pies or patties, add a little hashed parsley. Or bake the pies, and heat them when wanted. Sweet Patties.—Mince the boiled meat of a calf’s- foot, three apples, and a little candied orange and le- mon-peel ; add fresh lemon-grate, and the juice of a lemon, a little fine sugar, a small glass of sweet wine, a little nutmeg, the chopped yolk of two hard- boiled eggs, and, if wished, a little shred mutton- suet, or marrow. Bake the patties in puff-paste. Patties may be made like mince-pies, and seasoned in an endless variety of ways. They may be made as Turn-overs, and fried in plenty of lard or dripping. They are also a simple and favourite family-dish when baked as Turn-overs on tins. PUDDINGS. Any tolerable cook, however young in the art, may compound a good pudding by attending to the follow- ing simple rules and plain directions. Attention is all that is required, and a little manual dexterity in turn- ing the pudding out of the dish or cloth in which it has been dressed. Let the several ingredients be each fresh and good of its kind, as one bad article, particularly eggs, will taint and destroy the whole composition.