CHAP. VI.—FISH. 190 forcemeat made thus : Beat yolks of eggs, a few oys- ters bearded and chopped, and two boned anchovies, pounded biscuit, or bread grated, minced parsley, and a bit of shalot or an onion, mace pounded, black pep- per, allspice, and salt. Mix these in the proper pro- portions, and having beat a good piece of butter in a stew-pan, stir them over the fire till of the consistence of a good thick batter, adding more biscuit-powder or flour if necessary. Fill the fish and sew up the slit. Bake them in a moderate oven, basting with plenty of butter, and sticking butter all over them. Serve pike with anchovy-sauce, and carp with the following sauce:—Take up the fish on a hotplate; thicken the liquor in which it was baked with butter rolled in flour, boiling it for a few minutes with a faggot of parsley, a few leaves of basil, a sprig of lemon-thyme, and a very little marjoram. Strain and add to the sauce a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and one of Chili vinegar, a glass of red wine, and a little soy, with mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Pour a little of this over the carp, and serve the rest in a tureen. Garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon, or parsley and scraped horseradish. Obs.—A highly-relishing forcemeat for the above may be made of scraped ham or tongue, or bacon fried very thin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or filleting ; these laths are to be tied round about the pike’s body from his head to his tail, and the tape tied somewhat thick, to prevent his breaking or falling off from the spit. Let him be roasted very lei- surely, and often basted with claret wine and anchovies and butter mixed together and also with what moisture falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold un- der him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as you purpose to eat him out of, and let him fall into it with the sauce that is roasted in his belly, and by this means the pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then, to the sauce which was within, ana also that sauce in the pan, you arc to add a fit quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you may either put it into’ the pike, with die oysters, two cloves of garlick, and take it whole out when the pike is cut off the spit; or, to give the sauce a hogoo (liautgout), let the dish into which you let the pike fall be rubbed with it; die using or not using of this garlick is left to your discretion. “ This dish of meat is too good for any but anglers or very honest men ; and I trust you will prove both, and therefore 1 have trusted you with this secret.”