434 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. Tablet.—Take oil of cinnamon, fine sifted China gin- ger, essence or grate of lemon pounded in the propor- tion wanted for flavouring the article to be made. Two drops of oil of cinnamon, a half-ounce of ginger, and the grate of two lemons, is a medium quantity to a pound of sugar. Mix the flavouring ingredient very well with the boiling sugar, and pour it out when boiled candy height, on a marble slab or stone previ- ously rubbed with sweet oil. Mark the tablet in squares with a roller and knife. Drops may be made of the same materials, dropping them regularly on paper, and taking them off with a knife when firm. Any kind of sugar-drops may be made by using dif- ferent flavouring ingredients to moisten the sugar; as, for example, for coffee-drops, use a little strong clear tincture of the coffee-berry ; for clove-drops, essence of cloves, for pepper mini-drops, essence of peppermint. Fruit-Pastes.—Oranges, apples, cherries, pears, raspberries, &c. are all made into paste. Boil the pared fruit with clarified sugar to a thick marmalade. Season it, mould it into cakes. Dry these in a stove. The cakes must be small, and of any form or variety of forms ; they may be ornamented by having the impress of some of the Wedgewood-ware seals (groups from the antique) pressed upon them. Ratajia-Drops.—Blanch and beat, with an ounce of fine sugar and a little water, four ounces of bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds. Add to the paste a pound of sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a little noyeau. Beat the whole well, and when light, drop the batter from a biscuit-funnel on paper, of the size of pigeons’ eggs, and bake the drops on tins. To make Barley-Sugar.—Clarify, and boil sugar to the 4th degree, or crackling height, and when nearly boiled enough, add to it lemon-grate, a drop of citron- oil, or a little beat spermaceti, whichever sort of bar- ley-sugar is wanted. Rub a small slab with oil, and when the sugar is ready, dip the pan in cold water for two minutes, and then pour it out on the slab. Cut the sugar into slips, and while hot twist it if you choose. Care must be taken in boiling sugar to this height, that it does not burn, nor fly over; to prevent which, a small bit of butter may be thrown in to check