189 CHAP. VI. PISH. © TO DRESS RED HERRINGS AND BUFFED PICKLED HER- RINGS. Skin, open, and trim red herrings. If old and hard, pour some hot small beer over them, and let them steep a half-hour. Broil them over a clear fire at a considerable distance, or before the fire; ru^) them with good oil or fresh butter while broiling, and 1 ub on a little more when they are served. Serve them very hot with cold butter, or melted butter and mus- tard, and mashed potatoes or parsnips. Steep pickled herrings from one to two days and nights, changing the water if they be very salt. Hang them up on a stick pushed through the eyes, and broil them when wanted. These are called buffed herrings in Scotland, and are used at breakfast or supper. PICKLED HERRINGS A FRENCH WAY. Wash the herrings ; cut off the heads and tips of the tails ; skin them ; steep them in lukewarm milk and water, and dry and broil them; dish with slices of raw onions and rennets, and serve with oil. TO STUFF AND BAKE CARP, PIKE,* AND HADDOCKS. Having scaled and cleaned the fish without cutting open much of the breast, stuff them with a maigre • Receipt for Dressing a Pikeby Isaac Walton “ Firstopen your pike at the gills, and, if need be, cut also a little slit towards the belly. Out of these take his guts, and keep his liver, which you are to shred very small, with thyme, sweet marjoram, and a little winter-savory ; to these put some pickled oysters, and some ancho- vies, two or three, both these last whole, for the anchovies will melt, and tlie oysters should not; to these you must add also a pound of sweet butter, which you are to mix with the herbs that are shred, and let them all be well salted. If the pike be more than a yard long, then you may put into these herbs more than a pound, or if he be less, then less butter will suffice : these, being thus mixed, with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the pike’s belly ; and tlien his belly so sewed up as to keep all the butter in his belly if it be possible ; if not, then as much as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Then you are to thrust the spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four or five or six split sticks or h 2