430 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. Preserved Apples for present Use.—Clarify fine sugar, and boil nicely-pared and cored pippins in it, with a little lemon-juice. Serve in a glass or china dish, with the syrup about them, and garnish with bunches of preserved barberries, or sprigs of myrtle. Red Apples served in jelly are made nearly as above. Pare and core the most beautiful pippins you can get, but leave the stalks. Throw them into a pan of wa- ter to keep the colour good; boil them in a very lit- tle water, and turn them. Mix cochineal with the water. When done, dish them heads downmost, and put sugar to the red water, with the rind of a lemon, and boil it till it jellies. Strain it, and when cold scoop it up neatly with a tea-spoon, and lay it among the apples in heaps, like roughed calves’-feet jelly. Garnish with sprigs of myrtle, rings of lemon-rind, &c. Oranges in Sugar, a prettly little Dish.—Skin four or five oranges, carefully remove all the scurf and thready parts. Cut them in round slices, and dress them in a small glass dish in hot syrup. Garnish with sprigs of myrtle. To preserve Apricots.—Always choose the finest fruit for preserving. Stone and pare the apricots, keeping them as firm and entire as possible. Take above their own weight of pounded sugar, and strew it over them for a night, laying the slit upmost to keep in the juices of the fruit. Break the stones, and blanch what are good of the kernels. Simmer the whole gently till the fruit looks transparent. Skim carefully, and lift out the fruit into pots, pour the syrup and kernels over them, and cover when cold ; —or they may be preserved in apple-jelly ; or green- ed, by putting a bit of alum, about the size of a large nutmeg, into the water in which they are alternately scalded and cooled, till they take the desired colour. Peaches and green gages may be preserved as above. Ohs.—Sugar for preserved fruit must be boiled to the 2d or 3d degree. The fruit should be looked at for the first month, and, if needful, the syrup may be boiled up, allowed to cool, and again be put over them. If you put them into fresh syrup, and use the first for pies, apple-marmalade, &c. the fruit will be better preserved, and the loss nothing.