11 CULINARY TERMS. Maigre, preparations of all kinds if made without butcher meat, poultry, or game, and cooked with merely butter where lard or dripping might at other times be proper. Maigre Dishes, dishes used by Roman Catholics on the days when the Church forbids flesh-meats ; comprehending fish and vegetable pies and soups, puddings, fruit-pies, egg-dishes, omelets, fritters, macaroni, all preparations of fish, cheese-dishes, fish-sausages, and all creams, jellies, and confectionary, also dressed vegetables, pickles, and preserves. Marinade, a, a compound liquor of various kinds, but generally of wine or vinegar, with herbs and spices, in which fish or meats are steeped before they are dressed, 99. Marinade, to, to steep in a marinade, 171. Panade, a batter for mixing with forcemeats, once employed for basting, 348, Note, 94. Patties, corrupted from the French pates, the very small hot savoury pies served at dinner, hot luncheons, or suppers. Puree, a, a pulpy mash of onions, celery, turnips, mushrooms, &c. thinner than a mash, but thicker than a sauce, over which meats are served. Reduce, to, to boil down a soup or sauce till it become thick and strong. Roux, white and brown, the French term for thickening made of flour, 231. Sandwiches, a class of relishing, convenient preparations, named from the inventor, 317. Scallops, small dishes of various kinds, so called from being served either in real scallop shells, or little shapes resembling them. Sippets, little bits of bread cut in various shapes, and toasted or fried, to serve with meats as garnishings or borders, 130, 371. Skink, a thin broth ; also the leg or shin of beef from which such broth is generally made. Stock, broths of various qualities prepared before-hand, as the basis of soups and sauces. Tendrons, (sometimes tendons,) the French term for the gristles of veal or lamb. Vanner, to, the French term for working a sauce smooth, by rapid- ly lifting it up in spoonfuls and letting it fall as rapidly, for a length of time. Vol-au-vent, an elegant French mode of serving meats, particularly things dressed anew, as turbot, chickens, rabbits, p. 380 ; also a mode of serving second-course dishes.