CHAP. VII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 223 more acceptable than the principal. In the same si- tuations., a proportion of hot mashed potatoes is knead- ed up with flour or barley-meal, and, when served hot, makes very palatable breakfast-cakes. A cheap and delicious mess is furnished in summer to those heal- thy and happy children educated in what are called the Maiden Hospitals of Edinburgh. Good potatoes, boiled, peeled, and roughly broken, are boiled up with sweet milk, and a small proportion of butter. Calecannon, an Irish dish, is made by boiling and mashing greens, young cabbage, or spinage, and mix- ing them with mashed potatoes, butter, pepper, and salt, pressing it into a buttered shape to be turned out, or dishing it like mashed potatoes, &c. In this dish two-thirds should be potato. Plain Cale- cannon is made in cottages with infinitely less cere- mony, and it is quite as good. Boil the vegetables till nearly done; put the peeled raw potatoes to them; drain them from the water when done, and with pep- per, salt, a shred onion, and a good piece of butter or dripping, beat them up together. Potato-Mucilage, or Starch, is another usual form of this root for culinary purposes. It is often substi- tuted for arrow-root on common occasions, and is used by many cooks in preference to flour for thicken- ing butter, soups, and sauces. It makes pancakes, and is even prized by nice housewives for pastry, from the purity of colour which may be imparted to it by repeated blanching. Potato-Starch.—Grate down peeled and nicely- washed raw potatoes into a large dish filled with water. When the starch has subsided, pour the water gently off, and put on fresh water. When this is sufficiently blanched, take up the cake of starch, which will have formed at the bottom, and dry it for future use. OF SALADS. Salad herbs are cooling and refreshing. They cor- rect the putrescent tendency of animal food, and are thought antiscorbutic. Salads are at any rate a harm- less luxury where they agree with the stomach ; and