CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. 33f> it with trimmings of veal, and lay slices of white bacon over the noix where not larded. Put onions, carrots, parsley, &c. into the stew-pan, and a little Espagnole or roux. Serve with sorrel, spinage, or a puree of onions. A puree of onions, turnips, mushrooms, &c. is a thin pulpy mash or sauce of the vegetable specified. Grenadins de Veau, Veal Grenadins.—These are small slices from the fillet about an inch thick, flat- tened, and one piece being cut round, the others must be shaped as lozenges to lie round this centre. Lard them, stew them in a pan lined with bacon, and trim- mings of veal seasoned as above; put fire over the pan. Serve on a puree of mushrooms, or with sorrel, or endive, dishing the grenadins with their points to the centre where the round piece is laid. Calf’s Brains d la Ravigole.*—Skin the brains, and carefully remove all the fibres. Soak them in se- veral waters. Parboil in salt and water, with a glass of vinegar for ten minutes, and when firm, divide and fry them. Serve with ravigote sauce. Caf’s Brains d la Maitre d'Hotel, a neat Corner- Dish.—Boil the brains as above with a little butter in the water, but don’t fry them. Fry some bread cut like scollop-shells. Dish the brains divided with the bread between, and cover with a Maitre d’hotel sauce. Another pretty dish of brains may be made by serving very green fried parsley in the middle of the dish, and the brains around, saucing with browned butter, and a little vinegar. Ris de Veau aux Mousserons, Veal-Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms.—At all times choose sweetbreads large and white. Soak them and blanch in boiling wat^r till they firm. Cut them in nice pieces, and stew them in a little veloute with mushroom-sauce, t ready prepared. Boil down the sauce, and, when well re- duced, thicken with beat yolks of eggs, and season * We do riot conceive these dishes as of much importance ; but where there is a table to garnish every day, and a cook to labour, these trifling things may often be found useful. Where good dinners are constantly given, and sauces prepared at any rate, the expense is no- thing. + The French rub this sauce, celery, onion, &c. through a sieve so that they are all purees, i. e. smooth and of pulpy consistence. ’