CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 413 strained juice, and the strained infusion of the rind. Let it come to the point of boiling, but not boil. Skim it, and run it through a jelly-bag. If the oranges are too ripe, use a fourth part bitter oranges, or a couple of lemons, with their rind infused. Add clai-ified isin- glass. Try the jelly in a small mould, and fill the moulds. Obs.—The colour should be a pale topaz; a few blades of saffron will improve it. Lemon-Jelly.—Make this exactly as the above, but use more sugar, and take care that all the lemons are quite fresh. APPLE-JELLY. Pare as many juicy apples as you will want, and slice them into a little water. Boil them to a mash, drain them through a jelly-bag, and take equal weight of sugar,boiled to blowing height. Boil forten minutes, seasoning with the grate and juice two or more lemons. Peach-Jelly.—Peel, divide, and stone eighteen peaches. Break the stones, and take out the kernels. Boil the peaches and bruised kernels in clarified sy- rup for a quarter of an hour. Season it with the juice, and grate of four fresh lemons. Run it through a jelly-bag, add an ounce of clarified isinglass, and fill the mould, which must be plunged in ice. jellies of red fruits in Shapes. Make all these with isinglass purified, and do not boil them as jellies for preserves, as the colour will suf- i fer. One direction will do for all. Raspberry-Jelly for a Shape.—Put fresh-picked fruit into an earthenware mortar, with sifted sugar. Mix them well. Put in a little water, run this through a jelly-bag, and stir in what you think a sufficient quantity (about an ounce to the quart) of melted cold isinglass. Fill your mould. Ohs.—Strawberry, red currant, and cherry jelly, are all made as above—only for cherries put a little lemon-juice; and also for the other fruits if mawkish- ly sweet with ripeness. Hartshorn-Jelly.—Simmer a half-pound of the f shavings in two quarts of water till the half is wasted. Strain and boil up the jelly with the thin rind of three