CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 13l bottom of the scale ; and farther, that if soup be the foundation of a good dinner, it is equally true that beef is the only foundation of good soup. Whether brown or white, plain or rich, the basis must still be beef,—fresh-killed, juicy young beef, and soft pure water.* The essential qualities of soup are, that it be * “ We of Scotland,” said Winterbuossom, “ probably owe our superiority in this department to our long and close alliance with that nation which has ever been the most profoundly skilled in the mysteries of the soup-pot. That Scotland is indebted to France for even the slender proficiency she has attained in cookery, is abun- dantly evident from the culinary phraseology of the nation. Kitchen —cuisine—the word with us comprehends every kind of viand or pre- paration which may add to the relish of the coarse cake, and decoc- tion of oatmeal and coleworts, which formed the staple of the daily meal. A peasant’s butter, cheese, fish, meat, and so forth, all are ‘ kitchen.’ Then we have the hachi—the soup Lorraine, the veal Flory—or Florentine pie—our broche and turnbroche, and the culi- nary adage, ‘ hunger is gude kitchen.' “ If you go on at this rate, you will soon reduce your nation to their original brose and haggis,” said Jekyll, “ i'oryou recollect their skill in cabbage and coleworts is attributed to Cromwell’s soldiers.”—“ Little or muckle,” put in Mrs Dods, a true-bred border Scot, who would not yield an inch of the kitchen floor to France or England, “ wemak’ as gude use o’ what little skill is accorded to us, it’s like. I have heard them say that should know, and that’s the Nawbob himsel there, that there is thousands upon thousands o’ hooses in Lunon whar they ne’er saw a broth-trencher, let a be a pot o’ fat kale :—cauld, com- fortless, wasterfu’, gude-for-naething gangings on for man, wife, and wean. Their roast joint,—set them up?—scouthered to a cinder in a baxter’s o’en,—a hunger and a burst,—dear bought at first, and a short outcome fora working man’s family ; by’s twa or three pots fu’ o’ gude barley-broth.” r “ -Even too true, Luckie,” interrupted the Nabob ; ‘‘ this must be cared for. The Scots may and do fail in a grand dinner, Doctor, —no doubt of it; but as a nation they manage better than most of their neighbours,—three hot meals of broth and meat for about the price of one roasting joint perhaps. Then second day’s kail— the bairns ”’ dam6 somethinS to warm up for the gudeman and • And gude enough too,” replied -Meg ; ‘ sae ye need not cast up puir Scotland, Captain Jaykii.l. ‘ Let ilka herrin’ hine bv its am head, as the by-word gangs. We may be easy put by ; and tile (rude forbid we were belly-gods and pock-puddin Eppycur- ryeans ; though at a Christening, or a Kirn, or on a Sacrament 1 onday, we may like a bit roast as weel as our nice-gabbit neieh- 7~, Ay, thus it is to clip and crib the gluttonizing joys of honest John ^uii * t0 s0 high festival of once a year^M J i ' v . 1 y°u a wholesome nutritious soup four times n week, clipping the gormandizing joys of John Bull?” cried the Nabob, instead of Ins Sunday roast and dilution of porter : no bir, soup is the best as well as the most economical fare a mechanic’s