CHAP. III.—OP CURING MEAT, &C. 485 and it will take a few more premiums, and a few more years, to convince those goodwives, that a shilling got for cheese will go quite as tar as one got for but- ter, and be more conveniently obtained. But skim- milk cheese never can be fine. At least one-half of the milk used should be fresh from the cow. Another capital defect is making the milk too hot, and then employing too much rennet, which makes the curd tough and hard, however rich its basis may be. The quality of the rennet is also of much importance. The more gently the curd is separated from the whey, the milder will the cheese be. Made in a cylindrical form, it will eat more mellow than if moulded in a broad flat shape. Particular attention must be given to the cheese in the winding. The wrapping-cloths must be changed very frequently, that the cheese may dry equally. The salting is also of importance ; and, in preference to either salting the curd or the new cheeses, some recommend cheeses being steeped in pickle. A sort of cheese for the table of very high gout, an almost Tartarian preparation, is made in the north by allowing the milk to become rancid, and to coagulate of itself, which gives a flavour even more pungent than that of goat’s-milk cheese. Cheese should be kept in a cool and rather damp place, wrap- ped in a damp cloth, and placed in a covered jar. It should always be presented at table wrapped in a small damask napkin, from economy as well as neat- ness. The surface of cheese, particularly a cut cheese, when to be kept, should be rubbed with butter or lard. Dried pieces, when they cannot be presented at table, may either be grated down, to eat as a home- ly kind of Parmesan or used in macaroni, &c. The of- fensive mould which gathers on cheese may easily be distinguished from “ the blue,”—the genuine aerugo, which stamps its value,—and must be carefully wiped off. The production of mites may be checked by pouring spirits on the affected parts. The addition of butter to the curd, or of lard rubbed into the new' cheeses, is employed to enrich the quality and mellow the cheese. Chopped sage, caraway-seeds. Sec., are employed to flavour cheese, and various substances are used to heighten the colour. Of these saffron is