CHAP. III. SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. 355 meat. Spread the mince on a board, and strew the meal lightly over it, with a high seasoning of pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, well mixed. Have a haggis- bag perfectly clean, and see that there be no thin part in it, else your whole labour will be lost by its burst- ing. Some cooks use two bags. Put in the meat with a half-pint of good beef-gravy, or as much strong broth, as will make it a thick stew. Be careful not to fill the bag too full, but allow the meat room to swell ; add the juice of a lemon, or a little good vinegar ; press out the air, and sew up the bag; prick it with a large needle when it first swells in the pot, to prevent bursting ; let it boil slowly for three hours if large. Obs.—This is a genuine Scotch haggis ; the lemon and cayenne may be omitted, and instead of beef- gravy, a little of the broth in which the pluck was parboiled may be taken. A finer haggis may be made by parboiling and skinning sheep’s tongues and kid- neys, and substituting these minced for the most of the lights. There are, however, sundry modern re- finements on the above receipt,—such as eggs, milk, pounded biscuit, &c. &c.,—but these, by good judges, are not deemed improvements. Some cooks use the small fat tripes, as in lamb’s haggis.* a lamb’s-haggis. Slit up all the little fat tripes with scissors, and clean them. Clean the kernels also, and parboil the whole, and cut them into little bits. Clean and shred the web and kidney fat, and mix it with the tripes. Sea- son with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Make a thin batter with two eggs, a half-pint of milk, and the necessary quantity of flour. Season with chopped chives or young onions. Mix the whole together. Sew up the bag, which must be very clean, and boil for an hour and a half.f * ]Vr Allan Cunningham, in some of his Tales, orders the parboil- ed minced meat of sheep’s-head for haggis. We have no experience of this receipt, but it promises well. 1' bre have been requested by a correspondent to give the fol lowing receipt publicity for the benefit of mankind. The Clei k u m