172 CHAP. VI. FISH. some dish, and eats well cold.—Garnishing and sauce as for boiled salmon. Obs—Many persons think salmon not only lighter but of finer flavour cold than hot. It is, at any rate, too expensive and too good to be lost. Place what is left in a deep dish, with a close cover. To a quart of the liquor in which the fish was boiled put half an ounce of black pepper and allspice in grains, half a pint of the best vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Boil this with a bay-leaf or two, and a sprig of lemon- thyme. When cold pour it over the salmon, which must be kept covered. This pickle will keep the fish good for some days; but if it be necessary to keep it longer, boil up the pickle afresh, adding more vinegar and spice, and when cold pour it again on the fish.* TO KIPPER SALMON. The fish must be cut up, cleaned, and scaled, but not washed, and have the bone taken neatly out. Rub with equal proportions of salt and Brazil, or fine raw sug&r*, with a little saltpetre. Let the fish lie for two days, pressing it with a board on which weights are placed; then hang it up, or, what is much better, smoke it. Lest the folds gather mustiness and spoil, it is a good plan, when the fish is hung, to stretch it open with pieces of stick, that it may dry equally. Peppers in powder may be added to the salt. This forms a favourite addition to a Scotch breakfast, and nothing indeed can be more relishing than new kip- per, though it soon hardens, when the French mode of dressing grilled salmon may be used with great advantage. It is uniformly dressed by cutting it into slices and broiling. If long hung the slices may be soaked in water a quarter of an hour, which will sof- ten and improve the quality of the fish. If the fish * N. B Very fresh salmon is in most places so expensive an article of luxury, that rarity alone has given it a factitious value with many persons ; for the fish is in reality much more delicate and sapid when ripened for a day or even more. The same thing holds of turbot and cod, though they too are prized for that crimp harsh freshness, which is in truth no recommendation in the eating, and often a drain on the purse.—P. T.