CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 493 before the fire after they are used. Clean with the finest whitening and sweet oil, not water. Directions for cleaning Britannia-Metal Goods.—> Take a piece of fine woollen cloth; upon this put as much sweet oil as will prevent its rubbing dry ;—with this rub them well on every part—then wipe them smartly with a soft dry linen rag until they are quite clean, and rub them up with soft wash-leather and whitening. This simple method will preserve the co- lour as long as the articles endure. Obs.—Washing them in boiling water and soap, just before they are rubbed with wash-leather and whiten- ing, would take off the oil more effectually, and make the carving look brighter. To preserve Gilding.—In summer it must be covered with slips of soft writing-paper. Never rub gilding. Use the bellows and a long soft hair brush ; or, if this will not do, a piece of wadding or some cotton-wool. To clean Looking-Glasses and other Glass.—Wash with warm water and sponge ; then wash with spirits, and dust the glass with powder-blue in a rag, and rub it up with a piece of soft calico, and afterwards with an old silk handkerchief. To wash Wine-Decanters.—Use lukewarm water, a few bits of soap, and a little pearl-ashes, with sponge tied to the end of a stick to rub off the crust that forms on the glass. Dry them thoroughly. To clean Japanned Goods.—Wash with sponge, us- ing soap and warm water, and rub up with a dry cloth. If the things still look greasy, dust a little powder- blue or fine whitening on them, and rub them again. Oil will take marks out of paper-traps. Urns ought to be well dried, rubbed when brought from the table, and kept covered with an woollen cloth. To get Oil out of Wood and Slone.—Mix fuller’s- earth with soap-lees, and scour the places frequently with this.—N. B. Fuller’s earth does well for carpets. To take Rust out of Fire-Irons.—Cover with sweet oil, rubbing it hard in, and next day rub with powder of unslaked lime till the rust is removed, or emery will do very well. Rub with a spungy piece of wood. To clean China and Glass.—Use pearl-ashes or ful- ler’s-earth in fine powder, and rub the things well.