CIIAP. II.—ROASTING. 92 placed a little nearer to the fire, if the surface is not yet ot a fine clear brown colour. The roast is then frothed, by dredging it lightly with well-dried flour shaken from a dredging-box, somewhat smaller in the holes than those generally employed.* Fresh butter makes the most delicate froth, but does not improve the flavour of the skin or the appearance of the gravy, which ought at this stage to be sparkling in the dripping-pan, bright, brown, and transparent as a Caledonian topaz. Fashion and luxury have lately introduced stall-fed oxen and overgrow n sheep, which are better fitted for the tallow-chandler than the cook. They are indeed good for nothing save to obtain premiums at Cattle- shews, and deluge dripping-pans with liquid fat. When meat of this description is to be dressed, it is an object of economy to save the superfluous fat, which makes so much of the weight. Besides what is cut off, the dripping-pan, during the first hour of roasting, may be emptied of its oily contents once or tw'ice, and abundance’ remain for basting. Dripping put aside in this manner will be much fitter for all culinary purposes, whether for peas-soup, pie-crust, or for frying fish, than that which has acquired a highly empyreumatic taste, either from burning cin- ders, or from being exposed to the action of a fierce heat. This disagreeable flavour and the unsalutary qualities which it betokens, make an epicure of any delicacy of stomach reject dripping with abhorrence for any use except frying fish. The improved Cleikum dripping-pan, from a drawing by Winterblossom, was made of ample dimensions, and with high slop- ing ledges. It was furnished with a covered fountain, and a conduit to allow the superfluous dripping to be easily taken away. In the Cleikum kitchen the chap- ping was immediately clarified for future use.—See Clarified Dripping. If meat is at all of good quality, and roasted with care, it will afford a plentiful supply of delicious gravy, the natural and best sauce that can * The calibre of Touchwood’s dredging-box and that of his pepper-box was precisely the same.