CHAP. III.—BROILING. 120 TO BROIL PORK-CHOPS. Pork-chops are cut from the neck or loin, and re- quire a great deal of the fire. They must be served broiling hot, and a little gravy, with a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and a little dry sage pulverized may be added. Redgill sauce possesses still more gusto for pork-eaters.* * Pom-chops—It is related, that Fuseli, the celebated art- ist, when he wished to summon Nightmare, and bid her sit for her picture, or any other grotesque or horrible personations, wont to prime himself for the feat by supping on about three pounds of half- dressed pork-chops. Though that accommodating Prince, Richard CtEUR he Lion, could, as has been seen, eat any thing, all being fish that came in the net when he was hungry, he had, like other epicures, his favourite dish, and this was Porkified Saracen, curried. On recovering in Syria from an ague, his first violent longing was for pork, which is said to approach nearer to human flesh than any other sort of meat. Pork is indeed a “ passionate” food. It tolerates no medium. It must be idolized or detested, whether as flitch or gammon, souse or sausage, brawn or griskin. In Syria, where swine’s flesh is abhorred, it was not easy to satisfy the longing of the King. But no man durst tell him that pork could not be got for love or money ; and in this extremity an old Knight, so much of a courtier as to know that a King’s longings are not to be crossed with impunity, counselled thus :— “ Take a Saracen, young and fat; In haste let the thief be slain, Opened, and his skin off flayn ; And sodden, full hastily, With powder and with spicery, And with saffron of good colour. « * * » » • “ When he (the King) has a good taste. And eaten well a good repast, And supped of the brewis a sup, Slept after, and swet a drop, Through Godis help and my counsail Soon he shall be fresh and hail.” As the old Knight counselled it was done. Richard supped the broth and ate the flesh of the Saracen faster than his carver could supply him, drank wine, slept, and on waking felt appetized, and called for “ The head of that ilk swine That I of ate.” The cook was, it may be supposed, in great consternation at this demand, but was soon relieved by the good -humour of his royal master. “ The sivarte vis when the King seetli, His black beard and white teeth,