CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 285 a lemon. Dish the veal and pour the sauce over it, holding back the sediment. Forcemeat-balls may be used as a garnishing to this dish, and will be the more suitable if made with a large proportion of grated tongue, sausage-meat, ham, &c. Obs.—Veal, whether the neck or breast, is exceed- ingly good stewed plainly, and covered with white onion-sauce ; or stewed with young green peas, chop- ped lettuce, and young onions chopped. Celery also answers very well with stewed veal.—N. B. Lamb or Rabbits may be dressed as above, and served, the former with cucumbers, the latter with onion-sauce. Veal-Olives.—See Beef-Olives; or cut, flatten, and spread forcemeat on each slice with seasonings. Roll up each olive tightly, and egg and crumb them, and either roast or stew them in a rich gravy. Thicken the gravy, add to it a few forcemeat-balls, and serve with oyster or mushroom sauce. Veal-Cutlets.—See page 125, and French Cookery. Scotch- Collops*—Cut small slices of equal thickness out of the fillet, and flour and brown them over a brisk fire in fresh butter. When enough are browned for the dish, put a little weak veal-broth or boiling water to them in a small stew-pan, adding, when they are nearly tender, the juice of a lemon, a spoonful of catsup, or the same of lemon-pickle, with mace, pep- per, and salt to taste. Thicken and strain the sauce, and pour it over the collops. The cutlets may be egged and dipped in crumbs. Some cooks lay the slices in a marinade of vinegar and spices for some hours before frying, but it is bad practice. Serve curled slices of bacon, or mushrooms if in season. A Fricandeau of Veal.—Trim the fat fleshy side of a large knuckle of white veal, or take a long thick piece from the fillet; skin it, beat it flat, season, and lard it with forcemeat. Lay some slices of good ba- con in a small stew-pan, and place the veal on them with more slices above it. Put in a pint or more of broth, the knuckle-bone broken, or two shanks of mutton, a faggot of herbs, a turnip, a carrot, and four * This properly means scotched, or scored collops, though the word has come to be understood as above. 31 2