346 CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. Dish the fish, the heads in the middle, and strain the prepared sauce over them. Place the small stewed onions and mushrooms dressed in the sauce round the fish, and garnish with the soft roes stewed in vinegar. Obs.—This sauce, and all fish-sauces, should be of a good consistence to adhere to the fish. Perches au Vin, Perches in Wine.—Scale and clean the perch. Cook them in good stock and a lit- tle white wine, with a high seasoning of parsley, chives, cloves, &c. Thicken a little of this liquor for sauce. Add to it salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little anchovy-butter. Obs.—Always use white wine with white fish and red wine with red-coloured fish. Perch a la Maiire d’Hotel.—Boil some salt, pep- per, parsley, and chives in water, and in this bouillon boil the perch. Drain and dish them, and cover them with a maitre d’hotel sauce. Eturgeon a la Broche, Roast Sturgeon.—Clean and split the fish, or a part of a large one. Make a mari- nade of white wine, melted butter, and seasonings, and baste the sturgeon with this. Take for sauce some of the skimmed basting-liquor, a little Espagnole and veal-gravy, or roux and gravy, which must serve as a substitute for Espagnole in all kitchens. Boil up, strain, and serve this, and also a poivrade sauce. Obs.—A sturgeon may be as conveniently baked. Use a marinade as sauce, and let the baking-dish be deep. Baste the fish occasionally. Cold roasted or baked sturgeon may be dressed as directed for turbot, and served in a vol-au-yent or without. Morue a la bonne Femme, Salt Cod in a plain Wap.— Prepare the salt fish as directed for boiling cod. Have some boiled potatoes in the shape of corks, cut in slices about the size of a shilling, and warm them with the fish in melted butter. Turbot Roc, a small elegant dish.—Handle so as not to break the roe; blanch it and finish in the oven, as a ragout or as a white fricassee. Garnish with lemon. OF FORCEMEAT IN GENERAL. Quenelles and Bouditis.—The French claim undivided supremacy over the whole civilized world in the art