97 CHAP. II. ROASTING. Sew the slit neatly up, (this the Doctor did with his own hands,) and baste incessantly with the best fresh butter or salad oil, if you would have the crackling crisp, which is the true and only test of a well-roasted pig.1 Some cooks tie up the butter in a bit of muslin, and diligently rub the crackling with this; others anoint that substance with a well-cleaned bunch of feathers, to keep it constantly moist. A pig-iron, or some ingenious substitute, must be placed in the centre of the grate part of the time, to prevent the middle regions of the animal from being scorched be- fore the extremities are enough done. For sauce— clear beef or veal gravy, with a squeeze of lemon, and, if approved, a little of the stuffing stirred into the sauce-tureen. Apple sauce and currant sauce are still served with roast pig; but sweet sauces for animal food are every day losing favour. Even currant sauce and venison, which were heretofore considered one and indivisible, are now often seen disjoined. The taste of the age is decidedly for the pungent, the sharp, the piquant, and the acid. Another favourite sauce is the liver and brains, and a few sprigs of sage, chopped and boiled up in the gravy. In Scotland, where the pig is too often dished whole, the brains cannot be obtained to enrich the sauce, which, along with the trouble given to the carver, was considered by the Club a capital objection to this mode of dish- ing. In England the pig is generally cut off the spit down the middle on both sides ; the head is cut off and divided, and the jaws are stuck up on each side for ornament, instead of the pippin, which was wont of old to be stuck in the grinning chops of the sa- voury cherub. Roast pig, when not liked cold, should be cut into neat fillets, and warmed in a strained sauce made of thin melted butter, flour, sweet herbs, chop- ped mushrooms, and a bay-leaf, or in broth so season- ed. For an excellent way of dressing pig, see Cochon en Galantine, French Cookery.