35G CHAP. III.—SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. FAT BROSE. Boil an ox-head, sheep’s-head, ox-heel, or skink of beef, till an almost pure oil floats on the top. Have some oatmeal well toasted before the fire, as in making haggis ; put a handful of the meal into a basin with salt, and pouring a ladleful of the fat broth over it, stir it quickly up, so as not to run into a doughy mass, but to form knots. Kail-Brose is made as in the former receipt, but of broth in which shred greens have been boiled. COCK-A-LEEKIE. Boil from four to six pounds of good shin-beef, well broken, till the liquor is very good. Strain it, and put to it a capon, or large old fowl, and, when it boils, half the quantity of blanched leeks intended to be used, well cleaned, and cut in inch-lengths, or longer. Skim this carefully. In a half-hour add tile remaining part of the leeks, and a seasoning of pep- per and salt. The soup must be very thick of leeks, and the first part of them must be boiled down into the soup till it becomes a green lubricious compound. Sometimes the capon is served in the tureen with the cock-a-leekie. This is good leek-soup without a fowl. Club have no experience of it, but Dr Redgill was willing to stake his reputation upon it untried :— Calf's-IIaggis.—“ Take the veal-caul, (or web of fat), the udder, the kidney, and best part of the pluck. Blanch and boil the udder, and the split kidney and pluck, tor ten minutes. When cool, mince them ; mince also the caul. Blanch and hash two dozen sprigs of picked young parsley, a few green onions very young, a bit of sha- lot, and a few mushrooms, if you have them. Stew the herbs in but- ter for three or four minutes, and moisten them with a glass of Ma- deira. When dried, season with salt and pepper. Mix the in- gredients, i. e. the herbs, and mince. Put them into a bag as other haggis ; but for security have two bags, one casing the other, in case of a breach. Mix meanwhile the beat yolks of two eggs with a half-pint of rich and highly-seasoned veal or beef gravy and two spoonfuls of pounded and sifted rusks. Put this into the bag with the other materials, and the squeeze of a lemon, and when sewed up, toss it about to blend them all, and boil in fresh broth if you have it; pricking the bag to let out the air, as in your other re- ceipts.”