CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. 390 halt-ounce of bitter almonds, with a spoonful of orange- flower water or plain water. Add to this paste three ounces of fresh butter melted in a glass of hot cream, four beat eggs, sugar to .taste, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little brandy or cura<;oa. Bake this in small cups buttered, or in a dish, and serve with a hot sauce of wine, sugar, and butter. A baked Almond-Pudding.—Beat as above six ounces of sweet and a dozen bitter almonds, and mix the paste with the beat yolks of six eggs, four ounces of butter, the grate and juice of a large lemon, a pint and a half of cream, and a glass of white wine. Add sugar to taste, and bake in a dish, with a neatly-cut paste-bor- der. Ornament the top with sliced almonds or citron. Orange-Pudding.—To the* grated rind of a large Seville orange put four ounces of fresh butter and six of pounded fine sugar. Beat this in a mortar, and gradually add eight well-beat eggs. Scrape a raw apple into the mixture, and put it into a dish lined with paste and neatly scolloped on the edge. Cross- bar it with paste-straws, and bake till the paste is done. Obs.—Less of the above mixture will do for an or- dinary-sized pudding, as this high-flavoured compo- sition goes far. Candied orange-peel beat to a paste makes a very fine pudding when used as above. Lemon-Pudding.—Melt half a pound of sugar and six ounces of fresh butter together, and when cold, add eight eggs very well beat, the juice of one lemon, and the grated yellow rind of two. Mix them all well, and bake in a puff-paste neatly marked on the edges. An Apple-Pudding.—Pare and grate three quarters of a pound of juicy apples. Put to them six ounces of butter beat cold to a cream, four beat eggs, two pudding-biscuits pounded, the rind of a lemon grat- ed, sugar to taste, a spoonful of brandy, and another of orange-flower water. Bake in a putt-paste marked in leaves round the border, and when done, strew can- died lemon or orange peel sliced over the top. Obs.—Any good sweet biscuit may be used, or bread-crumbs. A little lemon-juice or cider may be added if the apples are too mellow. A Swiss Apple-Pudding.—Place alternate layers of