103 CHAP. II. ROASTING. (See Sauces.) French beans or peas pudding are served with roast pork. Obs.—Sham House Lamb, when the real is scarce and high-priced, is made by skinning a half-grown porker, and cutting it of a proper shape.—The Cleik- um Club countenanced no counterfeits. TO ROAST TURKEY, FOWLS, AND GAME. M. D. A turkey -will keep a fortnight, a fowl a week. By care they will keep even longer; that is to say, if drawn, hung in a cool dry air, wiped often, and sea- soned with pepper in the inside.* The sinews of the * So dexterously and with such an air of conscious superiority did Mrs Dods carry herself, that, except for the new lights which had dawned upon Redgill in the composition of stuffings, and an affected dandy squeamishness which overcame the young Officer about the trussing, in this important branch of the art, the Club would, unquestioning, have submitted to her judgment as to an ora- cle ; but these causes produced open discontents, and— “ I say sweet stuffing is an abomination for roast turkey,” cried Redgili,, as the knife of Winterblossom gave to view Meg’s savoury composition, mottled with Zante currants, and frag- rant with what she termed “ a scrape o’ a nutmug,”—an immense grater furnished with this spicy fruit, being, instead of a lady’s es- sence-bottle, generally lodged in the depths and labyrinths of those strong blue cloth pockets, with scarlet waiting, of whose multifa- rious contents, Jekyll one day made a catalogue. “ Oysters! oysters !” cried Redgill, “ there is no other turkey stuffing worth the attention of a Christian eater.”—“Or Dinde aux Trvffes et d la broche,” said Touchwood, animated by the spirit of con- tradiction, and the ambition of displaying his science. “ A pound of fresh truffles chopped, the same quantity of rasped fat white ba- con. Soak the mixture in the stew-pan, with spiceries and a bay- leaf. Stuff the turkey, and give him three days to take the flavour ; covering him with slices of bacon : Or chestnuts,” continued he. “ Roast a quarter hundred and peel them ;—leave out ten or a dozen, pound in a mortar, with the liver parboiled, a quarter of a pound of ham, well grated or pounded, a little basil and parsley, mace, pepper, salt, our friend Meg’s nutmug, and a good piece of butter ; tie the bird at neck and vent:—roast him, and tell me how you like him. For sauce, the remaining chestnuts chopped and stirred in a thickened strong gravy, with a glass of old Sherry or .Madeira. Garnish with orange. This, Sir, is a turkey dressed for you ; or, better still, a roast turkey, with rolls of sausage fried, or sausage balls served with it,—“ an Alderman in chains,” as those waggish rogues, the London sturdy beggars, call it,—their favourite regale at the close of a prosperous day.” Redgill despised the chestnut receipt; but turkey and sausage, the ambrosia of the bous-