98 CHAP. II.—ROASTING. TO ROAST A HAUNCH OR SHOULDER OF VENISON IN THE ENGLISH MODE; BY H. J. ESQ.* The meat may be kept from ten to twenty days by proper care, and by observing the precautions former- ly recommended for preserving mutton. When to be used; wash it; without much wetting, with a sponge dipped in lukewarm water. Unless venison is fat it is useless to roast it; and in roasting, the main object is to preserve the fat. For this purpose, butter or rub over with salad oil a large sheet of kitchen paper, tie it over the fat, and butter it on the outside once more. Have ready rolled a coarse paste of flour and water, to the thickness of a half inch, on another sheet of paper, and with this cover the first paper. Tie the whole firmly on, and pour plenty of melted butter over the outside paper to prevent it from catching to the fire. Baste constantly, and keep up the fire, which must be a strong clear sirloin fire to penetrate through the incasements, and roast the haunch. Venison is rather preferred underdone than overdone, as its flesh is na- turally dry. A large haunch may be allowed from four to five hours, when wrapped in paste. A half * Wistebblossom and Jekyll, both men of family and fashion, the former of whom had for forty years, by one means or other, contrived “ to sit at good men’s feasts,” took the lead here. “ Nothing,” said; J f. kyi.l, “ can he more delicious titan a fat buck from an English park, a “ hart of grease,” in the proper season. 11 is food for heroes and princes; but, with the good leave of our hostess, this “ doe or roe, or hart or hind” of the Caledonian forest, would please me fully better bounding on its native hills than smok- ing on this board. For the greater part of the year these wild ani- mals are as sinewy, lean, and dry as the stalkers who pursue them. Roast it will not,—this meagre hard meat. With all appliances to boot, it makes but indifferent pasty ; but after a long morning of shooting, or for a dejeuner a la fourchette, I have found a fricassee of it cleverly tossed up—what you Scots call venison collops, Mrs Dods,—very tolerable eating.” “ And what you Englishers lick your lips after,” said Meg. not a little offended. “ I have had but little handling of English fallow deer but as gude venishon, haunch and shouther, neck and brisket, has been roasted in my father’s kitchen as e’er coost horn or cloot in an English policy—set them up !” “ For my own private eating,” said Touchwood, u a leg of five-year-old heath wether mutton before all the venison in the world ; but on occasions of high festival, this aristocratic dish is indispensa- ble to the fools who preside and the knaves who partake—so about it, Captain. The dulce we leave to you and Wintekblossom ; the utile is my own peculiar province.”