CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 264 trimmed and wiped, washing only such things as are to be steeped or parboiled previous to pickling. It is miserable economy to employ bad vinegar for pick- ling, or bad sugar for preserving, or to use either in stinted quantities,—as both the syrup in which fruits are preserved, and the vinegar of pickles, are after- wards very serviceable to the cook. Pickle-liquor can be at all times conveniently disposed of in sea- soning gravies or sauces, or as an accompaniment to cold meat;—the pickle of cucumbers, walnuts, mush- rooms, and onions, is especially useful. The vinegar used for pickles ought to be made scalding hot, as raw vinegar is apt to become ropy and thick ; but remember that no fermented liquor can be boiled without great loss of strength. The spiceries used in pickling are so well bestowed that we give no rule for the quantity, except that it should not be so great as to overcome the natural flavour of the article pick- led ; for pickles, like every thing else, should be what their name imports,—either onion or cucumber, &c. and not a hodge-podge of conflicting flavours. Pickles are most safely prepared in stone-vessels; but they must, at all events, be kept in small glass or stone ]ars well stopped, and the corks or bungs wrapped round with bladder or leather, with an upper cover- ing of the same, if they are to be long kept; or let them be dipped in bottle-rosin. The corks or bungs may be left rather loose for two days, and the jars fill- ed up to the neck with scalded vinegar before being finally closed, as a great deal of the liquor will be ab- sorbed at first by the pickles. When the pickles are used, boil up the liquor with a little salt and fresh spice, and bottle and cork it for future use, either as a sauce, or to pickle nasturtiums and gherkins, where a fine colour is no object. To have green pickles of a bright green, and yet safe, is no easy matter ; and we are glad to observe, that there is now at the most re- fined tables a wholesome distrust of pickles of too brilliant a green. It is, however, very possible to preserve the colour tolerably good, and yet prepare the pickles safely, by keeping them for a length of time exposed to the steams of vinegar. Potato-plums, elder-flowers in the bud, and several other things, are