CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 307 the wings. Stew it in white clear broth, and when nearly done, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour. When just ready to serve, add a little cream, squeeze a lemon into the dish, and serve the fowl with the sauce around it.—See Quenelles and Gratin. To ragout Poultry, Pigeons, Rabbits, §c.—Half- roast the' thing which is to be dressed as a ragout. Cut it into joints as at table, and stew in good broth, with a couple of onions, two dozen corns of allspice and black pepper, a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and for some things a slice of celery, for others, a couple of bay-leaves. Skim the stew, and, keeping the lid quite close, let it simmer for three quarters of an hour or more, according to the age and size of the birds. Strain off the gravy, leaving the fowls in the stew-pan to keep hot. Take off the cake of fat which will soon form upon the gravy, and thick- en it with butter rolled in browned flour till it is as thick as stiff pancake-batter. Add to it a glass of red wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Dish the fowls, ducks, or rabbits, whichever your dish may be, and pour the sauce hot over them, garnishing with fried bread. Obs.—The sauce ought to be smooth, thick, and well-coloured. It may be made without wine. To braise Chickens or Pigeons.—Bone them, and stuff them with forcemeat. Fry a few sliced onions in a stew-pan ; add to these the bones and other trim- mings of the chickens, with a broken shank of veal or mutton, a faggot of herbs, a few blades of mace, and a pint of good broth. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then with veal-caul or paper. Wrap a cloth about the lid of the stew-pan, and stew very slowly over embers, or on a stove, for an hour and a half. Take them up and keep them hot in an oven. Strain the braise-gravy, and boil it up quickly to a jelly. Glaze the chickens with it, and serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. A Continental Method of dressing cold roast Fowls. —Beat up two yolks of eggs with butter, mace, nutmeg, &c. Cut up the fowls, dip them in this, and roll the pieces in crumbs and fried parsley. Fry the cut pieces nicely in butter or clarified dripping.