CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. ‘**1 about twelve minutes, and set it to cool on a plate. 11 the juice runs off, the jam must be boiled longer. If it jellies, though weakly, it is enough. This is a test for all jellies. Obs — To get rid of the seeds of the hairy red gooseberry, take up the syrup as it boils with a gravy- spoon, and run it through a small search, and return it to the pan. Apricot and Plum Jam or Marmalade.—Stone and skin the fruit. Scald it in a little water in an earth- enware or stone vessel. Rub it through a coarse sieve, or mash it in a bowl. Take equal weights of pulp and pounded loaf-sugar, and boil the jam for fifteen minutes in a preserving-pan, stirring and skim- ming it. The bruised kernels of the fruit, or a fewr bitter almonds blanched and bruised, may be put in to flavour the jam.. Peach, nectarine, and quince jam, for puddings and tarts, may be made in the same manner. Obs.—Jams should be quickly boiled to retain a good colour, and care must be taken that the thicker sorts do not stick to the pan. Scotch Orange Chip Marmalade.—Take an equal weight of fine loaf-sugar and Seville oranges. Wipe and grate the oranges, but not too much. j^The grate boiled up with sugar will make an excellent conserve for rice, custard, or batter puddings.] Cut the oran- ges the cross way, and squeeze out the juice through a small sieve. Scrape off the pulp from the inner skins, and pick out the seeds. Boil the skins till per- fectly tender, changing the water to take off part of the bitter. When cool, scrape the coarse white thready part from the skins, and trussing three or four skins to- gether for despatch, cut them into narrow chips. Clari- fy the sugar, and put the chips, pulp, and juice to it. Add, when boiled for ten minutes, the juice and grate of two lemons to every dozen of oranges. Skim and boil for twenty minutes. Obs.—There are various ways of making this mar- malade. The half of the boiled skins may be pound- ed before they are mixed; and if the chips look too numerous, part of them maybe withheld for pudding-