CHAI*. II. MADE-DISIIES. 329 Sauce a la Pluchc.—Blanch and drain some large- leafed young parsley and a little tarragon. Put to this a pint of veloute and a half-pint of clear consomme. Stir in a bit of butter; work it well to make it smooth. Obs.—This is a proper sauce for lamb’s stove. Sauce d VAllcmand, or German Sauce.—Thicken sauce tournee with the beat yolk of an egg or two, ac- cording to the quantity. This sauce is extensively used for dressed meat-dishes. Sauce a la Matelote for Fish.—To a large pint oi brown roux heated, or of Espagnole, put six onions sliced and fried with a few mushrooms, or a little mush- room-catsup, a glass of red wine, and a little of the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Give it a season- ing of parsley, chives, or bay-leaf, salt, pepper, all- spice, and a clove. t Skink it up, (using a large spoon) to make it blend well. Put veal-gravy to it if want- ed more rich, or a good piece of butter. Strain it, and if wanted exceedingly rich, add small quenelles, (forcemeat-balls,) proper for a fish-dish, glazed onions and mushrooms, a little essence of anchovy and a squeeze of lemon. Serve over stewed carp or trout. Obs.—This sauce is exceedingly admired by some gourmands, indeed preferred to all other ways of serv- ing fish. Sauce a la Matelote.—Take a heaped spoonful of minced parsley, chives, and mushrooms, and give them a fry in butter. Dredge them with flour, and moisten with consomme till sufficiently thin. When stewed a few minutes, add to this the beat yolks of two eggs, and take care they do not curdle. Obs.—This is a cheap, general, useful sauce for mutton-cutlets, palates, sweetbreads, &c. Rcmoulade.—Pound the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs in a mortar with a little sour cream, or the raw yolk of an egg, a spoonful of made-mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne, one spoonful of vinegar or two of oil. Rub this through a sieve, and it is ready. Salmi Sauce d 1'Espagnole, a Game Sauce.—This is a sauce of high relish. Fry in butter, over a slow fire, three shalots chopped, a sliced carrot, a bunch of pars- ley, some bits of ham, and a sprig of thyme. Let them just catch, and moisten them with Madeira.