522 FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUJ5. JEKYL. I would, had my friends given me time, have added—all farce- meats as at present served. The mystery of those balls ! Ye gods, the rolling together of those balls ! Ye powers of stomach, the swal- lowing of those balls ! the spectacle of an alderman, with a ten-horse power of digestion, fishing in a china pond of turtle-soup for those balls, and gobbling them up as in a rainy evening a duck does snails in a garden-walk. REDGILL. Order ! order ! Sir, I deem this unnecessary prying into the mys- teries of the kitchen a most dangerous, and pernicious, and uncon- stitutional practice. Sir, Swift has said, or some one for him, that “ a nice man is a man of dirty ideas”—I say of foul ill-regulated fancies—exalting imagination at the expense of innocent and agree- able sensation. One, Sir, who-o-o-o-o JEKyii. Spare your breath, my dear Doctor.—No one admires farces in the abstract more than I do.—Who but a brute, with a palate as blunt and indurated as the sole of his hob-nailed shoe, and who de- serves to eat grass with Nebuchadnezzar for seven years—would not ? The savoury godiveau, the crisp gratin, the bland panade !— don’t suppose me so lost to all the joys of eating as not to admire these ’Tis to the mode of service I demur At my table farces shall never appear, save in scallop or other small tasteful shapes which preclude all suspicion I could a tale unfold ! Order ! order L from several voices.—Meanwhile Meg Dods en- ters in haste, holding aloft a look. MEG DODS. Nawbob, here’s our New Beuk !—and a’ the pickters—the Cod’s head as if it were living and' kmpin’ ! touchwood, cracking his fingers. Heureka ! which, Luckie, is Greek for hurrah.—Reach it over- reeking from the press !—Note me down the year—the month—the day the very hour and minute when it first saw the light! This aus- picious day ! Let it be henceforth the high festival—the Saint’s day of cooks and gastronomers—a day entered in all the almanacks set apart—consecrated from vulgar time, for the mystic rites and enjoyments of the stew-pan, the spit, and the oven !—Heureka /—I shout again.—Let me congratulate you, madam, and gentlemen, on the triumphant conclusion of your labours,—and the world at large, wherever the language of Quin and Kitchener is spoken or understood, and the preparations of the Cleikum are eaten and ad- mired,—on at length possessing a perfect Institute of !\1od-