CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 161 becomes sour, it should not be made till it is to be used. Boil the fish of which you make the stock, in two quarts of water, with a couple ot onions, a piece of lemon-peel, and a faggot ot sweet herbs. Skim the liquor carefully, and strain it. It the fish-soup is to be brown, the fish which makes the stock may be browned in the frying-pan before boiling, and catsup is generally put to brown fish-soup. LOBSTER-SOUP. Have three middle-sized, or five small lobsters,— hens if possible,—ready boiled, and five pints of good veal-gravy, though beef or mutton stock will answer very well. Break off and bruise in a mortar, the small claws and fins, with an anchovy, apiece of lemon-peel, and a couple of scalded onions. Put these to the stock, and simmer till you have obtained all the strength and flavour they contain. Strain all the stock. Split the tail, crack without mangling the great claws, and take out the meat, cutting it into small pieces. Pick the fish from the chine, and take part of the coral, the soft part of a few oysters, an anchovy, a quarter of a nutmeg, a blade of mace, a little cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel grated. Put these in a mortar; beat them, and with the yolks of two eggs and a very little flour, make a dozen or more small forcemeat-balls for the soup. Next bruise the spawn in the mortar, with a little flour, and rubbing it through a sieve, put this with the meat of the claws and tail, and the coral left from the forcemeat, into the soup. Fry the forcemeat-balls, or brown them in a Dutch oven, and put them also to the soup, which may simmer for a quarter of an hour, but must not boil. Test the balls:—or they may be omitted, and the meat cut in nice bits, put to the strained soup. Foreign substances are sometimes employed to height- en the vermilion tint of this soup, but we do not re- commend the practice. Squeeze the juice of a lemon or Seville orange through a strainer into the tureen, and serve the soup, lifting it carefully. Some cooks put a glass of Madeira to this soup. Obs.—This soup is sometimes partly made of sweet