393 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. and plumped in hot water, or, which is better, rubbed in a cloth and plumped before the fire; almonds must be blanched and sliced; and in mixing grated bread, pounded biscuit, &c., with milk, pour the milk on hot, and cover the vessel, which is both bet- ter and easier than boiling. Mutton-suet for puddings is lighter than that of beef; but marrow, when it can be obtained, is better than either. A baked pudding for company has often a paste-border or a garnishing of blanched and sliced almonds about it; if boiled, it may also be garnished in various ways. The most elegant seasoning for pudding is conserve ot Seville orange, lemon-rind, and orange-flower-water. Spir- its, and even wine, are every day less used, both from taste and economy. A Common Plum-Pudding.—Take six ounces of shred suet, four of dry flour, two of stoned raisins, three of picked and plumped currants, a little all- spice and nutmeg, or cinnamon. Thin this with beat eggs and a little milk, and put in either a glass of sweet wine or a half-glass of rum or brandy and sugar, to taste. There are a thousand other ways of making a plum-pudding. Obs.—The wine or spirits may be spared, and the pudding flavoured with distilled waters, as rose-water, peach-water, orange-flower-water, &c. A superjine Plum-Pudding.—Take four ounces of pounded pudding-biscuit, and two ounces of the best flour, or good common biscuit, a half-pound of bloom or muscatel raisins stoned, the same quantity of fresh Zante currants picked and plumped, and a half- pound of suet stripped of skins and filaments, and shred ; a small tea-spoonful of nutmeg grated, a quar- ter-pound of fine beat sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and two blades of mace; three ounces of candied lemon, orange, and citron, sliced, and two ounces of blanched almonds roughly chopped. Beat four eggs well, and put to them a little sweet milk, a glass of white wine or brandy, and then mix in the flour and all the ingredients. Tie up the pudding firm, and boil it for four hours, keeping up the boil, and turning the cloth. Serve pudding sauce.—See Sauces.