234 CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. ley and young onions especially) and mushrooms, if you have them; to this add (according to your own judgment) two cloves, a bay-leaf, a bit of garlic, and a head of celery. When ready, allow this or any gravy to settle a few minutes before straining. This gravy may be very conveniently made jugged. Cut down all the ingredients, and put them in a jar; cover it close, and set it in an oven or over a stove for a half-hour; add the boiling water, and let the preparation stove slowly till wanted. This gravy may be varied and enriched in many ways, by the addi- tion of red wines, flavoured vinegars, shalot, tarragon, mushrooms, curry-powder, truffles and morells, arti- choke-bottoms, anchovy, pickled oysters; in short, whatever is best fitted to improve and heighten the relish of the dish it is to accompany. Thicken with brown thickening when wanted. N. B.—Shalot, a lemon sliced, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill of eating-oil, stewed in a ladleful of the above gravy, with pepper, cayenne, and a glass of white wine, make the Italienne rousse, or the Ita- lienne blanche, by using a white instead of a brown sauce. white gravy-sauce, the French Veloute, or white Cul- lis, the Basis of white Sauces for Vegetables, ivhite Fricassees, fyc. Put a good piece of the best end of a knuckle of veal into a very well-tinned stewpan, with some good ham, some beef cut to pieces, and whatever trimmings of game or poultry the larder affords. Moisten this with strong broth, put to it three carrots and four onions, parsley, and thyme, some chopped mushroom, but no lemon or acid of any kind. Let the meat sweat, but not brown, and prick it to let the juices flow. When the knuckle is done well enough to be served at table, skim the sauce; strain through a lawn sieve; boil it again till well reduced, and add to it, on the fire, as much roux blanche, or white thickening, ready prepared, as will make it of a proper consis- tence, rather thick than otherwise, as it can easily be thinned. Now skim it, and boil it once more, stirring