CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 407 cording to the letter, and how much understood in the spirit only. Like the Malade Imaginable, when ordered to walk across the room, they are miserable from not knowing whether to take the breadth or the length. In general this is of small consequence, pro- vided they do walk either way. CREAMS. Creams are either shaped in a mould, and turned out, and garnished with myrtle or other flowers, or served in a glass dish, or in little glass cups. For creams and jellies moulded to shapes, freezing is neces- sary if you would make sure of having the shape fine and entire. Isinglass also must be put in considerable quantity to all things of this kind that are made in shapes; but if only in a dish or little cups, more eggs are used, and no isinglass. Melt slowly, in a little water, the isinglass to be used, and try a little of your cream or jelly in a small shape or orange-skin, to see if it be strong enough to take and keep a shape. Moulds are best of earthenware ; pewter or tin ones give jel- lies a bad colour. All creams are made nearly in the same manner, the chief difference arising from the flavouring ingre- dient, which generally gives the name, as coffee, cho- colate, lemon, tea, vanilla, &c. Though creams cer- tainly look handsomer when moulded and iced, they are not so good as when served in cups, from the greater quantity of isinglass, and the absence of eggs. The yolk of one fresh egg in every cupful is a good rule in making creams and custards to be served in cups, but many more are often used for moulds. A little grated nutmeg, or cinnamon, may be sprinkled over creams served without being moulded. The exact quantity of isinglass necessary can only be known by experiment at the time of making the cream, this commodity varies so much in strength. For a large mould it must be stiffer than for a small one. To freeze Creams ancl Jellies.—There are various ways of procuring ice; the cheapest is to buy it of nature’s making, and to have a necessary apparatus for preserving it after you have got it. Break the ice in a proper ice-bucket, and strew a handful of salt