CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 314 same process. Clear the brains of all the filaments and skins that hang about them, and having scalded them, beat them up in a basin with the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of bread-crumbs, another of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, and a small dessert-spoon- ful of finely-shred parsley, and if for calf’s-head, a little shred sage and thyme. Put seasonings to the mixture, and a large spoonful of melted butter; and dropping the batter in small cakes, fry them of an amber colour. They may either be served as a gar- nishing, or as a small side-dish to accompany a dress- ed calf’s-head or lamb’s head. For Balls.—Make the above mixture into small balls with more egg and flour. Croquets and Rissoles.—These little useful dishes dif- fer from savoury patties only in shape. They are all made of cold chicken, sweetbreads, veal, or any nice bit of white meat that is left cold. Mince the meat, season it, and stew it for two minutes in gravy. Cro- quets are rolled up as small sausages, dipped in eggs, and rolled in bread-crumbs, fried a light brown, and served with nicely-fried parsley. Rissoles are made of thin puff-paste, in any form you please, spreading a little of the mince on the paste, and doubling it up like an apple-pasty; or it is served as balls rolled up in paste, fried, and garnished with parsley. Canapes.—Take the crumb of a large loaf, cut it in slices the thickness of three quarters of an inch ; af- terwards cut them into any form, and fry them of a nice colour in oil or butter; mince separately the hard yolks of eggs, whites, cucumbers, capers, anchovies in strips, different fine sweet herbs, small salad herbs, &c., and put them in a little oil; season the canapes (fried bread) with salt, pepper, and vinegar; dress it hand- somely, and garnish it tastefully with hard eggs, ham, beet-root, small herbs, anchovies, capers, cresses, &c. &c., and serve upon dishes for hors d’ceuvre, i. e. re- lishes. Pork Sausages.•—Mince the fat and lean of pork, keeping out skins and gristles, and season it well with salt, black and Jamaica ground pepper, and chopped sage. Clean and half-fill the guts, and fry the sausages. Oxford Sausages.—Take equal quantities of veal