338 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. and sweat them in a stew-pan with strong gravy or butter-sauce, also green onions, parsley, pepper, and salt. When nearly cooked, take out the herbs, and reduce the sauce nearly to a glaze. Drain the cutlets. Dish them very hot with the sauce in the middle, and a dozen small onions, cooked as directed for garnish- ings. Obs.—Soubise cutlets used to be larded, and brais- ed in bacon with all sorts of braising herbs; but there has been a considerable revolution of late even in French cookery. Coteleltes a Vltalienne and au naturel.—These are nearly the same. Cut, trim, and dip the chops in butter and bread-crumbs. Broil them a little. Put pepper and salt over them, then butter and crumbs again, and broil till ready. Press out the fat between folds of hot paper, and serve with brown Italian sauce. Coteleltes a la Minute, or in their Juice, for Dejeuners a la Fourchette.—Take rather thin slices from the gi- got, as in carving a roast leg. Put them into a thin- bottomed, frying-pan in which is hot butter. Turn them continually. Keep them hot by the fire; and put into the pan a little gravy and a few chopped herbs, stewed as for Venetian veal cutlets ; give this a toss, and skim and serve it round the hot cutlets. Rognons de Mouton, or Mutton Kidneys.—These are also served at a dejeuner a la fourchette. Skin and split a dozen kidneys without wholly separating them. Skewer them with wire skewers to keep them open ; rub them with a little salt and pepper; dip them in butter, and broil first the inside, that, when turned on the grill to be finished, the gravy may be preserv- ed. Dish on a hot plate, with a very little chopped parsley and butter over each. Obs.—In France these are also dressed as a mince, stewing the mince in butter, draining and serving it in a well-reduced Italian brown sauce with a very lit- tle Champagne.—See page 297- Beef-Kidneys are dressed as above, and served at the dejeuner d la fourchette. N.B.—With brains, kidneys, and liver, use cayenne. Haricot brun, or a la Bourgcoise.—Brown the chops in the frying-pan. Make a roux of the butter in which they were fried, with a little more butter