CHAP. II.—ROASTING. 96 ture—this ortolan with four feet, as a corresponding member called it—there is but one step between the gully of the butcher and the carver’s knife. In short, lie must be killed; but that done, the sooner he is roasted and eaten the better is he relished by those in the secret. The ordinary way, after he has received the coup de grace, is to take off the hair by scalding.* When cleaned from the hair, and the entrails taken out, the pig must be well washed in cold water. Cut off the feet at the first joint, loosening and leaving on the skin to turn neatly over. He is now ready for the stuffing. For this, take a handful of mild sage, and a couple of young onions parboiled ; chop these very fine, add a cupful of grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of good butter, and a high relish of pepper and salt. * Dr Redgiel, though apt to be somewhat violent in his preju- dices, and entertaining a loyal and laudable hatred of Co bjett and all his ways, paused when Touchwood communicated to him the method which that demagogue—infallible in hog’s flesh, and un- equalled in bolting—recommends for removing the hair of grown porkers ; “ and why not,” said the Nabob, “of sucklings? “ The first method (scalding),” says Cobbett, “slackens the skin, opens all the pores of it, and makes it loose and flabby, by drawing out the roots of the hair. The second (singeing) tightens the skin in every part, contracts all the sinews and veins, &c.” This is said in reference to bacon no doubt; but it was fog talent like Dr Red- gil r.’s to apply it to young pigs. In a sucking pig, in which crackliny is all in all, this burning process is surely worthy of trial. The President, with a meanness of jealousy of which the good Doctor was incapable, where pig, of which he was himself to partake, was concerned, had indeed kept this important information secret till the scalded eleve of his rival was smoking in the platter; he then referred, with malicious triumph, to the singeing of sheep’ s head, reasoning on what a wersh, fusionless morsel it would make if scalded. The moisture which had overflowed the Doctor’s chops as he viewed his savoury charge reposing, as might say, “ in the crispness of his beauty,” was arrested in its course. But between a singed pig in prospect, and a scalded pig on the table ready roasted, sauce, crackliny, stuffing, all alike inviting, the Doc- tor did not long hesitate. This was a young pig of twelve days old ; there were still six of the farrow remaining, ana, resolving to accept of his stomach’s good, even at the hands of a Cobbett, he avowed the intention of making the experiment on one of the others ; so that point will probably be ascertained in time for the next edition of this our manual. jV. B Every Cook should be made aware, that, by singeing chick- ens and fowls, she not only removes the downy feathers, but gives firm- ness to the flesh, and tenacity to the skin ; and that the chickens, if for fricassee, broiling, &c., will cut up much better if well singed.