CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 2(Jo pickled besides the vegetables in common use; and there is little doubt but that many other vegetable productions might answer equally well if spiced and steeped in vinegar. To pickle Cucumbers.—Lay fifty firm, young, and very small-sized cucumbers on flat dishes, having- first rubbed them with salt. Keep them covered, and look at them and turn them occasionally for eight or ten days, and then having carefully drained them, put them in a jar in which vine-leaves or cabbage-leaves are laid, and, pouring two quarts of scalding vinegar over them, cover them with more leaves, and keep them covered by the fire. Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it up, and put it hot over the cucumbers, again covering them with fresh leaves above and be- low. A little pounded alum will improve the colour; but if it be not good enough, scald them once more by placing the jar in a pan of boiling water, or on a hot hearth. When the colour is decently good, for it will never be very brilliant, boil up the vinegar once more with a half-ounce of white pepper, the same of ginger, two drachms of cloves, and a bruised nutmeg. Boil the spices for a few minutes with the vinegar, and when cold, bottle them according to the general directions in the preceding page. Obs.—A French cook would add a seasoning of tarragon, fennel, and garlic. French beans, gherkins, Indian cress, samphire, and other green pickles, are all to be managed as in the above receipt for cucumbers. Cucumbers and Onions pickled.—Pare and slice cu- cumbers, picking out the seeds ; and peel and slice large onions in thick slices. Sprinkle salt over them, and drain for a night, then put them into a stone-jar, and pour scalding vinegar over them. Close the jar, and set it by the fire. Scald them by placing the jar over a hot hearth, and repeat this till they become of a tolerable colour ; then boil up the vinegar with spiceries, as in last receipt. Jo pickle Walnuts Green.—Gather the walnuts be- fore they are fully ripe, and while the shells are still tender. Lay them in a strong pickle of salt and wa- ter for nine days, changing the brine twice in that