CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. 325 will give a half-day to the deliberate cookery of a ra- gout, which an English one would toss off in a half- hour ; and will watch the first popple of his stew-pan as if it were the last pulse of life. Any one who has seen a French cook attending to the vcloute, or pound- ing the quenelle, as if life and death depended on his function, may have some idea of the importance of his art in his own estimation. Another evident cause of French superiority is the comparative plenty of game, fine herbs, and vegetables, mushrooms, truffles, &c. and the cheapness of poultry and of wines of high flavour; and, paradoxical as it may seem, the scar- city of fuel in France. So scientifically is the culinary art understood by our neighbours, that a French kitchen previous to a grand dinner is a perfect arsenal of consommes, gravies, glaze, roux, and mixed spices, all prepared in the best and most economical manner; for, however it may be in this country with those ministers of vanity imported to English kitchens by luxury and ostentation, eco- nomy is thoroughly understood in France. Though objections are brought to the high relish of French dishes, we will venture to affirm, that the receipts given in our Engish Cookery Books, with their hete- rogeneous mixture of a thousand and one ingredients, are not only more expensive, but less simple, than those of Beauvilliers or Ude. But if bonne cliere is so well understood by our neighbours, bon gout in all matters connected with the table, or rather with the fete, is their undoubted forte. The French are allowed to excel in soups and ra- gouts, and in the elegant preparation of their sauces. They have also many more and better ways of dress- ing vegetables than are known to us, by which they can, at small expense, add to the variety and good appearance of a table. Their modes of cookery, by braising, dressing in a blanc, or in a poele, and their farces, deserve the serious attention of every lover of good cheer. The French have also ever been pre-emi- nent as a larding nation, and as skilful in glaze. Now, though we seldom prize varnished meat, nor greatly admire larding, we do highly value that union of economy with bon gout which enables the French to o