CHAP. VII. VEGETABLES AND BOOTS. 215 VEGETABLE CURRIE. Boil, strain, ancl mash, greens or cabbage, stew them in butter, with currie-powder, to taste, rubbed down in vinegar, salt, and pepper. A currie of spinage is made by the addition of vinegar or sorrel, also onions. The sauce is veal gravy or butter, and either bits ot meat, or if maigre, prawns, cockles, or oysters, are added to the stew. TO STEW CUCUMBERS AND CELERY. Pare the cucumbers, and cut them in thin slices ; or, if small, divide them the long way. Slice some onions in the proportion of one to every two cucum- bers. Stew these in a little good broth, or in melted butter, with cayenne, pepper, and salt. Thicken the sauce with a bit of butter kneaded in flour, and, after dishing the cucumbers, skim it, and pour it over them. To cook stewed, celery, clean and cut the heads (the younger the more delicate) in three-inch lengths. Stew them till tender in a little butter. Thicken the sauce with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, add a quarter-pint of sweet cream, and season with pepper, mace, and salt. and added, for the benefit of youthful gourmands,— “ But lest your kissing should be spoil’d, “ The onion must be thoroughly boil d,”— a precaution of no great moment, however, as the period when a man begins to pay much attention to palatic enjoyments is nearly about the same at which the taint of his breath becomes an affair of small concernment either to himself or others. It may be remarked by the way, that one sign of the precocity of the youth of the age, is their beginning to talk of the business of the table at the years when their fathers were still upon their bread and milk.”—u But return we to our onion,” said Jekyll to the Nabob, after delivering this note. “ Well, Sir?—and what has consigned this prime root to Parisian restaurateurs and London soup-brewers, who are still cunning enough in their art to employ its savoury, cordial, and sti- mulating qualities, but this same pouncet-box dread of the manly scent ot a garlick breath,—another root by the way most vilely ne- glected ? ‘ Of all plants,’ says Sir William Temple, ‘ garlick affords the most nourishment, and supplies the best spirits to those who eat little flesh.’ It clears phlegm, dissipates cold slimy hu- mours.”—“ Faugh!” interrupted the cornet emphatically; and he continued,—“What a manly odoriferous fellow your friend the Bonassus must be, Doctor, who consumes a bushel of onions a day, they assure me.”