CHAP* V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 157 und the soup is, when finished, thickened with the yolks of three eggs, and seasoned with mace. GIBLET-SOUP.* 'Pakk from two to three pounds of coai se beef, or shanks and scrag of mutton, or knuckle of veal, or a part of each, as may be found most convenient, a small faggot of sweet herbs, carrots, turnips, and a little parsley; a quarter-ounce of black or Jamaica peppercorns, and four quarts of water. .When this lias simmered for an hour, put to it two pair of goose- giblets, or four pair of duck-giblets, scalded and cleaned, and browned in the frying-pan, if you choose, with minced onion. When the giblets are delicately tender, but not soft and insipid, take them up, and cut them into large mouthfuls. The soup must now be thickened with butter kneaded in a large spoonful of flour, or with the top-fat gradually mixed with flour, and strained into a fresh stew-pan, into which put the giblets. Boil and skim, and season with a large spoonful of mushroom catsup, salt, and a little cayenne. Serve with the cut giblets in the tureen. Beans, lettuce, and celery, separately boiled, may be added. OX-RUMP, OR OX-TAIL SOUP. Two tails, or if small, three will make a large tureen of soup. Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Rub them with salt, and soak them in lukewarm water. Place the tails in a stew-pan, with four onions * This was one of those pretending dishes of which Mrs Dods emphatically said, “ boil stanes in butter, and the broo will be guae.” When plainly made, as directed in the above receipt, it af- fords an agreeable variety for a family-dinner, and is an economical way of using what might be otherwise wasted, which is always com- mendable. Wine is ordered for giblet-soup in the most approved cookery-books ; and we have no wish to restrain the fancies of a gourmet, however extravagant; but Mrs Dods strongly protested against bestowing Madeira on goosehorns and pinions. French cooks dress giblets as an haricot, wrapping them in layers of bacon, in which they are stewed. When done and drained, the sauce is skimmed and poured over them. G