OF BILLS OF FARE. 51 pensive establishments. Their great town-dinners usually follow in rapid succession, one banquet form- ing, if not the basis, a useful auxiliary to the next en- tertainment. But as this has been elsewhere recom- mended to the attention of the reader, it is almost un- necessary to repeat here, that vegetables, ragouts, and soups, may be re-warmed j and jellies and blancmange remoulded, with no deterioration of their qualities. Savoury or sweet patties, potted meats, croquets, ris- soles, vol-au-vents, fritters, tartlets, &c., may be served with almost no cost, where cookery is going forward on a large scale. In the French kitchen, a numerous class of culinary preparations, called entrees de desserle, or made-dishes of left things, are prepared even for grand entertainments. At dinners of any pretension, it is understood that the first course shall consist of soups and fish, succeed- ed by boiled poultry, ham, or tongue, roasts, stews, &c.; and of vegetables, with a few made-dishes, as ragouts, curries, hashes, cutlets, patties, fricandeaus, &c., in as great variety as the number of dishes permits; as a jelly and a cream, a white and a brown, or a clear and a stew- soup. For the second course, roasted poultry or game at the top and bottom, with dressed vegetables, ome- lets, macaroni, jellies, creams, salads, preserved fruit, and all sorts of sweet things and pastry, are employ- ed,—endeavouring to give one article of each sort, as will be exemplified in the bills of fare subjoined. This is a more common arrangement than three courses, which are attended with so much additional trouble both to the guests and servants. But whether the dinner be of two or three courses, it is managed nearly in the same way ; and for the ad- vantage of servants as well as of their employers, a few particulars may be detailed. In the centre, there is generally some ornamental article, as an epergne with flowers, real or artificial, or with a decorated salad. An ornament or plateau, containing essences, is equally appropriate. Two dishes of fish dressed in different ways, if suitable, should occupy the top and bottom ; and two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high-seasoned, are best disposed on each side of the centre-piece: the fish-sauces are placed