SUPPERS. 71 shapes, custards, preserved or dried fruits, pancakes, fritters, puffs, tartlets, grated cheese, butter in little forms, sandwiches; and the catalogue of the more sti- mulating dishes, as anchovy toasts, devils, Welsh, English, and Scotch rabbits, roasted onions, salma- gundi, smoked sausages sliced, and those other pre- parations which are best adapted to what among an- cient bon vivants was called the rere-supper. A supper-table should neither be too much crowd- ed, nor too much scattered and broken with minute dishes. Any larder moderately stored will furnish a few substantial articles for supper on an emergency. A few sweet things readily prepared, some small pat- ties, shell-fish, and fruits, will do the rest, if the effect of contrasted colours, flavours, and forms, be under- stood, and that light and graceful disposition of trifles, which is the chief art in setting off such entertain- ments. French wines are lately become an article of ambi- tious display at fashionable suppers, even in families of the middle rank. Where they can be afforded in excellence and variety, nothing can be more appro- priate at a light, shewy, exhilarating repast. DEJEUNERS A LA FOURCHETTE. That change of manners which has introduced late dinners, and superseded hot suppers, has very much improved the modern breakfast. Besides the ordinary articles of eggs, broiled fish, beef, mutton, or goat hams, rein-deer and other tongues, sausages, potted meats, cold pies of game, &c. &c. a few stimulating hot dressed dishes are, by a sort of tacit prescription, set apart for the dejeuner a la fourclielte of the gour- mand and the sportsman. Of this number are broiled kidneys, and calf’s and lamb’s liver, with fine herbs, and mutton cutlets d la Venetienne. Receipts for those stimulating preparations of poultry, game, &c. will be found under the proper heads. When the dejeuner (l la fourclielte is an entertainment for company, the ar- ticles provided, with the addition of tea, coffee, cho- colate, &c. do not materially differ from those of a fashionable supper. The following is an example -.