208 CHAP. VII.—VEGETABLES and roots. A few general observations will, if attended to, supply the place of long or often-repeated directions for dress- ing vegetables. Unlike animal substances, vegetables can never be dressed too fresh, though some kinds, such as French beans and artichokes, will keep a few days. They must, after being carefully cleared from insects and decayed leaves, or other spoiled parts, be washed in plenty of water • they cannot be too much washed. Let them lie in salt and water, head down- wards, till they are put to boil. This simple method will bring out every insect that may lurk in the leaves. To preserve their beauty, they must be boiled alone, in a perfectly clean and well-tinned vessel, and in abundance of soft water. A tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood, or a bit of pearl-ashes or soda of the size of a nutmeg, will not only preserve the green colour, but contribute to the tenderness of cabbage, savoys,* &c. Put in all vegetables with soft boiling water and plenty of salt; with hard water the colour w-ill keep better, but the quality will not improve. Make them boil fast, and do not cover the vessel if you de- sire to preserve their fine colour. In a former section it was recommended to boil several sorts of vegetables and roots with the meat, when salted, with which they are to be served; and this, though it may injure the colour, will certainly improve the quality,—a point of greater importance. All vegetables should be enough boiled. The cook’s rule of having them crisp is as inimical to health as offensive to the palate. If boiled quickly, which they ought to be, vegetables are ready when they begin to sink in the boiling water, and they will spoil every instant after that. Meat may wait a little, but vegetables will not. BROCOLI AND CAULIFLOWER. Choose those vegetables close, compact, of a good colour, and from five to eight inches in diameter ; strip off the outside leaves, and trim away the tops of the inner leaves; cut off the stalk at the bottom, and pare away the outer husky skin from the branches. • We know that the Romans used nitte in boiling vegetables.