CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 281 soned with an anchovy, a shalot minced or a shred onion, and a little vinegar. Garnish with scraped horseradish, or fried parsley. N. B.—The above may be broiled and served in the sauce. To fricassee cold Beef.—Cut away all outside, skins, gristles, and fat. Cut the meat into thin small slices. Have ready a sauce made of broth thickened with butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with shred parsley and young onion, pepper, and salt. Strain the sauce when it is well-flavoured, and just heat the meat in it by the side of the fire, and then add a glass of red wine, the yolk of an egg well beat, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the fricassee for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Olives of dressed Beef—Cut the meat as for fresh beef-olives. Season the slices, and spread over them thinly a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, seasonings, and a little finely-shred suet or marrow. Roll them up, and stew them in a relishing gravy saved from the joint, or drawn from the beef-bones, and thickened with butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with an anchovy or a little catsup. To hash cold Beef—Cut down the meat into small slices, or mouthfuls, trimming away all burnt outside, fat, gristle, skin, &c. Set aside the meat thus pre- pared with what gravy you have saved, and make a pint of broth of the bones well broken, the lean pieces of meat that are not used, or hard, or overdone. Sea- son this broth highly with pepper, allspice, two onions, a faggot of parsley, and salt. Thicken it with flour rubbed down as for batter-pudding. Skim all the fat from it; let it settle, and strain it, and heat it up again, putting to it, as additional seasonings, any of the following things:—Walnut or mushroom catsup, or onion-pickle liquor, with a few cut pickles, a little tarragon vinegar, or some shred parsley, made-mus- tard, capers, nasturtiums, &c. &c. In brief, any fla- vouring ingredient which is agreeable to the taste of the eater, and easily procured. When this sauce is hot, put the cut meat and gravy to it, and let it slowly warm quite through without boiling; or the sauce