CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 439 and throwing a cloth over the vessel, set it in a warm place for an hour or two. Add to this half a pound of melted butter, an ounce of caraway-seeds, and a little allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, and milk sufficient to make the whole of a proper stiffness. Butter a hoop, and pour in the mixture. Let it stand a half- hour at the mouth of the oven to rise, and then bake it. Scotch Diet-Cake.—Take a pound of fine sugar sift- ed, the same weight of eggs very well whisked, and mix and beat them together for twenty minutes. Sea- son with lemon-grate and cinnamon. Stir in very smoothly three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour. This is a very light cake, and will bake quickly. It may either be iced, or have sifted sugar strewed over it before baking. Scotch Short-Bread.—To the fourth of a peck of flour, take six ounces of sifted sugar and of candied orange-peel, citron and blanched almonds, two ounces each. Cut these in rather large pieces, and mix them with the flour. Rub down among the flour a pound of butter in very minute bits, and melt a half-pound, and with this work up the flour, &c. The less knead- ing it gets the more short and crisp the cakes will be. Roll out the paste into a large well-shaped oval cake about an inch and a half thick, and divide this. Pinch the cakes neatly at the edges, and mark them on the top with the instrument used for the purpose, or with a fork. Strew caraway-comfits over the top, and a tew stripes of citron. Bake on paper rubbed with flour. Obs.—Plainer short-bread may be made by using less butter and no candied fruit. The whole of the butter may be melted, which makes the process easier. Chopped almonds are used for rich short-bread. Savoy or Sponge Biscuit.—Whisk twelve eggs till white and thick, and mix with them a pound of sifted sugar. Beat these very well together, and then gra- dually mix in a half-pound of flour, and a seasoning of essence of lemon, or lemon-grate, and a little orange- flower water. Butter a melon or Turk’s-cap mould, and fill it within two inches of the toji. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, and when ready, take out