CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 383 Place fat and lean pieces of the meat together; or, if very lean, place thin slices from the firm flit of a leg or a neck of mutton along with the meat. Season the meat with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and allspice. Place it handsomely in a dish, and put in the drawn gravy, a quarter-pint of claret or port, a glassful of shalot vinegar, and, if liked, a couple of onions very finely shred. Cover the dish with a thick venison- pasty crust. Obs.—This is a dish in which ornament is not only allowable but is actually expected. The paste decore- ments are, however, matters of fancy. Before the pasty is served, if the meat be lean, more sauce made of a little red wine, gravy, mixed spices, and the juice of a lemon, may be put in hot. The common fault of venison-pasty is being overdone. An hour and a half in a moderate oven is fully sufficient for baking an ordi- nary-sized pasty; an hour will do fora small one. Some cooks steep the meat in the wine and other seasonings for a night, or for some hours previous to baking. This, no doubt, imbues the venison with the flavour of the seasonings, but at the same time drains off the juices, and hurts the natural flavour of the meat, so that we would rather discountenance rthe practice. A mock venison-pasty is made of a breast of mutton soak- ed in claret, vinegar and spices, for a night before dressing. Rook Pie.—Skin the birds; cut out the back-bones; season them with pepper and salt. Lay a beef-steak in the bottom of the dish, and put a good deal of thick- ened melted butter over the birds. Cover with a common crust. A quarter of an hour will bake them. —For Savoury Fish Pies see Chapter VI., Fish. fruit-pies, &c. Fruit-pies require a light and rich crust. Fruits that have been preserved are generally baked in an open crust, and are ornamented with paste-bars, bas- ket-work, stars, &c. Preserved fruit must not be put in till the crust is baked, as the oven often injures the colour of preserved things. Apple-Pie—Wipe, pare, core, and slice the apples