150 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. glassful to the quart.* * When to be dished, slip in two dozen of small force-meat balls, made of veal or veal-kidney, minced parsley, crumbs, and the season- ings directed for Quenelles (See French cookery,) and fried and drained, also hard-boiled yolks of eggs or egg-balls, and the juice of two lemons squeezed through a strainer. Obs.—A small piece of bacon used to be put into the stock-pot; and a faggot of sweet herbs, and mushrooms are still often added to the soup. The imitation of the real Turtle-soup was also thought nearer when the soup abounded in pieces of the fat double tripe, gristly bits of veal or veal sweetbread parboiled, or the belly- piece of pickled pork, cut in mouthfuls, the soft part of oysters, pickled tongue parboiled and cut down, the meat of lobsters, &c. These cloying substances are now very generally discarded. Simplicity is the taste of the day, though much is left to the discretion of the cook in the making of Mock Turtle, and all soups of the Composite order. The quantity made by the above directions is fully more than will be wanted for any dinner, as it will fill two tureens; but part of the stock may be laid aside for gravy or sauces; and if there is too much hash, some of it may be highly seasoned and dressed as a ragout or pie. Mock Turtle may be greened, if that is wished, by stewing a large handful of chopped green herbs, such as parsley, young onions, &c. in butter, and putting some of the soup^i#'them; then rubbing this liquor through a sieve,7md putting it to the soup. A CHEAPER AND VERY EXCELLENT MOCK TURTLE SOUP. This imitation is made of calf’s-feet and cow-heels gently stewed, the broth strained, and the meat cut down and put to it, with a seasoning of white pepper, allspice, onion, cayenne, a little mushroom or walnut catsup, a squeeze of lemon, and a glass ot Madeira. * 31 adeira or Sherry are the wines commonly employed; but • Burgundy or Claret may be used, if more depth of colour is wanted.