450 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. moms, all bruised in a mortar ; the rind of a Seville orange, rubbed off on lumps of sugar, a little tincture of saffron, and a half-pound of brown candy-sugar. Shake the infusion every day for a fortnight, and filter it for use. Obs.—Not a drop of water must be put to Irish Cordial. It is sometimes tinged of a fine green with the juice of spinage, instead of the saffron tint. L’Eau de la Vie *—This liqueur is very pleasant, and in quality so similar to Verder or Milk Punch, Lemon Brandy, &c., that it is unnecessary to give any other receipt for these compounds than the rhym- ing one subjoined. Glasgow Punch.—(From Peter s Letters, vol. 3d, page 174.) “ The sugar being melted with a little cold water, the artist squeezed about a dozen lemons through a wooden strainer, and then poured in water * Eau de Vie.—The following rhyming receipt for compounding this pleasant liqueur is communicated by a lady, who has contribut- ed to this volume many useful and some rare receipts :— “ Grown old, and grown stupid, you just think me fit To transcribe from my grandmother’s book a receipt; And comfort it is for a wight in distress. To be still of some use:—lie could scarce be of less. Were greater his talents, fair Anne might command His head—if more worth than his heart or his hand. Your mandates obeying, he sends, with much glee. The genuine receipt to make l'Eau de la Vie. Take seven large oranges, and pare them as thin As a wafer, or, what is much thinner, your skin. Six ounces of sugar next take, and bear mind, That the sugar be of the best double-refined. Clear the sugar in near half a pint of spring-water, In the neat silver saucepan you bought for your daughter. Then the fourth of a pint, you must fully allow, Of new milk, made as warm as it comes from the cow. Put the rinds of the lemons, the milk, and the syrup, In a jar, with the rum, and give them a stir up. A full quart of old rum (French brandy is better), But we ne’er, in receipts, should stick close to the letter; And then, to your taste, you may add some perfume, Goa-stone, or whatever you like, in its room. Let it stand thus ten days, but remember to shake it; And the closer you stop it, the richer you make it. Then filter through paper, ’twill sparkle and rise, Be as soft as your lips, and as bright as your eyes. Last, bottle it up, and, believe me, the Vicar Of E himself never drank better liquor. In a word, it excels, by a million of odds, The nectar your sister presents to the gods !”