374 CHAPTER IV. Chimeras from the poet’s fancy flow ; The cook contrives nis shapes in real dough. PASTRY, PIES, PASTIES, PATTIES, PUDDINGS, &C. Savoury pies, made of fresh materials, properly sea- soned, and not overdone—their besetting fault—are very generally liked. They are economical, since a good pie may be made of a piece of meat that would neither stew, roast, or boil, so as to make a hand- some dish ,• and they are convenient at table, since they may be divided and subdivided to any length, with little trouble to the carver. Pies can be made of almost every thing, and they eat better cold than meat dressed in any other way. A solid pie is a larder in itself, and as useful on the moors or at sea as in coun- try situations, where families are liable totheincursions of voracious visiters. The state of the oven should be particularly attended to, as almost every oven has a temperament of its own ; and it should never be for- gotten, that from the intense degree of heat, and the circumstance of the meat being cut down into small pieces, the process of baking is much more rapid than either roasting or stewing, and in this comes near to frying. Puff-paste requires a rather smart oven to make it rise light. Raised paste must have a quick oven; and paste iced must have a slack oven, that the icing be not scorched before the fruit is sufficiently baked. A few general plain directions may be given ; but practice and observation are essential to the pro- per preparation of pie-crust and the management of an oven. All pies to be eaten cold must be more high- ly seasoned than hot ones. Fine crust should have a little sugar, nothefloured much, and should be baked in a room of a medium temperature. Have a feather- brush to wipe off superfluous flour. To malce Puff-Paste.—Have the best flour, sifted, fresh, and free of damp. Take half its weight, or rather more, of fresh or washed salt butter. Crumble a third part of the butter among the flour, mixing it well, and make it into dough with a proper quantity