CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKEftY. 328 two carrots, and a bunch of onions. When you have got all the juices out of it, and it is just ready to catch, moisten it with consomme, and season with a small faggot of sweet herbs. When all the strength is got from the meat, let the gravy settle, skim it, strain it, and reduce by a quick boiling till it is nearly a jelly. Meanwhile mix three spoonfuls of potato-flour with three pints of cream, and, when this boils, pour it to your sauce, and boil till the veloute is of a proper con- sistence and very smooth. Stir it up, continually lift- ing it by spoonfuls and letting it fall, and do this till it is cold to prevent a skin from gathering on it. Sauce a la Bechamelle.—Take as much veloute as you choose, and moisten it with blond de veau. Mix with this a pint of boiling cream, or what quantity you wish, with seasonings fit for the dish you intend to make. Brown Italian Sauce, Italienne Bousse, a favourite French Sauce.—Take two spoonfuls of chopped mush- rooms, one of parsley, half a one of shalot, half a bay-leaf, pepper and salt to taste. Moisten with Es- pagnole, and stew the vegetables. Add more pepper, if necessary, and the quantity of consomme necessary to bring the sauce to the proper thickness. Italian White Sauce, Italienne Blanche.—Use ve- loute instead of Espagno/e. This is all the difference between the white and brown sauce. Sauce a la Mailre d’Hotel.—Melt a quarter-pound of butter, and thicken it with flour; add in the stew-pan a little scalded and finely-minced parsley, salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon. Work it well with the spoon to make it smooth. Sauce Hackee.—Take of chopped mushrooms and gherkins a spoonful each, half a spoonful of scalded minced parsley, with pepper, salt, and vinegar. Mois- ten with a little consomme, or with brown Italian sauce. French Sauce d la Tartare.—Mix a minced shalot and a few leaves of chervil and tarragon finely minced with a tea-spoonful of made-mustard, a glass of vine- gar, and a sprinkling of oil. Stir this constantly, and, if necessary, thin it with vinegar. Sauce Tournee.—Moisten some white roux with consomme of poultry and blond dc veau, till it is thin. Stew in it a few chopped mushrooms, parsley, and onions. Skim and strain the sauce. For roux see p. 231.