326 CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. turn every cold left dish to good account, in the well- known varieties of timballes, scollops, vol-au-vent, or by dressing in casserole or croquets, &c. This branch of French cookery is worth the attention of every eco- nomist ; for though one, for example, does not go to the expense of serving a piece of cold turbot as a dressed salad or a vol-au-vent, it is excellent to know how the fish is best prepared for serving in a plainer style. There is already much French cookery blended with our own, and of late we are taking to the names as well as the dishes. Every modern cook Avho would thoroughly know her art must study the best French dishes, as modified by English taste and usage, and to do this she must be acquainted with the lead- ing features of the French system. In this Chapter, therefore, besides a copious selection of receipts for the best French dishes, we have given the elements of French cookery; and throughout the whole Manual, wherever the French mode seemed to deserve notice in any particular English receipt, the valuation has been carefully pointed out to the attention of the cook. STOCK-BROTH, OR GRAND BOUILLON. Stock-Broth is the first step in French as in Eng- lish systematic cookery. It is made exactly as direct- ed at pages 136-7 of this Manual. GRAND CONSOMME. Take a knuckle of veal, a shin of beef, any trim- mings of veal, poultry, rabbits, or game, or an old fowl, or brace of partridges. Cut these in pieces, (except such as you wish to serve as dishes,) and put them into a nice clean stew-pan with a bunch of parsley and young onions, and, if the flavour of foreign cookery is admired, a clove of garlic. Moisten this with fresh broth, and let the meat sweat over a slow fire till hot through. Prick it wTith a sharp-pointed knife to let the juices flow out, and add as much boiling broth as will suit the quantity of meat you have. Skim this, and let it simmer for three hours. Let it settle. Skim and strain it. Obs.—Consomme wrholly of poultry or game, to suit