453 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. The German Vermoute, or Wormwood- Wine.—In- fuse two tea-spoonfuls of the extract of wormwood in a quart of St George, a celebrated Hungarian wine. Any rough white wine will probably answer the same purpose. To make Saclc-Posset.—This is made either of good cream and grated sweet biscuits, or of beat eggs and milk instead of cream. Boil the cream or milk, sweeten it, and season with cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Warm the wine (Canary, alias sack) in a separate vessel, and stir it gradually into the milk ; then pour it quickly from one vessel into another till perfectly smooth: this is especially requisite if made with eggs. See Wassail Bowl. Ale-Posset.—Boil a pint of new milk with a slice ol bread, sweeten and season a bottle of mild ale in a china basin or dish, and pour the boiling milk over it. When the head rises serve it. Regent’s Puttch.—A bottle of champagne, a quarter- pint of brandy, a glassful of veritable Martinique. With this mix a pint of a strong infusion of the best green tea strained, with capillaire or simple syrup to taste. Obs.—Other liqueurs may be used with this com- pound, and also a flavouring of aromatics first infused and strained. The Pope’s Posset.—Sweeten and boil a bottle of white wine. Have a half-pound of sweet almonds, with a few bitter, blanched, pounded, and boiled in water, and ready strained. Mix the boiling-hot ingredients, beat them well up together. Athole Brose.—Mix with a cupful of heather-honey, two of mountain-dew, alias whisky, or, in this pro- portion, brandy and rum are also used, though the combination they form with honey cannot be called Athole Brose. The yolk of an egg is sometimes beat up with the brose. Auld Man’s Milk.—Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs separately. Put to the beat yolks, sugar and a quart of new milk, or thin sweet cream. Acid to this rum, whisky, or brandy, to taste (about a half-pint). Slip in the whipped whites, and give the whole a gentle stir up in the china punch-bowl, in which it T 2