474 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. onions, put to them seven pints of water. Let the whole boil gently over a very slow fire two hours and a half! Then thicken it with a quarter of a pound of oatmeal. After the thickening is put in, boil it a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time; then sea- son it with salt and pepper. Stem-Soup of Salt Meat.—Take two pounds of salt beef or pork, cut it into very small bits, and put it into a pot with six quarts of Avater, letting it boil on a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour; then put a feAV carrots, parsnips, or turnips, all cut small; or a few potatoes sliced; a cabbage, and a couple of cresses. Thicken the whole with a pint of oatmeal. All these to be well seasoned with salt and pepper. Cheap Soups.—The following soup Mrs Sparks sold every Saturday in small quantities:—A pint of the soup, with a bit of the meat warmed up on a Sun- day, made a dinner for a groAvn person. An ox-clieek, two pecks of potatoes, a quarter of a peck of onions, one ounce of pepper, half a pound of salt, boiled altogether in ninety pints of Avater, till re- duced to sixty; any garden-stuff may be throAvn in. Friendly Hints, by the same Writer.—The difference between eating bread new and stale is one loaf in five. If you turn your meat into broth, it will go much farther than if you roast or bake it. If you have a garden, make the most of it. A bit of leek, or an onion, makes all dishes savoury at small expense. If the money spent on fresh butter were spent on meat, poor families would be much better fed than they are. If the money spent on tea Avere spent on home- breAved beer, the Avife Avould be better fed, the hus- band better pleased, and both Avould be healthier. Keep a little Scotch barley, rice, dry pease, and oatmeal in the house. They are all cheap, and don’t spoil. Keep also pepper and ginger. Mrs White's Breakfasts,—Cheap Repository.— Neighbours, said Mrs White, a halfpenny Avorth of oatmeal, or groats, with a leek or onion out of your oAvn garden, which costs nothing, a bit of salt, and a little coarse bread, will breakfast your Avhole family.