CIIAP. IX.—FRENCH COOKERY. 344 grate and juice of a lemon. When just heated through, serve with grilled crusts. Salmi of Wild, Duck, or Teal Duck.—Make a sauce of veal-gravy as for partridges, but add cayenne. Simmer the trimmings of the duck in this, and then put in the cold roasted duck carved and skinned. Sim- mer till hot. Lift the meat into another stew-pan. Skim the sauce, and strain it over the meat, and add more seasoning if needful. Squeeze a bitter orange over the sauce, and serve the dish very hot. Eggs a, la Tripe.—Peel, slice, and fry in butter, three or four Spanish onions. When done, dust in some flour, and let it catch to a light brown. Put in a lit- tle hot milk, salt, and pepper, and let the sauce re- duce.* Put to this a dozen small hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Mix them gently with the sauce not to break the slices. Arrange them neatly in the dish. Eggs in Sauce Robert.—Proceed as above directed ; but brown the onions over a brisk fire, and moisten with soup. Reduce the same by boiling. Add a tea- spoonful of made-mustard, and stir in the sliced eggs. Eggs d la Maitre d’Hotel.—Do these white as eggs d. la tripe, but throw in a good lump of butter and minced parsley. Obs.—These dishes, though the best of their kind, seem of little comparative importance ; but when the cook, or the mistress of a family, as is often the case, is racked for something to fill up an odd corner, they afford a cheap and ready resource. Eggs dressed in this last way will afterwards make an admirable sauce for salt cod, ling, &c. &c. FRENCH DISHES OF FISH. Court Bouillon.—Where fish is boiled every day, as in large establishments, this is a very useful broth, as well as in Catholic families during Lent. Season a large gal- lon of water with salt, three carrots, a bunch of pars- ley, or roots of parsley and green onions, four shalots, * To boil and peel Eggs.—Boil them for fifteen minutes ; drop them in cold water ; roll them below your hand, and die shell will come off like any other mould.