CHAP. VI.—FISH. £04 TO PICKLE OYSTEHS. Wash the largest fat native oysters that you can get in their own liquor. Strain it, and to every pint of it put a glass of white wine, mace, nutmeg, a good many white peppercorns, and a little salt, if neces- sary. Simmer the oysters for four or five minutes; but never let them boil, as they will harden. Put them in glass or stone jars. Put vinegar in the pro- portion of a glass to the pint to the liquor, and boil it up. Skim the pickle and pour it over the oysters, and when cold, cover them and tie them close up with blad- der. The pickle-liquor may be boiled up occasional- ly and suffered to cool, which will tend to preserve the oysters : a spoonful of it will be a great addition to any hash or common ragout. TO FRY OYSTERS TO GARNISH FISH. Simmer them in their own strained liquor for three minutes; drain them; take off the beards, and, dip- ping in a batter of egg, flour, and white pepper, fry them in lard or butter of a golden brown. The above is the same as oyster-fritters, only the fritter batter must be stiffer, and highly-seasoned with mace, nutmeg, and lemon-peel. Oyster-loaves, a fantastic dish, is made as oyster-patties, using the little rolls made for this purpose instead of patty-pans.—See Patties and Oyster-Sauce, Preserved Oysters.* * Fish is a favourite food with the rich and luxurious, but it is not thought to possess much nourishment, though late experiments of men of science in France go far to overturn this opinion. When it is wished rapidly to reduce the weight of jockeys at Newmarket, they are kept on fish. Fish is considered more easy of digestion than flesh, though we are disposed to question the statement. Shell- fish, including turtle, from approaching to the nature of animal jelly, are the most nutritious, but not always the most easily digested. Salmon and salmon-trout, turbot, and sturgeon, are all nutri- tious, but heavy; and eels are nourishing, but very difficult of digestion. Salt-water fish , are considered more wholesome than the fish of streams, and those which frequent rocky or gravelly places, than the fish of slimy lakes and muddy pools. White fish are more easily digested than those of more richness and flavour, such as salmon and herring, and, if less fat, are at least as nutritious. Pike, the water-wolf, is firm in the texture, a well-flavoured 'and r