CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 287 strain off the gravy, and, melting some butter in ano- ther stew-pan, take the neck gently up, and lay it there to brown. When browned^ put as much of the strained gravy to it as will do tor sauce, with a glass of white wine, the juice of a Seville orange, white pepper and mace. Dish with the browned side up- permost, and pour the sauce over it. Obs.—This is an elegant but an expensive dish, with little to recommend it over plain savoury stews of veal save the name and the larding, a resource ot cookery, by the way, which does not seem peculiarly suited "to English palates, and which is now less em- ployed even in the French kitchen. Any piece of meat, poultry, or game, may be braised as above ; or, as another variety, stuffed with forcemeat instead of being larded. Braisitig is, in fact, slow stem-baking in fat rich compound juices, with high seasonings. A Granada of Veal.—Line a small oval dish with a veal-caul, leaving a part hanging over the ledges of the dish. In this, place slices of good bacon, then a layer of forcemeat, next veal-collops well seasoned, and so on till the dish is filled. Tuck up the caul over the whole, tie paper over it, and bake the gra- nada, turn it out of the dish, and serve with clear brown gravy. Obs.—Mushrooms, herbs, &c. may be added at dis- cretion to this savoury dish. To dress Veal a la daube.—Trim off the edge-bone of a good loin of veal, and cut off the chump.* Raise the skin, season the meat, and fill the hollow with a relishing forcemeat; bind up the loin with fillets of linen, and cover it with slices of bacon ; place the loin in a stew-pan, with the bones and trimmings, and veal-broth, if you have it, or jelly of cow-heels. Put in a faggot of herbs, mace, white pepper, and two anchovies. Cover the lid of the pan with a cloth, and force it down very close, placing a weight over it. Simmer slowly for two hours, shaking the stew- I lie chump or tail end makes a good family-dish, stewed in broth with roots, spices, herbs, and a slice of bacon. Serve its own gravy and the roots that are stewed with it.