CHAP. VII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 217 MUSHROOMS. So many fatal accidents happen every season from the use of poisonous mushrooms, and it is so difficult to distinguish between the edible kinds and those that are deleterious, that we would advise our readers either to eat none that they have not examined for themselves, or to be contented with what are raised in artificial beds, though the flavour of these are as decidedly inferior to that of the wild mushrooms as a coop-fed chicken is to the heath-cock.* “ Naturalists enumerate nearly 500 kinds of mushrooms found in England alone, and of these there are perhaps not ten sorts as- certained to be fit for human food. Mushrooms with coarse bread form the chief sustenance of the inhabitants of several of the Rus- sian provinces, during a considerable part of the year. They are indeed freely eaten everywhere on the continent, where their pro- perties seem to be better understood than in England. In Russia they are salted, dried, or dressed fresh, and eaten with olive-oil by the better orders, while the poorer classes use hemp-oil. They are also broiled, roasted in the ashes, stewed, and fried, served with meat, chopped with potatoes, turnips, carrots, &c. and form a relishing ingredient in ragouts and sauces. The following is a tolerably ac- curate description of the wholesome, or, we should rather say, the unsuspected sorts ; for, notwithstanding this extensive Russian prac- tice, we question whether mushrooms in substance are ever salu- brious. “ The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white ; as the size increases, the under part gra- dually opens, and shews a fringy fur, of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom is a tolerable size, and then turns to a dark-brown. These marks should be attended to: and, likewise, whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those which have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell, but not so strong as the right sort.” The most delicate mush- rooms are those found on old close-cropt pastures, or open downs by the sea-shore, where cattle browse. The season in England is, in good years, from about the end of August till October. In Scotland it is a few days later. Mushrooms of good quality are plentiful in Ireland. It is of that country Bacon said tong ago, " fhe favour of the king, Ireland is the soil where mushrooms and upstart weeds spring up in a night, and do chiefly prosper.” 1 lcking this delicious and singular food forms an agreeable rural amusement; and the ladies, or idle gentlemen of any family, may easily in their walks gather edible mushrooms for pickling, catsup, powder, and dressing fresh. The ancients, who were delicate in their eating, prepared their own mushrooms with an amber or silver knife—P. S. T. The following test of the qualities of mushrooms is given, though