CHAP. VII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 219 dish, and baste them with oil or melted butter, and strew pepper and salt over them. When they have been steeped in this marinade for an hour or inore, broil them on both sides over a clear fire, and serve them with a sauce of oil or melted butter, minced pars- ley, young onions, a little garlick, and the juice of a lemon poured hot over them; or they may be done in the oven, and a sauce drawn from the trimmings and stalks. POTATOES. Some humorous writer pities those people who lived before the publication of the Scottish Novels and the introduction of potatoes,—that root of superlative ex- cellence and unbounded utility, which takes its ho- noured place on every dining stool or table in the three kingdoms, and goes far to equalize the dining enjoyments of every grade of society. There are a great many varieties of potatoes, and fully as many ways of cooking them; but when all are tried, as the old yellow mealy kidney is the best potato, so is simple boiling the best mode of prepara- tion. Count Rumford, Sir John Sinclair, and other writers upon economics, have multiplied re- ceipts for dressing this valuable production ; but we would advise such of our readers as are potato-fanciers, rather to follow the practice adopted in the cabins or cottages in their neighbourhood, than any printed for- mula whatever. Potatoes are rarely seen in their ut- most perfection save in such situations, when just v ripe and freshly dug they are well washed and scrub- bed, suited in size, and boiled in hot-haste, with scanty water, and abundance of salt, and in a vessel to which poverty, luckily for the quality of the potatoes, denies a close-fitting lid. As soon as they are ready, the water is poured off; a few minutes more of the fire evaporates all moisture, and completes the cooking ; and there they lie, smoking hot, mealy, and flaky, bursting from their coats in such guise as potatoes are seldom seen on the tables of opulence. We take it for granted that these potatoes are of the dry fari- naceous kinds known in Scotland and Ireland, and