CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. 457 enrich your wines : it ought, when added, to be first mixed with honey or syrup. Flat wines may be enlivened by adding raisins bruised, mixing first a little spirits with them. The addition of good wine will better answer the same purpose. Wine is very apt to ferment over much; this may be checked by removing it into a cool place, adding a little spirits to check it, and making the bung fast, so as to ex- clude all air. We would recommend, as a certain means of making the first fermentation sure, to com- mence the process with a quart of the cooled liquor in a small vessel. This may be gradually increased to two or three quarts, and then put to the whole contents of the vat which you wish to ferment. By this means less yeast will do, and the process will be more certain. This rule is applicable to ginger-beer and to every sort of fermented liquor. After fermen- tation is over, be sure the cask is kept quite full and close bunged. The sooner wine is bottled after it has fined, the more it will sparkle ; we do not say it will be the better wine. BEST WHITE-GOOSEBERRY CHAMPAGNE. To every Scotch pint of white gooseberries mashed, add a quart and a half of water, and twelve ounces of good loaf-sugar bruised and dissolved. Stir the whole well in the tub or vat, and throw a blanket over the vessel; which is proper in making all wines, unless you wish to slacken the process of fermentation. Stir the ingredients occasionally, and in three days strain off the liquor into a cask. Keep the cask full, and when the spiritous fermentation has ceased, add, for every gallon of wine, a half-pint of brandy, or good whisky, and the same quantity of Sherry or Madeira. Bung up the cask very closely, covering the bung with clay; and when fined, which will be in from three to six months, rack it carefully off, and rack it again if not quite bright. Ar. B.—The fruit should be rather over ripe. A very excellent white-currant wine may be made by this receipt, or a wine of white gooseberries and white currants mixed. 7