CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 431 Magnum Bonum Plums.—Do them as directed for apricots, and be sure that the syrup is well clarified and well skimmed, and that the first simmering is slow and short, or else, instead of looking clear and plump, the fruit will shrink and shrivel in spite ot whatever may be afterwards done to plump it. Obs.—A bit of the stalk left is thought an improve- ment to the appearance of those preserved fruits. To preserve Red Gooseberries.—Clip off the top ot each berry, and take weight for weight of fine sugar. Clarify the sugar, and put the fruit to it, having made a slit with a needle in each berry, to let the sugar penetrate the fruit. Skim well, and when the skins look very transparent, take up the fruit with a sugar-skimmer into glasses or pots. Boil the syrup till it will jelly, (if the fruit were boil- ed so long it would become leathery.) Strain it through a fine sieve, and pour it on the berries. This is a cheap and beautiful preserve, either made as tart with croquant cover, or served in a glass dish. Green Gascoignes may be done in the same manner, first greening them, as directed for pickles, with alum and vine or cabbage leaves, though this at best is, we confess, a suspicious process. The seeds must be picked out of those green gooseberries, or they will not look nearly so well. To preserve Cherries.—Take a fourth more of sugar than of Morello cherries. Cut the stalks; take out the stones with a silver toothpick or bodkin as gently as possible ; or, if this be too troublesome, prick the fruit with a needle. Clarify the sugar, and put to it a half-pint of red or white-currant jelly ; and when this has boiled for five minutes, put in the cherries, and let them simmer till they look bright. Dried Cherries.—Take out the stones, and give the cherries a slow boil in a thin syrup. Let them re- main in this for a day, and scald them again and again, making the syrup gradually richer. When they look bright and plump pot them up in the syrup ; and when wanted, drain and dry them on a stove or wire sieve, or in a very cool oven. Cherries, peaches, apricots, &c. may be preserved in brandy with great ease. Prick them with a needle, and drop them into