296 CHAP. X.—MADE-DISHES. halt-dozen button-onions either roasted or parboiled and peeled. When the chops are quite tender, skim, thicken, and season the gravy with pepper and salt. Dish the chops in a soup-dish, and pour the gravy and roots over them. Obs.—Celery or cucumber may be put to the gravy, and also cut pickles, or a spoonful of catsup. Brown haricot is made with carrot and yellow turnip, onions, &c. White haricot of beans, white turnip, endive, ce- lery, &c. Haricot is an excellent plain dish, nourishing and savoury, containing a judicious combination of meat, fluid, and roots, and is one of the best ways in which veal-cutlets, mutton-chops, or rump-steaks, can be used. Haricot may be made of the loin, but not so economically as of the neck or back-ribs. Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters.—Have a large shoulder, which has been kept till tender, boned, and highly seasoned with salt and pepper. Lay some bearded oysters inside the meat, roll it up firm, bind it with fillets, and simmer in broth, with onion and peppercorns, and a head of celery, till ready. Undo the tape, and pour oyster-sauce over the mutton. To dress a Scrag of Mutton.—Trim the scrag, and braise it in fresh broth with roots, seasonings, and a faggot of sweet herbs, and with a few slices of bacon under and over it, if you wish it rich. Simmer gently for three hours. Skim, and strain the gravy, and serve it with the meat; with dressed spinage, or cu- cumber sauce. To dress a Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the fat; par- boil the meat; egg it, and strew over shred parsley and bread-crumbs. Stick pieces of butter all over it. Brown it in the Dutch oven, and serve with caper or Robert sauce, or with stewed cucumbers. Mutton-Collops.—See Beef-Collops, p. 119 and 125. To grill a Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the superflu- ous fat, and take out the bones. Beat the breast flat, and season and score it in diamonds. Brush it with egg, and strew minced parsley and bread-crumbs over it. Broil it in a Dutch oven, basting it well with fresh butter, and serve with caper-sauce, cucumbers, or sauce Robert. Mutton-Cutlets Maintenon.—Cut handsome chops