CHAP. III.——SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. 357 Obs.—Some people thicken cock-a-leekie with the fine part of oatmeal. Those who dislike so much of the leeks may substitute shred greens, or spinage and parsley, for one half of them. Reject the coarse part of the leeks. Prunes wont to be put to this. BALNAMOON SKINK, (111 Irish Soup. Clean and cut into pieces two or three young cocks, or fowls. Have one larger neatly trussed for boiling. Boil the cut fowls till the broth is as strong and good as they can make it; but do not overboil, the fowl. Strain the broth, season it with parsley, chives, and young onions chopped, and, if in season, a few tender green pease. Add white pepper and salt, and serve the whole fowl in the tureen. Ohs.—This is another variety of the old Scottish cock-a-leekie ; a dish, which, under some name, is, with whatever modification of seasoning, familiar in every country where a backward system of husbandry renders poultry plenty, and shambles-meat scarce. Without desiring to innovate on these national pre- parations, we would recommend, for the sake of the ladies’ dresses and the gentlemen’s toil, that the fowl be carved before it is served in the tureen. HOTCH-POTCH. Make the stock of sweet fresh mutton. Cut down four pounds of ribs of lamb into small steaks, and put them to the strained stock. Grate the zest of two or three large carrots; slice down as many more. Slice down also young turnips, young onions, lettuce, and parsley. Have a full quart of these things when shred, and another of young green pease. Put in the ve- getables, withholding half the pease till near the end of the process. Boil well and skim carefully; add the remaining pease, white pepper, and salt; and when enough done, serve the steaks in the tureen with the hotch-potch ; trim the fat from the steaks. Obs.—The excellence of this favourite dish depends mainly on the meat, whether beef or mutton, being perfectly fresh, and the vegetables being all young, and full of sweet juices The sweet white turnip is r 2