107 CHAP. II. ROASTING. into the inside as an interior basting. Froth and brown nicely. The gravy is preserved and served, but more gravy must generally be added. Gooseberry sauce, or Redgili/s sauce.—See Sauces. Garnish with grated crust of bread.* Salted geese are in some parts of * In England the goose is sacred to St Michael; in Scotland, where dainties were not going every day, “ ’Twas Christmas sent its savoury goose.” The Michaelmas goose is said to owe its origin to Queen Elizabeth’s dining on one at the table of an English baronet on that day when she received tidings of the dispersion of the Spanish Armada, in commemoration of which she ordered the Goose to make its appear- ance every Michaelmas. In some places, particularly Caithness, geese are cured and smoked, and are highly relishing. Smoked So- lan geese are well known as contributing to the abundance of a Scottish breakfast, though too rank and fishy-flavoured for unprac- tised palates. The goose has made some figure in the English history. The churlishness of the brave Richard Cceur de Lion, a sovereign distinguished for an insatiable appetite and vigorous digestion, in an affair of roast goose, was the true cause of his captivity in Ger- many. The King, disguised as a palmer, was returning to his own dominions, attended by Sir Fiiik Doyley and Sir Thomas de Multon, “ Brothers in Arms,” and wearing the same privileged garb. They arrived in Almain, (Germany,) at the town of Car- pentras, where, “ A goose they dight to their dinner, In a tavern where they were. King Richard the fire bet; Thomas to him the spit set; Four Doyley tempered the wood; Dear a-bought they that good ;”—. for in came a Minstralle, or she-Minstrel, with offer of specimens of her art in return for a leg of the goose and a cup of the wine. Richard, who loved “ rich meats,” and cared little at this time for their usual accompaniment, “ minstrelsy,” “ — bade that she should go; That turned him to mickle woe. The Minstralle took in mind, And said, ye are men unkind; And if I may, ye shall for-think Ye gave me neither meat nor drink !” , .1 he lady, who was English, recognized the King, and denounced mm to the King of Germany, who ordered the pilgrims into his presence, insulted Riciiaud, “ said him shame,” called him tag. laid, probably for his affection for goose, and finally ordered him to a dungeon. But Richard, a true knightly cater, who, besides roast goose, liked to indulge in “ Bread and wine, Pimcnt and clarry good and fine ;