268 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. Obs.—A few slices of beet-root make a pretty Jill- up dish for any odd corner on a table, and a very ele- gant garnish, particularly if contrasted with the bril- liant emerald green of pickled samphire. The slices, when to be used, may be cut in the form of leaves, flowers, or nicked round the edges ; a few small sil- ver onions, and turnips scooped out to the size of marbles, will take the rich tinge of this pickle, form an ornamental variety with the beet-root, and cost nothing. Cochineal will improve the colour. Indian Pickle, or Piccalilli.—This is a general hodge-podge pickle of all the common green and white pickles to which the currie flavour and tawny currie tinge is given. Prepare the pickle-liquor thus : —To every two quarts of the best vinegar put an ounce and a half of white ginger scraped and sliced, the same of long pepper, two ounces of peeled shalots, one of peeled garlic, an ounce and a half of salt, an ounce of turmeric, a little cayenne, and some flour of mustard. Let this infuse in a close jar set in a warm place for a week ; and, in the meanwhile, have .ready a white cabbage sliced, cauliflowers cut in neat branches, white turnip-radishes, young French beans, sliced cucumbers, button-onions, and codling apples, a large carrot cut in round slices, nicked round the edges. Sprinkle all these things with plenty of salt, mixing it well with them in a large earthen vessel, or pouring scalding brine over them. Let them lie for four days, turning them over, and then take them up, wash them in vinegar, and dry them carefully with a cloth, and afterwards lay them on sieves be- fore the fire, turning them over till thoroughly dried. Next day place them either in a large stone-jar, or in smaller jars, and pour the cooled pickle over them. The jars must be well stopped. Obs.—This pickle keeps a long time, and for the first two years will even improve by the keeping. These vegetables do not come in all together, but they may be prepared as for pickling, and added to the general pickle as they come into season. This pickle looks more attractive if the French beans, small whole cucumbers, or melons, are greened be- fore they are put to it, as directed in other receipts.