386 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. Cranberry-Tart.—This may be made either of fresh or preserved cranberries. Season with beat cloves and cinnamon. Put in a sufficient quantity of sugar. Cover with a puff-paste, and serve with cream, which to this fruit is indispensable. Prune-Tarts.—Wash and scald the prunes; take out the stones, and either bruise them, and take out the kernels to add to the tarts, or not, as you choose. Put sugar to taste to the fruit, and bake it as a tart or pie. To Ice Tarts.—Beat the white of an egg very well, and brush the paste with a feather, either at first, or when half baked, which will prevent the icing from becoming scorched in the oven. When brushed well over with egg, sift fine sugar, beat to an impalpable powder, over it. A heavier kind of varnish for some things is made of beat yolks of eggs and melted but- ter. Common Glazings for Paste.—Sugar and water. Yolk or white of egg beat up with water, white of egg and sugar sifted over. Yolk of egg and melted butter. Mince-Pies.—These are made in an endless variety of ways. Indeed every family receipt-book teems with prescriptions. We select what is, after experi- ment and mature consideration, considered the best formula.—Par-roast, or bake slightly, a couple of pounds of the fine lean of good beef. Mince this, or scrape it. Mince also two pounds of fresh suet, two of apples, pared and cored, three pounds of currants washed, picked, and dried, and a pound and a half of good raisins stoned. Let the things be separately- minced till fine, but not so fine as to run together; then mix them with a pound of beat sugar, and add a tea-spoonful of salt, a half-ounce of ground ginger, the same weight of allspice and bruised coriander- seeds, some beat cloves, two nutmegs grated, the juice and grated rind of two lemons and of two Se- ville oranges, half a pound of candied lemon and orange-peel, and a quarter pound of candied citron sliced. Mix the seasonings equally with the meat. Put a half-pint of brandy, or pine-apple rum, into a basin, with double that quantity of Madeira or sherry.