394 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. Obs.—Plum-pudding will keep cold, and re-warm when wanted, in slices, in the Dutch oven or frying- pan. A plum-pudding, with meat, may be made either according to the receipt for minced pies, or a bride’s-pie, adding eggs and milk enough to thin it. Marrow-Pudding.—Grate as much bread as will fill a large breakfast-cup quite full. Put it into ajug, and pour nearly a quart of boiling sweet milk or thin cream over it, and let it swell and soak, while you shred a half-pound of marrow or suet, and beat up four large or six small eggs. Have two ounces of raisins stoned, and two ounces of currants picked and plumped. Sweeten the pudding to taste, and season it with a very little grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of cinnamon in powder. Cover a stoneware flat dish on the edge with stripes of puff-paste, and mark it neatly in leaves. Bake the pudding in this dish, or plainly in a deep dish. Obs.—A few almonds, or a little candied citron or orange-peel, may be put to this pudding for variety. A little finely-sifted sugar may be strewed on the top, which makes a good veil to puddings when un- luckily scorched in the oven; or a few blanched al- monds sliced may be stuck round it for ornament. In a flat dish twenty-five minutes will bake it. It will require a half-hour in a deep dish ; or it may be boiled in a pudding-shape. This pudding wdll keep and cut in firm slices, which may be broiled or heated in a Dutch oven. A suet-pudding, a baked plum-pud- ding, and a fat-pudding, are made exactly as the above, only the quantity of fruit may be varied at pleasure, or cheaper fruit substituted. A Hunter s Pudding.—This is nearly a plum-pud- ding. Stone a pound of raisins, and chop them, shred a pound of suet, clean a pound of currants, grate the rind of a lemon over this, and mix up six beat eggs with a pound of flour, a quarter-pound of sugar, and what milk will make a stiff batter. Season with a salt-spoonful of Jamaica pepper, and the same quan- tity of nutmeg; and add candied citron and orange- peel, if you like. Boil for six or seven hours in a cloth or mould, and serve with pudding-sauce. Obs.—This pudding will keep a long while, and