FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. 515 and pillaus of our Eastern friends, and much to admire in the hotch- potch and game soups of our hostess. TOUCHWOOD. For the which I challenge the globe !—I am accused of inno- vating ;—of being a culinary Jacobin, seeking to overturn the ex- isting order of dishes ’Tis false !—With a patriotic, if not very re- fined gastronomer, I will now say,—“ When England discards her roast beef and plum-pudding, and Scotland ceases to pride herself on sheep’s-head broth and haggis, we may fairly conclude, that both countries are about to change their manly national character.” —But merry England herself has her haggis, Luckie,—her Haggis- royal—three pounds chopped leg of mutton MEG DODS. And what for no, Mr Weighbauks ?—But she should tak’ tent no’ to brog ither folks sae hard. TOUCHWOOD. Three pounds of chopped leg of mutton, I say ; a pound of suet chopped ; a little, or rather as much beef-marrow as you can spare; the crumb of a penny loaf; (our own nutty-flavoured, browned oatmeal, by the way, far better); the beat yolks of four eggs ; a half pint of red wine ; three mellow fresh anchovies boned ; minced pars- ley, lemon-grate, white pepper, crystals of cayenne to taste,—crys- tals alone ensure a perfect diffusion of the flavour.:—blend the ingre- dients well; truss them neatly in a veal caul; fire in a deep dish, in a quick oven, and turn out. Serve hot as fire, with brown gravy, and venison-sauce.—Such, Doctor, is the Haggis-Royal ;—made of venison when that is plentiful, it might well deserve to be called Imperial I see your eye terribly reproaches me, Doctor, for not including this morceau in our experiments—but a good time waits us. REVIEWER. Extremely interesting, indeed !—My dear Sir, your mind is now so thoroughly imbued—so marinaded, I may say, with culinary science, that every sentence conveys a valuable hint to the cook and the epicure. For my heresy on the subject of haggis, I vow, Mis- tress Dods, to endure the penance of half-dining on Haggis-royal every day for a week to come—Indeed, till I had the honour of sit- ting this day at your hospitable board—which forms a new era in my gustatory existence—till four hours agone, I never had the felicity of knowing what a real made-dish was :—that superb pike d la Ge- nevoise;—but, above all, that Lievre cn daube. Every hare I have hitherto tried, must, I now suspect, have been a “ hare of the tiles ” Captain Jekyl.