CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 255 cayenne in a half-pint of strong spirits for a fortnight, and strain and bottle it for use. Essence of Lemon and Seville Orange Peel.—Rub lumps of sugar on the lemon or orange till the lumps are saturated with the yellow rind. Scrape off what is saturated, and repeat the process till all the rind is got off. Press the sugar down close, and cover it up. Obs.—Essence of Seville Orange makes a most fra- grant and grateful seasoning to custard, rice, or batter puddings. Quintessence of lemon or orange peel is made by mixing one drachm of the essential oil of these fruits with a large glassful of rectified spirits, or spirit of wine, and is very convenient when fresh lemons are not to be obtained, though not equal to the fresh fruit either in fragrance or flavour. The oil must be very gradually mixed. Tincture of lemon-peel may be very economically made when lemon-juice is want- ed, by paring the peel off very nicely, and preserving it in brandy. The bottle must be very closely stop- ped, as the flavour of lemon is exceedingly volatile. Essence of Allspice may be made as that of lemon, and so may essence of cloves and mace. Essence of Ginger.—Infuse three ounces of well- bruised fresh ginger, and an ounce of lemon-peel sliced thin, in a pint and a half of strong rectified spirits. Let it be closely stopped, and shaken every day. This preparation is very cordial and grateful. Tinctures of Cloves, Nutmeg, Allspice, Cinnamon, fyc. may be all prepared by infusing a sufficient quan- tity of the aromatics in strong spirits. They may be converted into plain useful liqueurs by the addition of fine sugar; but they must then be carefully filtered. MIXED SPICES AND SEASONINGS. Cook’s Pepper.—Dry, and pound or grind to a fine powder, an ounce of ginger; and of nutmeg, black and Jamaica pepper, and cinnamon, half an ounce each, with a dozen of cloves. Bottle these in separate vials labelled and well corked, and mix in proper propor- tions with common salt when wanted. N. B.—French cooks keep their seasonings mixed and even jiound them together, not from convenience,