74 NOTICES OF THE PRINCIPAL MEATS, &C. Vegetables same as the last months, with chervil and lettuce: ve- getables now begin to get cheaper. Fruit.—Green gooseberries and rhubarb for tarts. MAY. The same in meat as the preceding months, and about Whit, suntide buck-venison comes in season. Fish.—Turbot, lobster, trout, salmon, eels, and plenty of the smaller fish in favourable weather; oysters go out of season till August, and cod is not liked from about Lady-day till Midsummer, or later. Vegetables of all kinds as before, with forced pease and early potatoes; sea-kale, sa- ladings, and carrots, are now obtained of natural growth. JUNE. Meat of all lands, and generally begins to get cheaper. Fish.— Salmon, turbot, skate, hollibut, lobsters, soles, eels, in high sea- son, and getting cheaper. Vegetables in great plenty and variety, and cheaper; early cauliflower got, asparagus plenty, and about the cheapest towards the end of the month. Fruits in fine seasons are strawberries, early cherries, melons, and forced peaches and apricots; also apples for tarts. JULY. Meat of all hinds.—Lamb and veal cheaper. Poultry of all kinds as before, and also plovers and wheat-ears. Leverets, turkey-poultss and ducklings, are now worth eating, and cheaper. Wild-ducke are often got about this time. Fish is now good of all kinds, save oysters; and the rarer sorts, as turbot and salmon, are about the cheapest. Vegetables of all kinds good and plenty, as cauliflowers pease, and French and Windsor beans. Fruits.—All the small fruits at their best, also early plums, apricots, melons, cherries, and pine-apples. AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER. Meat of all kinds.—Mountain mutton now excellent. Grass- lamb growing coarse. Veal scarcer. Poultry as before, with moor-game of all the kinds after the 12th August, and partridges and hares from the beginning of September. Geese and ducks now full-grown. Fish.—Cod becomes good,—turbot goes rather out, as does salmon. Fresh-water fish now plenty, as pike, carp, perch, and trout. Herrings, which are in season from July till March, are now excellent. Fruits of all kinds plentiful, as peaches, plums, nectarines, grapes, melons, filberts, pears, apples: re- tarded small fruits still seen ; also quinces, morella cherries, and damsons. Mushrooms at the plentiest at this time, also cucumbers. OCTOBER. Meat as before, and doe-venison. Pasture-fed beef and mutton are probably at the best in this month. Poultry and game in all