220 CHAP. VII.—VEGETABLES AND HOOTS. not those cheesy, waxy roots which habit has brought the inhabitants of London to relish. Steaming is re- commended for potatoes by theoretical writers upon the subjects of the kitchen, and certainly, where po- tatoes must be cooked on a large scale, it is very con- venient ; but, so far as our experience goes, we will venture to affirm, that the crude, rank, deleterious juice, which makes potatoes so unfit for food in their raw state, is never so quickly nor so effectually ex- tracted as by rapid uncovered boiling. Potatoes ought to be eaten as soon as they are dressed. If they must stand, let it be by the fire, in the sauce- pan, and only partially covered, that the steams may escape as they arise. A piece of coarse calico or flan- nel kept for this purpose should be laid over the po- tatoes in folds, and the cover over this. This will not only absorb the moisture, but keep them hot a long while. Young potatoes ought always to be served in their skins ;—very little boiling will dress them, and they are best when boiled with boiling water poured over them. Young watery immature potatoes are unsafe food if taken in any quantity. After the beginning of April potatoes should be peel- ed and soaked in water for a short time before they are boiled, or they may be mashed. Roasted Potatoes.—This, next to boiling, is the best mode of cooking this root. Let them be large, of equal size, and well washed and scrubbed ; for the browned skin of a roasted potato is the better part of it. They must be slowly done before the fire, or in an oven or Dutch oven, or buried in wood or turf ashes. Serve them with cold salt butter scooped, and roasted onion. See Potatoes Roasted under Mutton. Potatoes are Fried or Broiled after being boil- ed, peeled, and sliced cold. Broil on a clear fire, and fry in plenty of good clear beef-dripping. They may be dressed as potato -fritters, by flouring the slices, dipping them in egg and crumbs, and frying. They form a great addition to sausages, and pickled or red herrings, with which they may be served. Large potatoes, cut neatly in ringlet-slices and browned, form a suitable garnish to sausages, pork-chops, &c. The French fry sliced potatoes in goose-dripping.