CHAP. IV. FRYING. 125 brown gravy or onion sauce, served very hot along with them. Garnish with pickles or scraped horse- radish.* The wine may be omitted. SCOTCH BEEF COLLOPS WITH ONIONS. M. D. Cut the meat rather thinner than for broiling; make the butter hot, and place the collops in the pan, with about the proportion of a couple of middle-sized onions sliced to each half-pound. If the butter be salt, pepper is used, but no additional salt. Cover the pan with a close lid, or a plate reversed. When done, the collops may be drawn aside, and a little walnut catsup and boiling water added to the onion gravy sauce in the pan. Dish, and serve hot.f TO FRY VEAL CUTLETS. Cut slices about half an inch thick from the fillet, back-ribs, or loin. If not equally cut, level them with the cleaver. Have plenty of fresh butter hot to fry them in, not dripping, which is unsuitable to white meat. Keep the pan at a good distance from the fire, if the cutlets be any thing thick; when browned on both sides of a light golden-tinged brown, the pan may be held higher above the fire and covered. Have ready some gravy made thus : A quarter pound skins, bones, or trimmings of the cutlets, a blade of mace, the head of a young onion, a sprig of parsley, a good bit of lemon-peel, six white pepper-corns, a bay-leaf, if the flavour is liked, and a pint of water, which may boil down one-half; add fresh butter, the size of a large walnut, rolled in flour. When this gravy is well thickened, strain, boil again, and pour hot over the cutlets, which must be served very hot. This * Epicures of the modern school begin to dislike the flavour of anchovy in meat-dishes, reserving it for fish. It is certainly, though a high, not a delicate relish. + t'his national dish possessed rather too much gusto for Jekyll; but the Doctor admired it exceedingly, and even suggested that, in- dependently of the collops, this was an excellentmetiiod of preparing onion gravy, which only required the addition of a little red wine and lemon-juice, to those who like an acid relish, to be complete.