91 CHAP. II.—ROASTING. in mind that fat meat takes longer than lean, and Pork and Veal longer than any other kinds ot meat. But, as was said of boiling, this must in almost every case be determined by circumstances, k diets and legs take longer than loins or breasts. A meat-screen, the state of the weather, the kind of fuel, and a thousand things, must be taken into account. A meat-screen con- tributes so much to good roasting, and is so generally useful, that something of the kind ought to find a place in every family that aspires to comfort. It saves fuel, keeps plates and dishes warm, or makes them so; and, above all, by warding off draughts of air, preserves the atmosphere in the region of the spit in a state ot equality.* Once, or, if the roast be very large, twice during the process, withdraw the spit and dripping- pan and stir the fire, clear away the ashes, and bring forward the clear burning coals, supplying their place with fresh fuel. When the meat is nearly done, which will be known by the length of time, and by the smoke, in the language of the kitchen, “ drawing to the fire,” the paper is to be removed, and a little salt sprinkled lightly over the roast, and the spit so placed, that the ends of the roast may be browned. The meat must now be carefully basted, and may be * There was no meat-screen in the Cleikum, Meg said, “ She had nae brow of sick new-fangled niceties but the Nabob, who, like all men of genius, was handy and full of resource, contrived, with the help of Dr Redgill, to erect an immense old japan tea- tray upon stools and barrels. This he substituted till John His- eof brought a new one from Edinburgh, for the which Jekyll had condescended to make a drawing, and which Mrs Dods, now quite reconciled, has used with great approbation ever since, declaring it the “ most comfortable, useful piece of furniture that ever a kitchen saw.” In all departments of domestic life, save the management of kit- chen-fires, there is, at least, a decent show of attention to economy among servants. There the waste is wanton, wilful, and enormous, whether cooking be going forward or not. “ The waste of fuel,” says Count Rumford, “ which arises from making liquids boil un- ‘ necessarily, or when nothing more is necessary than merely to them boiling hot, is enormous. I have not a doubt, that half Pe fire used in kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner.” To convince a regular cook, or even a kitchen-maid, that she does not know how to manage her fires, is, we confess, nuite hopeless; but surely something might be made of young girls by proper instruction in economizing an article or such serious consequence in all families.