52 OP BILLS OF FAKE. between the centre-piece and the dish of fish to which each is appropriate; and this, with the decanted wines drank during dinner, foi'ms the first course. When there are rare French or Rhenish wines, they are placed in the original bottles (uncorked) in ornamented wine- vases, at the head and bottom of the table,—that is, be- tween the centre-piece and the top and bottom dishes; or if four kinds, they are ranged round the plateau. The Second Course, when there are three, consists of roasts and stews for the top and bottom, Turkey or fowls, or fricandeau and ham garnished, or tongue, for the sides ; with small made-dishes for the corners, served in covered dishes ; as palates, stewed giblets, currie of any kind, ragout, or fricassee of rabbits, stew- ed mushrooms, &c. &c. Two sauce-tureens, or glasses with pickles, or very small made-dishes, may be placed between the epergne and the top and bottom dishes ; vegetables on the side-table are handed round. If the epergne is taken away with this course, then a small tablecloth or overlay, which is often placed across, to keep the cloth neat for the third course, is also removed. The Third Course consists of game, confectionary, the more delicate vegetables dressed in the French way, puddings, creams, jellies, &c. Water-bottles, with rummers, are placed at proper intervals. Malt liquors and other common beverages are called for ; but where hock, champagne, &c. &c. are served, they are handed round between the courses. When the third course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucumber, are usually served ; and the finger-glasses, where these disagreeable things continue to be openly used, precede the dessert. At many tables, however, of the first fashion, it is customary merely to hand round quickly a glass vessel or two filled with simple, or simply perfumed tepid water, made by the addition of a little rose or lavender water, or a home-made strained infusion of rose leaves or lavender spikes. Into this water each guest may dip the corner of his napkin, and with this (only when needful) refresh his lips and the tips of his fingers, Polite foreigners cannot reconcile the use of finger- glasses with the boasted excessive delicacy of the do-