448 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. Scotch Noyeau, a very pleasant Compound.—Two quarts of proof-spirit, a pint and a half of water, a pound and a half of clarified syrup, six ounces of sweet and four of bitter almonds, blanched and chop- ped. Infuse for a fortnight, shaking the compound occasionally, and filter. Lemon may be added. Strong Cinnamon Cordial.—Pour about sixpence worth of oil of cinnamon on a few knobs of sugar, and rub them well together. Mix this with two quarts of spirits and a pound of hot clarified syrup. Shake well, and let this infuse for a few days, and then filter it for use. Water may be added at pleasure to reduce the strength. Obs.—This maybe made of cinnamon in substance. Use for this quantity about the eighth of an ounce, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon. This and other com- pounds may be coloured with burnt sugar; but, if well filtered, they look better when pure and bright. Citron Cordial, a high-jlavoured and excellent Com- pound.—Take yellow rinds of citrons, six ounces; of orange-peel, four ounces; a nutmeg bruised, and a pint and a half of clarified syrup. Mix with two quarts of spirits for ten days, keeping the vessel in a warm place. Filter for use. Clove Cordial.—Take of bruised cloves and cassia- buds, a quarter of an ounce each, and a dozen Jamaica peppercorns. Infuse the spices in hot water, and keep the bottle by the fire, close stopped, for a night or two. Strain this to three pints of proof-spirit, and add sy- rup to taste. Filter, and colour with burnt sugar, or a bit of cochineal. Mace or nutmeg, bruised, may be added to Clove Cordial. It is grateful and stomachic. Barbadoes Water.—To two quarts of proof-spirit add syrup to taste, two ounces of fresh orange-peel, four of lemon-peel, and a few bruised cloves. Infuse for ten days, and filter. Creme d’Orange, a delicious Cordial.—Over a dozen oranges, sliced, pour three quarts of rectified spirit, and a pint of orange-flower water. Close the vessel carefully ; and in ten days add five pounds of clarified syrup, a quart of water, and a half-ounce of tincture of saffron; close the vessel again, and in a fortnight