418 CIIAP. v.—oiinaMental dishes. the apples on this, with a bit of butter in the heart of each. Lay the rest of the marmalade into the vacan- cies. Glaze with sifted sugar, and give them a fine colour in the oven. Apples in Rice.—Prepare apples as above ; but in- stead of marmalade use seasoned and buttered rice. Glaze and brown as above. N. B.—These are cheap and excellent preparations. For preparing the rice ; see Gateau de Riz, 338. Devonshire Junket.—Milk the cow into a bowl in which a little rennet is put. Stir it up •when full ; and when firm pour over it scalded cream, pounded sugar, and cinnamon. Wliipt Syllabub.—Make a strong whip as directed for Trifle ; or in making a Trifle a little of the whip may be saved, or may even be applied to this use after it has done duty on the Trifle. Mix a large pint of rich sweet cream with a half-pint of sweet wine, sifted sugar to taste, the juice and fine grate of a lemon, and a little cinnamon. Stir this briskly, and fill the glasses within a half-inch of the brim. With a spoon lay a little of the whip lightly on the top of each ; or a whip may be got by whisking the above materials, and draining the froth on a sieve as long as possible before the syllabubs are wanted. Windsor Syllabub.—Pour a bottle of sherry or port into a deep china or glass bowl; sweeten it well, and season it with pounded cloves and grated nutmeg. Milk nearly double the quantity of milk over it, and stir it up. Staffordshire Syllabub.—It is made as above, sub- stituting cider with a little brandy for the wine. Somersetshire Syllabub.—Sweeten a pint of port, and another of Madeira or sherry, in a china bowl. Milk about three pints of milk over this. In a short time it will bear clouted cream laid over it. Grate nutmeg over this, and strew a few coloured comfits on the top if you choose. SOUFFLES. Souffle of Ground Rice.— Bleach two spoonfuls of rice-flour, as directed in making potato-flour, and dry this quantity. Boil it slowly with a half-pint of