222 CHAP. VII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. and onion, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, and a little of any flavouring ingredient that is suited to the dish they are to accompany. Small ragout-balls form an agreeable addition to open fish-pies, or make a neat supper-plate. Westphalia Loaves for a Supper-Dish, or to eat with Veal, SjC.—Grate four ounces of good lean ham, and mix it with a pound of good potatoes, mashed with butter. Add salt, pepper, and two eggs, to bind the ingredients. Mould this into small loaves, or shape it in patty-pans, and fry and serve in a brown gravy, or alone. To restore frosted Potatoes.—This is partially done by steeping potatoes, or any other frosted vegetable, in cold water till thawed. A better and more effectual method has been discovered by a Cumberland gentle- man. This remedy is simply to allow the potatoes to remain in the confined pits after a severe frost till the mild weather has set in for some weeks, and allowed them to recover gradually. If once exposed to the atmospheric air, no art will recover frosted potatoes. A Potato-Collar, rolled handsomely up, scored in diagonal lines, and nicely browned, makes a handsome potato-dish. Garnish it with potato-balls around it, and a brown onion gravy-sauce, or plain melted but- ter, which we would recommend in place of the wine- sauce ordered by cooks. A Potato-Pie, made of sliced potatoes and onions, butter, pepper, and salt, is a good nursery or cottage dish, but a temptation and a trial to the gourmand’s temper, and an affront to the cook’s puff-paste, when covered and served up as a savoury pie. Ohs.—There are many other approved ways of dressing this chief of esculent roots, either alone or in conjunction with other viands, such as Irish stew, salt- fish-pie, &c.; and we may mention one or two of them :—In some parts of Ireland, and in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, where Finnan haddocks, pickled herrings, and dried meats, are regularly served at breakfast, mashed potatoes, become firm from standing from the dinner or supper of the previous day, are cut in oblong slices, browned on the grid- iron, and to eat with fish, form a substitute for bread