CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 261 ounce of black peppercorns, a quarter-ounce of allspice, a half-ounce of fresh sliced ginger, two or three blades of mace, and a few cloves. Boil the liquor on a quick fire for fifteen minutes; or, if it be wished very strong, boil the catsup till it is nearly half reduced, adding the spices after it has boiled a full half-hour. Let it settle on the lees, and, pouring it carefully off, bottle what is clear by itself, and the sediment, after strain- ing, in separate bottles, as it will answer very well for hare-soup, game-soup, &c. Dip the cork of the bot- tles in bottle-rosin. Cayenne and nutmeg may be added to the other spiceries if a very delicate relish is wanted; or all the seasonings may be withheld save the black pepper and salt, of which catsups to make them keep well require a good deal. The longer it boils the better it will keep. In France, glaze is put to mushroom-catsup, and the whole is boiled till it be nearly a glaze ; in this state it keeps good for years. Sauces, <(yc. ought to be kept with the bottle lying on the side, as the cork is best preserved in this manner. It is a general fault with bought catsups, sauces, §c. that the bottles are not quite full. A space is left, which, being filled with air, hastens the decay of the contents of the bottle. These things ought to be bottled in very small quantities, as a bot- tle once opened soon spoils. When a bottle of capers or pickles is opened, it must be filled up with good vinegar, scalded and cooled. Anchovies, bay-leaves, and cayenne pepper, are all put to catsup. WALNUT-CATSUP. Gather the walnuts green. Prick them with a bod- kin, and throw them into a tub with a large handful of salt and some water, which will greatly assist in drawing out their liquor. Mash them well with a potato-beetle or rolling-pin, and repeat this every day tor four days. The rind will now be soft. Pour scalding water, with salt, over the walnuts, and raise the tub on edge that the walnut-liquor may flow away from the shells. Take it up as it gathers into another vessel, and still repeat the mashing; or pound the walnuts in a mortar, and pour some allegar over them, L 2