CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 401 the puddings in them for fifteen minutes. Turn them out on a dish, and pour wine-sauce over them if to be eat hot. If to make a cold ornamental supper-dish, omit the wine-sauce. Butch Pudding, or Albany Cake.—Mix two pounds or rather less of"good flour with a pound of butter, melted in half a pint of milk. Add to this the whites and yolks of eight eggs separately well beaten, a half- pound of fine sifted sugar, a pound of cleaned cur- rants, and a few chopped almonds, or a little candied orange-peel sliced fine. Put to this four spoonfuls of yeast. Cover it up for an hour or two, and bake it for an hour in a wide flattish dish. When cold it eats well as a cake.* A Welsh Pudding.—Melt a half-pound of butter by setting itin a basin floating in hot water, and gradu- ally mix with it the beat yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four. Sweeten with fine pounded sugar, and season with the grate of a lemon and a little nut- meg. Bake in a dish with an ornamented paste-bor- der ; and when ready, stick slices of citron or candied orange-peel round the edges. A George Pudding.—Boil as for rice-pudding four ounces of rice with a roll of lemon-peel. Mix this when drained dry with the pulp of a dozen boiled, roasted, or baked apples, well beaten. Add the beat yolks of five or six eggs, sugar to taste, and a little cinnamon, with two ounces of candied orange and ci- tron sliced fine. Line and butter a basin or mould with paste, (not too thick,) and pour the pudding in- to it; then gently stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a strong froth. Bake the pudding for more than a half-hour, and serve it with a hot sauce made of wine, sugar, the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter. Cream-Sauce for Puddings.—Sweeten thin cream, and season either with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon rind, as best suits the pudding. Cook the cream with a bit of butter and a little rice-flour. Skink it well, and keep it hot by plunging the dish in hot water. When ready to serve, add a glass of sweet wine. Boil it up, and pour over the pudding. * This is the bonne Louche at the substantial tea-parties of the State of New York. The feast, begun with fried eggs and bacon, ends with buck-wheat cakes and the above preparation.