CHAP. I. BOILING. 87 ino- than any other meat. Small pork is the most de- licate to boil fresh. Pork throws up a greasy scum during the whole process, which must be constantly removed. Serve with peas pudding, (see Puddings,) or parsnips, boiled in the same pot. TO BOIL PARTRIDGES, PHEASANTS, SNIPES, WILD DUCKS, AND OTHER GAME. Boil as directed for chickens, or in fresh-mutton broth. For Partridges, Pheasants, &c. use the same sauces directed for them when roasted; garnish with crisp parsley, slices of lemon, or green pickles.. Obs.—Though game of all sorts is occasionally boiled, the committee of the Cleikum did not patro- nize this mode of dressing, except for rabbits. Boiled rabbits, which must be neatly trussed, are best smo- thered with thick onion sauce,though sometimes a liver sauce is made thus: Boil and bruise the liver; add veal gravy to some of the liquor in which the rabbits were boiled, thickened with flour, and a good piece of butter, and some parsley shred very fine. Season with mace and allspice, and garnish with sliced lemon. Onion sauce is also used for boiled goose and ducks, in pi-eference to less piquant compositions. Rabbits will take a full hour of slow boiling ; birds according to their size. TO BOIL TRIPE AND COW-HEELS. Unless in country places, or where families kill their own beef, tripe is bought ready boiled at the * Dr Renoir.!,, professionally devoted to benevolence and Chris- tian charity, made a long oration on the value of pork liquor for soup to the poor ; charitable soup, economical soup, dealt out in copious libations to old women as often as very salt and very fat pork was boiled in the Doctor’s kitchen. The idea was nauseous to every other member of the committee. Touchwood asserted that even Corbett, that enthusiast for hog’s flesh, disclaims pork broth. Redgii.i, on this hard push brought forward his battle-horse. Dr Kitchener, in vain,—was left in a minority of one, and the hogs got their natural perquisite. The liquor of young pork not long in salt will, however, make tolerable peas-soup, to which a strong re- lish of celery and onion should be given.