516 FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. MEG DODS. And what sort of hare is that, if we may speir ? JEKYL. A cat, landlady—a genuine mouser. meg dods, laughing. In good sooth,—arid that savoury morsel wad require your French' cookery, Captain ! I wadna let His French dal) into our Beuk, though he promised it (113)—So gi’e it to the gentleman o’ the press by word o’ mouth, Captain ; and let him try what French cookery can do for a cat.—It’s grand upon auld shoon, I have heard. jekyl, boviing to the Reviewer. With all the pleasure in life.—Catch your hare,—if convenient, the farther from the tiles the better. Clean him—free him of blood. You hold up your hands, Doctor; but 1 say it again—free him of blood—chop him in two—trim him—lard thickly with seasoned lard, particularly if he is an old fellow—line a stewpan that will easily hold him, and give him an opportunity to expand—more shame to him if he do not embrace it—line it, 1 say, with slices of firm white bacon. Place him there, and bury him in the shreds of himself, rasped bacon, a fagot of herbs, parsley-roots, a carrot, four onions, and a little blond de veau;—that is, just any good white broth. REDGII.L. Pardon the interruption Highly as I admire the bland richness of tile French white soups, and particularly the elementary blond de veau, I would, both as gastrologer and economist, recommend chop- ped calves’ feet, which, after enriching and mollifying the hare, will make such a nice delicate small ragout. JEKYL. So be it, Doctor Next, Sir, cover all your materials with a round of doubled paper, well buttered; make the lid firm; lute it on ; seal it hermetically ; place the stewpan over embers ; give it a toss occasionally; but, as you would eschew the fate of Psyche, avoid her vain curiosity : for two hours, at least, do not venture to remove that lid. When that time has elapsed, add a pint of Madeira—rather less will do—and a little flour or prepared row:; stew for another hour ; drain your hare ; skim and strain your sauce ; and serve all as hot as possible. Such is my prescription. A Frenchman would, perhaps, make more fuss in arriving at precisely the same conclusion. Economists, like our gracious hostess, would boil up raw yolks of eggs with the jelly-gravy to clarify.it; and keep it cold for future pur- poses. After all, Sir, Licvre en daube is but a plain dish ; and if once known in this country, would soon become absolutely vulgar and aldermanic—too fat by far—redolent of grease. Now my first cul-