CHAP. II. ROASTING. 104 legs must be drawn, (those of fowls, pheasants, &c\, should all be drawn, especially when they are old ;) press down the breast-bone even more than in a fowl, to make the bird look plump; be careful in drawing, to preserve the liver whole, and not to break the gall-bag. For stuffing to fill the craw, take a break- fast cup full of stale bread finely grated, two ounces of minced beef suet, or marrow, a little parsley par- boiled and finely shred, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel grated, a few sprigs of lemon thyme, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix the whole well in a mortar, with a couple of eggs.* Do not stuff too full; and ing ken, seemed worthy of an epicure’s serious investigation, and the next bird was ordered to be dressed beggar fashion. “ And why, Dame,” said Jekyll, as thrown back in his chair he eyed the roasted turkey with a languid air of half-affected dis- gust—“ Why produce the unhappy bubbly-jock, with his head— forty mortal gashes upon it—tucked under his wing, while his giz- zard and liver, larger than life, grace his other fin; this affair of dining, after all, has its betise. Or those rough-footed Scots,” pointing to a brace of moorfowl, “ in their spurs and pantaloons, with their pretty innocent heads tucked under their arms, like that of St Denis in the pictures of a book of miracles;—nay, worse, I protest,” and he lifted up his eye-glass—“ here too are ducks, if I don’t mistake; but indeed there is no mistaking—miserable am- phibias ! their saffron web-feet drawn up, and spread in such goodly sort as if “ in act to swim.” Our patrons, Drs Kitchener and Trussler, direct, that the feet be roasted delicately crisp, as some people are very fond of them. “ Cut off the turkey’s head, Captain Jack ale,” broke forth Me&, with indignant astonishment—“ A roasted turkey ! Do you tak’ us for born ignoramuses on this side of the border ?” “ Cut off the heads,” responded Redgill, “of turkey and wild-fowl! Surely, my young friend, you forget yourself.” The Doctor, a loyal, hearty, dining Churchman, had seen since the beginning of the French Revolution, but too much of this “ off-wifh-his-head” spirit abroad. “ There was no knowing,” he said, “ where its de- vastations were to stop ; it began with anointed Kings”—“ And may safely end with basted turkeys,” rejoined Jekyll, and he con- tinued, “ At all tonish tables, i\Ir Winterbi.ossom, though I do not pretend to think better of mankind than my neighbours, it would be but a well-bred stretch of faith, to take for granted that turkey was not goose, without such testimony as those bloody heads and feathered heels afford. Why, tire panache of his own tail- feathers, which my respected grandmother was wont to stick into the rump of her roasted pheasant, or even the surtout of his entire goodly plumage with which our ancestors invested the roast peacock, was not more "barbarous than this absurd fashion.” Loud rose the clamour of cooks, scullions, and amateurs, as this new heresy was broached, and Jekyll, if not convinced, was at least silenced. * Stuffing fur a turkey or hare, French fashion. Chop, and afterwards pound in a mortar, half a pound of beef-suet, equal bulk