470 CHAP. III.—OP CURING MEAT, &C. ton-hams, when they are once dried, will keep long enough, but scarcely improve after six months. To make Hunters’ Beef.—Take the bone from a round, and salt it, as directed for a rump of beef, using grated nutmeg, half an ounce, and the same weight of cloves. When to be dressed, wash with a sponge, bind it tightly up, and put it into a tin or earthenware pan that will just hold it, with a pint of melted butter or gravy, and a little butter on the top ; cover the pan with several folds of brown paper, or a coarse crust. Bake for four hours, or more. Obs.—The hole whence the bone is taken may be stuffed with sweet herbs or udder. The gravy in the pan after the beef is baked will be almost equal to ham-sauce for strength and flavour; and is very use- ful for flavouring soups and sauces. Herbs, corian- der-seeds, juniper, and garlic, are all used for this pickled dish by the French. The round is braised with roots, bacon, and wine. The dish is glazed and garnished with pickles and jelly; and thus decorated, when cold, even after being previously served hot, makes a handsome dormant dish at a great entertain- ment where there is a long table to cover. Tongues, to salt.—Cut off the roots, and soak them in a weak brine; afterwards salt them with common salt. The roots eat very well with greens, or will make pease-soup, stew, or Scotch kail. Scrape and dry the tongues; rub them with a little common salt and saltpetre; next day rub them very well with salt and brown sugar. Keep them covered with pickle for a fortnight; smoke and dry them. Obs.—When many tongues are salted, use a sinking- board and weights, to keep them below the brine. To salt a Round or Rump of Beef.— A rump of twenty-five pounds will take two ounces of saltpetre, six of sugar, four of pepper, half a pound of bay-salt, and as much common salt. Rub the meat very well with the mixed salts and spices ; turn it on all sides, and rub it. Baste and rub with the brine every day for a month. It may either be hung and dried, or boiled out of this pickle. Dutch Beef.—Rub a rump of meat with brown sugar, and let it lie three days, turning it often ; then