CHAP. XI. MADE-DISHES. 327 dishes of fowl or game, may be made as above with- out using beef. For this gravy a little ham is an im- provement, but for game consomme, a partridge. Al- ways keep in mind, that the flavour of the consomme in fine cookery should not be at variance with the fla- vour of the dish of which it is to form the sauce. For example, if for a dish dressed with mushrooms, which always have a very peculiar and decided flavour, sea- son the consomme with that vegetable. This, the grand consomme, is the second step in French cookery. Blond de Veau, or Veal-Gravy, or Consomme.— Heat and rub a stew-pan hard with a towel, then rub it with butter. Lay some slices of lean bacon in the bottom of it, and over these four or five pounds of a leg of veal cut into slices. Moisten with a ladleful of grand consomme, and in this let the meat sweat. When it has catched a golden tinge over a rather brisk fire, prick it with a sharp knife to let its juice flow out; let it sweat for twenty minutes more; when reduced to a jelly of a topaz colour, moisten with boiling stock-broth (grand bouillon,) and season with onions, parsley, and mushrooms. Let this boil for an hour, and strain it for use. Grande Sauce, see Savoury Brown Gravy, page 233. Sauce Espagnole.—Put some slices of ham, accord- ing to the quantity of sauce you want, into a stew- pan, with double the quantity of sliced veal. Moisten with a small quantity of consomme, and when you have drawn a strong amber-coloured jelly, put in a few spoonfuls more to float off this. £N. B.—This is a proper direction for detaching all glaze.] Put in a little more consomme of poultry or rabbits, if you have it; if not, strong blond de veau. Season with a little parsley, green onions, a half bay-leaf, two sprigs of basil and thyme, and two cloves. Simmer for a half- hour, skim and strain. Obs.—This is used for many dishes ; it is a favour- ite general sauce, and, when wanted, is thickened with roux, and seasoned with Madeira. It is some- times made of game. Veloute, or White Cullis, see also page 234.—Sweat slowly over the fire some slices of very nice ba- con, a knuckle of very white veal, any trimmings of poultry or game you have, and the white part of