CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 233 juicy. The gelatinous pieces are better adapted for soup than gravy, which is, in fact, the concentrated extract of beef. Ox-kidney is often employed from motives of economy : it makes a high-flavoured and rich-coloured, but not a very delicate gravy. Cut the beef, from four to eight pounds, according to the degree of strength and the quantity wanted, into thin slices ; score them roughly, and placing a thick slice of lean undressed bacon, in a thick-bot- tomed stew-pot, lay the meat over it, with a few bits of butter, or a cupful of fresh gravy. Slice over this a carrot, a couple of onions, a little shalot, a head of celery, and, if a high-flavoured gravy for ragouts be wanted, a couple of bay-leaves, and a bundle of sweet herbs of suitable size. Let the stew-pot be deep and very close-covered. Set it over a sharp fire to catch and brown, and shake it occasionally, to prevent the meat from sticking. When the meat is browned on both sides, and the juices partially drawn out, which will take about half an hour, put in the proper quan- tity of boiling water, allowing a little for waste. Skim it well,—check the boil with cold water, and skim it again and again if needful,—wipe the edges of the stew-pot and lid, and, covering close, let the gravy simmer for three hours by the fire. Strain into an earthen or stone vessel, and keep in a dry cool place. savoury brown gravy, for brown Sauces, Ragouts, and Fricassees. This brown savoury gravy, or elementary brown sauce, we conceive equivalent to the grand Espagnole or Italienne rousse of the French kitchen, for every useful purpose. Line the stewpan with slices of ham or bacon, or in their place, four or five pounds of a fillet of veal cut in slices, and moisten it with a ladle- ful or two of good broth, with two carrots and two onions, or double the number, if you for future pur- poses wish this flavour. The juices will soon form a glaze. Take the stewpan off the fire, and prick the meat all over, to obtain all the juices; moisten with any broth you have of gelatinous meat, as poultry, game , rabbits; season with a faggot of herbs, (pars