CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 332 vectu. Season with salt, and serve on toasted crusts soaked in a little broth. N- B.—If the roots are old, scald them. This in the season is made a sort of vegetable hotch-potch, with green lettuce, &c. Potage a la Baveau, a clear Brown Soup.*—Scoop out some yellow turnips like marbles with a scooper. Blanch them, and boil them in a clear strong coji- somme with a little browned sugar. Colour the soup deeper with veal-gravy, and serve it on toasted crusts. Potage au Choux, Cabbage Soup.—Parboil three firm white small cabbages. Drain them, and braise them in top-fat, with a few slices of bacon and season- ings. Drain them again off this fat; quarter them, and slide them into the tureen, and over them pour strong well-seasoned and boiling beef stock-broth. German Cabbage Soup.—Mince the parboiled cab- bage. Stew them in butter, and serve in strong broth, with toasted bread cut in dice. Potage Printanier, or Spring Soup.—Cut carrots, turnips, celery, and onions into small dice. Fry them gently, and boil them slowly in clear veal-broth, with a bit of browned sugar. Boil separately very green asparagus tops, and French beans cut as small dia- monds, also very green pease. ' Mix them and serve. FRENCH DISHES WHICH ARE SERVED IN TUREENS OR SOUP-DISHES IN THE FIRST COURSE. civet of hare, a favourile Dish. Cut the hare into small pieces, and carefully save the blood. Cut some firm white bacon into small cubes, and give them a light fry with a bit of butter. Strain the gravy they give out, and thicken it with browned flour dusted over it 'in the stew-pan. Put aside the bits of bacon, and place the cut hare in the stew-pan in the gravy. When firmed with frying, moisten with good broth and a pint of red wine, and season with parsley, young onions, salt, pepper, a few mushrooms or catsup, or mushroom-powder. Let the meat stew slowly till done, and skim off the fat. Now lift all * The French' sometimes brown their carrots and turnip in butler, and rub them through a search for carrot or turnip soup.