312 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. To hash cold Wild Fowl.—Cut them as at table, and let them soak till hot in boiling gravy thickened with bread-crumbs, and seasoned with salt, mixed spices, a glass of claret, and a spoonful of lemon- pickle or orange-juice. Garnish with fried sippets. For partridges and pheasants use only white pepper and white wine. N. B.—Some gourmands dislike bread-crumbs here. To ragout Wild Duck or Teal.—Half-roast the birds. Score the breast, but not deeply, and into each indenture put mixed spices and the juice of a lemon. Let the birds lie a few minutes, and then stew them till tender in good brown gravy. Take up the birds and keep them hot; add a glass of wine and three finely-shred shalots to the gravy, and pour it over the ducks. Obs.—This is a dish of very highgowf, and it is prized accordingly. In carving ducks, whether wild or do- mestic, after scoring the breast it is an improvement to puta little butter over it, as in shoulder of lamb, and above that to squeeze an orange or lemon. Ducks are also re-dressed as currie, brown ragout, or as a stew-soup. Ducks, and particularly the wild, may be dressed as civet of hare.—See also French Cookery. CHICKEN, RABBIT, AND VEAL, &C. CURRIE. This common and favourite dish is at once economi- cal, convenient at table, and of easy preparation. All kinds of viands may be dressed as currie. The only important rule is, to have good stock ; and the only art consists in hitting the medium in seasoning, or in suiting the tastes of the individuals for whom the cur- rie is prepared.—See Ohs. p. 192. Cut up the chick- ens, fowls, rabbits, veal, lamb. See. Sec., into pieces proper to be helped at table, and rather small than clumsily large. Fry the cut meat in butter, with sliced Spanish or whole button-onions, over a quick fire, till of a fine amber colour. When the meat is browned, add nearly a pint of good mutton or veal stock unseasoned; and when this has simmered slowly for a quarter of an hour, or more if the fowls are old. add from two to three dessert-spoonfuls of currie-