456, CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C/ the husks and seeds are excluded, the better will the wine be in flavour and salutary qualities. The less water that is used the richer will be the wine; and the more the fruit-juice, and the less the sugar em- ployed, the more will the vinous taste and flavour pre- dominate. Two or three days are generally enough for the white wines to ferment in the vat. Red wines require a day or two longer. Fermentation may be has- tened by agitating the liquid, and raising the tempe- rature of the place in which the vat is placed. When the wine has undergone this process it must be cleared by being put into hair-bags, and strained in a wine- press, or strained through a canvass-bag. [[Sieves are used in the small" scale of wine-making, and are convenient in small families.] The casks are then fill- ed till within an inch of the bung-hole, which should be slightly covered over. The casks must be set in a cool place ; and now another fermentation comes on, called the sjririlous, which will throw off the feculence that remains in the must, and greatly purify the wine. When this second fermentation has abated, the spirits ordered for the wine must be added, and the cask fill- ed up and bunged. In six weeks or more the cask must be pegged, to see if the wine is bright, and if so, it must be carefully racked off from the lees into another cask. The best method is this :—Bore a hole about half way up the cask, and use a small quill to draw off the purest of the wine. Now bore a hole a little lower down, and if what is drawn off be not so bright as the first drawn, do not lnix them. The lees may be filtered. The best qualities of home- made wines (for they never will have the flavour of grape-wines) consist, after all, in colour and bright- ness ; so that it is of great importance to have them carefully fucked. When not perfectly translucent on a first racking, the wine must be racked a second and even a third time, and Jincd, Wine should be bottled in clear weather. The bottles must be new, or at least perfectly clean, and great attention must be paid to the corking. A variety of things are used for perfuming wines; such as sweet herbs, peach- leaves, sweet bay-leaves, almonds, kernels ot fruit, bergamot, sweet herbs, ginger, &c. &c. Brandy will