CHAP. II. ROASTING. 101 A Loin is roasted and served in the very same way, only the kidney fat, which is so delicate, must be pa- pered, and the roast should be more constantly basted; or the flap part may be rolled in and skewered firm, and the bones chopped off, to give the dish a hand- some shape. The Shoulder is often stufled; and the stuffing for this roast requires more suet, marrow, or butter, whichever is employed, than the forcemeat for the fillet. The breast must be roasted with the caul on till nearly enough done, which both preserves and enriches the meat. TO ROAST LAMB. Young lamb, and none other, is fit for the use of a gas- tronome of high gout,—a hobble-de-hoy between lamb and mutton being even coarser than a three months pig. Lamb, like pig, and indeed all young meat, should not be long kept, if the flavour, and juices are to be obtained in perfection; time to cool is con- sidered quite sufficient by knowing gourmands. It is true, the fibre will be thready, but the flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb kept for days. Lamb is sometimes roasted in a side, or in a saddle. In roasting the hind quarter, the flap of the loin may be stuffed, using the superfluous fat for the forcemeat.* Sauce.—The gravy which flows from the meat, with about a wine glass full of boiling water and a little salt, run through the spit hole, and Mint Sauce. Serve * This is an old Scottish practice, which Meg Dods called “ makin’ a pouch.” Dr Redgill, who patronized all receptacles for forcemeat, wheresoever placed, vowed that “ a hind-quarter of lamb should never again be roasted in his kitchen without a pouch." This protuberance must not be too large, else it might prove offen- sive to the eye,—an organ that ought to be diligently consulted in all matters connected with the table. “ Open the mouth, and shut the eyes,” the maxim of a great modern gastronome, had certainly, Winteublossom said, been stolen from the luxurious picture of tile Gude Wife of Auchtennuchty’s Sow :— “ And aye scho winked and aye scho drank.” Both Touchwood and Redgill rebuked the old beau for this irreverent sally against an authority for which the latter entertained the most profound respect.