249 CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. of very thick melted butter to two dozen of oysters, or to eighteen large cut ones. Strain the liquor over them, and, letting them come to boil, set them by the side of the fire that they may become tender, for quick boiling hardens oysters. When ready, stir in a little cream. A squeeze of lemon-juice is a simple and tasteful addition. Some cooks add mace, nut- meg, anchovy, &c. when a piquant a sauce is wanted. Obs.—In oyster-sauce, it is a frequent and good practice, both from reasons of economy and palatic motives, to serve the oysters in one sauce-tureen, and melted butter in another. The quantities can then be mixed on the plate of each guest, and the oysters left be afterwards grilled, scalloped, &c. French cooks put flour and milk to oyster-sauce, and very little butter. Our English oyster-sauce is much superior. Shrimp-Sauce and Cockle-Sauce.—Shell them care- fully, wash them carefully, and boil them in very thick melted butter for a minute. A squeeze of le- mon is the only addition we can recommend for shrimps, though various pungent flavours are often added to this simple sauce. Anchovy-Sauce.—Bone and pound four anchovies very smooth with a bit of butter; stir this into thick melted butter, in the proportion of three anchovies to the half-pint, or melt them in vinegar or wine. Obs.—This is a sauce which ought to be piquant; the cook is therefore at liberty to make whatever additions she pleases;—cayenne, soy, essence of an- chovy, lemon-pickle, horseradish, mustard, shalot, nasturtiums, vinegars; in short, the whole circle of the pungent and sharp flavours may be pressed into the service. When a compound or double-relish sauce is to be made, we would recommend brown gravy-sauce, tor the basis instead of plain melted butter.—To re- fresh Anchovies, see page 20G. Liver-Sauce for Fish.—Boil the liver by itself; take away all fibres and black parts that attach to it, and pound it in a mortar. Boil it up in thin melted but- ter with cayenne, and sharpen with lemon-juice, or lemon cut in dice. If a higher gout is wanted, add soy, essence of anchovy, or catsup, instead of lemon- juice.