341 CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. Ohs.—This dish is well worth the attention of the gourmand and of the country housekeeper. It will keep a long while, and the liquor will make a savoury pease-soup, boil to a glaze, or braise vegetables. In- dependently of the stuffing, this French mode of cu- ring pig’s face is excellent. To dress cold roast Pig d la Becliamelle, or in while Sauce.—Carve what remains of the piginto neatpieces, and let these just heat in bechamel-sauce, or serve them as blanquettes, i. e. a mince. FRENCH MADE-DISHES OF POULTRY AND GAME. GATEAU DE LIEVRE. Hare Cake for a second Course.-—Prepare the hare as directed at page 152, and save the liver and the blood. Scrape the meat from the skin and sinews, and mince with it the liver, a piece of a calf’s-liver, and a good piece of the best part of an undressed ham. Pound the whole to a paste with a little cold broth, or hare or game soup, if you have it. Add equal to a third part of the bulk of rasped lard. Pound the whole well together, with salt, pepper, young onions, and pars- ley, previously cooked;—give a seasoning also of the four fine spices, and a spoonful of brandy. Mix with the pounded meat six or eight eggs one by one, and, if foreign cookery is admired, the expressed juice of a clove of garlic. When the whole is exceedingly well pounded and mixed, line a stew-pan with slices of lard, and put the forcemeat over it to the thickness of an inch and a half, and quite level and equal. Then put in a layer of lard, pistachios, and truffles, all cut in stripes and neatly put down; then again force- meat an inch and a half thick. Cover this with slices of bacon, and this with paper. Close the pan, and bake the cake slowly for two hours, or for three, if you have a cake of three layers of forcemeat. Let it cool; dip the mould in hot water to loosen the cake, and turn it out. Garnish to your fancy. Serve on a napkin. Obs.—Hare is also dressed as cotelelles and boudins. Rabbits d la Venetienne ; i. e. with fine Herbs.- Carve two white young fat rabbits neatly, and fry the pieces in butter with some rasped bacon and a