CHAr. VII.—VEGETABLES AND BOOTS. 225 crive the proper degree of acidity to the sauce,—about two large spoonfuls; add a little pounded lump-sugar if the flavour is liked. Put this sauce in the dish, and lay the cut herbs lightly over it; or mix them well with it, and garnish with beet-root sliced and marked, rings of the white of the eggs, young ra- dishes, &c. Onions may be served separately on a small dish. Some knowing persons like grated Par- mesan put to their salad and sauce. Lobster-Salad.—This is become a fashionable sa- lad. The coral of the lobster is cut, and tastefully disposed among the white and green vegetables, so as best to contrast the colours,—and it also improves the sauce.—See French Cookery. A French Salad.—Three hours before dinner, bone and chop two anchovies, mince a small shalot, and some young cress or parsley. Mix these well in a salad-bowl, and a spoonful of olive-oil, two of vine- gar, pepper at discretion, and a little made mustard. To this sauce put very thin small slices of cold roast meat, or minced breast of cold chicken, or lobster meat, as also veal-gravy; toss them about in the sauce, and let them soak in it. Garnish with curled parsley, boiled white of eggs* or beet-root. Almonds, capers, pickled fruits, or fish, grated cheese of high flavour, and many things of a piquant nature, were formerly mixed with salads, and are still used abroad in their composition. Obs.—Salads are likewise compounded of cold sal- mon, soles, skate, and trout; but these Gothic mixtures are seldom or never touched. Boiled Salad.—This, if less agreeable, is more safe than crude vegetables, however they may be com- pounded. The sauce may be the same as for English salad, but the vegetables are previously dressed. It is made of celery, French beans, or cauliflowers. Sprinkle some chopped raw lettuce or endive over it. The jelly of roast veal or lamb blends well with sa- lads instead ot oil or cream, and is preferred by many persons. Salad-sauce may be rendered more poig- nant by the addition of cayenne, minced onion, or shalot, and any of the herb-flavoured vinegars.