520 FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. nation of cooks, and brought to perfection ere the Union of the kingdoms had gizzened our claret-casks, and knocked in the sides of our spice-boxes. But to end all discussion, I shall propose a toast, which, I am certain, will be drank with as much enthusiasm as that is eaten with which my learned friend is now busy, and that not only in his company, but wherever the love of good cheer is understood or gastronomy cultivated. Come forward, Luckie !—Mrs Margaret Dods of the Cleikum Inn, St Ronan’s, gentlemen ! that solitary and renowned spot, which, like the far-famed Iona, is yet destined to spread the blessings of cookery and domestic eco- nomy— Jekyl, interrupting the speaker. All in my eye, old buck. But here goes our venerable hostess ! and with all convivial honours. Hip, hip, hip, hurra ! hurra ! hurra ! (Loud and long-continued applause.) Air,—“ Kail Brose o' Auld Scotland." meg dods, led forward by the nabob. There’s nae French flummery, souffels, nor dabs, about me, gen- tlemen ; but I canna but say I’m beholden to you, though I ken, at the same time, I have done my best. And for ony Southron that has in ignorance spoken evil o’ dignities, that’s o’ sheep’s-head, if he ance come to his senses, and the taste o’ his mouth, he’se be wel- come yet to St Ronan’s,—and let a’ byganes be byganes. So here’s to you, Mr Reviewer,—a’ trades maun live. (Loud applause.) reviewer, rising. Madam, I am overwhelmed. For myself and my friends on the wrong side of the Tweed, gentlemen who, even while they in ignor- ance demurred to haggis and cock-a-leekie, never once questioned the motlier-wit and culinary abilities of our distinguished MEG DODS. Weel, weel, just sit your ways down again ! I like nae French flams, whether in speech or prent—And I must look out for Jerry, who has been waiting on the turnpike these twa hours, till the Mail drap our New Beuk—Exit Meg. reviewer. Before I leave my legs, gentlemen, permit me to dedicate this cup of thanks to the culinary benefactors of their country and of man- kind, The Members of the Cleikum Club ! Air—“ Of noble Race was Shenkin." touchwood, (wiping his mouth.) In the whole course of my culinary career, I never rose with such embarrassment as now. On the part of my humble self and my zealous and enlightened coadjutors, I beg to return thanks for the