CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 290 salt, and mushroom-catsup. Thicken the sauce, and, dishing the sweetbreads very hot, pour the sauce over them through a sieve.—See French Cookery. To dress Calves’-Tails.—Clean, blanch, cut them at the joints, and brown them in butter or soft kidney- fat. Drain, and stew them in good broth seasoned with parsley, onions, and a bay-leaf. Add green peas to the stew if in the season, or some small mushrooms. Skim and serve the ragout. Foreign- ers use garlic, and dredge with grated Parmesan. Calf’s-Heart.—Dress as a plain stew, and season with lemon-grate, or stuff and roast, rolling in force- meat. Calf’s-Liver.—Cut a fat white liver into thin slices. Dust flour over them. Fry them for five minutes. Strew minced parsley, with young onions, salt, and pepper over the fry. Moisten it with good broth, and give it a toss for five minutes more; but do not let it boil, or it will harden. Before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. Calf's-Liver may be dressed more richly by stew- ing it with bacon, herbs, spices, &c. and putting white wine to the sauce. Veal-Kidney may be minced and fried as sausage, or in oval balls, mixing the fat and lean together, with a little bacon, onion, pepper, salt, &c. and dress- ed thus, forms a good accompaniment to plain stews of veal. To jug Veal.—Cut, flatten, and season slices of veal, and put them into an earthen or stone jar, with a sprig of sweet herbs, a roll of lemon-peel, and some bits of fresh butter. Cover the jar very close- ly, and set it in a pot of boiling water, or in a slow oven for from two to three hours. Take off the co- vering, and stir a little thickening and the juice of a lemon into the sauce, and, allowing a few minutes for this to mix, dish the veal in a ragout-dish, pick- ing out the herbs and lemon-peel. Garnish with slices of lemon. Veal-Cake.—This is rather a pretty fantastical dish to ornament a table than one about which either the epicure or economist cares much. Take the hard yolks of eight or more eggs and cut them in two.