CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 237 ■with salt, and in a few minutes add bread-crumbs ; drain off a little of the water when they are tender, and stir in melted butter, pepper, and, if for goose- stuffing, a little flour, or more crumbs. Shalot-Sauce.—Chop of shalot what will fill a des- sert-spoon ; give this a scald with hot watei in a saucepan, drain and add a hall-pint ot good gravy or melted butter, pepper, and salt, and, when done, a large spoonful of vinegar. i lie shalots may be stewed in mutton-broth, with a little butter i oiled in flour, and some vinegar, and served with boiled mutton. Shalot-sauce may be made as directed, in the receipt for parsley and blitter, by merely stirring a little shalot-vinegar, or shalot-wine, into melted but- ter, with salt; and for roast meat or poultry this is more elegant than sauce of the chopped root. Carrier- sauce for mutton is made by boiling chopped shalots in gravy, sharpened with vinegar, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Shalot enters largely into the com- position of most of the high-flavoured compound sauces. Garlic-Sauce.—Make this with a spoonful of garlic- vinegar stirred into a half-pint of melted butter ; or chop and pound in a mortar two cloves of garlic with a bit of butter, or a very little oil, and, rubbing the paste through a sieve, simmer it in the butter. Spanish Garlic-Sauce.—Slice a pound of gravy- beef and a quarter-pound of ham into thin bits, and lay them in a small stewpan, with four cloves of garlic, a carrot sliced, and a bit of butter; brown these over a very slow fire, turning them to draw out their juices. When browned, put in a quart of clear broth, a faggot of herbs, a little butter rolled in brown flour, four bruised cloves, and a little cayenne; let this simmer for a longtime; skim off the fat, and strain the gravy, which should be reduced to nearly a pint. Obs.—This is rather an overpowering sauce for hnglish palates, but it is very much relished abroad.* * The invention of the following garlic-sauce is attributed to Mr Michael Kelly, a musical composer of some celebrity, and possessed of some skill, it appears, in the “ Harmonies of Meats.” “ For boiled tripe, cow-heels, or calf’s-head, lake a spoonful of gar. K 2