183 CHAP. VI.—FISH. half-pound of butter, nicely browned and dredged with flour, oysters, and a little of their liquor, mush- room-catsup, spices, and vinegar. Boil the fish in this strained sauce, and serve in a soup-dish. HADDOCKS BAKED, A good Family Dish. Clean and season three or four rather large haddocks, place them neatly on a flat dish, with a. border ot mashed potatoes neatly marked. Glaze with an egg, and place bits of butter here and there over the fish, and a piece inside of each. Garnish \vith potato- balls, and bake for a half-hour. Pour a little melted butter and catsup over the dish. TO FRY HADDOCKS, SOLES, TROUT, PERCH, TENCH, WHITINGS, FLOUNDERS, &.C.* Clean and skin the haddocks. £ Whitings and flounders are not skinned by French or Scotch cooks.] If the haddocks are too large, cut them in two or three pieces, —or split them. When the fish are dried, either rub them with flour, or, if to be higher dressed, rub off the flour, and with a paste-brush wash them over with beat egg; strew finely-grated bread over them, and fry in a deep pan in plenty of clarified dripping or lard, heated to such a degree that it may neither scorch the fish nor yet stew them. Turn and lift them carefully, and keep them hot by the fire, on paper, to absorb the fat, till the whole are finished. Garnish with fried oysters, or a few sprigs of curled parsley and sliced lemon, and serve very hot, with shrimp- sauce, if any is used. If the fish are not cut down * It is not easy to know the tlclicate whiting at times from the coarse codling:—the codling has a beard—the whiting is smooth. Hounders diner much in quality ;—there is a coarse kind of floun- der, with bright scarlet star-like snots, which in reality looks better than the sober-coated grey-back, though it is of a very inferior qua- lity- fins is a surer test than the thickness or firmness of the fish. Haddocks are in season from Whitsuntide to Christmas, and floun- ders about the same time. Herrings are never long out of season though the quality falls off at times.