242 chap, vrn.—sauces, essences, &c. tard, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne. Simmer it a few minutes, and serve it very hot. Obs.—The wine may be supplied by mushroom or walnut pickle occasionally, and a little chopped green sage may be added. Hard yolks of eggs rubbed smooth make a good variety of the above. Sauce Robert, for Pork Cutlets or Geese.—Brown four or five onions very finely shred, in a small sauce- pan, with a good piece of butter. When of a fine rich brown, mix in a table-spoonful of browned flour, one of mushroom-catsup, and another of red wine, with a half-pint of broth, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and one of salt, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, with the juice of a lemon, or a dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Obs.—This sauce is named after the inventor, as we say, cutlets Maintenon, or Sandwiches. It is a very favourite sauce. Tarragon vinegar will give it the flavour of the French kitchen, which to some gour- mands may be a recommendation even as an accom- paniment to English fare. This sauce is eaten with rump-steaks, whether stewed or broiled. Pour it hot over them, and garnish with scraped horseradish, or fried parsley. cheap white sauce, for fricasseed Rabbits, Fowls, Veal, Whitings, fyc. To a half-pint of the liquor in which fowls, veal, or trimmings of these have been boiled, put a bit of lemon-peel, an onion sliced, a few white peppercorns, a little pounded mace and nutmeg, and a small bunch of lemon-thyme, basil, and parsley. When the sauce is well-flavoured, strain it, add a little rich cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and, last of all, a squeeze of lemon, taking care to stir the sauce lest the cream curdle. Pour it over the fricassee. Lemon and Liver Sauce for Fowls.—Parboil the liver, having first washed and scored it; mince it very fine. Pare a lemon very thin, as if for punch ; take off the white part, and cut the lemon into small dice, picking out the seeds. Mince about a fourth part of the peel very fine, and put these ingredients, with a