168 CHAPTER VI. FISH. “ Passion o’ me ! How 1 run on ! Here’s that, that should be thought upon ; The business of the Kitchen’s great, And it is fit that men should eat, Nor was it e’er denied.” Sir John Suckling. TO BOIL SALMON.* There are many excellent ways of dressing this fa- vourite fish, but perhaps none equal to plain boiling when well performed. Scale and clean the fish with- out unnecessary washing or handling, and without cutting it too much open. Have a roomy and well- scoured fish-kettle, and if the salmon be large and * This monarch of the British rivers is in season in some part of the three kingdoms for tire whole year, so that, however the price may vary, the London market—the point which attracts all salmon speculators,—is seldom without a supply. The fishing of the river Ness, which the fish visit very early, is opened so soon as the month of December; the Severn fishery even in November ; and from that time some fishery is opened every week, till in April the whole are in operation. The salmon of the Thames is that which is most es- teemed in London ; that of the Tay is the favourite with the inha- bitants of the northern metropolis,—probably in both cases, because the fish from those rivers are brought in greater perfection to the re- spective markets than those of the more distant rivers. We have ever remarked, that the salmon of a man’s native stream, or of the river of his native province, is to him the best flavoured. Among other marks of degenerate times, is the decrease of salmon in our rivers, and it is perhaps the only one that is undeniable. This fish at one time was so common an article of food, that stipulations were made by hired servants against having it above three times a week for their kitchen ; and the same conditions were observed in inden- turing apprentices in Newcastle, Perth, and many other towns. Since Mr Dempsteii’s discovery, and packing salmon in ice, there has been found no occasion for the enforcement of the clause against 9