289 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. shred mutton-suet, makes a very good side-dish or supper-dish, and warms up well, or does for patties or scallops. Veal-rolls, for a side-dish or supper-dish, may be made of long thin slices flattened, seasoned, and rolled round a forcemeat of bacon or grated ham, suet, shalot, parsley, and spices. Tie the rolls tight, and stew them slowly in gravy, adding a glass of white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve in a ragout-dish. Stewed mushrooms are a suitable ac- companiment to this dish. Veal makes an excellent currie or pillau. To dress a Calf’s-Plnclc.—Clean and stuff the heart with a relishing forcemeat. Spread a veal-caul, or slices of fat bacon, over it, and bake it. Parboil the half of the liver and lights, and mince them rather finer than for a hash. Simmer this mince in a little good gravy, and season it with the juice of a lemon, catsup, white pepper, chopped parsley, and salt. Dish the mince, and place the heart above it, and lay slices of fried liver round it, with fried parsley, or sippets, or bread-crumbs ; or the heart, if large and fat, will make a handsome clish if stuffed with a rich forcemeat, roasted with caul or paper over it, and served with melted butter and catsup poured about it, or venison- sauce. The liver may be stuffed and roasted as above ; but this we conceive one of the absurdities of cook- ery. The lights are made into balls, or used for force- meat, to calf’s-head, &c. They must have a good deal of kidney or other fat, or of udder, and the usual veal-seasonings of mace, lemon-peel, &c. To dress Sweetbreads.—Parboil them, but be sure not to boil them much. Divide and stew them in white gravy; thicken and season it with salt, mace, white pepper, and when just ready, a little cream; or egg the parboiled sweetbreads, dip them in crumbs, chopped herbs, and seasonings, and finish them in a Dutch oven, and serve with melted butter and catsup. rIo ragout Sweetbreads.—Cut them in mouthfuls, wash and dry them in a cloth, brown them in fresh butter, and, pouring as much brown rich gravy as will just cover them into the stew-pan, let them sim- mer gently, adding a seasoning of pepper, allspice.