416 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. instead of almonds; they are then called Rice-Cus- tards. Baked Custard.—Boil and sweeten with fine sugar a pint of milk, and another of cream, with a stick of cinnamon and a bit of lemon-peel. When cool, mix in the beat yolks of four eggs. Pick out the cinna- mon and lemon-peel, fill the cups, and bake for ten m inutes. Lemon-Custard.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs as well as if for a cake, till they are a strong white cream. Mix in gradually a pint of boiling water and the grat- ed rind and juice of two lemons. Sweeten to taste, and stir this one way over the fire till it thicken, but do not let it boil. Add a little wine and a spoonful of brandy when the custard is almost ready. Stir till cool. Serve in cups to be eaten cold. Excellent common Custards.—Boil a quart of new milk with sugar, a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a bay-leaf. Mix a spoonful of rice-flour with a little cold milk and the beat yolks of six eggs. Stir the whole together into the boiling milk in a basin, and then let it thicken over the fire, but not boil. Pour it into a cold dish, and stir one way till cool. A very little ratafia, cura9oa, or peach-water, may be put to flavour this custard. Grate a little nutmeg, or strew a little ground cinnamon lightly over the top of the cups. Curds and Cream—When the milk is curdled firmly, fill up a melon or Turk’s-cap stoneware-shape, perforated with holes to let the whey drain off. Fill up the dish as the curd sinks. Turn it out when wanted, and serve with cream in a glass dish; or a whip may be poured about the curd, which may be madefirm either by squeezing or standinglong to drain. Cheesecakes.—These are just various pudding in- gredients, more or less rich, baked in paste. Mix with the beat curd of a quart and a half of milk a half-pound of picked currants, white sugar to taste, and also pounded cinnamon, the beat yolks of tour eggs, the peel of a lemon grated oft on lumps of the sugar used for sweetening, a half-pint ot scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Mix the ingredients