INTRODUCTION. 34 which will show the feeding and condition of all animals. Ram-Mutton discoverable by the rank flavour and coarse texture of the flesh. Mutton not good under three years’ old. Best about five, but seldom to be got in the market of that age. The black-faced or short sheep best for the table, though more depends on the pasture than on the breed. Lamb.—The qualities of it may easily be known by the in- spection of the head, neck, and kidney; let the neck be fat; the eyes not sunk, the kidney fresh and fat, the quarters short and thick. Pork to be chosen by the colour and thick- ness of the rind. Measly pork easily known by the little lumps and kernels mixed with the fat, which look clammy and greasy. All meat known, if stale, by the eyes being sunk, the kidney tainted, the flesh clammy and livid. Veni- son.—Thick and firm in the fat,—the lean pure. The age of deer, hares, and rabbits known by the clefts and claws being close and smooth in the young animal. Game and Poultry.—The age known by the legs and spur. When smooth in the legs and short in the spur, the animal is young. Trick of poulterers to cut and shorten the spur. Stale when the eye is quite sunk, the vent tainted. Black-legged fowls the most juicy. Attention to the breed and form. The Dorking large breed recommended: best, when short, plump, broad in the breast, and thick in the rump. Game, if stale, known by the livid colour of the flesh about the vent. Hams and Bacon good when the flesh adheres firmly to the bone, the smell fresh, the lean clear and not streaked with yellow. Brawn.—If old, the rind thick and hard. Salt Butter and Cheese to be probed and tasted. Fresh butter easily known by the taste. Eggs not easily known when stale. Hold between the eye and a candle in a dark room, and, if the yolk appear unbroken, the egg is not stale. Bather a doubt- ful test this. Anchovies and Pickled Salmon known by the smell and fresh-colour of the fish. Their pickle-liquor should be pure and well-flavoured. The red colour given to an- chovy-liquor by artificial means, and no test of goodness. G