CHAP. IV. SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. 371 dressing this and other dishes. There is a kind of cottage-oven used in Ireland, in form of a wide stew-pan, made of cast-iron, with a lid of the same thickness, on which embers of turf are put. This is placed over other embers, and an equal slow heat is maintained, which dresses a stew, bakes a pud- ding or a bit of meat, and is found very useful at other times as a cottage-pot. Hunter s Pie is another excellent formot Irish stew. It is sometimes made of beef-collops instead ot mutton-chops; anrl then the potatoes are always mashed. Place the po- tatoes, meat, and onions in alternate layers in an earthenware pie-dish, and bake them; the top layer of potatoes may be neatly scored, scolloped on the edges, and glazed with eggs, if approved. A fashion- able Irish stew is baked in a mould en casserole, and turned out. Edgings to Dishes.—These are made (to serve made-dishes in,) of bread, rice, mashed potato, and ornamented paste-edgings; and for sweet dishes served in glass or china, of small drop-biscuit, caramelled fruit, nuts, or almonds, stuck on with candied sugar. These edgings are en casserole, crustades, casserolettes, and other garnitures, only suitable to French dishes. Bread- Borders, Beauvilliers.■—Take firm stale bread, cut the crumb in slices of the thickness of the blade of a knife ; cut those slices into any form ; heat some oil in a stew-pan, and put in the bread ; make both white and brown ; when they are very dry, drain them, make white paper cases, and put them up se- parately, according to their form and colour; when they are wanted to garnish dishes, pierce the end of an egg, let a little of the white out, and beat it with the blade of a knife ; mix a little flour; heat your dish a little ; dip one side of the form into the beaten paste; in this manner continue till the border is finish- ed; care must be taken not to heat the dish too much. Bice Casserole, in the French Style.— Pick, wash, and blanch the rice ; drain and put it into a stew-pan ; moisten it with the top of the stock-pot by degrees as it swells ; shake it often, to prevent its sticking, but in a manner not to break it; take care that it is well nourished, that it may be fat enough ; put in a little salt; when done take a piece of bread the size of the