33 INTRODUCTION. jug, which he had just been using, to liquefy a dish of mince- collops! V. Eari.y Training of Cooks.—Receipts not sufficient to qualify for duty. The cook, like the surgeon, must put to the hand. Ought to be duly impressed with the importance of the art, and, above all, with her own individual responsi- bility. Method: arrangement: forecast. The days before a great dinner. The day of a great dinner. What to be done. Soups, jellies, creams, and many made-clishes, to be prepared beforehand. Rules for seasoning. Training of the palate of the cook—indurated by the use of spirituous liquors. Gentlemen of forty-five and upwards will generally be found to require a double allowance of Cayenne, eschallot, garlic, salt, and flavoured vinegar, compared with those under that age, unless the juniors have been bred at Oxford. Bachelors to be allowed a fourth more seasonings than married men ; and, in the same proportions, a military gentleman and a ci- vilian. For West and East Indians, peppers and all stimulat- ing condiments may be used ad libitum. VI. On Family Management and Domestic Economy' in general.—ls<, Early rising, importance of. Where im- possible or inconvenient, best substitute an early and dili- gent inspection and regular enforcement of the orders given the night before, for the employment of the morning-hours. 2d, Marketing and laying in family-stores and articles that improve by keeping—as soap, sugar, starch, paper, spiceries, seeds, fruits, spring-made candles, &c. All best preserved in cool dry places. No expense to be grudged that prevents insects and vermin from getting at the stores. 3d, Choice of provisions. The senses of sight and smell the best guides- Fish of all sorts best when short and thick, well-made, bright in the scales, stiff and springy to the touch, the gills of a fresh red, the belly not flabby, the eyes and fins to be looked at. Meat speaks for itself. The fat of beef to be white and pure; the lean, smooth-grained, and of a healthy crimson. Veal.—The kidney to be examined, the state of