CHAP. VIII—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 252 ot cucumber-vinegar, a quarter-pint of shalot, and the same quantity of horseradish-vinegar. Let these in- fuse in a close-stopped jar by the fire for a few days, and strain and bottle in small vials for use. Quin’s* Fish-Sauce, a Store-Sauce.—Two glasses of claret and two of walnut-pickle, with four of mush- room-catsup ; six pounded anchovies with their pickle, and six shalots pounded; a half-glass of soy, black and cayenne pepper. Let this simmer slowly by the side of the fire till the bones of the anchovies dissolve. Strain it off, and when cold bottle for use.t * Had this great man lived now, he would, we think, instead of so much heavy catsup and coarse walnut-pickle, have adopted some delicately-flavoured vinegar as a substitute for about the one- half of these ingredients,—such as eschalot or bumet-vinegar, or even fiery horseradish-tincture. As a mere untravelled practical Englishman, and, moreover, of the old school, Quin, no doubt, ranks high in the lists of gastronomy ; but he is completely distanc- ed by many moderns, both in love for and knowledge of the science. Among the most noted of the moderns we beg to introduce our readers to Mr Rogerson, an enthusiast and a martyr. He, as may be presumed, was educated at that University where the rudi- ments of palatic science are the most thoroughly impressed on the ductile organs of youth. His father, a gentleman of Gloucestershire, sent him abroad to make the grand tour, upon which journey, says cur informant, young Rogerson attended to nothing but the va- rious modes of cookery, and methods of eating and drinking luxuri- ously. Before his return his father died, and he entered into the possession of a very large monied fortune, and a small landed estate. He was now able to look over his notes of epicurism, and to discover where the most exquisite dishes were to be had, and the best cooks procured. He had no oilier servants in his house than men cooks : his butler, footman, housekeeper, coachman, and grooms, were all cooks. He had three Italian cooks, one from Florence, another from Sienna, and a third from Viterbo, for dressing one dish, the doccc piccante of Florence. He had a messenger constantly on the road between Brittany and London, to bring him the eggs of a certain sort of plover, found near St 31aloes. He has eaten a single dinner at the expense of fifty-eight pounds, though himself only'sat down to it, and there were but two dishes. Recounted the minutes between meals, and seemed totally absorbed in the idea, or in the action of eating, yet his stomach was very small: it was the exquisite flavour alone that he sought. In nine years he found his table dreadfully abridged by the ruin of his fortune, and himself hastening to pover- ty. This made him melancholy, and brought on disease. When totally ruined (having spent near £130,000), a friend gave him a guinea to keep him from starving; and he was found in a garret soon after roasting an ortolan with his own hands. Wc regret to add, that a few days afterwards this extraordinary youth shot him- self. We hope that his notes arc not lost to the dining world. -f Gastronomers will feel a natural desire to know what was con- sidered the “ best universal sauce in the world” in die boon days