276 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. Obs.—A large fore-quarter of mutton, with the shoulder-blade cut off, will collar, and so will veal, but neither of them eat nearly so well as collared beef. —Beef is pressed flat to slice for sandwiches or to eat cold, exactly in the above manner, with the omis- sion of the binding up,—eats quite as well, and is prepared with much less trouble. To roast collared Bibs of Beef.—Take out the bones when the meat has hung till tender, season it highly with spices and herbs, and rolling tightly up, roast or bake it, or dress it as Hunter’s beef. Obs.—This is an excellent and economical dish, as a soup much better than what can be made from dripping or roast-meat bones, can at once be made from the trimmings and the bones cut out. A neck or back-ribs of mutton boned, seasoned, and sprink- led with dried parsley and sage, will roast as above, and the bones and scrag make soup or barley-broth ; but we would rather recommend this to the economist than to the judicious eater ; for although two good dishes are by this means presented at table, this par- ticular piece of meat eats better dressed as chops, pie, bouilli or currie, than as a roast when the roti can be dispensed with. BRISKET OF BEEF A LA FEAMANDE. Take from eight to ten pounds of the gristly nice part of the brisket, trim and season it. Put it to stew in a nice stew-pan with the trimmings, a slice or two of bacon under and over it. Put to it carrots and turnips cut into the shapes of cocks’ combs, pigeons’ eggs, &c., and some cabbage previously dressed in top-fat or good broth. Arrange the vegetables with a few glazed onions round the meat, and thicken a pint of the broth for sauce. To pot Beef, Veal, or Game.—Salt a piece of lean fleshy meat for two days. Drain it, season it well, and afterwards bake it in a slow oven, or stew it in an earthenware jar, placed in a vessel of boiling water. Drain off all the gravy, and set the meat before the fire, that all the moisture may be drawn out. Pull it to pieces, and beat it in a mortar, with mixed spices