CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 375 of water. Throw dry flour on the table to prevent it from sticking, apd work it up quickly to a stiff paste by kneading it beneath your hands. Roll out the paste when it is smoothly kneaded, which will be known by pressing it between the finger and thumb. Divide what remains of the butter into four parts. Take the first, break it into bits, and stick it equally over the paste. Strew a little flour lightly on the butter, and clap it down to make it stick; fold up the crust, roll it out, and repeat the process till all the hutter is used. The sooner puff-paste is baked after it is made, the lighter it looks, from the folds rising distinctly. Till it is to be used, lay the folds of a wet cloth over it. French cooks give this paste (_feuille- tage) five turns, or more to make it rise lightly into many leaves. This paste, when for vol-au-vent, should get six turns and a half; that is, six turns, and be doubled up. The more turns the more butter is re- quired. The oven, if possible, should not be opened till puff-paste, or pate-royale, is baked, for draughts of cold air always flatten it. Raised Crust for Meat-Pies.—Boil an ounce of lard, and rather more of fresh dripping or butter, in about a pint of water, and make the paste of this. Knead it strongly, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Let it stand to cool, and then raise the pie; or cut out pieces for the top and bottom, and a long piece for the sides; cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the bottom-piece beyond the sides, and pinching both together to make them join closely. Fill up the pie. Put on the top, and pinch it again close to the sides. Small raised pies may he made by lining a tin shape with a sliding bottom with paste, all in one piece, and putting on atop. Common Paste for savoury Pies.—To two pounds of good flour take six ounces of butter ; break it down among the flour, and mix with a couple of beat eggs and a pint of hot water. Knead it smooth, and roll out and double it three or four times. Cold paste is made as above, only use cold water. Rich Paste of Beef-suet, for common Meal-Pies Cut the suet in bits, and melt it in water. Strain it into fresh water, and when cold, press out the water and pound it in a mortar with a little oil till it come