466 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. tie shred saffron, into a grecque* Pour in boiling water till it bubbles up through the strainer, and then close the vessel, and place it near the fire ; and as soon as the whole water is passed through, the coffee is made. To make Coffee, a simple and good Method.—Pour boiling water in the proportion of six cupfuls to one cupful of freshly-ground coffee, but double the coffee if for foreigners. Let this be on the point of boiling for three or four minutes, held over the fire, and taken off’ at pleasure, so as to keep up the temperature, but not to permit any violent ebullition. Pour out a cup- ful two or three times, returning it; and set the cof- fee-pot on the hob to keep hot, while the coffee clears.t Ohs.—By attending to the above simple receipts, if the coffee-powder is good, and not ground too finely, no isinglass, whites of eggs, &c., will be required to clear it. The bad quality of English coffee is become a sort of national reproach. Its capital defect is a want of material, or that material having either lain too long in powder, or in roasted berries, and coldness more than muddiness. The coffee-berries ought also to be of proper age, as the quality of the raw berry improves by keeping. Good cream is essential to good English coffee. Lisbon sugar, or white candy, is ordered by all cookery-books for coffee. We can see no reason for this, except that they dissolve quickly, notwith- standing the cream being poured into the dishes be- fore the hot coffee. Coffee,like tea, promotes watchfulness; indeed some persons cannot sleep after drinking it in an evening. It is considered good for asthmatic patients. A mix- * A utensil so called, which is used in Paris. A vessel of nearly similar construction, called an Imperial Percolator, is now getting into general use among ourselves, and is found exceedingly conve- nient. It gives no trouble in clearing the coffee, takes less of the powder, and yields a hot full-flavoured bright tincture the moment it has filtered. „ , . , . . „ , + The receipts for making coffee, which are given in Cookery - books, must completely drive off tire flavour of the berry from the length of time that the coffee is directed to be boiled. Flour of mustard, in the proportion of a small tea-spoonful to the ounce of powder, is thought by some persons to improve the flavour, and is reckoned good in gouty as well as rheumatic habits.