347 CHAP. II.—MADE-DISHES. of preparing Jarcei'. Without presuming to question their superiority, it is possible for a cook of ordinary abilities and industry to attain a competent know- ledge of this high mystery without serving a regular apprenticeship at the French stove, provided she give respectful attention to the manner in which foreign artists proceed. The French have reduced the art of preparing forcemeat to fixed principles. As con- stituents, they have the godiveau, the panade, the farce of fowl, or the gratin, all cut and dry ; and these they laboriously compound with a degree of patience which goes far to redeem their national character from the charge of fickleness and levity. Of these are formed the quenelle and boudin, a class of preparations which, though made of forcemeat, form, like our sausages, a distinct order of dishes. The French forcemeats are indeed worthy of the profound attention of every re- fined epicure, and ought to supplant our home-made crude compounds with all speed. The first element is the Godiveau. Godiveau, of which also excellent Patties may be made. —Scrape a pound of a fillet of white well-fed veal, and mince a pound and a half of beef-suet, free from all strings, skins, and kernels. Chop a suitable quantity of scalded parsley, young onions, and also mushrooms, to season this meat. Add pepper, salt, allspice, and mace, and pound the whole very well, mixing in three raw eggs at different times, and a little water. When very well pounded, make up a small ball of the farce, and boil it in boiling water, to try if it be light, well- seasoned, and good. By this proof-ball be guided either in adopting the farce, or in adding another egg to give firmness, or water to liquefy the Godiveau. Gratin.—This farce may be made either of the white parts of a fowl, or of veal. Cut a half-pound of the fillet into small bits, and toss them over the fire in butter for ten minutes, with salt, pepper, and herbs. Drain off the butter. Mince the meat, and then pound it, if for fowls, with the livers pai’boiled, veal-udder parboiled and skinned, or butter instead of udder, and panada (see next page.) Have as much butter or veal-udder as of each of the other ingredi-