306 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. pease, and French beans, are all used as ragouts for rabbits. To fry Rabbits.—Cut them in joints, and fry them in fresh butter, with dried parsley and a sprinkling of sage. Serve liver and parsley-sauce. Rabbits may also be fricasseed as directed for chickens. They make an excellent pie, a good soup, and may be pot- ted or jugged. MADE-DISHES OF POULTRY AND GAME. To boil Fowls with Rice.—Stew a large white fowl in a little clear mutton-broth, seasoned with white pepper, onion, and mace, in a close stew-pan that wrill just hold it and allow it room to swell. When it has stewed a half-hour, put to it a small cupful of clean well-soaked rice. When tender, take up the fowl, keep it hot, and, straining the rice from the broth, place it on a reversed sieve to dry. Dish the fowl, and pile the rice in light heaps around it. Serve pars- ley and butter sauce. Fowl with Mushrooms.—Stew and season as above in a very strong gravy, with butter rolled in flour, and add a few button-mushrooms nicely picked. Serve mushroom-sauce or a white fricassee of mushrooms. Fotvls with Oysters.—Truss as for boiling. Put plenty of butter and a seasoning of mace and lemon- rind into them ; tie them at neck and vent; cover a nice stew-pan with bacon, and put in the fowls. Moisten with broth, and braise the fowls slowly. Meanwhile have a very nice oyster-sauce prepared either with butter or cream ; dish the fowls on this, and garnish with fried oysters and slices of lemon. To force a Fowl,—a favourite Dish.—Having cleaned and boned the fowl, stuff the inside with the following forcemeat:—A quarter-pound of minced veal, two ounces of grated ham, two of chopped onion and suet, a spoonful of shred sweet herbs, two chop- ped hard yolks of eggs, a tea-spoonful of minced le- mon-peel, mixed spices, and a little cayenne. Let the several ingredients be very finely shred. Beat the whole to a paste in a mortar, adding two eggs to make them cohere. Stuff the fowl, sew it up, keep- ing it of a natural shape, draw in the legs, and truss