CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. 459 cool, put a quarter-pint of yeast to the liquid, stirring it well up. Next day put in the juice of four lemons and the thin rind. Let it ferment in the open vessel for three days, and then strain and cask it. Obs.—The wine, if properly managed, resembles Frontiniac. Elder-nine, made of the elder-berries, is a rich and expensive preparation. Made in the pro- portions of three pounds of sugar and three pints of elder-berry juice to the gallon of water, enriched with chopped raisins, and perfumed and flavoured with ginger, nutmeg, cloves, &c. An excellent but very expensive Elder-wine is made by using equal weight of water and Malaga raisins, and an eighth part elder-berries, and flavouring with cinnamon, cloves, mace, and ginger. This wine is the pride of many English housewives, and no expense nor pains are spared in its preparation. Orange-Wine.—Dissolve twelve pounds of loaf-su- gar in six gallons of water, in which the whites of a dozen eggs have been whisked. Whisk the whole, and boil and skim it. When nearly cold, put into it six spoonfuls of yeast, and the juice of a dozen lemons. Next morning skim off the top, and add the parings of the lemons and the juice and yellow rind of four dozen Seville oranges. Ferment for three days, and cask the wine. N. B.—This wine may be improved by substituting honey for one-third of the sugar. It may be enrich- ed by the addition of some of the high-flavoured wines, and perfumed with ginger, bitter almonds, bergamot, citron, peach-leaves, &c. &c. The whole of the orange-rind is by some thought to give too decided a flavour ; less may be used at pleasure. Orange and Lemon Wine of Raisins.—Take two pounds of loaf-sugar, one pound of Malaga raisins, and the juice and peel of a Seville orange, to each gal- lon of water. Add the orange-juice when the wine is nearly done fermenting. Lemon- Wine is made in the same manner, using the lemon in rather greater quan- tity than the orange. Parsnip-Wine.—To every four pounds of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put a gallon of water. Boil till they are quite soft, and strain the liquor clear off with-