CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. 345 thyme, basil, two bay-leaves, a half-ounce of pepper- corns, and a few cloves. Stew and strain this as you need; add wine or vinegar. It will answer repeat- edly by being boiled up; and the fish boiled on suc- cessive days will enrich it. A piece of butter may be put in at first. It will form a good basis for maigre sauces to the fish. This is called eau de sel. Trout or Pike d la Genevoisc.—Clean the fish, but do not scale it. Put a little court bouillon in a stew- pan with parsley-roots, cloves, parsley, two bay-leaves, and onions, also a carrot if you like. When these have stewed an hour, strain the liquor over the pike or trout in a small oval fish-pan, and add a little Ma- deira to the liquor. When boiled, drain it, and take off the scales thoroughly. Then put it in the pan, with a little of the liquor to keep it moist and hot. Make a roux or thickening, and add to it veal-gravy (or, if for a maigre dish, wine ;) season this sauce with bits of mushroom, parsley, and green onions. Let it stew till smooth. Thicken with butter kneaded in flour if needful. Strain the sauce over the dished fish, with a squeeze of lemon and a little essence of anchovy. Obs.—For trout use claret or some red wine, with mace and more cloves. N.B.—Saumon a. la Genevoise is dressed exactly in this way, which, though rich cookery is now more out of date than fish served a la matelote. The head of the fish must be bound up to keep it from breaking, which is proper in dressing other fish. To dress Fillets of cold Pike ci la Maitre d.’Hotel.— Cut them neatly. Stew them in butter with pepper and salt. Dish the fillets neatly, and sauce them with a maitre d’hotel sauce, to which you put a little essence of anchovy. Obs.—French cooks serve cold fish, re-dressed, as vol-au-vents, croquets, salades, boudins, and in many in- genious modes as to outward shew. Matelote de Carp a la Royale.—Clean what number of carp you choose. Cut them into three or four pieces according to the size. Dry these, and stew them very slowly in red wine. Make a sauce mate- lote (see page329),but use the wine in which the.carp is stewed both from economy and to have the full flavour. Use also a handful of cleaned mushrooms.