77 CHAP. I. BOILING. first thick scum rises ; take the pot from the fire, if necessary, to remove the scum completely; throw in a little cold water, which will check the boiling and throw off what scum remains;—this is the way in which Soups, Gravies, and Sauces are best cleaned and refined. When the pot must be eked, let it be with boiling wa- ter from a kettle. Milk and floured cloths as wrappers are often employed in boiling white meats and poul- try, to make them look whiter. The practice is bad ; the milk often curdles, and the flour clots ; and both fill up the pores and hang about the meat, which looks as if it had been poulticed. Soaking in cold or luke- warm water, according to circumstances, careful skim- ming, and slow boiling, especially at first, are better than any other method. No certain rule can be given for the length of time necessary to boil meat or fish. Dried tongues, for example, or mutton, goat, or veni- son hams, will take double the time or more to sim- mer which will boil a fresh leg of mutton ; and, again, a piece of pork, though a little salted, will take longer to boil than either veal or lamb. Of all meat the hind- quarter, from the solid and compact texture of the flesh, will require longer boiling or moistening than the fore-quarter. The state of the weather, so im- portant in roasting, less affects things that are boiled. As a general rule, liable, however, to many excep- tions, from 15 to 25 minutes of time, and a quart of water may be allowed to the pound of fresh meat; and from 25 to 35 minutes for salted meat, with a fourth more water. But no length of boiling will ever make dried meats fit to be eaten, without suffi- cient previous soaking. This is emphatically true of goat and mutton hams, rein-deer tongues, dried fish, &c. Capital blunders are often performed in this de- partment, and provisions which excel all others for relishes, breakfasts, and luncheons, are made good for nothing but to try the temper, and break the teeth of the eater, who might as well diet upon “ spur leather whang.” Smoked and dried meats, and dried fish, require to be soaked from one to four or five days, changing the water often; or, what is better, where there is a run of fresh water, steeping the meat in that.