CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. olD and pork, mince them, and add a half of the weight of beef-suet; mix and season them well, as above, and add a small quantity of the crumb of fresli bread, steeped in water. Obs.—A chopped anchovy is an improvement to these sausages. Lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, lemon- thyme, savoury and sweet marjoram, wont to be used for this composition, but are now getting obsolete. Epping Sausages.—Take equal quantities of young tender pork and beef-suet. Mince them very finely, and season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a sprink- ling of sage, and some thin rind of bacon. Roll up with egg, and fry it. Bologna Sausages.—Take equal weight of bacon, beef, pork, and veal. Mince, and season high with pepper, salt, and sage. Fill a well-cleaned gut and boil for an hour. Beauvillier’s Sausages.—Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary ; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard, salt, and fine spices; fill the skins and tie them ; hang them in the smoke for three days; then cook them in bouillon for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions; when cold, serve upon a napkin. Smoked Scotch Sausages, to keep and eat cold.— Salt a piece of beef for two days, and mince it with suet. Season it highly with pepper, salt, onion, or shalot. Fill a large well-cleaned ox-gut, plait it in links, and hang the sausage in the chimney to dry. Boil it as wanted, either a single link or altogether.* Common Beef Sausages.—These are made of minced collops, with seasonings, and a proportion of suet. The crumb of a penny-loaf, soaked in water, is al- lowed to every three pounds of meat, before filling the skins. Savaloys.—Take a piece of tender pork, free from skin and gristles, and salt it with common salt and a • Some of these sausages wont to be made when a Mart was killed: they formed an excellent article of supply for the hill, the moor, or the boat ; and in the Hebrides and remote parts of the Highlands they still hold a favourite place in the wide open chimney. 1