486 CHAP. III.—OF CURING MEAT, &C. the most inoffensive. Housewives, who make this branch of economy their particular study, will find many observations worthy of their attention in Arthur Young’s Tour in France and Italy, a few in the Farmer’s Magazine, and in the Papers of the Bath Society. We merely subjoin a few receipts which are not in general circulation, though of approved merit. British Barmesan.—Heat the day’s milk to little more than blood-heat; and after it has settled put in the yearning. When it has stood for an hour or more, the coagulated milk is to be placed on a slow clear fire, and heated till the curd separates of itself. When separated, throw in cold water to reduce the tempera- ture, and quickly collect the curd in a cloth, gather- ing it up at the corners. Place it in a deep hoop, and press it as other cheese. Next day it will be firm enough to turn. Let it dry slowly and gradually; often (at first almost every hour) changing the wrap- ping-cloths. Rub it with salt daily, for three weeks, or plunge it in pickle for a few days. The curd may be coloured with a little saffron or anatto. Imitation of Stilton.—To the morning’s milk add that of the previous evening, either skimmed or with the cream, as you intend to make a very rich cheese or one of inferior quality. Do not heat the milk too much, and employ no more yearning (or rennet) than will barely serve to curdle it. When fully coagulated, gently, and without much handling or breaking, place the curd in a deep sieve, and afterwards, when firm enough to lift, in a hoop. Afterwards steep the cheese in pickle; then dry it, changing the binders very fre- quently. All cheese should be rubbed and turned every day for the first two months.* * In Inverness and Ross-shires, there is a rural breakfast article called crowdie, not the common composition, oatmeal and water, or milk, but made thus :—Take two parts fresh sweet-milk curd, and one of fresh butter. Work them well together, and press them in a basin or small shape, and turn it out, when it will slice nicely to be eat with bread and butter, and keep a long time. This prepara- tion, when the curd is well broken and blended with the butter, is sometimes made up in deep narrow cogs, or wooden moulds, and kept for months, wnen it becomes very high-flavoured and mellow. The celebrated Arabian cheese is made in the same way in vats, and both arc uncommonly fine. These preparations deserve trial.—1 • a .