CHAP. II.—ROASTING. 99 hour before it is ready it must be carefully unsrvad- dled, placed nearer the fire, basted with fresh butter, and lightly dredged with flour, to brown and froth. For sauce,—Currant jelly melted in red wine, or the jelly roughed in a sweetmeat glass, is still usually serv- ed. A glass of claret, with three times that quanti- ty of gravy made of venison or mutton, and a small glassful of raspberry vinegar, all very hot, was the sharp sauce most relished by our Club; or a plain sharp sauce made of white-wine vinegar and the finest lump-sugar, heated in a stone jar. Obs.—This is the best mode of roasting venison where expense is not grudged. In some cases the paste may be dispensed with,—the paper will be suffi- cient. The shoulder, breast, and neck, are all roasted ; but the latter is much better dressed as a pasty or soup.—See also Pies. At genuine small gourmand parties, as the venison fat freezes, it is not unusual to cut oft' small slices of fat and lean, and heat them in a silver dish over a spirit-lamp. Venison can thus be restored to perfec- tion. TO ROAST RED DEER OR ROE, BY P. W. ESQ.* Season the haunch highly, by rubbing it well with mixed spices. Soak it for six hours in claret, and a quarter pint of the best vinegar, or the fresh juice of three lemons; turn it frequently, and baste with the liquor. Strain the liquor in which the venison was soaked; add to it fresh butter melted, and with this haste the haunch during the whole time it is roasting. Fifteen minutes before the roast is drawn remove the paper, and froth and brown it as directed in other re- ceipts. For sauce,—Take the contents of the drip- ping-pan, which will be very rich and highly-flavour- ed; add a half pint of clear brown gravy, drawn from i TIns was one of those original receipts on which our old Beau plumed himself not a little. This mode of dressing venison he said, had been invented by the Master of the Kitchen to 11 ary ot (/UlsEj and had been ever since preserved a profound sr ittoh^e™ ^ °f M—’tU1 the late Earl communicated