170 CHAP. VI.—FISH. if permitted to soak in the hot water. Dish on a hot fish-plate, or use a napkin. Besides the essences to l^e used at discretion, which are now found on every sideboard of any pretensions, shrimp, ancho- vy, and lobster sauce, are served with salmon ; also plain melted butter ; and where the fish is got fresh, and served in what is esteemed by some the greatest perfection,—crisp, curdy, and creamy,—it is the prac- tice to send in a sauce-tureen of the plain liquor in which it was boiled. Fennel and butter are still heard of for salmon, but are nearly obsolete. Garnish with a fringe of curled parsley and slices of lemon. The carver must help a slice of the thick part with a smaller one of the thin, which is the fattest, and the best-liked by those in the secret. Dressed cucumber is often served with salmon, and indeed with all boiled fish. TO BOIL SALMON CRIMP. This makes a very handsome dish, and is the way in which salmon is usually dressed in the places near the fisheries, where the fish is obtained quick, and also at the most fashionable English tables. The fish must be cleaned and scaled without cutting up the breast. Cut off the head, with about two inches of the neck; and the tail, with the same quantity of fish along with it. Cut as many circular fillets of the salmon as you wish for, (accordmg to the size of the fish and the number of the company,) of about three or four inches thick;—the opening of these slices whence the en- but it must not boil. The effect of this bain marie is to k*cp every thing warm, without altering either the quantity or the quality, par- ticularly the quality. When I had the honour of serving a noble- man in this country, who kept a very extensive hunting establish- ment, and the hour of dinner was consequently uncertain, I was in the habit.of using the bain marie as a certain means of preserving the flavour of all my dishes. If you keen your sauce, or broth, or soup, tjy.the fire-side, the soup reduces ana becomes too strong, and the 'sailed thickens as well as reduces. ■It. is .necessary to observe, that this is the best manner of warming turtfe-soup, as the thick part is always at the bottom of the stew- pan this>method prevents it from burning, and keeps it always good.— Ude's French Cookery.