484 CHAP. III.—OP CURING MEAT, &C. “ I never use saltpetre, since butter made as above always retains the same sweet taste till used, which generally happens within twelve months after it is made.”—N. B. In this butter there are twenty-four pounds to the stone. To freshen Salt Butter.—Churn it anew in sweet milk,—a quart to the pound. It gains in weight. To improve rancid Butter.—Wash it, melt it gra- dually, skim it, and put to it a slice of charred toast, or some bits of charcoal. To roll Butter for a Cheese-Course, or for Break- fast, and to garnish Supper-Dishes.—Have two wood- en fluted spoons, such as are used for lifting butter. Wash and boil them as often as wanted. Dry them well, and rub them with a bit of butter to clean them perfectly ; then, between them lightly roll up bits of butter in form of corks, fir-cones, small pine-apples, shells, &c. Butter is used in many ways for garnish- ing salads of meat or fish, ham, eggs, anchovies, &c. It looks best when squirted in little tufts, or like delicate coral branches, or open lace, or fine basket- work. OP MAKING CHEESE. Many parts of our island, from the delicate quality of the natural pastures, ought to furnish the very best cheese. We can indeed perceive no good reason why the cheese of Scotland and Wales should not equal that of Switzerland and Lombardy. Considerable improvements have indeed been made in this tardy branch of our rural economy; but, notwithstanding the zeal with which the Highland Society has lately taken up this subject, the range of improvement is still limited. Though one occasionally sees very ex- cellent cheese in private families, little that is good comes to market, except the Ayrshire cheese, and it is not, after all, a very delicate cheese for the table. The low price that cheese gives in those remote parts of the country, where the milk most resembles that from which the Swiss and Parmesan cheese is made, makes the farmer’s wife still consider all the sweet milk that goes to her cheese as so much butter lost;