CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C< 381 Obs.—The chickens may be stuffed, if small, and laid on forcemeat. This pie, and all pies, may be made plainer at the discretion of the cook. Giblet-Pie.—Clean and stew the giblets in broth, with peppercorns, onions, and parsley. When ten- der, take them up, and when cold, cut them in pieces. Lay a beef-steak in the bottom of a small pie-dish, or a layer of forcemeat made of seasonings, minced veal or beef, and a little ham. Put in the cut giblets, and strew in shred onion. Strain the liquor over them in which they were stewed, and place a few boiled po- tatoes sliced above all. Cover with a common crust, or with mashed potatoes. Obs.—A giblet-pie is sometimes made with a pud- ding composed of the blood of the goose or ducks strained, a little boiled rice, suet and onion shred fine, with pepper and salt. Keep the skin of the neck of the goose, and stuff it with this. Close it at both ends, turn it round, and place it in the centre of the pie. Rabbit-Pie.—This may be made as directed for chicken-pie; or more plainly as giblet pie, making a forcemeat of the livers parboiled, chopped parsley, and anchovies, or shalot, pepper, salt, and a little butter or shred suet. A few slices of well-flavouved bacon will improve a rabbit-pie. Obs.—Rabbit-pie may be made with onion-sauce ; but first parboil the onions to take off the excess of their flavour. Partridge-Pie.—Clean and truss four, or, if large, tnree partridges, cutting off the legs at the second joint. Season with pepper, salt, and chopped pars- ley.* Place a veal and ham forcemeat, or slices of veal and ham at the bottom of the dish, then put in the partridges, with a good many bits of butter stuck about them, and either a few scalded button-mush- rooms or a glassful of mushroom-catsup. Cover the ledge of the dish with stripes of paste, and then'put on the top. About an hour will bake this pie. A Goose-Pie—This is generally made in a raised crust. For a common pie, quarter or cut the goose in- * French cooks chop the livers with parsley, and stuff with this. 1 hey also dob the birds with seasoned lard. This makes an admir- able cold pie in a raised crust. q2