CHAP II.—ROASTING. 102 salad^ spinage, French beans, cauliflower, or green peas with lamb; garnish with crisp parsley, or sprigs of cauliflower. The fore-quarter may be lightly jointed. Lamb must be well done. This and the shank or knuckle of all roasts, or of ham, ought to have a fringe, or plain piece of writ- ing paper, twisted neatly round it, as the bare stump looks most ungainly. When the shoulder is removed, the carver is expected to squeeze a lemon, or to sprin- kle a little salt over the ribs, or, if necessary, a little melted butter; and to press the separated partstogether to obtain gravy. N. B.—A friend, who admires French cookery, recommends a maitre d’hotel sauce to be served under roast lamb. TO ROAST PORK. DR R. Pork takes more of the fire than any other kind of meat. Choose it young, short in the shank, fine in the grain, and smooth but thick in the skin.* Cut a hole in the knuckle, widen it with the finger, and stuff with mild sage and onions parboiled and chop- ped fine, pepper, salt, grated crumbs, a piece of but- ter, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and an egg to cement the whole. With a bunch of feathers rub the skin with salad or sweet oil, or with fresh butter tied up in a muslin rag. Do this frequently to prevent the crackling from blistering, and to make it crisp and brown. The crackling is often scored into dia- monds twenty minutes before the roast is done; but unless it look hide-bound, and scorched or shrivelled, the scoring is as well omitted. The roast loin should, however, be scored fin stripes, with advantage both to the eating and to the appearance. Some cooks add pulverized sage to the basting. We only recommend this in roasting the griskin. Pork requires a more pungent sauce than sucking pig; yet apple sauce is still occasionally used. Onion sauce we like better, or sauce Robert; but confidently recommend Dr Redgill’s sauce for pork, goose, duck, or rabbit.— * If pork is fed in styes, that which has fattened on potatoes and butter-milk we consider much better, both in flesh and flavour, than that which has been fed on drenches of barley meal and kitchen slops.