CHAP. I. BOILING. 85 TO BOIL BACON. Boil slowly for at least two hours. When ready to serve, strip off the rind, and dry the meat with a red- hot shovel,or in the oven. Strew bread-raspings over it. TO BOIL A HAM. A large ham is very seldom boiled all at once, but whether altogether, or in part, it must be treated in the same way. ' This kind of meat is so well adapted to salting, that though kept for years, it does not be- come so hard or tough as beef or mutton would do in half the time. The main point is the soaking, which the discretion of the cook must proportion to the hard- ness and saltness of the meat. If very old and dry, it will require from three to four days to soften and become mellow. Place it in a run of water, if you have the command of one, or in the trough of a pump- well. The night before it is boiled, pour lukewarm water over it, scrape it very well, trim off all rusty ill- looking bits. Put it in an oval fish-kettle with plenty of water. Let it soak for an hour or two before coming to the boil,—then quicken the boil, and skim. Let it sim- mer by the side of the fire for from two to five hours, according to the weight. When done, pull off the skin neatly, and keep it to cover the ham when set by to taste may be added. Meg’s sweet stuffing was made by dis- carding the parsley, ham, oysters, and tongue, and substituting a large handful of currants, picked, washed, and dried, as for pud- dings. A common and an approved smuggling way of boiling a pullet ol- hoivtowdie in Scotland, was in a well-cleaned haggis-bag, which must have preserved the juices much better than a cloth. In the days of Popery and good cheer, and they were certainly synonimous, though we do not quite subscribe to the opinion of Dr Kedgii.i., that a Presbyterian country can never attain eminence in Gastrono- my—in those days of pater-nosters and venison-pasties, stoups of claret and oral confession, a pullet so treated, was, according to waggish legends, the secret regale provided for Mess John by his fair penitents—Vide Allan Ramsay’s “ Monk and Miller's Wife," “ Traditions of the Cleikum,” and “ Bughtrigg’s Wife’s receipt for ‘ Ane capon stewed in brewis.’ ” Butter, shred onions, and spice, were put into the bag along with the fowl, and formed the sauce, or else oysters with their liquor strained. D