368 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. put the meat in the centre. Cover with more rice, and set the dish in the oven for a short time, having first glazed it with eggs. Obs.—Currie-powder may with advantage be used for a pillau; and it may be made of dressed veal. Pillau is also made baked of a mixture of bacon, chicken, and onions, in layers. A fowl, capon, or small turkey, may be trussed as for boiling, and makes an elegant pillau dressed as in this receipt, but cover the breast with bacon, which remove before dishing. A hind-quarter of lamb makes a nice pillau. Braise the leg, and fry the loin in steaks, and treat as above. FRICANDELLE. Take one pound of the lean of a leg of veal, half a pound of veal-suet, four rusks soaked in milk, four eggs, leaving out two whites, some onions, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; chop it all together very fine, and make three balls of it, which you must put into boiling water, and let boil four minutes. Make gravy of the skin, bones, &c., which must be carefully taken out of the veal. Fry your balls a light-brown in butter, and stew them half an hour in the gravy. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon ; thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, if thin. It ought to be very thick. (From a Correspo7ident.) mullagatawny, or cuRRiE-soup, as made in India. Have ready pounded and sifted an ounce of corian- der-seeds, the third of an ounce of cassia, three drachms of black and two of cayenne pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of China turmeric; mix them well. This quantity will do either for two chickens, a large fowl, or three pounds of meat. Cut down the meat in small pieces, and let it boil slowly for a half- hour in two quarts of water; then put to it four onions, and three cloves of garlic shred and fried in two ounces of butter. Mix down the seasonings with ing very suitable to any re-wanned ragout or wanned fish for plain dinners may be made of mashed potatoes, marking them neatly, and serving the ragout or fish in the middle.