CHAP. IV. MISCELLANEC . RECEIPTS, &C. 491 eight pieces; and, beginning at the top of the wall, rub downwards in even strokes, as if laying on paint, one way. Throw away the bread as soon as it is dirty, and take a fresh piece. Go over the whole room in this manner. To clean Paint.—Brush off the dust; and, with ox- gall and whitening, scour the paint, rubbing it hard to restore the gloss; or use mottled soap made into a strong ley. js.—Sponge is well suited for this, and, indeed, all domestic purposes of cleaning, whether dishes, plate, floor-cloth or mahogany. To take Grease from papered Walls or Paper.—Ap- ply dry hot flannel to the spot, then rub it over with hot spirit of turpentine. Repeat this till the grease is removed. If turpentine would injure the colours in the paper, lay several folds of blotting-paper on the spot, and apply a hot piece of iron over that, till the grease is absorbed by the blotting-paper. To clean Floor-Cloths.—Sweep and rub them; then wash with soap-leys, using sponge or flannel. Rub up with dry flannel. A little wax may be used, which both improves the appearance and preserves the sur- face. To polish Mahogany.—Nothing improves mahogany so much as daily brisk rubbing; but various prepara- tions are in use. Break down two or more ounces of bees’-wax, and melt it in an earthen pipkin, take a half-pint of oil of turpentine, an ounce of alkanet- root, and a very little rose-pink ; pour this on the wax when ready to boil; stir it up and let it cool; rub a very little on furniture (previously cleaned), and polish with dry flannel. Ohs.—Linseed-oil, cold-drawn, was wont to be used for mahogany; but the taste of the day is for light- coloured furniture, and, accordingly, oil which deepens the colour rapidly is not so much. used. Two parts linseed-oil, with one of turpentine, make a good fur- niture-composition for tables. Wax prevents the ac- tion of the light, and keeps wood of a lightish colour for many years. Various pastes and varnishes are em- ployed to colour and polish mahogany, which, with the exception of wax, if we wish to preserve the wood