FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM OfcUB. 517 inary precept is “ skim,” and my second and third are still, “ skim, skim.” MEG DODS. Till ye skim off a’ pith and a’ substance!—What think you, Nawbob, that’s a man o’ sense and reflection, o’ such doctrine ? It’s easy saying, “ skim, skim!” Gude truly our New Beuk wad need to be looked after!—We’ll ha’e ower mony Frenchified dishes still, though we want the hare dais !—Now, I ne’er could awa wi French cookery and French cooks—soss-sossing; and skinking, and slorpin and girbling ffae pot to pan, and frae bowl to basin, as if naething could come out o’ Nature’s hands savoury and sappy for the sus- tenance and comfort o’ sinfu’ creatures till it were slaistered through a Frenchman’s skranky paws, and turned into fifty flim-flam shapes, ilk wi’ a name mair heathenish than anither ! And, for wastrie o red wine and fat fowls, wae betide the day the French cook raises his gibble-gabble in a gentleman’s pou’try-yard; for ten greedy gleds, six hungry justices o’ quorum, or a hail presbytery, after ane o’ their lang-winded sederunts, were naething till him—Ye’re laughing, Captain, but it’s a known fact.—And, when a’ is done, will a’ your dabbing ever make a green gosling like yoursel’ out of a tough auld ganner like the Nawbob yonder ? JEKYL. Admirable logic, hostess !—I do confess that the avatar of M. le Cuisimer on the basse-cour ought to put to rest the doctrine of ani- mal instincts Yet no, our hostess ! French cookery will not quite convert an old gander into a tender gosling ; but it will do what is almost as good, make it so seem. That chiding eye, Doctor, so plainly saying, “ Sir, in eating 1 know not seems !” Well, to be serious, Doctor, you are an old Grecian—that classic fable of Me- dea’s kettle !—to what does it refer save to the poele or the braise ? the tough, the old, the dried, coming forth from the mys- tic process, the fresh, the tender, the sapid, the renovated ! REDGILL. Sir, this to me is scarcely a subject of light amusement Madam, you are aware that throughout the whole course of our experiments, and even to the last hour of our joint-stock labours—if I may hazard - a joke—I have generally given my vote for the British-born against the foreign,—and this from purely conscientious motives; yet I must candidly confess, that though French cookery, as a system, a rule, a standard, is what I never shall, and never can approve—Heaven forbid! still there are items in its details which are invaluable: the coteletles Chingara, Madam ; the cochon de lait au Moine blanc, —in spite of its popish name,—the poulet aux huitres—the Y