CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 229 still affords, in sufficient variety, the sharp, the pun- gent, the sweet, the acid, the spicy, the aromatic, and the nutty flavours, of which to compound mild, sa- voury, or piquant sauces, though a host of ingredients are laid aside. The elegance of a table, as opposed to mere lum- bering sumptuousness, or vulgar luxury, is perhaps best discovered in the adaptation of the sauces to the meats served, and in their proper preparation and at- tractive appearance. Plain Sauces ought to have, as their name imports, a decided character; so ought the sweet and the savoury. All Sauces should be served hot,—a matter too often neglected in the hurry of dish- ing and serving dinner. Sauces with which cream and eggs are mixed must be diligently stirred after these ingredients are added, to prevent their curdling, and suffered to warm through, but not to boil. The same Care must be taken in mixing capers and all acid pickles in sauce. Though it is wilful waste to put wine, catsup, lemon-juice, aromatic spices, and other expensive ingredients, into sauces for more than the time necessary to extract the flavour, yet, on the other hand, these things must be infused or boiled long- enough to be properly blended, both in substance and flavour, with the basis of the sauce. The previous concoction must also be duly attended to, whether at the mincing-board, in the mortar, or saucepan. As a general rule, brown sauces should be thinner than white. Cream should be boiled before mixing. The receipts we have given in this important branch of the art are ample, various, and circumstantial, and have been diligently considered. We do not, however, pretend, either in this chapter or any other, to fix the precise quantities of ingredients ; but we have tried to hit the medium, as far as was possible in a matter where men differ so widely and intolerantly, that— “ The very dish one relishes the best, “ Is tasteless or abomination to the rest.” The basis, or, more correctly, the vehicle of most English sauces, is butter, whether melted, oiled, browned, or burnt; or gravy, clear, brown, or thickened; also water, milk, cream, and wine, or some k