390 CHAP. XV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. finely shred mutton-suet. Draw a gravy from the bones; or take other good gravy, and thicken it with butter and flour, and season with salt, cayenne, pep- per, nutmeg, mace, the grate of half a lemon, and a very little red wine, or any of the flavoured vinegars. Stew the mince, and fill the patties as above directed. Obs.—If there be any stuffing of the hare left, it will make, when minced, a good addition to the pat- ties, as will all the native gravy left about veal, hare, &c. Patties may be made fried, either for a dish or a garnish. Oyster-Patties.—Prepare the paste for these patties as in the above directions, and wash in their own li- quor, and beard as many small oysters as will make a dozen of patties. Strain the liquor, and put to it an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Cut the oysters, if large, into small bits, and stew them in this with a little salt, mace, and white pepper, the grate of half a lemon, and, if liked, a little cayenne. A spoonful of thick cream may be added. Put this hot into the patties when ready to serve. Some good cooks put a little hashed parsley to the oysters, with salt and pepper, and no other seasoning. Lobster-Patties.—Chop the meat of the tail and claws of a boiled hen-lobster. Pound a little of the spawn in a mortar, with a half-ounce of butter crumb- led, a little veal jelly gravy, or butter, and a spoonful of cream ; add a seasoning of cayenne, mace, salt, a little essence of anchovy, and a tea-spoonful of lemon- grate. Stew the lobster meat in- this for a few minutes, adding a spoonful or two of water if over thick, and a very little flour to give consistence to the gravy. Fill the patties with the hot stew when they are ready to serve. Oyster and. Mushroom- Patties.—Take two parts of stewed oysters, and one of fresh mushrooms, cut them separately into small dice. Fry the mushrooms in butter and flour. Moisten with gravy, the oyster-li- quor, and a little cream. Season with salt, nutmeg, pepper, and cayenne. Stir the oysters, and fill the patties. Turlcey-Palties.—Mince the white part, and a little grated ham. Stew in a little good gravy, or melted