136 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. PLAIN STOCK BROTH, OR PRIMARY SOUP, The basis of many Soups and Sauces. In large families, or if the cook is to have a large dinner, let her, on the previous day, prepare the Stock Broth.—To every pound of fresh juicy beef, or a shin broken, allow a quart of soft water, and to this add any trimmings of lean mutton, veal, poultry, or game, which the larder affords. An old fowl, a rabbit, or a knuckle of veal, are excellent additions, and with them less meat will serve. When the broth is rendered pellucid by boiling, skimming, and clear- ing, as directed in the observations on boiling, put to it three or four carrots, two turnips, four large onions, four cloves, some good leeks, a faggot of herbs, if you like their flavour, and a head or two of celery.* Let the soup stew slowly by the fire for from four to six hours, according to the quantity. If left too long on the fire, the flavour of the vegetables will become too powerful, and the colour will spoil, and the broth be- come ropy. When done, let it settle, skim off the fat, (which will be useful for moistening braises, enrich- ing vegetables, &c.), pour it from the sediment, strain it through a fine search, and set it by for use. Obs.—As our object is to unite judicious economy with good cookery, it is proper to mention, that each of the material ingredients of the Stock-pot maybe turned to good account. The beef may be served as a bouill't, as directed for that dish, by taking it up when just enough done, and placing it in a stew-pan, with a few ladlefuls of the top of the broth, to serve as a sauce. If a fowl is boiled, let it it be trussed before boiling, and it may be served with rice, or a suitable sauce,— so may a knuckle of veal, a rabbit vrith onions, or a brace of partridges with sauce. In large private es- tablishments, where broth for soups and sauces is con- stantly required, these articles, of which Stock is best formed, may be served at the different tables, or on * There are, however, some purposes for which broth is wanted to which this quantity and kind of vegetables may be unsuitable, and this is left to the judgment of the cook.