318 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. Ramakins.—Take equal parts of sound Cheshire and Gloucester cheese and fresh butter, and having crumbled or grated the cheese, beat the whole to a paste, with three or four yolks of eggs, and the crumb of a new French roll previously soaked in hot milk. Mix the paste with the whites of two of the eggs well beaten. Season with a little salt, pepper, and pound- ed mace. Fill small paper pans, or very small sauc- ers, half full with the mixture, and bake the ramakins in a Dutch oven. Serve them quite hot, which is pe- culiarly requisite for every preparation of cheese. Obs.—This batter is also served over boiled maca- roni, or with stewed celery, asparagus, cauliflower, or brocoli. Parmesan or Gruyere cheese will make a more relishing ramakin where expense is not consi- dered. Pastry Raviak'ms.—Take any bits of puff-paste that remain from covering pies, tarts, &c. and roll them lightly out. Sprinkle grated cheese over them of any dry high-flavoured kind. Fold the paste up in three, or only double it, and sprinkle it repeatedly with grated cheese. Shape the ramakins with a paste- runner to any shape, and bake and serve them hot on a napkin or as hors-d’oeuvres, i. e. relishes. To dress Macaroni in the best Way.—Wash it well, and boil it slowly in water till it is tender, but not soft. Strain it, and add strong well-flavoured stock to it. When quite tender, dish it. Strew it over toast, which was exactly our modem anchovy-toast sprinkled over with chopped parsley, shalot, and capers. Brittany toasts were made of chopped salad herbs, with salad-sauce. Veal-kidney toasts were rather an inviting mess ; the minced kidney seasoned with shalot and parsley, and mixed with egg and bread-crumbs, was in fact a piquant forcemeat spread on a toast, which was baked and served not. Iiam-toasts were made thus :—The slices were soaked to freshen them, in the first place, when this was needful. Afterwards they were soaked in a stew-pan in butter and seasonings for a few minutes ; the toasts were fried in the same nan. Dish them hot, and pour a little gravy with pepper, salt, and vinegar, over them. There were toasts still more recherche of fat livers, skate-livers, &c. all appropriate to the rerc-supper of those convivial times, but scarcely admissible into the cookery of modern regularly-constituted families.