CHAP. II- MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 473 riod of scarcity. They are equally applicable to the present time, as the preparations, besides being fru- gal, are savoury and healthful. They are attributed to a lady whose eloquent pen has been usually de- voted to the highest and most sacred subjects, but who has not disdained to employ her talents in im- proving the manners and increasing the domestic comforts of the humblest of her brethren—Mrs Han- nah More. Rice-Milk.—A quart of skim milk, a quarter of a pound of rice, sugar, and a little Jamaica pepper, will make a cheap and a dainty dish. Burst the rice first with water. Rice-Pudding.—Two quarts of skim milk, a half- pound of rice, and two ounces of brown sugar. N. B.—A little shred suet, and a very little ginger will make this excellent.—Ed. A cheap Stem,—Mrs While’s.—I remember, said Mrs White, a cheap dish, so nice that it makes my mouth water. I peel some raw potatoes, slice them thin, put the slices into a deep frying-pan, or pot, with a little water, an onion, and a bit of pepper. Then I get a bone or two of a breast of mutton, or a little strip of salt pork, and put it into it. Cover it down close, keep in the steam, and let it stew for an hour. Herring and Potatoes.—Take two or three pickled herrings, put them into a stone jar, fill it up with po- tatoes, and a little water, and let it bake in the oven till it is done. £This dish may be made in a close-co- vered pot by boiling. Place the herrings upmost.—Ed.~\ Stem-Soup.—Two pounds of beef, four onions, ten turnips, half a pound of rice, a large handful of pars- ley, thyme, and savoury ; some pepper and salt; eight quarts of water. Cut the beef in slices, and after it lias boiled some time, cut it still smaller. The whole should boil gently about two hours on a slow fire. If fuel be scarce, it may be stewed all night in an oven, and warmed up next day.—You may add oatmeal and potatoes. Another.—Take half a pound of beef, mutton, or pork, cut it into small pieces; half a pint of pease, four sliced turnips, six potatoes cut very small, two