454 CHAP. X. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. should be mixed. It may be flavoured with nutmeg or lemon-zest. Lait Sucre.—Boil fine sugar in milk, and flavour it with lemon. It is a refreshment fit for children’s balls, and is so used in France. Eau Sucre.—Sugar in boiling water. It is a frugal beverage much used by French ladies, and is consider- ed soporific. Rum Shrub.—This is made by adding the juice and an infusion of the rind of Seville oranges to rum, with a little syrup and plain water or orange-flower water. Honey, raisin-wine, porter, citric acid, &c., are also employed. Brandy Shrub is made in the same manner. It is best to buy these compounds. Currant Shrub,— White or Red,—is made by putting the juice of the fruit to rum or brandy, in the propor- tions of a pint of juice, or less, to a quart of spirit, and adding syrup to taste. It must then be filtered. Lemonade.—This agreeable beverage wont formerly to be fermented,—now the process is more simple. Take any number of lemons, suitable to the quantity of liquor wanted; pare them as thin as possible ; then rub the surface with knobs of refined sugar, to ex- tract all the zest; put the saturated sugar into a basin, and squeeze the lemons over it. Add the best refined sugar to taste. Hot water, and a little boiling milk, if approved, may be added, in the proportions wished for : three quarts to two dozen lemons is a fair quantity, using the whole juice, but only half the rinds. Skim the liquor when well mixed, and run it through a jelly-bag previously dipped in hot water and wrung. Portable Lemonade,—very useful on Voyages or in the Country.—Take of tartaric acid one half-ounce, re- fined sugar three ounces, essence of lemon half a drachm. Pound the tartaric acid and sugar very well in a marble mortar, and gradually pour the essence upon the mixture. Mix the whole very well, and pa- per it up for use in twelve separate parcels ; each of which, when mixed with a tumbler of water, will make a very pleasant and refreshing draught.