CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 255 hundred red chilies, fresh gathered, in a quart of the best white-wine vinegar for ten days or more, shaking the bottle occasionally. A half-ounce of genuine cayenne will answer the same purpose. This makes an excellent and cheap addition to plain melted butter for fish, &c. Eschalot Vinegar.—Clean, peel, and bruise four ounces of shalots at the season when they are ripe without having become acrid. Steep them in a quart of the best vinegar. Garlic Vinegar.—The same as above, but only half the quantity of chopped garlic. Celery or Cress Vinegar.—Pound a half-ounce of celery or cress-seed, and steep it for ten days in a quart of vinegar. Strain and bottle. Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare and slice ten large cu- cumbers, and steep them in three pints of the best vi- negar for a few days. Strain and bottle it. Obs.—Vinegar of nearly the same flavour may be more cheaply prepared with burnet. Tarragon Vinegar.—Gather the leaves of tarragon on a dry sunny day; pick them from the stalks, and filling up a narrow-necked stone-jar, pour the best vinegar over them till the jar is full. Let them infuse for ten days, then strain and bottle the tincture. Basil Vinegar is made precisely as the above. The French add cloves and lemon-rind: we admire this addition. Horseradish Vinegar.—Pour a quart of the best and strongest vinegar boiling hot on three ounces of scraped horseradish, an ounce of minced slialot, two drachms of black pepper, and a drachm of cayenne. Strain it in four days, and serve it in a cruet along with cold beef. It will make an excellent economical addition to the gravy of chops, steaks, &c. Camp Vinegar.—Six chopped anchovies, four spoonfuls of walnut-catsup, two of soy, and a clove of garlic chopped very fine. Steep these for a fortnight in a pint of white-wine vinegar, and strain and bottle for use. ■Obs.—This is more properly a sauce than a vinegar, as with butter or gravy it supplies the place ol a store-sauce for either meat or fish.