CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 271 ed, and the closeness of the vessel in which the meat is contained. The lid of a stew-pan or digester, after the gravy has been skimmed, ought to be as seldom removed as possible; but the stew-pan may occasion- ally be shaken, to prevent the meat from adhering either to the bottom or to the sides.* Stewing is re- commended by Dr Cullen as the best mode of cook- ery for retaining all the native succulence of the meat, thus obtaining from it the greatest quantity of nour- ishment, and likewise as promotive of digestion,—the last assertion may be questioned. Made-dishes are valued by the gourmand for their seasonings and piquancy, but they are equally esteem- ed by the economist from the circumstance of a much less quantity of material than would suffice for a boil or roast, making a handsome and highly-flavoured dish; while, by the various modes of re-dressing, every thing cold is, in a new made-dish, turned to good account. The most common fault of made-dishes is, that they are overdone. While a large dinner is proceeding, the stew-pans are neglected, because their contents sustain less apparent injury than is instantly visible on roasts or broils; and also because cooks either do not know, or forget, that meat stewing in its own rich juices is exposed to a more intense heat than accompanies boiling or open roasting before the fire. The general rules we would give for dressing made- dishes are, that they be not over hastily done, but rather removed from the fire, as a very few minutes at any time will finish them completely,—that 'the sauce be smooth and properly thickened, so as to adhere to the meat,—and that the pieces be nicely trimmed, cut perfectly smooth with a fine-edged knife, and never left clumsily large. This is peculiarly to be attended to in re-dressing cold meat, which some- times comes to table mangled and lacerated as if it had been gnawed, not carved. The very name made-dish, with us implies some- thing savoury and highly relishing, and though over * It would be a great improvement if the lids of all stew-pans permitted fire to be put over as well as under the meat.