CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. 343 three ounces of butter, a faggot of parsley and green onions, and a cupful of nicely-trimmed button-mush- rooms. When warmed through and a little tinged, dredge on flour, and add salt, white pepper, and a little of the liquor they were blanched in. Let the fricassee simmer for a half-hour, or more if the chickens are large. Then lift the chickens into another saucepan. Skim off the fat, and reduce by a quick boil the sauce they were cooked in, and strain it over them. When about ready to serve, add a thickening of the beat yolks of two eggs. Scollops of cold Chicken.—Mince and heat in becha- mel-sauce, in scollop-shapes, and serve with a cucum- ber-sauce. Rissoles of cold roast Chicken.—Mince the white and good parts. Warm the mince in veloute well reduc- ed. Season with mace, white pepper, and nutmeg, and when cold, roll this up into balls the size of good large eggs. Wrap these in paste, and fry and serve them with fried parsley. Salmi de Perdreaux, Salmi of Partridges.*—Par- roast three or four partridges Jkept till they have ta- ken a little fumet. When cold, skin them and carve them. Put them into a small stew-pan, with a bit of lemon-peel, four shalots, a few bits of dressed ham, seasoning herbs of all kinds that you like, and a des- sert-spoonful of peppercorns, with the trimmings of the partridges, and a half-pint of Espagnole, and two glasses of Madeira. Let this simmer for an hour very gently. Dish the birds, and strain the skimmed sauce over them. Serve fried bread with the salmi, which must be hot and high-seasoned to be good for any thing. Partridge Salmi, Sportsman's Fashion.—Put roasted, or, if done on purpose, half-roasted partridges, skinned and carved, into a saucepan with a small glass of eat- ing oil, a large glass of wine, pepper, salt, and the * Salmis are favourite dishes with epicures, both on account of the excellence of their constituent parts, and their elaborate and pi- quant composition. They are in fact a species of moist devils. For thorough-bred English palates more hot seasonings will be requi- site than are used by the French ; and this must be attended to.