CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 405 Rice-Pancakes or Fritters.—Boil four ounces of rice- flour in a quart of cream, or very good milk, till it is as thick as pap. Stir in a quarter-pound of sugar. When cold, mix four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and eight beat eggs, thoroughly together. If not stiff enough, add more flour and sugar, and fry the batter either as fritters or pancakes. Serve with a little melted butter, wine and sugar poured into the dish. Batter for Fritters and for Frying.—Put a half- pound of sifted flour into a dish, with salt, a little melted butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Moisten and work up this with wort, or fresh yeasty beer, till it is of a proper consistence. Have the whites of the eggs well whipt, and work them into the paste, which should be made hours before it is used. Wa- ter or wine may be used instead of beer. Top-fat makes the best fritters, and next to it the soft kidney- fat of beef. Good plain Fritters.—Mix minced apples rolled in sugar with a little finely-shred suet and stiff pancake- batter or fritter-batter, as above described. Drop this in proper quantities into boiling dripping, and fry the fritters; or a few picked currants may be stir- red into the batter, and dropt in spoonfuls into the boiling dripping. Apple-Fritters.—Put a little additional flour to com- mon pan cake-batter. Peel and core large apples ;* cut them in slices, dip them in thethick batter, and fry them in lard, or good clarified dripping. Drain and dish them neatly above each other, and grate sugar over them; or drop batter into the boiling fat in the frying-pan, then slices of apple, and more batter over that. Obs.—Fritters are best served on the folds of a da- mask napkin. They may be made of ripe or preserv- ed fruits of all kinds, and are then called Italian. The batter may be seasoned with wine, &c. Potato-drillers.—Potato-fritters are sometimes dress- ed as a sweet dish; but are better plain, made of French cooks steep rennets for fritters in brandy and cinnamon or some liqueur, beforedippW them in the batter. They make fritters of all sorts of fruits, first halt-baking the cored apples or apricots. R 2