CHAP. XV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 489 a pound of rice in five quarts of water, and when cool enough, wash in this, using the rice for soap. Have another quantity ready, but strain the rice from this, and use it with warm water, keeping the rice-water strained off for a third washing, which, at the same time stiffens the chintz, and brightens the colours. To clean Printed Calico Furniture.—Shake and brush it with a long-haired brush, rub with clean flan- nel, and fold it carefully in large folds. Crumb of bread will clean it also. To scour Blankets.■—Boil a pound of good mottled soap, and put as much of it into a tub as with a solution of pearl-ashes will be enough to make a strong lather. Pour boiling water over, and wash the blankets till the lather becomes useless. Repeat this till a clear lather comes off them. Less soap may be used the second time, and very little the last time; but the water must be as hot as possible, and the blankets fully covered with it, else they will thicken. To clean fine Laces.—Fix the lace in a tent, and with a soft brush and a solution of white soap gently clean it. Pour clean water in which a bit of alum is dissolved over it, to clear it, and afterwards go over it with thin starch on the wrong side. Iron it on the same side, and with a bodkin open it all out at the edges. Lace-Veils are to be steeped in a solution of white soap, and gently squeezed out, and afterwards boiled in water and white soap till quite clean ; then rinsed, first in hot and next in cold water, afterwards run through a very thin solution of starch, and then drawn and pinned nicely out to dry. Black Veils.—Wash them gently in warm water and ox-gall. Rinse in fair water in which a bit of glue or gum arabic is dissolved, and pin them out. A decoc- tion of logwood will improve the colour. Steep them in it. To wash Silk Stockings.—Wash with white soap and hot water, and scald them in the same. Rinse in cold water, and dip in water in which a drop of blue or a bit of cudbear, or pink dye, is put, according to the tinge wanted. Rub them till dry with clean flannel; no mangling is required, and the lustre is brighter. To take Spots of Paint from Cloth and Silks.—Dip a