CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 159 but not overdone; and lest it should, the vegetables may be put in half an hour before the meat. Obs.—This soup may be coloured and flavoured with wine and two spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, and enriched with forcemeat-balls.* Soups in which catsup is mixed should not be salted till that ingre- dient is added, as catsup contains so much salt itself.t * The Club were at variance on the above original receipts. Jektil declared for the simple racy flavour of the plain sylvan cheer; Wixterbiossom liked the addition of forcemeat-balls and catsup; and the Doctor—hovering between the tureens, like Macheath between his rival charmers,—laid his ears deeply in both, but when compelled to decide, from an habitual reverence to soups that be, voted for the plain soup as originally swallowed with so much unction by Dominie Sampson. -f- Stew Soups, &c., when not made cloyingly rich nor over- seasoned, as they always are by those whose trade it is to compound cordials to stimulate and pamper palled appetites and indurated pa- lates, is, for common and general purposes, the most easy, whole- some, and nutritious form in which food can be prepared. It is that combination of fluids and solids, animal and vegetable substances, with condiments, which forms the mixture best fatted to the human stomach, and the best calculated to promote health and impart strength. The prejudice which exists in England against soups as not promotive of strength ought to give way before Stew Soups. It has been gravely contended of late, that human life cannot be supported on soups, however rich, without solid animal food; and experiments are quoted where a dog kept on the richest soup died, while another which was fed on meat boiled to chips, and water, re- tained health and strength. To these experiments may be opposed the living example of the poor of Ireland and Scotland, who hardly ever see animal food in any form, and yet enjoy health and strength. “ The greatest heroes of antiquity,” says Sir John Sinclair “ lived on broth.” The liquor in which their mutton or venison was boiled, thickened with a little oatmeal, and seasoned perhaps with a few wild herbs, formed the morning tea and coffee in the hall of the Chieftain, before the introduction of these costly foreign com- modities. It is impossible to say on what men will not live, and enjoy health tooshell-fish, Iceland moss, mushrooms, snails’, and an endless variety of substances, have been known to sustain life and health,—not to mention fricassees of old shoes and leather breeches, to which shipwrecked mariners have often had recourse. Our readers cannot have forgotten Sir Bevis of Hampdoun in his dungeon, of whom— “ Rats and mice and such small deer, “ Was the food for full seven year.” This to be sure is solid animal food, and favours the theory of the modern experimenters; but, again, we have Dr Eit an k t. in’s old ca- tholic lady, who lived solely on water-gruel, and yet enjoyed health. There has lately started up in England, we are told, a new-fangled religious sect, who, from an absurd reading of the commandment