331 CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. salt, pepper, fine spiceries, a little grated nutmeg, and a bay-leaf; moisten with a spoonful of Espagnole or ve- loute; let it simmer, taking care to stir it : when suffi- ciently done, finish it with a thickening of yolks of eggs well beaten, which must not boil; the juice of a lemon is not necessary, but may be added. Put it into a dish, and use it for every thing that is put in papillotes. N. B.—The other sauces used by the French are either the same as our own that go under similar names, or the difference is pointed out in the receipts given in the Chapter Sauces. FRENCH SOUPS. Soups, under the French names, or, what is the same thing, under a different name, but the same soup, are so common at English tables, that the best part of them will be found in the Chapter Soups. There are still a few entitled to a place here. Potage au Riz, or Rice Soup.—Have a strong clear bouillon, (stock-broth) of veal or beef, or a mixture of these meats, made as directed for stock-broth. Put a sufficient quantity of this, well-seasoned, boiling, into a tureen, in which are two ounces of rice, pre- pared as directed for Mullagatawny, page 369. Another Way, which makes two Dishes.—Boil a neatly-trussed large fowl or capon in grand bouillon with two cloves, two onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, and salt. Skim it well to make the soup clear. Serve the fowl with a little great salt sprinkled on the breast, and a spoonful of clear soup about it. Serve the soup on boiled rice, taking out the onions and cloves, and putting a little brown beef or veal gravy to it to im- prove the colour. Potage ait Vermicelli.—Prepare four ounces of ver- micelli by blanching it, and boiling it in broth. Make the soup of grand bouillon, of blond, de veau, or con- somme, or a part of each. Let the cooked vermicelli boil in it five minutes and no more. Potage d I’ltalienne, a Brown Soup.—Cut young- carrots and turnips in scrolls like ribbons, some white ol leeks, and two heads of celery, and three onions in fillets. Fry these in butter; moisten with strong, clear, deep-coloured gravy-stock, and some blond de