CIIAP. II.—ROASTING. 90 water, and dried; and see that the spit be bright- ly clean ; or if not, scour with sand and water or Bath brick, and wipe with a clean cloth. If there is too much fat, some of it maybe cutoff for dripping or puddings. Cover the fat for the first hour with kitchen-paper, fastened on with twine.* A good cook can manage to handle meat very little in the spitting and balancing. In many joints the spit will run along the side of the bone without piercing the flesh. Fix with screw skewers. If much handled, baste the spit- ted joint with salt and water, and dry the dripping- pan, suffering the meat to dry, which it will do in a few seconds by the heat of the fire, before basting with butter. If the meat is not accurately balanced, no horizontal spit will work well.t In roasting, the management of the fire is half the battle. Let the kitchen grate be thoroughly raked out in the morning. An hour before the roast is put down, make up a fire suited to the size of the joint; let it be clear and glowing, and free of ashes and smoke in front. A backing of wetted cinders or small coal helps to throw forward and sustain an equal ra- diant heat in front. Place the meat at a due distance, that it may heat through without the outside becom- ing shrivelled and scorched. To prevent this, baste diligently for the first half hour. The larger the joint the greater must be the distance from the fire, so that it be not so much as to make the meat tough and sod- den by the slackness of the process. A radiant fire, due distance, and frequent basting, can alone ensure a well-roasted joint, of that fine amber colour, crisp, and lightly frothed, which speaks a language that all men understand. A quarter of an hour to the pound of meat is the time usually allowed for roasting, bearing * Reugill insisted upon a warning post here, as the worth)’ man, in the eagerness of his appetite, had one day a large corking- pin fixed in his gullet, like a salmon hook, for a good half-hour, which some of Meg’s queans had used in skewering (new reading, .securing,) on the paper. •f A smoke or a wind-up-jack was considered the best by the Nabob ; but Yorkshire jacks, bottle jacks, Dutch ovens, and Gip- sy jacks, i. c. a nail and a string, and many other contrivances, may all be employed with success, if the fire be adapted to the pe- culiar construction of the implement.