CHAP. VII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 221 which has a very high relish; and before serving, drain them on a towel before the fire. TO MASH POTATOES.* Those who are more solicitous about the appearance of their tables than the quality of the dishes, have their potatoes mashed all the year round. Wash and skin them, cut out all the eyes and specks, boil them with plenty of salt, pour off the water, and put them over the fire to dry for a minute; put in some butter, salt, and a little milk (the less the better, unless they are to be eaten with milk, as it makes them tough and doughy). Mash them smooth with the Scottish imple- ment called a potato-beetle, or with a rolling-pin, and dish them neatly ; score in diamonds or sippets, and brown them before the fire. After the month of March potatoes ought ahvays to be pared before boil- ing, whether they are to be mashed or served whole. Mashed Potatoes may be pressed into patty-pans previously buttered, and turned out and browned; or put into stoneware, scallop-shell shapes, glazed with eggs, and browned before the fire, sticking a few bits of butter upon them. A few of these make a pretty supper-dish. Potato-Balls is another form into which mashed potatoes may be converted. Roll them up with yolk of egg and a little flour, and fry them in good drip- ping, or brown them. Potatoes dressed in a French Mode, for Nursery Dinners, fyc.—Stir new milk with pounded potatoes till the mixture is as thin as good cream. Boil with butter, pepper, and salt, for twenty minutes. Potato-Balls Ragout are also made of mashed po- tatoes, adding grated ham or tongue, minced parsley There is an admirable receipt for gusty chappit (i. e. mashed) potatoes in an early volume of Blackwood’s Magazine,—the work which, m the mysteries of Comus, takes the lead of all the periodicals of the day. The receipt to which we allude is after the practice of the pastoral inhabitants of Ettrick, Yarrow, and Teviotdale. Before calling the potato-4ee</<? into operation, salt, pepper, and an onion, finely shred, arc sprinlded over the potatoes, witn a dash of sweet milk. The onion is the bonne bvuuhe.