CHAP. Ill OP CURING- MEAT; &C. 479 wipe it, and salt it with four ounces bay-salt, four ounces common salt, and two ounces of saltpetre, well beaten and mixed. Let it lie in this for a fortnight, and then roll it tight in a cloth, and press it under a weight. Smoke the meat in the cloth, hung in a chimney where wood is burned; boil it piecemeal as it is wanted; when boiled, press it till cold, and it will grate or pull like Dutch beef. Irish Beef.—Proceed as directed for a rump or round, only season with nutmeg and mace, as well as the ingredients mentioned there. To cure Geese.—In Languedoc and other parts of Prance, where land is of small value, and geese plenty, much of the winter-food of genteel provincial fami- lies depends on these birds. As we think the infor- mation may be found useful in Ireland, and remote parts both of England and Scotland, we shall de- tail the French method of proceeding :—When the geese are very fat, about the end of autumn they are killed, and the wings and legs cut off, leaving as little flesh on the body as possible. The legs are partly boned; and to every five geese a half-ounce of salt- petre is mixed with the necessary quantity of common salt, with which the legs and wings are well rubbed, and laid for twenty-four hours in a pan with savoury herbs. Meanwhile all the fat is collected from the bodies and intestines, and boiled down as lard over a very slow fire, strained, and put to cool. The legs, wings, and the body cut in pieces, are in twenty-four hours taken from the salt, passed quickly through fresh water, and stewed over a very slow fire till the flesh will pierce with a straw. They are then taken out, and, when cold, packed in jars, and the fat pour- ed over them. When cold, paper and bladder, or parchment, are tied over the jars. A French family has, from this stock of winter-provisions, the power of having a ragout of a leg or wing, heated in a little of the jelly, and fat in which the meat is preserved ; or a soupe of a neck, back, or pinion, with the mere ad- dition of herbs, vegetables, and suitable seasonings. The relish is very high ; and French cooks speak with rapture of this savoury and economical mode of cook- ing geese. Young pigs may be treated in the same