216 CHAP. VII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. The French put grated nutmeg or minced parsley to stews of cucumber, and thicken the sauce with beat yolks of eggs. Nutmeg is indeed a very suitable con- diment with this watery vegetable, so is cayenne. Obs.—Stewed cucumbers are frequently served with lamb-steaks, mutton-chops, or rumpTsteaks, and with mutton-rumps and kidneys. Some cooks brown the cucumbers and onions before stewing. These vege- table stews may be made into the sauces bearing their respective names, by cutting the celery in smaller bits, and by stewing the cucumber to a mash, and pressing it through a fine sieve. TO STEW RED CABBAGE. Wash, pick, and shred what will fill a large pint- basin. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and put in the cabbage with only the water that hangs about it, pepper, cayenne, salt, and an onion sliced. Stew this, keeping the saucepan close covered ; and when just ready, add a glass of vinegar, Avhich may just boil up. French cooks add a bay-leaf and two cloves stuck in an onion. Fried sausages are served on this preparation; or it may be served with bouilli.* TO STEW SORREL FOR ROASTS OF VEAL, LAMB, FBI- CANDEAUS, &C. Wash and simmer it in an unglazed earthen or stone jar very slowly, and beat it up with a bit of butter, or a little salad-oil. Add cayenne, pepper, and salt. * The cabbage tribe has ever been a first-rate favourite with writers on diet, whether ancient or modern. Volumes have been composed, not merely in praise of the demulcent cauliflower and brocoli, but of the common white and red cabbage. Besides their use in soups, and in correcting the putrescent qualities of animal food, they are said to be correctives of the consequences of excess in wine. Arbuthnot says, the juice of red cabbage baked is, with the addition of honey, an excellent pectoral; and red cabbage stewed in veal-broth, with calf’s lights and pistachios, is, on the continent, esteemed a specific in consumption,—a malady, by the way, for which a remedy has been discovered in chickens, oysters, jellies, fruits, and every favourite aliment,—in short, in whatever the dis- coverer fancies he himself could thrive and live forever. These dis- coveries arc, we take it, generally made on the principle of the Irish corpse-howl or Ullaloo,— “ Why did you die « Why did you die .* “ Had you not plenty of butter-milk and potatoes V'