32 INTRODUCTION. Kitchen of a comfortable village inn. The farmer’s kitchen. Dark kitchens of great cities. Importance of light. The construction and regulation of the fires. Ovens. Stoves. Supply of soft water in kitchens. Kitchen utensils. Ought to be provided in proper quantity, as well as of suitable kinds. Rather numerous than otherwise, to save the distraction and waste of time occasioned by a scanty supply. A digester, meat-screen, salting-trough, meat-safe, &c. indispensable in families where comfort and economy are studied. Speedily pay themselves by the saving of fuel, labour, and provisions. May he bought on the graduated scale suited to the size and circumstances of the family. The price, to a young house- keeper, of one couch or looking-glass would obtain all those articles so subservient to domestic comfort and economy. IV. Cleanliness.—Its importance insisted on. Con- sidered the first virtue of a plain cook.—Some difference of opinion among gourmands as to its relative importance. Female cooks generally considered superior to those of the other sex in this quality, lrf, Cleanliness as applicable to all descriptions of culinary utensils.—All saucepans, grid- irons, spits, skewers, &c. to be laid away clean, and kept well-tinned and free of rust Pickle-jars, casks, troughs, paste-pins, &c. to he laid aside clean. Great attention to be given to keep pudding-cloths, tapes, jelly-hags, tammy-cloths, sieves, &c. clean, sweet, and dry. Kitchen-cloths to he washed every day after dinner. Wood-ashes recommended by French artists for this purpose, as soap gives a bad flavour to pudding-cloths, &c. 2d, Cleanliness as applicable to pro- visions about to be dressed.—To be duly washed, trimmed, and wiped. Attention to he given to skimming, straining, withholding the sediment and lees. Neatness in disliing without sloping the ledges of the dishes. Anecdotes of the slovenliness of cooks. Nobleman who, visiting his kitchen, found the butter required for the made-dishes stuck over the kitchen fire-place. Mr F of C , on a similar occa- sion, finds his man-cook employing the contents of a shaving-