CHAP. IV. FRYING. 126 sauce may be made brown, by the addition of a little walnut or mushroom catsup. Veal cutlets may also be more highly dressed by dipping the slices in beat egg, and then strewing over them a mixture of bread- crumbs, parsley, and lemon-peel, chopped very fine, and a scrape of nutmeg. They must be fried in plenty of butter, and more of the mixture may be strewed over them in the pan. When the cutlets are done, place them before the fire in a hot dish covered, and to the gravy in the pan add veal broth or gravy, and a few little bits of butter separately rolled in flour; let it boil and thicken ; add a little lemon-juice and white pepper, skim the sauce, and pour it over the cutlets. Where the flavour of lemon thyme is liked, a sprig of it makes a grateful addition to sauce for cutlets. See, for other ways of dressing cutlets, French Cookery. A majority of the Club preferred cutlets as in the first receipt. For Scotch collops, see Made Dishes of Veal. Lamb or Mutton Chops are fried in same manner, whether plain or egged, rolled in bread-crumbs,* and garnished with slices of lemon, or crisped parsley. Pork-chops may be fried as above, dipping them af- ter they are eggedt in a mixture of chopped onion, sage, and bread-crumbs. Ohs.—Care should be taken to have all chops, steaks, and cutlets of a good shape, neatly trimmed, and beat of equal thickness when not cut equally. TO FRY FRESH SAUSAGES. DR R. Whether pork, veal, or beef sausages, they are best fried in the same way, viz. very slowly, that they may heat to the heart without bursting. Sausages ought to be dressed quite fresh, especially those that * To prepare bread-crumbs Put the grated crumb of stale bread into a slow oven ; then beat it well in a mortar, and sift and keep for use. It will keep for some time. f “ To egg,” to smear with beat egg, or dip in egg, is an ap- proved kitchen verb, which Touchwood derived from the Scotch phrase, to “ egg up,” or “ egg on,” incite, urge, or stimulate tile appetite. Dr Kedgill had grave doubts as to this etymology. “ To onion” is another buttery verb, which deserves to be more ge- nerally known.