73 NOTICES OF THE PRINCIPAL MEATS, FISH, AND VEGE- TABLES, IN SEASON IN THE DIFFERENT MONTHS OF THE YEAR. JANUARY. Beef and mutton, which ate to be had good all the year round, are both prime in this month, though they begin to get dearer than in the fall of the year ; veal to be had good, but dear at this season ; house-lamb and pork generally both dear. Poultry— Turkeys, geese, ducks, fowls, pullets, tame pigeons, wild ducks, hares and rabbits, plenty, the latter about the cheapest. Fish.—~ Turbot, hollibut, skate, cod, haddocks, soles, plaice, flounders, oysters ; prime turbot is now scarce; lobsters and crabs hardly to be got at this time ; prawns plenty. Vegetables.—The same sorts of vegetables are in season, with little variation, from the beginning of November till the end of February : they are Savoys, cabbage, and greens of all the sorts, Brussels sprouts, brocoli, sulphur-coloured and purple; spinage, leeks, onions, beet-root, parsnips, turnips, celery, carrots, potatoes, cresses, parsley, cucumber, endive, and forced asparagus, and mushrooms. Fruits.—A variety of apples, pears, and filberts, walnuts, oranges, and all the dried fruits, now fresh and excellent. FEBRUARY. * Meat the same as in January, but veal and house-lamb gene- rally rather cheaper. Fish the same, but cod and haddocks fallen off; lobsters more plenty ; barbel and dace got. Fowls and Game the same, and spring chickens and ducklings in addition, but always enormously dear. Vegetables the same, with forced beans, and salad herbs. MARCH. Meat as in January, and grass-lamb ; house-lamb now cheaper ; and mountain-mutton, which begins to fall off about mid-winter, now not so prime, particularly in severe seasons ; veal gets cheaper. Poultry the same as last month’s, but no hares till September; green geese, ducklings, tame pigeons, (cheaper) ; wild pigeons; Moor-game goes out of season. Fish.—Salmon is now got, but dear,——indeed it is to be had in London almost the whole year round ; fish are often plenty about this time, in an open spring, but still plentier in April; mackerel, shrimps, and prawns, are now seen. Vegetables.—Forced cucumbers, young turnips, and turnip tops, spinage, brocoli, radishes, and forced salad herbs. APRIL. Meat of all kinds.—Veal and lamb get cheaper. Poultry same as last three months, but leverets towards the end of the month ; young fowls, with eggs, and turkey-poults, but extravagantly dear.