FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. 521 distinguished honour done us. This, gentlemen, is the proudest day of our lives. We came to our important labours a feeble band, prejudices to contend with from without, and dissensions from with- in. We have lived to become a strong host: but, far from glorying in our strength, we are but the more ready to acknowledge our obli- gations to our friends ; and, above all, to those liberal and enlight- ened individuals in the South, who hailed the day-spring of culinary science, though it dawned in a quarter the least expected. I sin- cerely wish the task had fallen into abler hands ; I have now the honour of proposing u The Gentlemen of the Periodical Press. Air—“ Rogues all." Meg's voice from behind the hallan ; Girzy, tak’ a dram and a chapin o’ the best ale to the fiddler.” TOUCHWOOD. Before I sit down, gentlemen, I must crave another toast, and let it be a real bumper. I give the greatest practical cook in the world, next to our hostess and lady president,—Monsieur Beau- vieliers of Paris. Air—■“ Qu'un Cuisinier est un mortel divin !" JEKYL. I regret, gentlemen, that the task of acknowledging the honour done to the patriarch of the French cuisine should have fallen into hands so feeble. Though more addicted to larding and barbing than is suitable to the delicacy of the highest order of cookery—that which I patronise, the modern Auglo-Gallican—there is much to admire about the Nestor of the stove. My friend with the hookah, I see, puffs disdain. Give me leave to say a few words for my own gas- tromonic creed, scoffed at as 1 am by the French practitioner, as a gross English glutton, reviled by the English cook as a flimsy French theorist, incapable of appreciating roast beef, and devoted to “ soup maigre, frogs, and salads.” To both charges I plead not guilty. 1 indeed disclaim floating fat, denounce stale game, abhor all barbaric amalgamations, or mixtures of milk, grease, fruit, and meat. I even throw myself on your mercy, while I own a more flagrant gastronomic heresy,—I loathe and repel all farcing and farqemeats, save REDGILL. Sir! you detest all farcing and farcemeats ! Monstrous ! TOUCHWOOD. What in the name of cod-fish is he after now !—You detest all farcing and farcemeats, the very acme?, the summum bormm of ci- vilized cookery ? Are you mad, Jekyl ? Y 2