230 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. substitute. A numei'ous class of sauces is composed of vegetables and green fruits, another of shell-fish, and a third of meat. There are still other sauces com- pounded of an admixture of all these ingredients. It will simplify arrangement to take these in regular order; though the philosophers of the kitchen, it must be owned, shake themselves tolerably free of the tram- mels of system. TO MELT BUTTER PLAIN, Or for Sauces. Break the butter in small bits, and put it into a small saucepan, (kept for this and other delicate uses,) with cream, sweet milk, or water, or a mixture of either, in the proportion of a small spoonful to the ounce of butter. Dredge a little flour or potato-mucilage over it, and, holding the vessel over the fire, toss it quickly round, till the butter melts into the consistence of a very thick cream. Let it boil up and no more. This is the French sauce blanche. Obs.—A spoonful of catsup, and a little vinegar fla- voured or plain, converts this extempore into a good fish-sauce;—a tea-spoonful of mustard, where suit- able, will heighten the relish. Butter will, from its bad quality, sometimes run to oil in spite of the most vigilant cook. In this case it is the practice to put a little cold wrater to it, and to pour it rapidly back-wards and forwards from the saucepan into a basin, which will partially restore it. Melted butter to be mixed with flavoured vinegars, catsups, and thin essences, should be made very thick, and melted with water and flour only, as milk is apt to coagulate; and the vinegars, capers, pickles, &c., must be carefully stirred in, just before the sauce is served, to prevent it from curdling. Butter, on the contrary, into which minced egg, or herbs which thicken, are to be stirred, should be thin when melt- ed, as the other ingredients will thicken it.— To cla- rify Butter, see page 123. Oiled. Butter.—Set the saucepan over a slow fire, or at the side of it, and it will oil of itself. Let it settle, and pour it from the milky sediment. To brown or burn Butter.—Put a large piece of butter into a small frying-pan, and toss it round over