CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 275 kitchen, called also Bceuf d la Royale, differs very little from beef alamode, save that it is corded, and, when half baked or braised, is boned. It is served with its own gravy, and garnished with pickles or parsley. DR hunter’s RECEIPT FOR A STEWED BRISKET. Brisket of Beef stewed savoury.—Take eight pounds of brisket of beef, and stew it till quite tender, in as much water as will cover the meat. When sufficient- ly tendered, take out the bones, and carefully skim off the fat. Take a pint of the liquor, put to it the third of a pint of red port wine, a little walnut or mushroom-catsup, and some salt. Tie up in a bit of muslin some whole white pepper and mace, and stew all together for a short time. Have ready some car- rots and turnips boiled tender, and cut into the form of dice ; strew them upon the beef, putting a few into the dish. Truffles and morels may be added. To collar Beef.—Choose the thin part of the flank, or what in Scotland is called the nine-holes, or runner. Let the meat be young, tender, and well-grained, but not very fat, as it is to be eat cold. Rub it with salt, and a little saltpetre; and when it has drained a night, rub it thoroughly well with a mixture of sugar, salt, pounded pepper, and allspice. Let it lie a week in the salting-tray, turning it, and basting daily with the pickle. If the weather is cold, it may lie ten days, then bone it, and cut away all the gristly parts, and the coarse inner skin. Dry it, and strew over the in- side chopped herbs and cook’s pepper ; that done, roll it up as tightly as possible, bind it with broad fillets of strong cloth, and afterwards with tape; press it under a heavy weight, and then undo the bandages ; re-fasten them when the meat has shrunk, and make the ends very fast. It will require from three to five hours slow but constant boiling. When done, press it again while still bound, and when cold, undo the bandages. It may be served hot, with savoys or car- rot, but it is most valued for slicing down cold.