359 CHAP. III. SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. of the tails, fins, &c., or where fish is cheap, cut down a small one or two to help the stock. Boil green onions, parsley, and chives in this, and some whole pepper. When all the substance is obtained, strain it. I hicken with butter kneaded in flour, but only to the consist- ence of a soup, and put in the fish (generally had- docks), cut in three or divided. Boil ten minutes, and serve the fish and sauce together in a tureen or soup-dish.—See page 182-3. . _ , _ . Scotch Fish and Sauce, a favourite Dish. 1 roceed as above to make a stock, or use a broth of meat it wanted rich, though plenty of butter kneaded in browned flour will make this rich enough. The fish cut in pieces may also be browned. Season highly with mixed spices and a halt-cupful ot catsup. This dish may be enriched with oysters, shrimps, or muscles prepared: or with fish farce balls. 1 he sauce should be thicker than in the former receipt. Serve as above. Some will like celery here. friar’s chicken.'* Make a clear stock of veal, mutton-shanks, or trim- mings of fowls. Strain this into a very nice sauce- pan, and put a fine white chicken, or young fowl or two, cut down as for currie, into it. Season with salt, white pepper, mace, and shred parsley. Thicken, when the soup is finished, with the beat yolks of two * Friar’s Balsam.—We have been favoured by a literary lady with a receipt for making Friar’s Balsam, once so highly esteemed in Scotland. The receipt is of value as an antiquarian curiosity, independently of the medicinal virtues of the balsam. After the Re- formation, this preparation was, in zealous Protestant families, call- ed “ Aromatic Tincture." “ Take 4 oz. of storax, 2 oz. of balsam of Peru, 7 oz. of benzoin, and of myrrh, frankincense, soccotrine-aloes, angelica-roots, and flowers of St John’s-wort, each an ounce. Pound the gums, pul- verise the flowers, and put all the ingredients, except the balsam of Peru, into a wide-mouthed bottle or glazed jar, with two English pints of highly-rectified spirit of wine. Cork the bottle or jar very closely, tying it over with bladder and linen, with a waxed pack- thread. Bury the bottle in the hot dunghill of a stable-yard for a month, taking it up to shake the contents every other day. At the end of four weeks put in the balsam of Peru. Shake the bottle oc- casionally for three days, and strain oft' the balsam through a piece of cambric. Keep it in vials well corked and sealed.