]b'0 CHAP. V. BROTHS; SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. CHEAP RICE AND MEAT SOUP. Boil from three to four pounds of a good ox-cheeky very well soaked and cleaned, in three quarts of water, with four onions, and a small faggot of pot-herbs. Strain it; cut the meat in small pieces, and stew with six ounces of rice, adding pepper and salt. This cheap stew-soup may be seasoned with curry powder or mace; or made after a finer fashion with knuckle of veal, or two cow-heels. FISH SOUPS. This delicate and elegant description of soups has gained on the favour of the gormandizing world very rapidly within the last few years. Cray-fish was the favourite bonne bone he of past generations. Oyster and lobster soups are more admired in our day. The basis of fish-soups,—the stock, as it is techni- cally called,—may either be made of fish or meat. The former is perhaps the more elegant, and is be- sides suited to maigre days ; the latter is supposed to be the more rich and nourishing. Beef, veal, or the lean of mutton, may all be used for fish-stock. When made of fish, a skate, a cod’s head, haddocks, whit- ings, eels, gudgeons, flounders, and other white fish, are used, and also the heads, fins, and trimmings of the fish which are to be dressed. As fish-stock soon “ Thou shalt not kill,” renounce the use of animal food, and enjoy high health on their vegetable regimen. It is indeed high presump- tion to limit the powers of the human stomach, in assimiladng and turning to healthful chyle, whatever is, in discretion, and without violent and sudden change, submitted to its action. Of this im- portant organ, “ the master of the family,” it holds as strongly as of the palate, that “ what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison Chaque pays c/iaquc coutumc. The Tartar feeds on horse flesh, the Chinese on dog’s, the Green- lander on fish garbage, witli the luxurious sauce of train-oil. The Frenchman and German feed on frogs and snails, and the ancients valued assafoetida as much as the moderns do curry-powder, or Bur- gess, fish-sauce.