CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 397 in this its utility consists ; it may either be broth the slices, or warmed up in a fresh cloth. It will takber long while to get hot quite through if warmed whole. Bread-Pudding.—Pour a large pint of boiling milk I over what will fill a breakfast-cup of bread-crumbs. Let them soak covered till cold, and mash it smooth with a spoon. Sweeten it to taste. Add to it four or five eggs well beat, and season with cinnamon or nut- meg. Stir in two ounces of currants picked and plumped, or a few cut raisins; or the pudding may be made very rich by the addition of blanched and chopped almonds, candied citron, and orange-peel, with raisins and currants. Boil it in a basin, or bake it in a dish. Pounded sweet or plain biscuit may be used instead of bread-crumbs. A Brown Bread-Pud- ding is made as above, but more plainly, and also a Save-all or Crust-Pudding. Small bread-puddings may be baked in little buttered cups. Rice-Pudding.—Wash well in several waters, and pick a half-pound of the best Carolina rice. Boil it slowly in a little water for a few minutes, and then put a pint and a half of sweet milk to it, with a roll of lemon-peel. Stir it constantly, to prevent it from sticking. When quite soft, pour it into a dish, and mix two ounces of fresh-butter, or of nicely-shred suet with it; and when cold, three or four beat eggs, sugar to taste, and a seasoning of cinnamon or nut- meg. Cover the edges of a flat pie-dish with paste cut into leaves, and bake the pudding in it. A few currants may be put to it. This pudding may be thinned with milk and boiled in a cloth ; or it may, allowing a double quantity of suet, be filled into skins !and so boiled. Chopped apples, stoned prunes, &c., may be put to this pudding ; and it may be made of ground instead of whole rice.* When candied peel is used, this takes the name of Patna-Pudding. Delicate small Rice-Puddings.—Prepare four ounces of rice as above directed, and put to it three ounces * We have seen wheat struck in the same manner as pot or pearl barley, substituted for rice, in making puddings. It is much cheap- er, can be had fresh at all times, and is by many persons thouuht • better than rice.—P. T.