CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 385 Ob.y.—Gooseberry, apple, rhubarb, and other fruit pies, eat very well cold ; or the fruit may be stewed and sweetened, for common use, without farther pre- paration. Fresh good cream is a very great improve- ment to all fruit pies and tarts. The next best thing is plain custard. In England the cream is often sweetened, thickened with beat yolks of eggs, and poured over the fruit. In Scotland cream for tarts is usually served by itself, either plain or only whisked. Fruit Tarts of Preserved Fruits.—These are made of all sorts of marmalades, jams, and preserved small fruits. If apples, pare, core, and quarter them. Stew and mash'them, and sweeten them with fine beat su- gar. Season with the squeeze of a lemon, a little beat cinnamon, an ounce of candied orange-peel, and a little white wine or cider. Cover a flat dish with tart-paste, and place a broad rim of puff-paste round the edges. Bake the paste, and putin the jam, either when it is ready, or a few minutes before. Paste stars, flowers, &c., may be cut out, and baked on tins to ornament the top; or if the fruit is put in at first, it may be covered with paste trellis-work. Ohs.—Tarts of preserved fruit, when much orna- ment is wanted, are served with a paste croquante, or ornaments of sugar boiled to caramel; but as this is rather the business of the professed confectioner than of the practical cook, and cannot be taught without actual experiment, we pass it over. Small Tarts and Puff's of Fruit.—Line very small patty-pans, either oval or round, with puff-paste, and pare them neatly. Put in a little of any kind of jam or marmalade, and either cross-bar the tarts with paste-straws, or wreathe paste-straws round them. Obs.—This, or making little patties or paste rama- kins, is a very good way of using any bit of paste that is left over from a large pie or tart. Small Puffs.—Roll out puff-paste of nearly a half- inch thick. Cut it into pieces about five inches wide, to have, when doubled, the form of squares, triangles, crescents, &c. Place a little jam of any kind on each, and double them up. Wet and pinch them close at the edges with a fluted paste-runner, and bake them on tins, with paper below.