50 OP BILLS OF FARE. It may be assumed, that utility is the true princi- ple of beauty, at least in affairs of the table, and, above all, in the substantial first course. A very false or defective taste is, however, often shown in centre- ornaments. Strange ill-assorted nosegays, and mon- strous bouquets of artificial-flowers, begin to droop or look faded among those hot steams, which soon deprive even the more appropriate salad of its fresh and light appearance. Ornamental articles of family-plate, carved, chased, or merely plain, but highly-polished, can never be out of place, however old-fashioned, and are the only things of which this can be constantly affirmed. In the same manner we may assume, that in desserts, richly-cut and brightly- washed useful articles of glass can never cease to be or- namental ; though we would pause on the adoption of all alum or wax baskets, and fruits of this last tantaliz- ing substance, with many other things of the counter- feit kind. We are far, however, from proscribing the foliage and moss in which fruits are sometimes seen lightly bedded. These are next to the native dew, and the bloom is beautiful and appropriate. That sparkling imitation of frost-work, which is given to preserved fruits and other things, is also exceedingly beautiful, as are many of the trifles belonging to French and Italian confection ary. As we are disposed to give the Monks full credit for many of the best French dishes, and of our own antiquated preparations, so are the fair recluses of France and Italy entitled to the merit of much that is elegant in confectionary, of which they long had, and still have, tasteful exhibitions on holi- days. To their leisure and taste we owe caramelled and candied fruits, fruits en chemise, Chantilly and caramel- baskets, &c. &c. as well as the most delicate lace, needle-work, and cut paper. Linen well done up, and more cloths than one, with a scarlet baize between, give a table a clad comfortable look. In all ranks, and at every table, one important art in housekeeping is to make what remains over from one day’s entertainment contribute to the elegance or plenty of the next day’s repasts. This is a principle understood by persons in the very highest ranks of society, and who maintain the most splendid and ex-