CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 471 to a warm and comfortable meal, will be no small blessing. Those benevolent individuals who actively interest themselves in bettering the condition of the poor, seldom fail to enjoin them to go to church. Were this injunction coupled with a comfortable Sun- day’s dinner of warm stew-soup, to such as need this kindness, the advice would not be less efficacious. For an expense of two shillings per week, any bene- volent individual may dine ten women or old men every Sunday of the year, even allowing that none of the waste of his kitchen were applied to this purpose, but that every article were purchased. In speaking of dishes for the poor, it. is at once pro- per to say, that we have no idea of human life in grown persons being sustained in comfort and physi- cal energy without a due proportion of animal food ; nor do we conceive, that, with any better diet than the miserable unchanging meal of the Irish and High- land peasantry, or the rice of the feeble tribes of In- dia, there is any food more really economical than cheap stew-soups of meat or fish, with a proper mix- ture of vegetables, roots, and farinaceous seeds. But this mode of cooking is not only the cheapest, but also the most savoury in which food can be prepared. The worst feature in the domestic management of the poor—we speak not of drinking—is the universal and inordinate use of tea, which they must either swallow a coarse half-sweetened pernicious decoction, without the milk, butter, meat, &c., which can alone render it a nourishing breakfast, or spend on it a share of their earnings, which must be subtracted from better purposes. The tea-pot drains the soup-pot, and the price of the materials of a coarse unsatisfying breakfast would purchase enough of meat, vegetables, and barley, or pulse, to make a hearty and comfort- able family-dinner. Were soup substituted for tea, and for those sickening and abominable slops called British coffee, as is still the practice with good families on the continent, and, till of late years, was so in the Highlands of Scotland and Ireland, the change would be still better; as the meat, either cold, or re-warmed in a little of the soup, would furnish dinner. The objection made to the old hearty breakfast of the Low-