CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 411 Cocoa-Nut Cream.—Use the grated cocoa to fla- vour.—N.B. This is a favourite flavouring ingre- dient in the colonies for puddings, &c. It is thought to give the laurel-leaf flavour, and has no pernicious quality. To ice Fruits, Creams, Jellies, tyc.—Proceed as be- fore directed for icing creams in moulds. It is ne- cessary that creams and fruits to be served with “ the name of iced,” should be thoroughly done ; to be so, let them be long in the freezer, and only fill the glasses when they are wanted at table. All sorts of fruits may be iced. Strawberry Ice-Cream.—Mix the fruit-juice, strain- ed and sweetened in the proportion of a pound to a pint of whipped cream. If to be moulded to a shape, add a little melted and strained isinglass j if in small glasses, this is not necessary. Raspberry Ice-Cream.—Make as above. Apricot Ice-Cream.—Peel, stone, and pound the apricots with a little sugar. Press the mash through a tammy, with a wooden spoon. Mix it with sweet- ened whipt cream ; put a little melted isinglass to it, whip the whole over ice till it is thoroughly blended. Then fill the mould, and place it in the ice-bucket. N.B.—We must again notice, that the necessary quantity of isinglass to make creams take a shape can only be known by experiment. Imitation of Fruit Ice-Creams is made by tinging blancmange with beet-root or prepared cochineal. " jellies to be sent to Table in a Shape. Clarify the sugar you use, whether the jelly is boiled or worked cold; for although the main excel- lence of these jellies is no doubt the flavour, their most obvious qualities are colour and transparency. The former depends on the materials employed and on the manner of preparing ; the latter in a great mea- sure upon the straining of the jelly. The utensils should all be brightly clean, the moulds of earthen- ware, (as metal will turn jellies of red fruits to a dino-v purple,) and the spoons silver or wood. Unless the moulds are set in ice, the cook will often be disan pointed. 11 ~ Calves’-Feet Jelly.—It is best to make the plain