CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 262 which will extract all the remaining juice. To every quart of the walnut-liquor, when boiled and skimmed, put an ounce of bruised ginger, an ounce of Jamaica and black pepper, a quarter-ounce of cloves, the same of long pepper and nutmegs. Boil the liquor in a close vessel for three-quarters of an hour, and when cold, bottle the catsup, putting equal proportions of the spices into each bottle. Obs.—Anchovies, garlick, cayenne, &c. are some- times put to this catsup; but we think this a bad me- thod, as these flavours may render it unsuitable for some dishes, and can be added extempore when they are required. Cucumber Catsup.—Take large old cucumbers and pare them, cut them in slices, and break them to a mash, which must be sprinkled with salt and covered with a cloth. Keep in. all the seeds. Next day, set the vessel aslant to drain off the juice, and do this till no more can be obtained. Strain it, and boil it up with a seasoning of white pepper, sliced ginger, black pepper, sliced shalot, and a little horseradish. When cold, pick out the shalot and horseradish, and bottle the catsup, which is an excellent preparation for flavouring sauces for boiled fowls, dishes of veal, rabbits, or the more insipid meats. Oyster, Cockle, and Muscle Catsup.—Wash in then- own liquor, and pound in a mortar fat newly-opened native oysters. To every pint of the pounded oysters and their strained liquor, add a pint of white wine, and boil this up and skim it; then to every quart of this catsup add a tea-spoonful of white pepper, a salt- spoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, with salt to taste. Let it boil up to blend the spices, and then rub the catsup through a sieve into a clean vessel. When cold, bottle it, and stop the bottles with corks dipped in bottle-rosin. Cockle-Catsup is made as above ; but as this has less flavour naturally, and is seldom used but for fish, a few pounded anchovies may be added to it. Sugar Catsup, or Browning.—Pound, very finely, six ounces of the best refined sugar, (Hamburgh loaves), and put it into a small and very clean frying- pan, with an ounce and a half of fresh butter. As