337 CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. ter and ham, onions, parsley, carrot, and herbs. Warm in soup a slice of smoked tongue for each cutlet. When the cutlets are done enough, take them out; boil doAvn the stock to a glaze, and put them back. Glaze the slices of tongue. Dish one on each cutlet, shaping them together. Dish them around. Put a little Espagnole into the stew-pan, and a bit of butter also; warm in it the remains of the smoked tongue minced, and pour this sauce into the middle of the cutlets. Cotelettes au Jcnnbon.—These are precisely the same as the former, only ham (the prime slices) is used in- stead of tongue. Cutlets with fine Herbs, or ala Venetienne.—Chop a handful of mushrooms, t\vof shalots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Stew these in rasped bacon and butter; when done, stew the cutlets over a very slow fire. Season with pepper and salt. Skim off the fat carefully. Put in a large spoonful of sauce tournee or white roux. Thicken with yolks of eggs beat with a little cream. Add the juice of a lemon, which is pro- per for all dishes made of veal, and a little cayenne. Loin of cold Veal ci la Bechamelle.—A loin of veal, when used as a remove, very often comes back from the table untouched, or with very little taken off it. Make a mince of the fillet or inside of the loin. Cover the loin with buttered paper, and warm it in a Dutch oven. Place it above the stewed blanquelte, (i. e. mince) and serve with a white sauce. MUTTON.* Gigotdla Gasconne, or Leg of Mutton Gascon Fashion.— This is a dish of very high gout and seldom seen now, but it still has devoted admirers. Lard a leg of mut- ton with garlic and fillets of anchovies; roast it, and serve Avith Spanish or garlic sauce.—See page 237- Cotelettes a la Soubise, Soubise Mutton-Cutlets.— Cut chops from the ribs, or cutlets from the leg, rather thick than otherwise. Trim off the superfluous fat. * Families in the country, and those who “ kill their own mut- ton,” depend so much upon this favourite food, that it is impossible to know too many good ways of dressing it; though, when all is done, none can surpass a roast or boiled leg, hotch-potch, boiled scrag with onion-sauce, and a well-dressed mutton-chop. P. T.