420 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. raisin-wine will do. Sweeten this, and pour a well- seasoned rich custard over it. Strew nutmeg and grated sugar over it, and stick it over with sliced blanched almonds. Obs.—This is, in fact, just a rich eating posset. A very good wassail-bowl may be made of mild ale well spiced and sweetened, and a plain rice-custard with few eggs. SWEET DISHES OF RICE. Snow-Balls.—Swell a half-pound of rice in water with a roll of lemon-peel till tender, and drain it. Di- vide it into five parts, and roll a pared apple cored, and the hole filled with sugar and cinnamon, into each heap, tying them up tightly in separate cloths. Boil for an hour, and serve with pudding-sauce. Buttered Rice.—Swell the rice till tender in new milk. Pour off the thick milk, and add melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon. Serve hot. For croquets of rice, see observations on Gateau de Riz. A Dish of Snow, or Snow-Cream.—Stew and pulp a dozen of apples ; beat, and when cold stir this into the whites of a dozen eggs whisked to a strong froth ; add a half-pound of sugar sifted, and the grate of a lemon. Whisk the whole together till it becomes stiff, and heap it handsomely in a glass dish. Souffle of Apples in a Rice-Border.—Prepare the rice as for Gateau de Riz, but keep it thicker by using less milk. Raise the bordure three inches round your dish, egging the edge to make it adhere. Make it smooth and of a neat form. Mix with new-made apple-jam, very sweet, the beat yolks of six eggs, and two ounces of butter. Stir this over the fire to cook the eggs. To this put the whites of eight or ten eggs whisked to a snow. Mix gently. Fill the dish, and bake in a moderate oven till the souffle rises light. Oatmeal-Flummery.—Put finely-ground oatmeal to steep in water for three days. Pour off the thin of the first water, and add as much more. Stir up, strain, and boil this with a little salt till of the thickness wanted, adding water at first if it be in danger of get- ting too stiff. A piece of butter is an improvement, and a little white sugar. Serve in a basin with milk, wine, cider, or cream.