CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. 451 enough almost to fill the bowl. In this state the liquoi goes by the name of Sherbet, and a few of the con- noisseurs in his immediate neighbourhood were re- quested to give their opinion of it—for in the mixing of the sherbet lies, according to the Glasgow creed, at least one-half of the whole battle. This being ap- proved by an audible smack from the lips of the um- pires, the rum was added to the beverage, I suppose, in something about the proportion of one to seven. Last of all, the maker cut a few limes, and running each section rapidly round the rim of his bowl, squeez- ed in enough of this more delicate acid to flavour the whole composition. In this consists the true tour-de- maitre of the punch-maker.” Glasgow Punch is made of cold water newly taken from the spring. The acid ingredients above men- tioned will suffice for a very large bowl. To Mull Wine.—Boil the spiceries (cinnamon, nut- meg grated, cloves, and mace) in any quantity ap- proved, in a quarter-pint or better of water ; put to this a full pint of port, with sugar to taste. Mix it well. Serve with toasts or rusks. Obs.—The yolks of eggs were formerly mixed with mulled wine, as in making custard or egg-caudle, and many flavouring ingredients were employed which are now discarded.* * Hot Spiced Wines A variety of these delicious potations were in use so late as the beginning of the sixteenth century. The old metrical romances are full of allusions to these favourite com- pounds, and particularly to the hyppocras, sack, and clary. The first of these, which took its name from the bag through which it was strained being called “ Hippocrates’ sleeve,” was made of either white or red wine with aromatics, such as ginger, cinnamon, and aromatic seeds with sugar* Clary was made from claret, with honey and aromatics ; and sack from the wine of that name. These me- dicated liquors were used as a composing draught, or “ nightcap,” and also drank at the conclusion of a banquet. “ Of these spiced wines,” says Le Grand, in his Vie Prive'e des Frangois, “ our poets of the thirteenth century never speak without rapture, and as an ex- quisite luxury. They considered it the masterpiece of art to combine in one liquor the strength and flavour of wine, with the sweetness of honey, and the perfume of the most costly aromatics. A banquet at which no piment was served would have been thought wanting in the most essential article.” The only kind of these delicious beverages still in use, besides our common mulled wine, is Bishop, a bewitching mixture made of Burgundy and spices, with sugar. When this compound is made of Bourdeaux wine, it is called