442 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISPIES, &C. rose-water ; add a pound of sifted sugar and a quarter- ounce of ground cinnamon, with flour enough to make a paste. Roll this out, and cut it into small cakes. Bake them on paper. They may be iced, or have sifted sugar strewed over them. Sugar Tea-Cakes.—Make a paste with a pound of flour, twelve ounces of sifted sugar, the yolks of two eggs, alittle nutmeg or cinnamon, anda glass of orange- flower water. Roll it out thin, cut with a stamp or glass, strew sugar over the cakes, and bake them. Derby Short-Cakes.—Rub down a pound of butter into two pounds of flour, and mix with this a half- pound of beat sugar, an egg, and as much milk as will make a paste. Roll this out thin, and cut out the cakes in any form. Bake on tin plates for about ten minutes. They may be iced, or have sifted sugar strewed over them. Kent Drop-Cakes.—A pound of flour, a half-pound of butter, the same of sifted sugar and currants. Mt^ke this into a paste with two eggs, two spoonfuls of or- ange-flower water, a glass of brandy and one of sweet wine- Mix up quickly, and drop the batter through a biscuit-funnel on floured tins, and bake for five or six minutes. Bout-Cakes.—To the beat yolks of twelve eggs put a half-pound of butter beat to a cream, half a pound of sifted sugar, the fresh grate of a lemon, and twelve ounces of flour dried. Season this with a little orange-flower water, or a few pounded almonds. When very well mixed, pour the cake into a paper mould. Let it be scarcely an inch thick, bake it, and when cool ice it, and cut it with a sharp knife and ruler into squares, lozenges, diamonds, &c. Moisten the edges of these bits with sugar, and crisp them before the fire. Common Buns.—Take two pounds of flour and one of beat sugar, and mix them. Make a hole in the middle of "the flour, and put in a glassful of thick yeast, and half a pint of warmed milk. Make a thin batter of the surrounding flour and the milk, and set the dish covered before the fire till the leaven begins to ferment. Then put to the mass a half-pound of melted butter, and milk enough to make a soft paste 6