CHAP..I. MADE-DISHES. 279 the stew-pan, adding hot water or weak broth, with a piece of butter rolled in browned flour. Stew them slowly till tender, and season with salt, mixed pep- per, minced parsley, and either a spoonful of catsup or shalot-vinegar, or a tea-spoonful of made-mustard. Many will think cayenne an improvement. Hotch-Potch of Ox-Tail, a French Dish.—Have the tail jointed, and blanch it as for soup. Cover a stew- pan with trimmings of meat or poultry, and put in the tail, with plenty of onions, two carrots, a faggot of herbs, a bay-leaf, three cloves, and a bit of garlic. Moisten this with two ladiesful of broth, cover it with slices of bacon, thin paper, then the cover, and over all a few cinders. Let it simmer for four hours, till the meat part from the bones with a spoon. Serve with a haricot of roots stewed (after boiling) in the sauce of the tail or in butter. Obs.—Ox-tail dressed as above is very good served with a sauce made of the pulp of peas. Beef-Olives.—Cut slices from the rump half an inch thick, six inches long, and three inches broad. Flat- ten them, dip them in egg, and then in a seasoning made of pulverized or finely-shred herbs, bread-crumbs, mixed spices, and salt. If the meat be lean, a little shred suet may be flattened into each piece of meat. Roll them neatly up, and fasten them with packthread. The olives may either be roasted on a lark-spit, and served with a drawn gravy, or browned and stewed over the embers in a broth made of the skins and trimmings. Thicken the sauce, and season it with catsup and a little walnut-pickle, and, dishing the olives neatly, skim it, and pour it hot over them. Beef Marrow-Bones.—Have them neatly sawed by the butcher. Fill up the opening with a piece of dough or paste, and tie a floured cloth over that. Boil them, placed upright, in the soup-pot (keeping them covered) for nearly two hours. Serve with dry toast. Beef-Heart.—In F.ngland a heart is cut up, soaked to free it from the blood, and has the lobes cut off, after which it is stuffed with forcemeat as a hare, roasted, and served with venison-sauce. In Scotland beef-heart is dressed as minced collops, with a certain