CHAP. IV.—PALTRY, PIES, &C. 384 Lay a stripe of puff-paste round the edge of the dish. Put in a layer of the sliced fruit, then sugar and whatever seasonings you use. Proceed in this man- ner till the dish is heaped, keeping the fruit highest in the middle. Cover it with puff-paste, and orna- ment the top with leaves, flowers, &c. Obs.—A variety of apples are used for baking, though russetings, and such as are a little acid, are esteemed the best. Apple-pie is generally seasoned with pounded cinnamon and cloves, lemon-grate, quince marmalade, candied citron or orange-peel. If the apples have become dry and insipid, the parings and cores may be boiled with a stick of - cinnamon, and the strained liquor added to the pie. Apple-pie is liked best hot. It was wont to be buttered, and this is still the practice in some provincial situations in England, though buttered pease and buttered apple- pie, for some reason which we do not comprehend, have latterly come to be considered uugenteel, if not absolutely vulgar. Buttering is performed by putting a piece of butter into the hot pie when it is cut open. Apples must be thrown into a basin of water as they are pared, or they will become black. Ripe Fruit Pies.—Black cherries and currants, damsons, plums of all kinds, currants, or raspberries and currants mixed, apricots and gooseberries, are all made into fruit pies. Place the fruit, picked and washed, in a flattish pie-dish, raising it high in the middle. Allow enough of sugar, and cover with a rich light paste, which fruit pies require more than those made of meat. Gooseberry-Pie.—Top and tail as many unripe gooseberries as will nearly fill your dish. Line the dish, or merely border it with paste. Put in the fruit, and plenty of moist sugar, and cover the pie with good puff-paste. Obs.—As all fruit goes on to ripen, it requires more sugar till fully ripe. Rhubarb-Pie.—Peel off the skin from stalks of young rhubarb, and cut them slantwise into bits of about an inch and a half. Stew them slowly in su- gar, or in butter, and a little water, till soft, mash and make them into a covered pie or open tart.