154 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. AN EXCELLENT GAME-SOUP, OR VENISON-SOUP. This soup is made of all sorts of black or red game, or of venison or rabbits. Skin the birds, carve them neatly, and fry the pieces with a few slices of ham, sliced onions, carrots, and parsnips, a little of each. Drain and stew this meat gently for an hour in good fresh veal or beef stock-broth, with a head of celery cut in nice bits, a little minced parsley, and what seasoning you require. Very small steaks of venison may be fried as the birds and stewed in broth; but if the stock is made of any venison trimmings, it will be an advantage both in flavour and strength. Obs.—Jamaica pepper and cloves are suitable sea- sonings, and celery, from its nutty flavour, is the pro- per vegetable for game-soups. OX-HEAD-SOUP, CALLED HESSIAN SOUP, AND RAGOUT. Clean, rub with salt, and afterwards soak in salt and lukewarm water for four hours, the half of a fat bul- lock’s head and the root of a tongue, or a cow-heel. Wash them, and break and put them into a large pot with seven quarts of water and a spoonful of salt. Skim very carefully, and retard the boiling by throw- ing in a quart of cold water, which will throw up more scum. When the meat is tender, but not over- done, take it out and strain the broth. When cold take off the cake of fat, and the oil below it, and put to the remaining soup a pound of white or grey sheeled peas. When it has boiled an hour, add, (rough- ly cut,) six or eight potatoes, six carrots, four turnips, half a dozen onions, a bunch of parsley, and a dessert- spoonful of celery-seed tied up in a bit of rag - season with pepper and salt, and boil till the vege- tables are tender. This makes a very excellent broth, nutritious and palatable, and the meat may either be served in it or as a ragout. But a little more trouble fits this dish to appear at any family-dinner, and en- titles it to the appellation of Hessian Soup and Ra- gout. When the peas and vegetables in the soup, as 3