CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. 452 Winc-Whey.—Boil, in a small saucepan, a half-pint of new milk, and pour as much sherry or other wine to it as will curdle it. Take the pan off the fire, and when the curd sinks pour off the whey. Sweeten it with good sugar, and with hot water-reduce it to any degree of strength that is wanted. Vinegar Whey, Cream of Tartar Whey, Lemon Whey, <^c. may be made as above. Scotch Hot Pint.—Grate a nutmeg into two quarts of mild ale, and bring it to the point of boiling. Mix a little cold ale with a considerable quantity of sugar and three eggs well beaten. Gradually mix the hot ale with the eggs, taking care that they do not curdle. Put in a half-pint of whisky, and bring it once more nearly to boil, and then briskly pour it from one vessel into another till it become smooth and bright. Obs.—This beverage, carried round in a bright cop- per tea-kettle, is the celebrated new-year’s-morning " Het Pint” of Edinburgh and Glasgow. In Aber- deen, half-boiled sowens is used on the same festive occasion. The above is the national beverage now. A more refined composition is made by substituting white wine for ale, and brandy for whisky. Bitters, an excellent Tonic.—Take of juniper-ber- ries two ounces, of gentian-root one ounce and a half, of coriander-seeds a quarter of an ounce, of orange- peel a quarter of an ounce, of calamus-aromaticus a quarter of an ounce, of snake-root a drachm, and of cardamom-seeds a half-drachm. Cut the gentian-root into small pieces, pound the other ingredients in a mortar, and put the whole into a large bottle or jar with four bottles of the best malt-whisky of the strength of glass-proof, or 15 per cent, below hydrometer-proof. Shake the bottle a little when the ingredients are first put in, but not afterwards. Let it stand for eight days carefully corked, and then strain it off, and bottle it for use. Obs.—Gin or brandy may be substituted for whisky; but whatever spirit is used must be reduced to the strength of glass-proof. simply Bishop; but, according to a German amateur, it receives, the name of Cardinal when old Rhine wine is used ; and even rises to the dignity of Pope when imperial Tokay is employed.