CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 251 of claret or red port, a half-pint of mountain or Rhenish, and another of walnut-catsup, a large glass- ful of walnut-pickle, the grate and juice of two le- mons, a dozen well-flavoured mellow anchovies pound- ed and dissolved by the side of the fire, three shalots chopped, a good relish of cayenne, four large spoon- fuls of scraped horseradish, a few blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of mustard, rubbed down with the anchovy-liquor, of which the more you have the better. Boil this composition slowly for a few mi- nutes, mixing in the ingredients according to the de- licacy of their flavour and their solubility. Bottle it when cold in small bottles; cork them well, and dip in rosin. This is an expensive but a very rich fish- sauce. It may be made with water in which herbs may be previously boiled, and vinegar substituted for wine. It will keep longer if, instead of fresh lemon- rind and juice, citric-acid and lemon-peel are used. A tea-spoonful of the above will convert two ounces of melted butter into a well-flavoured extemporaneous sauce; or it may be mixed on the plate like essence of anchovy, soy, &c. The General’s Sauce, a Store-Sauce for Fish or Meat.—Chop six shalots, a clove of garlic, with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of lemon-thyme and leaves of basil, with a few bits of the peel of a Seville orange. Bruise a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, a half-ounce of long pepper, and add two ounces of salt, a quarter-pint of vinegar, and a pint of Madeira, with a half-glass of verjuice, and the juice of two lemons. Infuse these ingredients in a stone jar, very closely stopped, and let it stand over embers, or by the side of the fire, or in a bain-marie for a night. Pour it quietly from the lees, and strain it, and bottle as other essences. This is a high compound relish, and must be used in moderation with gravy or melted butter. Dr Redgill’s Sauce Fiquante, for Fish or cold Meat.—Pound a large spoonful of scraped horse- radish, four shalots, a clove of garlic, a drachm of mustard, and one of celery-seed, with salt and a high relish of cayenne, Jamaica and black pepper. When well pounded, mix with these ingredients a half-pint