CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 310 ing, thickening the sauce with browned flour, and adding to it a spoonful of catsup or a glass of red wine. Some good cooks stew pigeons with white cabbage, cut as for pickling, serving the cabbage round the pigeons; or stew them in brown gravy, highly seasoned, adding mushrooms or a little catsup. Others stew them with a lettuce quartered instead of cabbage. To Roast or Broil Pigeons, see pages 111, and 121, Pigeon Soup, p. 153. Pigeons pot very well, and are thought excellent as a pie, either cold or hot. N. B.—The cabbage should be braised. Ducks with young Pease, a favourite Dish prepared in the best Manner.—Clean, truss, and singe the ducks, which should be plump and young. Season them with salt, pepper, cayenne, and mixed spices. Place them between layers of bacon in a stew-pan that will just hold them, and moisten them with a little gravy. Stew them from a half-hour to a whole one, according to size and age of the birds. Meanwhile boil and af- terwards fry three pints of the most delicate green pease with a half-pound of good bacon cut in bits. While the pease still retain their good colour drain off the fat, dust some flour over them ; add a little water or broth, a bunch of parsley and young onions, some pepper and salt, and the ducks carved (if too large) into proper pieces. Serve the pease over the ducks, and let the fat be carefully skimmed off. Obs.—The ducks may be roasted; but stringy sum- mer ducks that come with green pease are much better dressed as above. Some persons will prefer the pease fried in butter instead of bits of bacon, and the dish, if not so rich, will remain at least as elegant. To slew an old Duck with Cabbage.—Stew the cabbage in top-fat with seasonings. Par-roast a large fat duck, and stew it in gravy wTell seasoned with herbs, onions, sage, pepper, and salt. Thicken the gravy, and serve the duck with the cabbage under it and the sauce in the dish. To ragout Ducks.—Put the gizzards, livers, necks, &c., to a pint of good strong beef-broth, or other well- seasoned good stock. Season the ducks inside with salt and mixed spices. Brown them on all sides in a frying-pan, and then stew them till tender in the