426 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. mer and the finest sugar, and boil only five minutes, as the delicate colour of this sweetmeat is very easily injured. Run it twice through a jelly-bag if neces- sary. Black-Currant Jelly.—Pick the fruit and scald it in a jar set in boiling water. Add a little water to it, and squeeze the hot fruit through a sieve. To every pint of the juice allow a pound of sugar and a little water, and boil and skim for twenty minutes. Another Way.—Clarify the sugar, and put the fruit to it. Let it boil for twenty minutes; run off some of the jelly through a sieve, and keep the rest as jam for common tarts, &c. Gooseberry and Cranberry Jellies.—Clarify an equal weight of sugar with that of the fruit. Boil the fruit for twenty minutes, and run the jelly through a sieve, allowing a little to remain to make a coarse jam, which may be seasoned with spices and used for dumplings and pies. Obs.—Where cranberries are gathered in this coun- try, good country housewives put cinnamon to those preserved for tarts. Cloves or mace would be more suitable. Raspberry-Jam.—Take four parts picked raspber- ries and one of red-currant juice, with equal weight of sugar. Put on half the sugar with a little water. Skim this and add the fruit. Boil for fifteen minutes, add the other half of the sugar, and boil for another five minutes, and when cold pot the jam. This and all other jams may be made with less sugar, if they are longer boiled; but both colour and quality will suffer in the process. Strawberry-Jam.—Gather fine scarlet strawberries quite ripe. Bruise them, and put about a sixth part of red-currant juice to them. Take nearly an equal weight of sugar sifted, and strew it over them in the preserving-pan ; boil quickly for fifteen minutes ; pot, and cover with brandy papers when cold. Gooseberry and Black-Currant Jam.—Take equal weight of pounded lump-sugar and picked fruit. Strew the sugar over the fruit in the preserving-pan, and put a little water into it Boil and skim. Lift a little of the juice and fruit when the fruit is boiled for