CHAP. X.—BOILING. 84 ciously to the young man, while the yellow Nabob made a gesture of impatience; but Mrs Dods was so liable to the infirmity of descanting at large, not only of the St Ronan’s breed of hens, but on the bio- graphy of favourite individuals, and the guests that eat them, that the young man found it necessary to check her vein, and curtail her directions, by at least nine-tenths.—“ To boil poultry. Be careful in pick- ing, not to break the skin. Let the fowls hang from two to five days; for the most delicate fowl will be tough and thready if too soon dressed., When to be used, draw, singe without blackening, and wash tho- roughly, passing a stream of water again and again through the inside. Boiled fowls must be very neat- ly trussed, as they have no aid from skewers; and nothing can be more indecorous than to see unfortu- nates on a table— Whose dying limbs no decent hands composed ! Put them on with plenty of water, a little warmed. Having, as usual, skimmed very carefully, simmer by the side of the fire from twenty-five minutes to an hour, according to the age and size of the fowl. A small tureen of very good barley or rice broth, sea- soned with shred parsley or young onions, may be made at the same time, if a shank, or small chops of neck or ribs of mutton be added, which may be frugally served in the broth.”* * Meg’s sauce was either the national “ drappit egg,” egy-snuce, parsley and butter, or, if the fowls were of a dark complexion, liver- sauce., as a veil of their dinginess. Touchwood clios e celery-sauce for fowls, and oyster-sauce for turkey; the young man preferred lemon-sauce, but often joined the Nabob. The best sort of stuffing or forcemeat for poultry was the cause of many disputes. Meg stood out long for sweet stuffing for her turkeys, orthodox apple- sauce for her goose, and a sweet pudding in the belly of her sucking pig. After a feud which lasted three days, the belligerents came to a treaty on the old basis of the uti possidetis, though the best stuf- fing for boiled or roasted poultry was agreed to be,—“ Crumbs of state bread, two parts ; suet, marrow, or fresh butter, one part ; a little parsley, boiled for a minute, and very finely shred; the quar- ter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel grated, all-spice, and salt, the whole to be worked up to a proper consistence, with two or three yolks of eggs well beat.” If for roasted or boiled tur- key, pickled oysters chopped, ham or tongue grated, and eschallot