396 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. of fresh butter, and a half-pint of cream. When cold, nnx in sugar to taste, and six well-beat yolks of eggs, with three whites, grated lemon-peel, and a little cin- namon. Butter small cups, and putting into each a few slices of candied citron, fill very nearly full, and bake them. Dish and serve them hot with sweet sauce in a boat. Sago-Pudding.—Wash in several waters, and boil four spoonfuls of sago in a quart of new milk. Sweet- en to taste, and season with cinnamon, lemon-peel grated, and a scrape of nutmeg. Add when cold, four eggs well beat, and bake in a dish with a cut paste- border. Obs.—The sago may be first boiled in water, and then have wine and lemon-peel put to it, with some beat butter and no milk. A Millet-Pudding.—Wash four ounces of the seeds, and put to them a pint and a half of hot new milk, and two ounces of butter, sugar to taste, a little gin- ger and nutmeg, and whatever other seasonings are fancied. When the milk is cold, add three eggs beat, Some finely-shred mutton-suet will be no bad im- provement, and a little brandy or pine-apple rum. Macaroni-Pudding.—Simmer the macaroni in milk and water till tender, with new milk to thin it; and when cold, add three beat yolks of eggs. Season with nutmeg, cinnamon, and a little almond-flower-water or noyeau, and sweeten with fine sugar. A little gin- ger-wine or raisin-wine is an improvement. A layer of orange marmalade, or apricot-jam, in the centre of the pudding, is an excellent addition; or plums or prunes stoned and plumped, with shred marrow finely beat, mutton-suet and sugar, may be placed in a thick layer over the macaroni. Stick blanched almonds sliced long-ways round the edges. Parisian Macaroni-Pudding.—Wash six ounces of macaroni, and simmer it in water till it is tender, but not soft. Strain it off-; beat up five yolks, and two whites of eggs. Stir into them a very little salt and pepper, and a half-pint of good sweet cream. Mince, but not too finely, the skinned breast of a cold fowl, and rather less of dressed lean ham. Grate about an ounce and a half of Parmesan cheese over the mince, 5