492 CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. of its first colour, or of oil to polish, we conceive of little utility, farther than as they may contribute to beguile the toil of the polisher. To preserve Polished Steel■—Smear with mutton- suet, anti dust over with unslaked lime. A paste of lard or fowl’s-grease, camphor, and black-lead, will also preserve steel. Caoutchouc-varnish is the most effectual coating for steel, but it is too expensive for domestic purposes. To clean Steel Grates.—Rub the bars clean while still warm, if it be possible ; then clear with emery- paper, or polish by hard rubbing, using a little dry emery, or finely-pounded Bath brick. When very dirty, a thin paste, made of emery and boiled soap, will be found useful. To clean Knives and Forks.—Use a board covered with leather. Bath brick is the best thing known for cleaning knives. Wash off the grease and dry the knives as soon as they come from table ; but do not use water too hot. Two knives may easily be cleaned at once, taking one in each hand, holding- them back to back, and [rubbing in different directions. Wipe forks very well, and plunge the prongs into a jug or other small vessel filled with brick-dust or fine sand, which may be kept compact with a mixture of damp moss. Clean between the prongs with a piece of leather tied to a stick; wipe off all dust, and rub them up. To clean Plate and Plated Articles.—Clean the plate very well, using a sponge, with soap-leys and boiling water, brushing all the carved places. Dry and rub with plate-powder, or the very finest whitening, either wetted with spirits or dry. Rub up with the hand, soft leather, or hare’s-foot. The longer it is rubbed the brighter it will look. Brush the powder carefully from all the cut places. Plated goods should be kept in flannel or baize, or buried in bran, never allowed to o-et damp or dirty, nor brushed more than can be avoided. Spirit of wine, or good strong spirit, is the best thing to clean them with. When candlesticks are smeared with wax or grease, do not scrape, but pour boiling water on the parts before cleaning them. To clean Pewter Vessels and Tin Covers.—Keep these always free of damp by wiping and drying them