CHAP. VI. KISH. 169 thick, when you have placed it on the strainer and in the kettle, fill up and amply cover it with cold spring water, that it may heat gradually. Throw in a hand- ful of salt. If a jole or quarter is boiled, it may be put in with warm water. In both cases take off the scum carefully, and let the fish boil slowly, allowing twelve minutes to the pound; but it is even more difficult to fix the time fish should boil than the length of time that meat requires. Experience, and those symptoms which the eye of a practised cook alone can discern, must fix the point, and nothing is more disgusting and unwholesome than underdone fish. The minute the boiling of any fish is complet- ed, the fish-strainer must be lifted and rested across the pan, to drain the fish.* * Throw a soft cloth or flannel in several folds over it. It would become soft salmon-eating in apprentices’ indentures. The preservation of this source of wealth and luxury is still an object of legislative in- vestigation, and we doubt not that a subject coming home so im- mediately “ to men’s business and stomachs,” will meet with all the attention it merits. The destruction of the fry is the chief evil. We have known instances in which whole’cart-loads of whitlings, or sal- mon-fry, have been used as manure. The poor of London, which draws into its enormous maw all the fish of the kingdoms, alone en- joy this luxury, though it must be confessed not in the best state. The introduction of steam-boats has had an influence on the supply in great towns. During the last seasons, a great deal was exported by the steam-boats from Ireland to Scotland and Liverpool, and in the present year the exportation is still greater. The salmon in its first year, as grilse, never brings above half the price of full-grown fish. These are seldom sent to London, though in Paris, where cookery if not more rich than in London, is thought more refined, the trout, from its superior delicacy, is more prized than the ripe salmon. We ought to inform our gourmet readers that a fish boiled in the pickling-kettle, where perhaps some dozens of cut fish are preparing for the London market, is superbly done—meltingly rich, and of incomparable flavour. Such a thing is to be procured only at the fishing-stations, at which it is to be remarked, assizes and presbyteries are always held. * If meat is ready before the company assemble, take up the dish as directed above in boiling fish, and it will be kept in good season. Have all the dish.covers warmed inside at all times, and the assets well heated. Put a hot cover over the meat, and some folds of flannel over that. If you have a Bain marie, which is a most useful article, or some substitute, you will be at no loss, though the above may tolerably well supply its place—sauces set on a hot table would soon lose both flavour and quality. The Bain mariep a flat vessel containing boiling water ; you put all your stew-pans into the water, and keep that water always very hot,