DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Carving is justly esteemed one of the minor arts of polite life,—a test at first sight of the breeding of men, as its dexterous and graceful performance is presumed to mark a person trained in good fashion. “ To dance in hall and carve at board” are classed to- gether, by no mean authority, in the list of a young gentleman’s accomplishments; and Chesterfield, the great modern teacher of polished life, has made this qualification an object of his pupil’s peculiar study. Carving, like heraldry, hunting, hawking, and other sciences of a like important kind, had a language of its own. Treatises were composed to show how the heron was to be dismembered, the duck unbraced, the crane displayed, the swan lifted, the goose reared, and so forth. The Grand Carver was a function- ary of some dignity in former times; and till the office is revived, or the oriental custom of having the principal part of the carving performed by the cook is adopted, it is necessary to acquire a knowledge of this art on principles of economy as well as from re- spect to good manners. To carve quickly and neatly requires a good deal of practice, as well as vigilant observation of those who perform the office well. There are awkward grown- up persons, having, as the French say, two left hands, whom no labour will ever make dexterous carvers; yet there is no difficulty in this humble but useful art, which young persons, if early initiated under the eye of their friends, might not easily surmount, and thus save themselves much awkward embarrassment in future life. One objection to allowing juvenile practice is, that young people haggle provisions; but they might surely be permitted sometimes to try, plain joints and cold things, which would soon bring in their hands. Though no directions can supply the place of practice; it may nevertheless be useful to tell the young carver how to use his tools, and what is ex- pected from him. What are esteemed the most choice morsels of every dish ought to be known; for “ to i?