CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 267 vinegar as they are done, to prevent their blackening. Boil vinegar enough to cover them, with sliced ginger, black and white pepper and mace; when cooled a little, pour it over the onions. Cork them well, as directed for other pickles. Obs.—Some cooks peel and scald the onions, a few at a time, take them up as soon as they look transpa- rent, and dry them in the folds of a cloth, covering them carefully to exclude the air.* Red Cabbage.—A firm, deep, purple, middle-sized cabbage is best for pickling. Strip off the outer leaves, cut out the stalk, and, dividing the cabbage, cut it down into slices of the breadth of narrow straws. Sprinkle salt over it, and let it lie for a day; then drain it very dry, and pour over it a pickle of boiling vinegar, seasoned with black and Jamaica peppers and ginger. Cover the jar to keep in the hot steams, and when cold, close it up. Obs.—A few mild onions sliced is thought an im- provement to this pickle. The onion takes the beau- tiful tinge of the cabbage, and repays “ The grace it borrows with the strength it lends.” Beet-Root.—Wash the beet-roots, but take care not to break the skin or the fibres which hang about it, else the colour will fly. Boil softly for an hour, or more if they are large, or bake them, and as soon as they are cold enough to be handled, peel them, and, cutting them into slices, put them into ajar, and have ready to pour over them cold vinegar, in which black and Jamaica pepper, ginger, cloves, and a little cay- enne have been previously boiled. * In the youthful days of Mrs Dods onions were pickled in their skins, tops, and tails, and only peeled when to be served at table. The flavour was then very little different from that of a raw onion. We have been favoured, by an ingenious and accurate observer, with the following receipt for the cultivation of onions of the best quality and largest size :—“ In poor soils, sow the seeds of Portuguese onions in Match. In autumn the bulbs will be about the size of a hazel-nut; take them carefully up, and spread them on a floor to dry, and protect them from frost during the winter. In spring pre- pare a rich light soil, in which plant out these bulbs in regular rows, leaving full three inches every way between each bulb. They will increase to a large circumference, and be solid and of good quality.”