CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 277 and oiled fresh butter, till it becomes of the consist- ence of mellow Stilton cheese. Obs.—This is mostly made of beef dressed for other purposes, such as beef from which gravy is drawn, or the remains of any joint that cannot be otherwise used. It may be flavoured with anchovy, mushroom- powder, minced shalot, chervil or tarragon, dried and pulverized, if the potted meat is not to be long kept. The longer it is beat in the mortar the better it will eat and keep. Put it into small potting-cans, and cover them with plenty of clarified butter, which will afterwards be useful for frying meat, pie-crust, &c.—Game to be sent to distant places may be potted without cutting up the birds, and will keep good for a month. To dress Ox-Palates.—Clean and boil them till the skin will easily pull off, and either cut them into long slices and square bits, or merely divide them. Stew them very slowly in good gravy thickened with butter kneaded in browned flour* and season them with cay- enne, minced shalot, or onion, and a large spoonful of catsup, or the pickle of walnuts, mushrooms, or even of onions, Avhich is very good for such purposes. Obs.—This we think the most suitable way of dress- ing palates; but thejr are often more expensively pre- pared, either by adding wine and mushrooms, or truffles and morels to the sauce, or by dressing them as a fricassee in white sauce.—See French Cookery for other excellent ways of dressing palates. Palates are very suitable to the dejeuner a lajourchette, either served hot as kidneys, or pickled and cold. Beef-Steak with Cucumbers.—Pare and slice three large cucumbers, and as many onions. Fry them in butter, and when browned, add a half-pint of gravy. Beat and season some rump-steaks and fry them. Dish them in a very hot dish, and pour the cucumber- sauce over them. Obs.—This is a good dish for variety, with very little expense. To stem a Tongue.—Trim off the coarse part of the root, but leave on some of the soft fat. Rub the tongue with salt, sugar, and pounded allspice, and let it lie in this for a few clays. Stew it in a small close M