CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 149 may be employed, but the quantity must be left to the’ discretion of the cook.—See Mulletgatawny, at made in India (National Dishes). MOCK TURTLE-SOUP. Procure the head of a middle-sized, well-fed cow- calf, with the skin on ; scald it, split and take out the brains and the gristles and bones of the nose, blanch it well in several waters, to draw out the slime and blood. Place it in a stew-pan, and cover it with cold water; boil it, and skim without intermission while any scum continues to arise. When the head has boiled gently for three quarters of an hour take it out, and as soon as cold enough to cut, carve it into small neat pieces, in the shape of diamonds, dice, tri- angles, &c. Peel the tongue, and cut it into cubes of an inch thick. Meanwhile, put the broken bones and trimmings of the head into your stock-pot, with a large knuckle of veal well broken, and three or four pounds of a shin of beef well soaked. Let this boil slowly, having carefully skimmed it, for at least four hours, and take care it does not stick to the bottom of the pot; then strain for future use, and lay aside a quart of this stock for gravy. Thus much may be done the evening before the soup is wanted. When the soup is to be made, take off the cake of fat which will have formed on the top, and put the stock, hold- ing back the sediment, into a large stew-pad*If the stock is good it will now be a jelly, or nSrly so. When it is again skimmed, put to it a dozen onions sliced, and browned in the frying-pan, with a half- dozen sprigs of fresh mild sage, also chopped and fried. Thicken the soup with butter kneaded in browned flour, or with brown roux; and season highly with ground black and Jamaica pepper, a little cayenne, two blades of mace, a shalot, four leaves of fresh ba- sil, and the paring of one large or two small lemons. When the soup is strong and well-coloured, strain it through a hair sieve very gently into a fresh stew- pan, and put the hash of the head to it. Add wine when it is nearly finished, in the proportion of a half-