408 CHAP. V.—OENAMENTAL DISHES. amongst it. Take it from the sides occasionally. Place your mould over the ice, and bury it amidst ice, but take care that the cream or jelly be quite cold, else it will melt the ice instead of being freezed itself. Let it remain till wanted for the table. Then dip a towel in hot water, and rub it quickly round the mould, to detach your jelly or cream, and turn it carefully upside down. You must use a towel dipped in hot water to turn out every thing made in a mould, (as pudding, &c.) whether iced or not. ITALIAN CREAM. Take two parts of sweet cream and one of milk, about a quart in all. Boil this, and infuse in it four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon, or two if small. When flavoured, add the beat yolks of eight eggs, and beat the whole well. Set it on the fire to thicken ; and when this is done, put in a little melted isinglass, (about a half-ounce, and more after- wards if necessary;) whip it well; strain it through a lawn-sieve, and try a little in a small mould. Italian Cream another Way.—Whisk up a pint or rather more of the richest cream, the yellow rind of a lemon rubbed off with sugar, the juice of the lemon, and more fine sifted sugar to sweeten the cream to taste. Put to this, when well whisked, an ounce of isinglass dissolved by boiling-hot water, and strained through a lawn-sieve. Beat these together well, and season with noyeau, or cura<joa, if liked. Fill the shape, and when firm, turn out, and garnish accord- ing to fancy. Ohs.—This, with little variation, is the preparation called Italian Cheese. Coffee-Cream.—Boil equal quantities of fresh cream and milk. Season with sugar and a particle of salt. Roast two ounces of good coffee-beans, or refresh the same quantity of those already roasted, and throw them hot into the cream, or you may use a strong clear tincture, by infusing good coffee. When cold, add the beat yolk of an egg for every cupful, strain it twice or three times; and place the cups in a wide pan of boiling water, which will cover them hall-way up. Cover the pan, and put embers over the lid, to keep the vapour from falling down. If for a shape,