164 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. SCOTCH BARLEY-BROTH, WITH BOILED MUTTON OR BOUILLI. To from three to six pounds of beef or mutton, ac- cording to the quantity of broth wanted, put cold water in the proportion of a quart to the pound, a quarter-pound of pearl-barley, or more or less, as may suit the meat and the water, and a spoonful of salt, unless the meat is already slightly salted. To this put a large cupful of white peas, or sheeted grey peas, unless in the season when old green peas are to be had cheap, a double quantity of which must be put in with the other vegetables. Skim very carefully as long as any scum rises; then draw aside the pot, and let the broth boil slowly for an hour, at which time put to it two young carrots and turnips cut in dices, and two or three onions sliced. A quarter of an hour before the broth is ready, add a little parsley picked and chopped,—or the white part of three leeks may be used instead of onions, and a head of celery sliced instead of the parsley seasoning ; but celery requires longer boiling. For beef-broth a small quantity of greens roughly shred, and four or five leeks cut in two-inch lengths, are better suited than turnip, car- rot, and parsley, which are more adapted to mutton. If there is danger of the meat being overdone before the broth is properly tithed, it may be taken up, co- vered for a half-hour, and returned into the pot to heat through before it is dished. Garnish with car- rot and turnip boiled in the broth, and divided; or pour over the meat caper-sauce, parsley and butter, or a sauce made of pickled cucumbers, or nasturtiums heated in melted butter, or in a little clear broth, with a tea-spoonful of made mustard and another of vinegar. Minced parsley, parboiled for a minute, may also be strewed overboiled beef,—or a sprinkling of boiled car- rots cut in small dice. Serve the broth in a tureen, re- moving any film of fat that may gather upon the surface. Ohs.—The pieces of fresh beef best adapted for barley-broth are the shin, the brisket, the flank, and the veiny piece,—of mutton, the neck, the shoulder, and the leg. In some parts of the “ land of kail," broth made of fresh beef would scarcely be tolerated, —the meat not at all; and unquestionably the brisket