269 CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. When the melons or cucumbers are greened, cut a slit in the side, and scrape out the seeds. Shoots of green elder are also put to this pickle, in imitation of the Bamboo of the genuine Mango pickle. Instead of being laid in salt, the vegetables may be parboiled in very strong brine, by which means the pickle will be soon ready, but the colour and crispness will be injured, though, on the whole, both for ease of prepa- ration and safety in eating, we think parboiling the preferable method. To salt Vegetables.—French beans, artichokes, samphire, and olives, may be kept for a long time in a strong brine, taking care that they are kept com- pletely covered. Barberries.—Gather fine full clusters before they are quite ripe. Pick away the dead leaves and in- jured berries, and keep the clusters in salt and water in jars well covered. When the pickle begins to ferment change it. Red currants may be kept as above. To Tickle Bitter Oranges and Lemons for Wild Fowl.—Rub the fruit well. Cover them with vinegar with a handful of coriander-seeds, and some mace. Boil up the vinegar once or twice, and when cool, pour it again over the oranges. To pickle Cauliflomer or Brocoli.—Take firm, well- coloured vegetables, before they are quite ripe, and cut away the bark of the stems, and all the green leaves. Scald them for four minutes in a pan of boiling brine, and then drain and dry them tho- roughly. When dry, pull them into properly-sized branches, cutting the stalks smoothly, and pack them up in the jars with the same pickle-liquor as directed for onions or beet-roots. Obs—Nasturtiums, to make either a pickle or for imitation caper-sauce, may be prepared in the same manner. 'I o hasten the Preparation of Pickles—Parboil the vegetables you wish to pickle in brine. Drain and dry them, and then proceed as before directed with the respective kinds. The colour will not be quite so good, but the vegetables, besides being less crude, will be fit for use in a few days.