NOTICES OP THE PRINCIPAL MEATS, &C. 75 variety, but young fowls get dearer. Pheasants now got, and generally wild pigeons, snipes, and wild-ducks, begin to appear. fisf,.—Cod, haddocks, brill, tench, and all sorts of shell-fish. Oysters, which come in at London in August, and at Edinburgh in September, are now excellent. Vegetables.—Beans, brocoli, and cabbage of all kinds ; beet, onions, leeks, turnips, carrots, let- tuce, cresses, chardoons, endive, celery, skirrets, cucumbers, spin- age, and dried herbs ; asparagus gets rare. Fruits.—All sorts of apples and pears, nuts, walnuts, cliesnuts, grapes, and retarded gooseberries. NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef and mutton prime. House-lamb and veaL Suck- ing pig. Buck-venison goes out. Fish, all good about this time. Salmon nearly out. Poultry gets very dear in large towns about this season, but is to be got of all kinds; also woodcocks and snipes, mallards and sea-fowl. It is, however, quite impossible rigidly to fix the seasons of pro- visions, and much less their price. Meat, generally speaking, is cheapest in the latter end of autumn, and dearest in spring. Beef is found prime all the year round, but small natural pasture fed beef is at the best in October, as is hill-mutton : both fall away in the winter, and are lean in spring. Veal is seen good from Christ- mas till Midsummer, and is cheapest about May and June. It is always rather dearer in proportion than lamb. House-lamb is less liable to variation, in fact, than other meat; it is seldom cheap, but always very dear till after Christmas. Grass-lamb is one of the few things that is at its best when dearest. In July and August it becomes cheap but coarse. Pork, as it varies much in quality, also varies in price, from local situation. It is always dear in London. Poultry is found cheapest in great towns in the end of summer, and in remote places about Christmas, or before spring. Wild-fowl and sea-birds, like fish, depend wholly on the supply. Eggs are dearest just before Christmas, and cheapest about Easter. Vegetables, except perhaps young pease and small early salad herbs, are always best when cheapest, that is, in June, July, and August. They are often also cheap in spring, when the gardeners clear their grounds to receive fresh crops. Shalots and carrots to store, and beans, cabbage, and cucumbers to pickle, will be best bought in August and September. Onions, potatoes, and turnips, in October. Beef and mutton may be cured for winter- store, or for hams, with most advantage about the beginning of November, both from quality and price. Fruits ought also to be preserved when their several kinds are at the best and the cheapest, as pines, plums, and melons, about August; oranges in January, &c.