108 CHAP. II. ROASTING. Ireland and Scotland served with a cabbage sauce or cabbage stewed in good broth. The French roast geese with chesnuts, as in the receipt for turkey, {note, page 103.) The liver is chopped with the chestnuts, and both are fried together in lard before the goose is stuffed with them.* TO ROAST DUCKS. Keep ducks at least three days. If a pair are to be roasted, one may be stuffed as directed for a goose, with about half the quantity of stuffing; and, to suit all tastes, the other done plain, only seasoning with pepper and salt. From three quarters of an hour to a whole hour will roast them. Baste well, and dust lightly with flour to make them froth and look of a rich warm brown. Green peas are indissolubly allied to ducks. Sauce,-—Apple sauce, onion, and sage sauce, or Dr Redgill’s sauce for goose, duck, &c. Wild Ducks are roasted in the same way, but made very crisp; and as they are smaller, they take less time, from twenty-five minutes to half an hour.—Sauce, —Pleydel’s sauce for wild fowl, or orange gravy sauce.—See Sauces. Obs.—Some epicures prefer all wild fowl under- done, to have the flavour in perfection ; and to secure this, they eat it without sauce. All sorts of wild fowl require to be longer kept than your “ tame villatic fowl,” because they are drier in the flesh, for the same reasons that a city Alderman is more abounding in juices than a Backwoodsman, or Indian hunter.—See Hashed Duclc, Made Dishes, fyc. The above receipt is applicable to Teal and Widgeons. Cranes and swans, and venison; Partridges, plovers, and heron,— was neither dainty nor over-nice. At a pinch he could eat any thing, which on sundry emergencies stood him in great stead. Il'o.c and nuts, and tallow and grease mixed, carried him through one campaign, when the enemy thought to have starved out the English army and its cormorant commander. The courage and strength of Rich Ann were always redoubled after dinner. It was then his greatest feats were performed—Romance of Occur de Lion. * Query ? Would not a young salted goose answer very well dressed as duck in sour croute ?—P. T. 3