39 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Salmon is easily carved, whether crimped or boiled whole. At elegant tables, this fish is usually served on a napkin ; a slice of the thick, cut so as to preserve the beauty of the flakes, and a smaller one of the thin, with the appropriate sauce; and a slice of lemon or cucumber is to be helped, if not objected to. Fried Fish.—The thick part is reckoned the best. The fish are to be cut quite through, which is com- monly done by the cook for her own convenience. The choice is—“ Shoulders or tail ?” Sirloin of Beef.—This favourite joint is all prime. The carver may begin at either end, or in the middle. This last, however, is neither the most economical nor sightly method. If the meat is to be presented again cold, this deep trench—this “ forty mortal gashes on its side”—looks very ill, while it drains the joint of its juices. Many like the browned outside slice though dry ; but, if not chosen, it is to be laid aside, and, cut- ting down to the bone, a handsome slice is to be served with part of the soft fat delicately cut, gravy, and horseradish. The inside or English side may be pre- ferred by some guests; the joint must, in that case, be turned over, and slices cut from thence. Edge-Bone, or F[ Bone of Beef, the Scottish Heuck- Bane.—In this and all pieces of boiled meat, the out- side, which becomes dry and hard in the salting and boiling, is to be laid aside, or sent away. This done, cut handsome smooth slices of the lean, and with each give a very little of the marrowy and firm fat, for which this dish is prized. Rtmp of Beef is carved as the above, but horizon- tally, preserving a smooth finely-grained surface. A Brisket of Beef is cut down to the bone the long way in rather thin slices, as the piece is fatty and gristly; and all fat meat must be cut delicately thin. Breast of Veal or Lamb.—Divide the gristly part from the ribs,—then divide both the other way. The choice is—,f Gristles or ribs ?” Fillet of Vcal.—This is usually, and always ought to be, stuffed in the flap. Cut it in delicate horizontal slices, and help either browned outside or inside, as is chosen, with a little of the fat, and a thin slice of the stuffing, some gravy, &c.