CHAI>. IX.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 465 make the barley-water lighter and of a better colour. Boil it down one-half. Lemon-peel and sugar may be added, or a compound draught made, by adding to every pint of the decoction an ounce of stoned raisins, a quarter-ounce of sliced liquorice-root, and three 01 four figs. With lemon-juice it is less cloying and more grateful to the sick. Currant-jelly answers very well in barley-water. Panada.—Slice the crumb of a loaf very thin, and boil it gently in water; when soft, beat it well, and add sugar and wine, or a little rum. A little butter may be added to it. Obs.—Panada may be made of chicken-broth in- stead of water, and seasoned with a little mace, or a bit of lemon-peel. White Caudle.—Mix two large spoonfuls of finely- ground oatmeal in water, two hours previous to using it; pour it from the grits and boil it. Sweeten, and add wine and seasonings to taste. Nutmeg and a little lemon-juice answer best for seasoning. Brown Caudle—the Scotch Ale-berry,—is made as above, using mild sweet small beer instead of water. Obs.—Caudle may be made of rice-flour or wheat- flour, with milk and water; sweetening it to taste. Beef-Tea.—Cut a pound of lean fresh juicy beef into little bits, and pour a quart or better of hot water over it; infuse this for a half-hour by the fire, and then let it boil up quickly with a little salt, and take off the scum. Boil gently for a half-hour, and let it settle. Pour carefully from the sediment, or strain it. Beef-tea is sometimes made by simple in- fusion, but this is a rather disgusting preparation to most people.—Veal or chicken tea are made in the same way as beef-tea. To make Coffee Buonaparte’s Way.—Put the ground coffee into a vessel with a strainer, and pour the water on it perfectly cold; plunge this vessel into another filled with boiling water, which must be kept at the boiling-pitch till the process is completed. This me- thod is thought to preserve the flavour of the coffee. Parisian Coffee as made by M. de Belloy.—Take, when the coffee is needed, nearly four ounces of the best powder recently prepared, and put it, with a very lit-