CHAP. VI. FISH. 17 5 cooks, to have the colour fine, and to prevent the skin from cracking, wrap a cloth round it, which is fasten- ed under the strainer. For sauces, anchovy, lobster, shrimp-sauce, or any of the fish-sauces stirred into plain melted butter, may be served in one tureen, and melted butter in another; but lobster-sauce is the fa- vourite sauce. Garnish with curled parsley, slices of lemon, or horseradish nicely scraped; covering the cracks, if unfortunately there should be any, with the garnish and a little lobster-coral. These ornaments may be interspersed with fried sprats, or very small flounders fried. Small turbot makes a very delicate dish, cut in slices and fried, drained from the frying fat, and with- out breaking, simmered for five minutes in a sauce made of thin melted butter, a few pickled oysters chopped, or a boned anchovy, a tea-spoonful of wal- nut-pickle, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom-catsup. Take up the fish with a slice, lay it neatly in theflish, and having skimmed, pour the sauce over it. A glass of claret or port-wine is a great addition to this sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon. Obs.—Cold fish of any kind may be cut in neat pieces, and heated up in a white sauce ; or soused, by placing it handsomely on the dish in slices, and pour- ing over it any of the favoured vinegars you choose, or pepper and plain vinegar. If any lobster-sauce is left, it wi I be found most useful in dressing the left turbot afresh. The French make many entrees de des- serte of this fish by cutting it into fillets or dice, stew- ing it in a white sauce, and serving in a vol-au-vent, or dish with an ornamented border made of fried bread cut into diamonds. AN EXCELLENT WAY TO UHESS A SMALL DISH OF TURBOT. ^ When the fish is cleaned, take off the skin gently, (many like the skin,) and cut the fillets across with a sharp knife. Dip the fillets in beat eggs, then in crumbs, minced parsley, and more seasonings. Dip twice. Place the fillets in a deep dish stuck round with butter, and bake them in a moderate oven, bast- ing from time to time with butter. Have ready a