78 CHAP. I.—BOILING. When additional saltness is wanted, the meat may be wrapped in a cloth dipped in hot water, dusted with flour, and then covered with a layer of salt. [We have but little faith in this method.] Meat must have time to imbibe salt. Frequent rubbing and a warm tem- perature will hasten the process. In brief, well-tinned clean pots,—thick in the bottom to aid in maintaining an equal temperature,—a clear fire, well-washed or soaked viands, gentle boiling, and careful skimming, are all the rules that can be given to ensure well-dress- ed boiled dishes; for the length of time must, in al- most every case, be determined by the size, the con- dition, and the nature of the provisions. Observations.—What goes under the general name of pot-liquor, particularly that in which fresh meat or poultry has been boiled, may be applied to many useful purposes. Professed cooks, and works which treat of Gastro- nomy, uniformly enter a protest against any sort of vegetable being boiled with meat except carrots,—a rule this which the Cleikum Club thought more ho- noured in the breach than in the observance. Watery vegetables, boiled in water and served in wateriness, find no favour in the French kitchen. Common sense, and, indeed, common practice, discards them. There is an adaptation, a natural affinity, to borrow a learned phrase, between certain vegetables and roots and certain pieces and kinds of meat. A cook who would excel in the profession ought, day and night, to study this doctrine of coherence and natural affinity. Who but a fool would dissever from the round of salt- ed beef, the greens or cabbage which become part and parcel of it as soon as it reaches the pot? If, however, from reasons of economy, it is wished to preserve the liquor for other purposes, a quantity of it may be put into a separate vessel, and the greens boiled there. At any rate, the pot may have the top-fat taken oft to enrich the water in which the greens are boiled, with- out any loss of pot-liquor for soup. Salted Beef, with suitable roots and vegetables, is one of these cut-and-come-again family-dishes, which, from November till March, every sensible man hails with pleasure, whether on his own or his friends