235 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. it, and lifting it in a spoon, and letting it fall con- tinually, to make it smooth and fine; do this till it cool. jV. B.—M. Ude, a French professor, substitutes cream for butter in this sauce, and says it is a great improvement. In appearance it certainly must be so. to thicken butter to keep for Peas, Vcgetables, Salads, fyc. Cover the bottom of a wide stewpan with water. Put to it ten ounces of butter, and let it gradually melt. Take the stewpan off the fire, and toss it round till the butter becomes smooth. When to be used, heat it in your melting-pan. This and oiled but- ter answer well for salads to those who dislike oil. Parsley and Butter.—Pick and wash the parsley; tie it up in a bundle, and boil it for five minutes if young, or seven if old or preserved ; drain it, and, cutting olf the stalks, mince the leaves very fine, and stir about a table-spoonful into three ounces of melt- ed butter. This simple English sauce is used for a variety of dishes. Fennel and Butter, Basil, Burnet, Chervil, Tar- ragon, Cress, and Butter, may all be prepared Tor sauce, according to this receipt. Obs.—Tarragon, basil, chervil, rocambole, and bur- net, used as parsley and butter, give dishes a smack of foreign cookery. We would recommend a very cautious use of burnet and tarragon, unless the taste of those for whom the sauces are prepared be previ- ously ascertained. Less of these high-flavoured herbs must be employed than of parsley ; and it is a good method always to mix a little of this herb with fennel, which is too powerful by itself. Celery or parsley seeds boiled in the water in which butter is melted will give their flavour when the fresh vegetables can- not be got. The flavour of these herbs, where acids are admissible in the sauce, may be communicated in a more elegant form to melted butter by the vinegars with which they are tinctured. Onion-Sauce.—Peel and throw a dozen of onions into salt and water to prevent their blackening. Boil