CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 397 and mix the whole ingredients well together with the macaroni. Butter and fill a melon-shaped or other pudding-dish, and expose it to the steams of boiling water till thoroughly done. Turn the pudding care- fully out, and serve it hot, with a strong clear gravy flavoured with onions, parsley, and, if the flavour of the French cookery is admired, a little tarragon. Obs.—This, by gourmands of experience, is consi- dered as out of sight the best modern preparation ot macaroni, sweetened dishes of this paste being con- sidered by them as only fit for boys and women. Vermicelli-Pudcling.—Boil three ounces of soaked vermicelli till soft, in a pint and a half of new milk, with fine sugar to taste, a stick of cinnamon, and a bit of lemon-peel. Stir in, when cold, the beat yolks of four eggs with two of the whites, and bake the pudding in a dish with a paste-border. Custard-Puddings.—Beat up the yolks and whites of from four to six eggs separately. Mix the yolks with a pint and a half of rich new milk into which two or three spoonfuls of flour have been rubbed. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and add cinnamon and lemon-grate. When just ready to dress, stir in the beat whites of the eggs, and a little orange-flower- water. Boil the pudding for a half-hour in a butter- ed basin, with a floured cloth tied tightly over it; or bake it for twenty minutes. Grate sugar over the top, or put bits of red currant-jelly neatly over it. Batter-Pudding.—Mix three or four ounces of flour with a little milk, and add a pint more of milk to it. Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg to this, and put it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thick- ens. When cold, add the beat yolks of four eggs, and a little ginger and grated lemon-peel. Boil in a buttered basin, and serve hot with a sweet sauce, or along with meat. Obs.—A little orange-marmalade or conserve is a great improvement to this and to all batter-puddings. Instead of flour, potato-mucilage, ground rice, or ar- row-root, may be used, only the pudding must then change its name. Almond or Ratafia Pudding.—Blanch, cut down, and beat in a mortar to a paste a half-pound of sweet and a R