146 CHAP. V BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. flavour in a strong degree), tied up in a bit of muslin rag, which must be lifted out before the soup is dish- ed. Simmer it for a half-hour or three quarters, if too thin. Pour it into the tureen, and throw in toast- ed bread cut into dice or diamonds. Carefully re- move the film or fat veil which gathers, on the surface when in the tureen, and stir up the soup the moment before it goes to the table. Butter may be used to enrich this soup, and toasted oatmeal to thicken it, mixing the oatmeal like starch, and carefully keeping back the grits. Obs.—This, though neither the most expensive nor elegant of soups, is a favourite family-dish in cold weather,—that is, nine months of the year,—and is re- commended at once by economy and excellence. It can be made of an inferior sort of any thing that is wholesome. A rump-bone, the bones of meat used for pies, trimmings of a roast, &c., are all excellent. Roast-beef bones, if not stale, nor charred and im- pregnated with empyreuma, and fresh dripping, an- swer very well; also the liquor in which salt meat is boiled—or part of it—with the exception of that of fat old pork, which, save in cases of stern necessity, cannot be tolerated by us. When peas-soup is made of shreds and patches of meat, more onion or celery seed and spice may be used to overcome the flavour of whatever constitutes the basis of the soup. A very convenient tvay of making a common peas-soup is, to have peas-pudding boiled, ready to mix with the liquor in which meat or fowls are dressed. The above seasonings are then to be added, and the soup may be enriched with butter, or clarified fresh drip- ping and thickened with potato-flour or oatmeal, as above directed, and finished in a half-hour. Dried mint or dried parsley is sometimes rubbed into this soup. Withholding* the onions and celery, and sub- stituting asparagus points, makes this soup an excel- lent asparagus-so up. * By the addition of Curry Powder, Dr Hunter, the author of Culma, makes Curry Peas-Soup. Dr Redgili. added square bits of fried bacon, cayenne, fried onions or cucumber, and concoct- ed a soup of the Composite Order, which, in compliment to the in- ventor, was named by the Club Redgill’s Pccts-S&up Haul Goxit-.