174 CHAP. VI. FISH. with a piece of butter rolled in flour, season with a little essence of anchovies, pepper, cayenne, and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve the trout with this sauce round it. TO BOIL TURBOT.* A fish of the middle size is the best. Choose the turbot thick in the belly, which should be of a cream- coloured white, and springy under the slightest pres- sure of the finger. Unless upon occasions of state, part of this large high-priced fish may be kept by sprink- ling a little salt over it, and hanging it in a cool dry place. When to be boiled soak the fish in salt and water, to draw off the slime incidental to all flat fish. When thoroughly clean, score the skin of the back deeply to prevent the belly from cracking when the fish begins to swell in heating; and this done, place it on the fish-strainer with the back undermost. The tur- bot-kettle must be roomy and nicely clean, as the colour of fish is even more easily injured than that of meat. It may be rubbed with lemon to whiten it.t Cover it with cold water, into which throw a handful of salt, which will both improve the flavour of the fish and help to separate the slime and scum. Do not let the fish-kettle come too fast to boil; skim very care- fully, and this done, draw aside the kettle, and allow it to simmer for from twenty-five to thirty minutes, with- out that violent degree of ebullition which would crack the skin and spoil the look of the fish. Some * This pontifical fish is found of excellent quality in many parts of the British seas, and also on the Irish coast; but what are still esteemed tlie best are caught off the Dutch coast, and brought alive to London in well-boats. This fish is in season, like thenaddock, from the time it has had a “ leap in the May flood” till Michaelmas. The hollibut, which often in Scotland usurps the name of turbot, is in reality a handsomer-looking fish, and excellent of its kind, but not equal in richness, and far interior in flavour to the genuine Ban- nock Fluke oi Mr Jonathan Oldbuck. Miss Edgeworth re- lated an anecdote of a Bishop, and we doubt not that he came to be an Archbishop, who, descending to his kitchen to superintend the dressing of a turbot, and finding that his cook had stupidly cut away the fins, set about sewing them on again with his own Episcopal fingers. This man knew the value of turbot. T French cooks sometimes boil turbot in milk and water.