CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 133 v. In tlie early stage of the process such a de- gree of heat as •will throw off the whole scum. VI. A lower, but an equal temperature, that the soup may simmer gently till the substances employed, whether nutritive, colouring, or flavouring, are perfectly combined with the •water, according to their several degrees of solubility. In addition to these rules, use the softest water that can be obtained, let the cook read the observations prefixed to the Chapter on Boiling, and attend to the following hints : Some soups are very good when made the day before they are to be eaten, as the top-fat can be removed in a cake, and they attain more complete consistence, (Scottice litliiness,) without losing their flavour, but they need not be seasoned till wanted ; and should then be slowly heated to the boiling point: if permitted to boil, some soups will lose part of their flavour; and of soups with meat, the meat will harden. Excellent judges differ on this point. Many think every hot preparation best when fresh cooked, and soups of the number. Of this kind are brown soup, hare soup, soup of game of any kind, giblet soup, and generally all soups made of the meat of animals of mature growth. Soups into which vegetables and young meats enter in any quantity, are best when fresh made, as those things have a strong tendency to ferment. This also holds of veal and fish soups. This tendency can be checked by boiling them up, or changing the vessels. In re-warming all previous- ly-made soups, broths, sauces, and gravies, if they can- not be heated completely by the vessel containing them being plunged into a stew-pan of boiling water, particular care must be taken that they are not smoked. The fire must be clear and the lids close; for things re-warmed are much more liable to be smoked than during their first preparation. Soups, gravies, &c. are best kept in unglazed earthen or stone vessels. They must not be covered up till quite cold; and when cold and covered, vegetable soups, &c. may be plunged into F