CHAP. XI.—ROASTING. 94 But care alone and a little practice can make a dex- terous roaster. Roast Beef is garnished with plenty of horse-rad- ish, finely scraped, and laid round the dish in light heaps, and served with Yorkshire pudding, or potato pudding.* The inside, or English side, as it is com- monly called in the northern division of the island, is by some esteemed the most delicate. To this the carver must attend, and also to the equitable distribu- tion of the fat. Cold roast beef is very generally liked; but it may be dressed warm in various ways. Slices may be warmed in a Dutch oven, and served with some of the gravy also warmed, and seasoned rather highly with pepper and salt, anchovy, shalot, or a tea-spoonful of eschalot vinegar. Cold beef may also be dressed as Olives, or as Fricassee, Cecils, Sanders, &c.—See Made Dishes of Beef N.B.—French cooks saw off the large bones, sprin- kle the Sirloin with olive oil, lay sliced onions and bay leaves over it, and leave it thus some days before roasting.—They serve it, when roasted, with sauce hackee, that is, chopped gherkins, mushrooms, capers, and an anchovy thrown into a brown sauce. Sirloin is, we think, better ordered at home. TO ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. P. W. ESQ. This piece of beef is garnished, and served with the same accompaniments as the Sirloin. Both the Ribs and the English side of a large Sirloin may be dressed in a more elaborate way as follows:—Cut out the ^ibs; beat the meat flat with a rolling-pin; lay it to soak in vinegar and wine for a night; cover it with a rich forcemeat, made of minced veal, suet, grated ham, lemon-peel, and mixed spices. Roll it tightly up, fix- ing with small skewers and tape, and roast, basting * Dr Redgill, who relished a joke after the serious business of dinner was despatched, holding it as a maxim that a moderate laugh aided digestion, was wont to say, that Yorkshire pudding was the true Squire of Sir Loin, and horse-radish his brisk fiery Page, with- out winch attendants he looked despoiled of his dignity and bearing. This pudding is nearly the same as the Panade with which it was the custom to baste roasts till they gathered a crust before the fire.