399 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. sliced apples and sugar, with a very thin layer of rusks pounded and soaked in milk. Finish with the pound- ed rusks, and pour melted butter over the pudding. Grate sugar over it when to be served. An excellent Apple-Pudding.—Pare, core, and stew the apples in a small stew-pan with cinnamon, two or three cloves, and the grated rind of a lemon. When soft, sweeten them to taste. Pulp them through a sieve, and add the beat yolks of four eggs, a quarter- pound of butter, the grated peel and the juice of a lemon. Mix the ingredients well, and bake for a half- hour in a dish lined with good puff-paste. Nottingham Pudding.—Pare and core six large ap- ples. Fill the hearts with moist sugar and a little cinnamon. Place them in a pie-dish, and pour a light batter-pudding, suitably seasoned, over them, and bake till the apples are ready,—about three quarters of an hour. Apricot, Peach, or Nectarine Padding.—Pour a pint of hot cream over what would fill a cup of bread- crumbs, and cover the jug. When cold, add the beat yolks of four eggs, a glass of wliite wine, and beat sugar to taste. Scald till soft a dozen large apricots. Cut them, take out the kernels, and pound the whole in a mortal-. Mix them with the other ingredients, and the beat whites of two of the eggs, and bake in a dish with a paste-border. Gooseberry-Pudding.—Stew green gooseberries till they will pulp through a sieve. When cold, pulp them, and add to them six ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar-biscuit, pounded sugar to taste, four beat eggs, and a glass of brandy. Bake in a dish with a paste-border. Obs.—Excellent patties, and small pasties or turn- overs, may be made of this material. . Newmarket or Bread-and-Butter Pudding.—Boil a pint and a quarter of good milk for a few minutes with the rind of half a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a bay-leaf, or a spoonful of almond-flower water. Put in fine sugar to taste, and as the milk cools mix it gradually with the well-beat yolks of six ego-s, and three of the whites separately beaten. Cut and'but- ter with fresh butter slices of bread of about a half- inch thick. Place this in a pudding-dish, and then a