CHAP. VI.—FISH. 202 of Champagne or Madeira, if for a high relish; in which case a very little minced shalot or onion and cayenne may be added. Cover and simmer the oys- ters very gently for five minutes, lift them with a sil- ver spoon into a deep hot dish, with toasted sippets in it, and strain the sauce over them. Obs.—A sort of deviled stew is made by adding more seasonings and grated Parmesan cheese. If it be true that all fish require silver knives and forks, this holds peculiarly of oysters. A genuine oyster-eater rejects all additions,—wine, shalot, &c., are alike obnoxious to his taste. nets, or throwing the cod-lines, like the fishermen of Sicilian seas, they “ Sing to charm the spirits of the deep,” as they troll the dredging-nets. There is indeed a poetical notion that the oyster, among his other gentle qualities, is inclined to min- strelsy— “ The Herring loves the merry moonlight, The Mackerel loves the wind, But the Oyster loves the dredging-sang, For he comes of gentle kind.” The Nabob, emulous of the well-earned fame of Dr Kitchener, who has set the ancient duet between Bubble and Squeak, with pro- per accompaniments, wished to embellish this volume with the music of the “ Dredging-Song," and the shrilling recitative of the oyster- wives,—those Maids of Honour to the “ Empress of the North,” who, for miles off, are heard when September evenings begin to shor- ten cuckoos of autumn—harbingers of winter—screaming around “ her mountain throne”—drowning the summer “ babble of green trees,” and bringingback the genial associations of “ rousing nights,” merry tavern-suppers, and “ a quarter of a hundred after the play.” There is perhaps no spot on earth where oysters are enjoyed in such perfection as at the head of the Old Fish Market Close of Edin- burgh, once, alas the change ! the cynosure of all the taverns, fish- creels, and booksellers’ shops of that learned city : the place where eating, learning, and law sat enthroned side by side. Here, on any evening from October till March, the oyster -gourmand took his so- litary stand, and enjoyed his delicious regale in its utmost earthly perfection, sivalloived alive with its own gravy the moment it was opened by the fish-wife, who operated on the shell with a dexterity of manipulation, a rapidity of fingering which no piano-forte-player we ever saw could compare with,—nothing indeed could be com- pared with it, except the eager voracity of those genuine lovers of the oyster, to whom these piscatory Hebes ministered—Genuine oyster- eaters still haunt this favourite spot. Ur Redgili. resolved to visit it on the first night of his sojourn in Edinburgh—Edit.