424 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. merely stirring the sugar finely beaten and sifted into the juice of the fruit. But they look muddy and eat harshly. It is a good plan to have a sieve, spoons with holes, and two pans of different sizes, kept wholly for preserves and sweet dishes, as the least taint of other things will at once destroy these delicate pre- parations. Sweetmeats and preserved fruits ought to be looked at several times during the first month ; and if mouldiness gathers on them which is not occasioned by external damp, jellies and jams, and the syrup of preserves, must be boiled over again till the jelly is firm, and till the watery particles which the fruit has given out to the syrup are wholly evaporated. OF ROILING SUGARS FOR PRESERVES. Confectioners reckon several degrees in preparing sugars, from a simple clarified syrup to caramel. To clarify Sugar.—To every pound of broken su- gar take a quarter-pint of water, and the half of the white of an egg beat up, or less egg will do. Stir this up till the sugar dissolve, and when it boils, and the scum rises strong and thick, pour in another quarter- pint of cold water to each pound. Let it boil, edging the pan forward till all the scum is thrown up. Set it on the hearth, and when it has settled take off the scum, and lay it on a reversed hair sieve over a dish, that what syrup is in it may run clear from it. Return the syrup into the pan, and boil and skim it once more. Candied Sugar, 1st Degree.—Boil clarified sugar till it rises in the pan like clusters of pearls ; or try be- tween the finger and thumb if it have tenuity enough to draw out into a thread. Blown Sugar, 2d Degree.—Boil candied sugar till on dipping the skimmer into the syrup, and blowing through the holes of it, the sugar forms into bubbles. Feathered Height, 3d Degree.—Boil sugar of the 2d degree for some time longer, and dip the skimmer in the pan. Shake off' the sugar, and give the skimmer a sudden toss, when if enough done^the sugar will fly off like snow-flakes. Crackling Sugar, 4.1 h Degree.—-Boil feathered sugai