304 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. Obs.—When the hashed venison is very lean, some cooks cut the firm fat of a neck of mutton into thin small slices, stew them in wine and sugar, and add them to the hash. A large piece of cold venison, when it can- not be used otherwise, will make a good stew-soup, made as directed for veal stew-soup. For Roasting Venison, see p. 98 MADE-DISHES OF HARE AND RABBIT. To stem a Hare.—Cut off the legs and shoulders, or wings, as they are sometimes called; chop down the middle of the back, and then chop each side into two or three pieces. Season these with mixed spices, and steep* them for'some hours in shalot-vinegar, with three bay-leaves, and some pounded cloves. Make a pint and a half of gravy of the neck, head, liver, heart, ribs, &c. with onions, a good slice of bacon chopped into small bits, a large carrot split, sweet herbs, and two dozen corns of black pepper and allspice. Strain this into a clean.stew-pan, and put the hare, Avith the vinegar in which it has been soaked, to it, and stew gently till done. Add salt, spices, and a little cay- enne. A little catsup may be added, and the stew may be thickened with butter rolled in broAvned flour. Obs.—This is an excellent method of dressing a hare, which makes at best but a dry and ungainly roast. A few roasted button-onions may be peeled, stewed in the sauce, and served with the hare. An old hare requires to be either larded, steAved in very rich broth, or, which is still better, braised. Garlic, if liked at all, should be used with hare. Hare is also stewed in wine, ale, or cider, enriching the liquid with rasped bacon and high seasonings, also the blood put in when the dish is taken off the fire; the lhrer and lights may be dressed as forcemeat-balls to serve with it. Currant-jelly or honey or sugar may be used Avith discretion in this dish. To jug Hare.—Cut it into small pieces ; season * The propriety of this marinade, we must own, is strongly doubted by some gastronomers of repute. They do not consider the flavour imparted as at all equivalent to the native juices withdrawn.