CHAP. III.—OF CURING MEAT, &C. 4/7 ■when cold, poured over the hams;—or now, that salt is so cheap, afresh brine may be made. Bruised juni- pers, coriander-seeds, sweet herbs, pounded or not, and all sorts of aromatic spices, may be added to hams, tongues, rounds, and sausage meat, also garlic; but this must all be at the discretion of the cook. To cure Hams.—Choose the short thick legs of clean-fed hogs. Those which are old enough to have the flesh of firm texture, and which have roamed at large in a forest, are far the best. To each large ham allow half a pound of bay-salt, two ounces, or even more, of saltpetre, eight ounces of coarse sugar, and a half- pound of common salt, with four ounces of Jamaica and black pepper, and one of coriander-seeds. Pound the ingredients, and mix them well;—rub in about six ounces of the salt and the saltpetre, and, after two days, the rest of the salt and the spices. Bub for a long half-hour;—stuff the knuckle, and tie up the hole with packthread. Lay the hams in the trough ;— keep them carefully covered, and baste them with the brine every day, or oftener ;—turn them occasionally, and rub with the brine: make more brine, if neces- sary. Bacon and Pig’s Face are treated as above : the latter is the better of being pressed down with a weight or a stone. Some persons use weights for all cured meat, to keep it below the brine. Hams are made spiced by using aromatic spices and sweet herbs. Smoking with odoriferous woods, as juniper, &c., is an immense improvement to all dried meats. Mutton-Hams.—Proceed as above, using only a fourth oi the salt, but a half of the spices and sugar. Rub the hams very well all round, and stuff the kuckle as far down as your finger will reach with the salt and spices. Obs.—Ram-mutton, though disliked at table, is, when good, thought to make the best-flavoured hams. In the Highlands, dried junipers are used in curing nn^ton-hams. No sort of meat is. more improved by smoking with aromatic woods than mutton.* Mut- * Tongues and mutton-hams may be smoked on a very small scale, by suspending them in a t inverted hogshead, in which the smoke of jumper-wood or of juniper-berries is confined. u 2