470 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. through grey paper; the camphor must be dissolved in a little spirits of wine. This vinegar ought to be kept closely corked. Cayenne Pepper, to make.—This is made cither of ripe chilies or capsicums. If chilies, dry them before the fire, turning them a whole day, till quite dry. Trim away the stalks. Pound the pods in a mortar till they become a fine powder, mixing in about a sixth of their weight of salt. Bottle the powder, and stop the vials carefully. If capsicums are used, and they are more easily obtained, dry in the oven, first mixing them with dried flour; beat them to a powder, and add water, yeast, and a little salt, with which form the capsicums into paste in small cakes. Bake these twice; pound and sift the powder, and bottle as usual. CHEAP DISHES AND COOKERY FOR THE POOR. We are convinced that the art of preparing cheap dishes is much better understood by the intelligent poor, than by those who assume the task of instruct- ing them. It is not, therefore, for the direct use of the poorer classes, but for the information of those who, from charitable motives, are anxious to devote part of the abundance with which Providence has blessed them to their humbler brethren, that this sec- tion is added to the present edition of the Cook’s Manual. There is not a family of any consideration but might distribute at least three or four gallons of soup a week to their poor neighbours, with almost no additional expense, and only a little personal trouble to the cook or kitchen-maid; for there is much waste in all families, which, by a slight degree of attention, might be avoided, and turned to good account, not only in supplying the wants of the poor, but in im- proving the domestic habits of young female servants, and qualifying them to be managers when they shall come to be poor men’s wives. Without wishing to encourage habits of dependence, much less of beggary, benevolent persons will find in all neighbourhoods, old men, women, and children, to whom the certainty that on one day of the week they may look forward