FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. 525 MEG DODS. Girzy ! where’s the tangs ?—Impudent young villain !—Ye wad like to find my hand—wad ye ?—Try the weight o’t then ! TOUCHWOOD. Ha! ha!—That smack came twanging off, Weibach—M‘Turk redivivus.—Meg, be merciful as you are strong. reviewer, reeling. Thou pepper-pot—thou olio—thou salmagundi—thou delicious morceau de resistance,* thus, in spite of thy cruelty MEG DODS. Will ye no be done yet!—Girzy, throw the gentleman of the press ower your shouther, and fling him across the bed, boots an’ a’, till he sober.—There he’s off.—It’s hard, Nawbob, that douce folk like us canna ha’e a quiet comfortable crack about their ain Beuk, but a whipper-snapper like yon maun ha’e his finger i’ the pie—as if he kenned far better about our Beuk than us that made it.—Ye may see by him too what comes o’ blenching the stamack wi’ voi- ley-vangs, puffs, and souffels—blawing a man up wi’ conceit and wind, in place o’ a solid, substantial, regular diet, on which a gentleman’s liquor sits cannily and comfortably The Cleikum auld claret disdains to hold company wi’ your freakasies 1 fear the Captain’s love o’ them has half ruined our Work, Nawbob. TOUCHWOOD. Never fear, Luckie !—It’s well ballasted by Redgill and yourself —while I stand skipper and keep proper balance among you all. MEG DODS. And in gude sooth, great need, Nawbob ; for though we needna let on to ilka body, there’s muckle and nae little nonsense between the brods o’t—Now it should ha’e been a solid douce beuk, to instruct the rising generation. TOUCHWOOD. Nonsense, dame!—We have indeed eschewed a work of heavy digestion—what then ! what science more joyous more social more gay—more riant than ours !—Good night, and a sound sleep, Luckie :—have a huge creaming bowl of Auld Man’s Milk (453) Teady by six in the morning ! {Exeunt omnes. * Immense solid plats, as a boar’s-head—a baron of beef—a roast sturgeon- on the reformation of French cookery, were wittily termed morceaux de resist- ance.