CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. 382 to eight pieces ; season, and bake it with plenty of' butter. Two green geese will make a still better pie. They may be baked with either a plain paste or a layer of mashed potatoes laid over the baking-dish and neatly marked. They may be previously braised. A Christmas Goose-Pie.*—Bone and season highly a goose and a large fowl. Stuff the latter with force- meat made of minced tongue or ham, minced veal, parsley, suet, pepper, and salt, with two eggs. Stew them for twenty minutes in a little good broth in a close stew-pan. Put the fowl within the goose, and place that in a raised pie-crust, filling up the vacancies with forcemeat or slices of parboiled tongue or pi- geons, partridges, &c. Put plenty of butter over the meat. This pie will take three hours to bake. It will eat well cold, and keep a long while. Perigord-Pie.—This is a dish which can scarcely be ever prepared in this country, where truffles are scarce, and very inferior to those of France. ThePeri- gord-pie is, however, so celebrated, that it would be unpardonable to treat it with neglect. Truss as for boiling six partridges. Singe and wipe them. Season them with salt, pepper, and mixed spices, minced parsley, and young onions, and lard them. Brush, wash, and peel two pounds of truffles. Hash the small ones and broken ones ; and pound with the livers of the partridges and a fat goose-liver, or fat livers of poultry, or a piece of veal-udder parboiled. Mince all these things, and pound them in a mortar, adding raw egg, as directed for quenelles in French cookery. Season this forcemeat very highly. Cut open the trussed partridges at the back, and stuff each of them with the forcemeat and some whole truffles. Bake them in a raised pie-crust, either round or oval, lining the crust with slices of bacon and forcemeat. Venison Pasty.—A modern pasty is made of what does not roast well, as the neck, the breast, the shoul- der. The breast makes the best pasty. Cut it into little bits, trimming off all bone and skins. Make some good gravy from the bones and other trimmings. * This receipt still keeps its place in cookery-books, though the pie itself is now as rare as the capercailzie or the wild boar—Ed.