CHAI’. I.—MADE-DISHES. 316 little saltpetre. In two or three days mince it, and season with pepper, chopped sage, and a little grated bread. Fill the gut, and bake the savaloys for a half- hour in a moderate oven. If to be eaten cold, let them lie a day or two longer in the salt. DEVILS. Though devils are often served at supper or luncheon, they are most commonly considered as provocatives and stimulants,—a relish with wine, or a spur to a jaded appetite. Their preparation must accordingly vary with the momentary tastes or necessities of the consumers. The only indispensable attribute of the common familiar cock-crow devil for a rere-supper is scorching heat and tear-compelling pungency. De- vils are made of the legs, rumps, backs, and gizzards of cold Turkey, goose, duck, capon, and of all kinds of game, particularly the backs of moor-game, which have a peculiarly stimulating bitter ; and also of veni- son, veal, and mutton-kidney, fish-bones, and biscuits or rusks. The meat to be dressed in this way must be scored, that the seasonings may find suitable places of retreat. The seasonings, which consist of salt, pepper, cayenne, and currie, mushroom, anchovy, or truffle-powder, must be administered at the discretion of the consumer. It is a common mode to have the things seasoned at table, and then sent to the kitchen fire. The devils must be broiled on a strong clear fire, and served in a hot-water dish, or one with a spi- rit-lamp. When not served dry as a relish with wine, the proper sauces for devils are, grill-sauce, anchovy- sauce, or any piquant sauce. Dry toasts or rusks are a proper accompaniment to deviled poultry, &c.* * The following receipt for the preparation of devils is the best that has yet been disclosed ; for in this philosophic and amateur de- partment of cookery profound mystery has hitherto been observed :— '•t Mix equal parts of common salt, pounded cayenne, and currie- powder, with double the quantity of mushroom or truffle powder. Dissect a brace of woodcocks (if under-roasted so much the better), split the heads, divide and subdivide the legs, wings, back, &c.,and powder all the pieces with the seasonings well mixed. Bruise die trail and brains with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a very litde pounded mace, the grate of half a lemon, and half a spoonful of soy.