372 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. dish it is to be served upon, and mould the rice round as if it were paste, and fix it well upon the dish ; cover the bread with a slice of bacon; put the rice into a mould that has been buttered to cover it; close it well, forming it nicely; mark the cover where it is to be opened when it is done; put it in a very hot oven, let it take a fine colour; when ready to serve, take off the top with care, and empty it by taking out the bread, and fill it with any ragout that is suitable, put on the cover, and send it to table. N. B.—This is a fit way to prepare rice for bor- ders. A little of the sauce of the dish may be stirred into it. Crustades, Bread prepared in which to serve Ragouts, Sfc.—They are baked in egg or heart-shaped moulds about from six to eight inches long. Scoop out the crumb ; fry in butter or top-fat; drain dry and line with gratin, and fill with any nice fresh or re-dressed ragout. They are made small also. Moulds of this kind are made in Scotland of potatoes, (waxy ones are best, or a little flour may be added to them.) These potato-crM^<^ may be made as Westphalia loaves, and served piled up in the dish as a pyramid. What we call rolls and loaves are the same as crustades. IRISH TRIPE. Cook some onions in milk and water. If large, divide them, and have plenty of them. Add the tripe, cut in stripes, to the onions, and thicken as much of the sauce with butter, flour, and a little mustard, as will sauce the tripe. Vinegar or lemon-juice may be added. BREAD AND MEAT, Of Koobbe. We have been favoured with a receipt for this sa- voury preparation, which, at sea, in camp, on Indian hunting excursions, and long marches in India, is found to be very convenient. Make a dough with yeast as for bread; when yeast cannot be obtained, use eggs or milk. Roll out the paste very thick, and wrap meat into it (fat meat is best) of any kind, sea- soned in any way that is most convenient or agree- able. It may be either boiled or baked. This species of camp-cookery is carried to some perfection in India.