482 CHAP. III. OP CURING MEAT, &C. nitre, dissolved in water, with the milk, in the pro- portion of an ounce of nitre to ten gallons of milk. To give the cattle a little straw previous to their feed of turnip is a method employed in some places for preventing the turnip-flavour. On the continent, but- ter is clarified for storing, and so keeps well. It is skim- med when slowly melting over charcoal, allowed to settle, and poured from the lees. It may be salted thus, and when thus freed of all the milk, it keeps well. Butter, as made in Dumbartonshire.—The subjoined receipt, which is excellent in a plain and rational way, is all that has rewarded a search through the numer- ous volumes of the Farmer’s Magazine, and the printed Transactions of the Highland Society. No process is so effectual in salting butter as working it with the hand as here directed. We may add, that butter-/«7.s are best preserved for the next salting sea- son, by being allowed to stand unwashed, with any bits of butter that may adhere to the sides, and any pickle that is left. Clean the kits well by scouring and scrubbing with salt. If old-smelled from rancid butter, fill them with fresh earth for a day or two be- fore cleaning them, which will freshen and sweeten the vessels. “ My cows are milked at eight in the morning and at eight in the evening; and the number kept is from ten to twelve. Each cow’s milk is seithed, either by itself, into a dish of wood, or two put together, ac- cording to the size of the dish. As soon as milked, it is set upon shelves of wood in the dairy or milkhouse, where it stands in general as follows, viz. the even- ing milk thirty-four hours, and the morning milk twenty-two hours; when the cream is skimmed off, and put into a vessel which holds one week’s cream ; and the milk is then made into cheese, which sells from 6s. to 7s. per stone. The churn is something like a large barrel, which stands upon a fram* made for the purpose; the inside work being driver round with a handle, the same as a pair of com- mon fanners. The butter is made generally once a week; and in the morning previous to that opera- tion, the churn is filled with boiling water, when the