468, CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. stirring it up.* Add a little salt and sugar, with any addition of wine, fruit, jelly, honey, &c. &c. you choose. This gruel will be quite smooth ; and when cold, will form a jelly. With a toast, it makes an ex- cellent supper-dish for an invalid. Sweet Orange or Lemon Juice.—When you make chips, preserve the strained juice, by boiling it with an equal weight of fine sugar. It is a great addition to gruel or barley-water, and will be useful for gargles in fevers and cases of sore throat, &c. Fumigating Mixturefor Sick Chambers.—Two ounces of salt dried, two ditto of nitre. Mix and put to them in a stone-ware basin or plate, a half-ounce of water, and the same quantity of good sulphuric acid. Re- move all polished-metal articles from the room, as the vapour would rust them. To procure more advantage, when the process appears to cease, place the basin on hot sand. Toast and Water.—An hour or more before it is wanted, toast some thin slices of bread on both sides very carefully. Pour cold water over the bread, and cover the jug, or use boiled water, which many pre- fer, allowing it time to cool. Poultices and Fomentations.—These things are usu- ally made in the kitchen, and a knowledge of their proper preparation is of importance to every cook or housekeeper in some part of their lives. Poultices are generally bread-crumb soaked and boiled in milk, water, or a preparation ordered by a medical man. They are also made of linseed-meal, oat and barley meal, and of grated carrot and turnip. They should be made as clean as possible, and they must be well boiled, soft, large enough, and, if to promote suppura- tion, applied hot. They must be renewed as frequent- * The English language is very deficient in terms descriptive of culinary processes. The Scotch retain the word “ to slunk” in de- fining the process of continually lifting up a sauce or gruel by spoon- fuls, and rapidly letting it fall back into the pan. The French lan- guage, which is peculiarly rich in culinary tenns, calls what is sig- nified above by stirring, to tanner a sauce or soup; and to see a French cook, thus engaged at the stove with a veloute, or sauce a la Lucullus, an Englishman might well suppose that life and death were depending on a process for wnich his language has no name.—I • 1 *