15 INTRODUCTION. The Nabob, unshaved, half-dressed, blue and yellow, fallen off in flesh, and given up to melancholious fancies about bilious attacks and the fall of stocks, the vanity of riches, and the moral impossibility of Scotch cooks ever boiling rice properly, was, when the Doctor drove in sight, lounging at his parlour window, directing the old grey Ostler in currying the older grey horse, but with little of his for- mer spirit and promptitude. The eyes of the three persons —the Doctor, the Nabob, and the Ostler—were now at- tracted to a spectacle in which all mankind take more or less interest,—a pair of Mrs Dods’ game-cocks, which had lustily commenced a sparring-match. The Ostler staid his curry- comb and its hissing accompaniment, and clapped his hands to cheer the combatants; the Nabob flung up the sash ; and the Doctor drew up to contemplate the exhibition. The feathered combatants fought it out gallantly,—each, no doubt, animated by the knightly consciousness, that “ his lady saw him,” till one dropped dead, and the other stag- gered over.—“ Well done, Charlie !—bravely fought, Char- lie !” cried the Ostler, lifting up the survivor. “ Admirable cock-a-leekie,” said the Doctor, touching the deceased with the end of his whip ; “all the better for the fight; it would raise the creature’s blood.—A fine brood that!” addressing the Ostler, and throwing eyes of love on a set of ducklings, just escaped from the shell, that were in- nocently disporting themselves in a little puddle, near some goodly rows of green pease in a more advanced state of ve- getation than any the Doctor had seen since he had crossed the Border; “ these ducklings will, however, be too old before the pease are ready. Strange stupidity, not to have them come together !”*—At this instant the soft treble squeak of a pig of tender days, and then the squall of a full choir, a whole litter of pigs,—Chinese pigs, the Doctor knew by the orientalism of the infant grunt,—struck on his ears; * VV e never, for our own private eating, could yet find much to admire in the skin-and-bone ducks of June and July P. T.