CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. 449 strain off the liquor through a jelly-bag; when it has settled, pour it from the lees and bottle it. Obs.—The lees of liqueurs make an excellent addi- tion to those puddings and cakes for which spirits are ordered. Common Ratafia.—Take an ounce of bruised nut- megs, a half-pound of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, and a grain of ambergris, well rubbed with sugar in a mortar; infuse in two quarts of proof- spirit for two weeks, and filter. Red Ratafia.—Six pounds of the black-heart cherry, one of small black cherries or geens, and two of rasp- berries and strawberries. Bruise the fruit, and when it has stood some time, drain off the juice, and to every pint add four ounces of the best refined sugar, or of syrup, and a quart of the best brandy. Strain through a jelly-bag, and flavour to taste with a half-ounce of cinnamon and a drachm of cloves, bruised and infused in brandy for a fortnight before. Cherry Brandy or Whislcy.—Pick morello, or black cherries, from the stalks, and drop them into bottles, till the bottles are three-quarters full; fill up with brandy or whisky. In three weeks strain off the spirits, and season with cinnamon and clove mixture, as in last receipt, adding syrup to taste. Ratafia should not be sweet. A second weaker decoction may be obtained by pouring more spirits on the fruit. Black-Cherry Brandy.—Put, to three quarts of brandy, four pounds of stoned black cherries ;—bruise the stones, and add them to the mixture. Infuse for a month;—filter, and add the flavouring ingredients and syrup, as directed above. A second infusion may be made, which will require more seasoning than that first drawn. Obs.—Some persons reject all perfumes in com- pounds of this kind. Raspberry Brandy is made precisely as above, and is best when strong of the fruit, without any other flavouring ingredient. Usquebaugh, or Irish Cordial.—To two quarts of the best brandy, or whisky without a smoky taste, put a pound of stoned raisins, a half-ounce of nutmegs, a quarter-ounce of cloves, the same quantity of carda-