CHAP. II. BOASTING. I 100 TO ROAST PHEASANTS AND PARTRIDGES.5* These birds are trussed in the same manner; the craw is drawn out by a slit in the neck, the head is left on, and the legs of the partridge are tucked into each other.t Baste frequently, and dust with flour to * Necessity and the vanity of producing at a dinner what was rare and far-travelled, must first have introduced the custom of over- keeping game, till in time it came to be considered as essential to its perfection that it be kept till putrid, and that what has not flavour may at least have fumet. It is at the same time indispensable that fame be kept till tender. Game, as we have said before, must be onger kept than domestic fowls, to be in proper condition for the table. A great deal has been said on preserving provisions of late years, but we are afraid little has been done. We are certain that very few of the practices recommended have been adopted, and that chiefly because when tried they were found wanting. Form, colour, and material may be preserved, but flavour, and even nutritious qua- lities, have fled before the pyroligneous acid, and the genius of Ap- pert; and mummy partridges, and embalmed green peas, survive to please the eye and fill the table ; and this so far is highly desirable, but sadly disappoint the palate. Game, we speak not of giving pheasants and grouse to immortality, may be kept good a long time, by drawing, cropping, picking, and (without washing) rubbing with equal parts of salt, pounded loaf-sugar, and a little pepper. It is a great mistake to wet, much less to wash, any thing intended to be kept. Charcoal may also be employed to retard putrefaction. Lay a thin muslin cloth over the birds, and place lumps of charcoal on that. We have no faith in charcoal doing any good in the way of restoring what is much tainted, though this is confidently asserted. The knife applied to the worst parts, scraping and constantly re- moving the mustiness, and, when to be used, washing with vinegar and water is the preferable method. Game, when it is wished to be kept to grace a gala-day, besides the above precautions, may be par- boiled or par-roasted. In short, dipped for five minutes in boiling water, or laid to the fire for seven minutes, which must be made to touch all parts, inside as well as outside. Then dry thoroughly, and use salt, sugar, and pepper, as above. Before roasting cleanse from this seasoning, and season with a little fresh pepper. But the preservation of game depends as much on the sportsman as on the cook. A bird or hare much mangled by shot will taint far more quickly than one killed in “ a gentlemanly way,” and what has fallen into the water, than that which drops on land. For some seasons back the southern sportsmen, who frequent the highland moors, have paid great attention to preserving and packing their game. 1 acking with hope is found to answer better than any other method yet employed, and is now very generally resorted to. + r rench cooks lay slices of lemon over the breasts of the part- ridges, on these slices of lard, and above all fasten paper. Dr Hunter recommends a stuffing of minced beef or veal for a cock- pheasant, the flesh of which is rather insipid to English palates. , his may be more acceptable than the French practice of enrich i mi- these birds by larding. E