CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 379 A Bride’s Pic,—a Scotch Pie.—This is just a very nice mince-pie. Chop the meat of two calves' feet, boiled as in the former receipt, a pound of mutton- suet, and a pound of pared apples all separately, till they are fine. Mix them, and add to them a half- pound of picked currants, and the same quantity of raisins stoned and chopped. Season with a quarter- ounce of cinnamon in powder, two drachms of grated nutmeg and pounded mace, an ounce of candied ci- tron, and double the quantity of lemon peel, both sliced thin, a glass of brandy, and another of Madei- ra. Line a tin pan with a slip-bottom with good puff-paste, and put the minced meat, &c., into it. Roll out a cover for the pie, which ought to have a glass ring concealed somewhere in the crust, and to be embellished with appropriate ornaments and de- vices. A Mutton-Pie.—Cut a back-ribs or loin into hand- some chops ; trim off the bone, flatten and season the chops with pepper and salt. Put them neatly into the dish; fill it up with gravy or water, and strew parsley and a minced onion over the meat.* Ohs.—Mutton or veal pie may be seasoned with curry-powder. Mutton or veal may be made into small raised pies of an oval or other shape, and re- warmed in a Dutch oven when wanted for hot sup- pers. A Squab-pie is made of mutton-chops, cut apples, and shred onion, with spices and a little sugar. Lamb-Pie.—This is made of either the loin, back- ribs, or breast, not too fat, cutting out the bone if wished, but always leaving the gristles. Do not sea- son this delicate meat over highly. Put a little jelly- gravy in the dish if the pie is to be eat cold, in which state a lamb-pie is exceedingly good. Eggs may be added. Pigeon-Pie.—Clean and season the pigeons well in the inside with pepper and salt. Put into each bird a little chopped parsley mixed with the livers par- boiled and minced, and some bits of butter. Cover the bottom of the dish with a good beef-steak. Lay in the birds; put the seasoned gizzards, and, if ap- A carrespfwdinfr member of the Cleikum Club recommend* sauce Robert tor mutton, but made without lemon-juice.