CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 145 If not yet sufficiently transparent, let it stand an hour, and turn it carefully over. When it boils, put to it three onions shred, or five young ones, a head of ce- lery cut in bits, carrots sliced, and cut as wheels or stars, and turnips scooped of the size of pigeons’ eggs, or turnip-radishes. When the vegetables are enough done without the soup getting ropy from their disso- lution, the soup is finished. This and all vegetable soups are the better of a spice of cayenne. THE BEST PEAS-SOUP. To a pound and a half of split* peas, floated to sepa- rate the bad ones, and, if very old, soaked for two hours in a quart of lukewarm water in the soup- pot, add three quarts of very soft water, and three pounds of shin beef, or of any sinewy lean gelatinous piece; or trimmings of meat or poultry, a slice of ba- con, or a shank of either a bacon or a mutton ham scalded (the root of a tongue salted a little, and well soaked to draw out all the slime, does very well), a couple of well-sized carrots, two turnips, and four large or six smaller onions. When this has been skimmed, and has simmered slowly for about an hour and a half, taking care that it does not stick to the bottom of the pot, (Scottice “ sit on,”) add another quart of boiling water, or fresh liquor in which poul- try or meat has been boiled. Simmer again till the peas are completely dissolved. Pour the soup into a coarse hair sieve, which set over an earthen pan or stew-pot, and pulp the peas through with a wooden, or tinned iron spoon, taking back the strained soup to moisten what remains of the peas, till the whole mash is pulped through. Add salt, white pepper in fine powder, and the onions well pulped to the strained soup, a head of fresh celery shred roughly, or a des- sert-spoonful of the serd (which communicates the * Whole peas are often sweeter and better than those which are split, but they must be longer soaked. In country families that study economy, peas of the black kind are often shelled at the mill, and used as white boilers. The colour is not so fine, but the soup is equally good, if not better.