349 CHAP. II.—MADE-DISIIES. and prick the skins to prevent them from bursting. When wanted, dip them in boiling water to heat, and finish them in a paper-case in a Dutch oven. FRENCH DISHES OF VEGETABLES AND FRUIT. See also pages 209, 210, 211,212. The French claim superiority for their cooks for their skill and variety in dressing vegetables’; and the assumption is in this instance just. Vegetable prepa- rations enter largely into their second courses, usually affording two dishes for an ordinary dinner, and four for a larger one. Great improvements have been made of late, even among ourselves, in preparing the x more delicate and showy vegetable dishes; and it is to be hoped that British cooks, besides imitating the French in saucing their cauliflower and artichokes, will soon copy their manner of braising cabbages and carrots for ordinary use. Asparagus Pease for (he second Course.—Pick and cut some young asparagus into small equal bits, rejecting what is woody. Boil these pease in salt and water, and drain and dry them in a cloth. Then give them a fry in butter with a bunch of parsley and green onions, and a sprig of mint. Dredge in flour. Put in a bit of sugar, and moisten with boiling water. Give them a quick boil. When boiled down, take out the fagot of parsley and onions, and thicken the sauce with the beat yolks of two eggs, beaten up with cream and a little salt and grate of nutmeg. Obs.—Melted butter may be used instead of cream. To dress Green Pease for a second Course.—Boil a large pint of the finest green pease in water, with salt and a good piece of butter rubbed among them. When tender, drain them, lifting them out of the co- lander with your hand that the refuse may be left. Stew them with a fagot of parsley and green onions. 1 he colour will now deepen. Dredge a good deal of flour over them, and stir a piece of butter among them, with salt, a very little grated Parmesan (if you like) and a knob of sugar dipped in boiling water. Let them get quite dry, and dress them high on the dish. P