444 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. Beat the mass, and flavour it with lemon, orange- flower water, or mace. Put a very little fresh yeast to it if you have it, and moisten it down to a thickish batter with good cream. Work the ingredients well, and let the whole settle a while. When wanted, rub the irons for making wafers with fat bacon, or with fine wax. A tea-spoonful of the batter will make one wafer. Turn the iron round as it bakes over a brisk fire. When cold, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. HOUSEHOLD BREAD, &C. Common Wheaton Bread on Cobbett’s Plan.—Put a bushel of flour into a trough. Make a deep hole in the middle of the heap, and take for a bushel of flour a pint of good yeast, and stir it well up with as much milk-warm water. Pour this into the hole made in the flour; then take a spoon, and work it round the edges of this body of moisture, so as to firing into it by degrees flour enough to make a thin batter, which must be well stirred for a minute or two. Throw a handful of flour over the surface of this batter, and cover the whole with the folds of a cloth to keep it warm. Set it by the fire, regulating the distance by the state of the weather and season of the year. When the batter has risen enough to make cracks in the flour, form the whole mass into dough thus:—Begin by strewing six ounces of salt over the heap ; and then beginning round the hole containing the batter, work the flour into the batter, pouring in milk-warm soft water or milk as it is wanted. When the whole mass is moistened, knead it well, that the fermented paste may be duly mixed with the whole mass. Mould the loaves; let them rise for twenty minutes, and put them into the oven, which should be previously heat- ed. The loaves will require a length of time to fire proportioned to their size. To bake Breakfast Bolls.—To two pounds of flour put a spoonful of salt, a quarter-pint or less of fresh yeast, and as much warmed milk and water as will make a batter. Stir this well till it is smooth, and let it stand covered before the fire to rise for two hojurs, if you have time to wait so long. Addas much