CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 441 beat eggs. Make this into a paste, and roll it out about a half-inch thick, and stamp out the cakes of any size you please with a wine-glass, ale-glass, or small tumbler, by running a paste-cutter round the glass. Dust the top with sugar. Tunbridge-Cakes.—Make them as above, of any size you please, and strew caraway-comfits over the top. Shrewsbury Calces.—Beat half a pound of cold but- ter to a cream, and mix with it six ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of flour, a few caraway-seeds, and some pounded cinnamon, two eggs beat, and a little rose-water. Roll out the paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, adding a little more flour if necessary, and stamp out the cakes of any shape or size that is liked. Bath Cakes.—Roll half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and add four beat eggs and a glassful of yeast. Set this before the fire to rise; then add four ounces of sifted sugar, and a few caraway-seeds. Roll the paste into thin sheets, and stamp them out. Bake them on tins. They should rise very light. Obs.—This is made into Bath Buns by moulding the paste in the shape of buns, and strewing a few sugar-caraways over the tops. Scotch Petticoat-Tails.—Mix a half-ounce of cara- way-seeds with the fourth of a peck of flour. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour into it twelve ounces of butter melted in a quarter-pint of milk, and three ounces of beat sugar. Knead this, but not too much, or it will become tough; divide it in two, and roll it out round, and rather thin. Cut the cake by running a paste-cutter round a large din- ner-plate, or other large round plate. Cut a cake lrom the centre of this with a small saucer or large tumbler. Keep the inner circle whole, and cut the outer one into eight petticoat-tails. Bake these on paper laid on tins, serve the round cake in the middle of the plate, and the petticoat-tails round it. Queen-Cakes.—Make these as pound-cake or plum- cake ; but bake in small saucers, or fluted tins made for the purpose. Cinnamon-Cakes.—Whisk six eggs with a glass of