INTRODUCTION. 35 The best joints of the best meat cost most money at first, but are the most economical. Utility of purchasing these. All provisions should be bought with ready money; or the bills settled weekly. Shown to be a saving of 20 per cent. VII. Miscellaneous Hints and Directions.—Strain- ing to be done twice if necessary, or with a double tammy- cloth. All jelly-bags to be moistened in hot water and well wrung, for if used dry, will drink up a considerable quantity of the article strained. Sauces too much thickened can never afterwards be cleared of fat, as the fatty matter will not se- parate. Sauces and broths must have time to cook ; but if kept too long over the fire, will deteriorate both in colour and flavour. This is peculiarly applicable to sauces of game. All sorts of small cakes, and pastry and puffs, short- bread, Savoy cake, &c., must improve by being laid on paper, and heated on the hob, or hot hearth, or before the fire, when to be used. Pastry kept for days is so much re- freshed by this process as to eat nearly as well as when newly baked, from the full flavour of the sugar, butter, and fruit, being given out. Great care to be taken that every single egg used be fresh, as one stale egg will taint dozens. VIII. Preserving of Provisions by Salting, Drying, Pickling, Preserving.—Importance of sugar in preserv- ing meat, fish, and butter;—shown to do so most effectually with only a small proportion of salt. The pyroligneous acid, or vinegar of wood,—its uses. Late discoveries in curing provisions in consequence of the premiums of the Highland Society. Meat salts the better of having the bones taken out. Bacon should always be twice salted, and patiently rubbed both times. All meat salted in pieces and packed must be fully covered with the brine. The process of salt- ing accelerated by occasional rubbing with fresh salt. This important subject fully treated of in the Manual. IX. Premiums to Cooks for diligent Discharge oi their Duties and Proficiency in the Art.—For neatness, economy, forecast, preservation of provisions, in-