CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 435 the violent ebullition, and a little lemon-juice if it be in danger of graining. Candied Orange and Lemon Peel.—Soak the peel of lemons or Seville oranges first in salt and water, and afterwards in fresh water till their acrid taste is gone. Dry them, and boil them till tender in a thin syrup ; afterwards in a stronger syrup boiled higher; next drain and dry them for use. Pose Soujfle Cakes.—Pick a handful of rose-leaves, and give them a boil in a syrup made of a pound of sugar. Have ready an icing made of two ounces of sugar, and the white of an egg well beat up and ting- ed with cochineal. Stir a spoonful of this into the syrup till it rises; fill the small moulds, and bake. Obs.—Confectioners use carmine or lake-powder for these cakes, and so have rose souffle cakes in full bloom all the year round. To make Devices and Ornaments in Sugar.—Make a paste of the finest loaf-sugar and gum tragacanth steeped in rose-water, or any flavoured water, and mould and colour the ornaments as best suits the pur- pose for which they are intended; as rose with cochi- neal ; yellow with gamboge; green with spinage- juice. CAKES. Before beginning to make any sort of cake, have the sugar beat and sifted; the flour dry and sifted; the fruit stoned, or picked and washed; the lemon-peel pared, or beat to a paste in a mortar, with a little cream ; the butter, when this is used for light cakes, beaten cold to a cream ; and, above all, have the eggs, yolks and whites, separately well beaten. A large tin basin answers best for this purpose, as the yolks can in this be heated a little over the fire while the whisk- ing is going on, which greatly assists the process. It is a good test of beat eggs when they are so thick as to carry the drop from the whisk. If the eggs are not properly managed at first, it is difficult to raise them to a cream afterwards. It ought to be remembered, that eggs, besides enriching cakes, are intended to supply the place of yeast. When the several ingre-