342 CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. handful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, with pepper, salt, and allspice. Rub a tea-spoonful of flour into a little consomme, and pour this into the stew-pan with the rabbits. Stew slowly till they are cooked; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it hot about the meat, with a seasoning of cayenne and a good squeeze of lemon. fowl A la chingara, a favourite Gourmand Dish. Cut a fat white fowl in four, across and down the back. Melt the least bit of butter in a stew-pan, and lay four slices from the best part of an undressed ham in the pan. Lay the cut fowl on this, and stew it very slowly on embers. When done, drain off the fat. Pour over the glaze which will have formed at the bottom a little Espagnole, and rub in a little cayenne, salt, and pepper. Meanwhile have ready four toasts. Fry them in the fat you poured off the fowl, and dust them with pepper and salt, and serve them between the slices of ham, on each slice of which a quarter of the fowl is to be laid. Fowls d la Ravigote.—Roast the fowls, and serve them with ravigote-sauce. Poulets d la Tartare.—Roasted young fowls with sauce-tartar. Fowl d la Cumpire.—Slit the breast of a roasted fowl to let the juice flow out, and lay sliced raw onions in the slits, and serve with a brown poivrade in the dish. Poulets aux Huitres, young Fowls with Oyster- sauce.—Stiffen a quarter of a hundred of oysters in their own strained juice. Then stew them in a little veloule, or in two ounces of butter melted, and thick- ened with a little flour; add white pepper and the squeeze of a lemon, and pour this hot over two roast- ed fowls, or serve it in a sauce-tureen separately. Fricassee de Poulets a la Paysannc, a plain Fri- cassee of Chickens.—Singe two fat white chickens very well, (see note, page 96.) Carve them finely with a very sharp knife exactly as at table. Wash them in lukewarm water, and blanch them over the fire a few minutes to firm the flesh. Plunge them in cold wa- ter, and then put them into a very nice stew-pan with