CHAP. II. ROASTING.. 113 Obs. In France a roasted hare is always larded, but the French seldom dress this dry animal this way of choice. For an excellent method of dressing hare, see Lievre en daube, French Cookery. By a fiction of cookery, the lean inside of a large sirloin is cut up, stuffed as a hare, skewered, tied with tape, fixed to the spit and roasted. It requires to be highly seasoned, and in truth eats much better than most roasted hares. In country situations, a hare is often stuffed with mashed potato, grated ham, suet and onion, and highly seasoned with pepper and allspice; nor, though a plain, is this a bad fashion. A young Fawn is treated precisely as a hare, but must not be kept above a day. When somewhat grown, it may be roasted in quarters, or in a haunch or a saddle. Cover with veal or lamb caul in roast- ing, or slices of fat bacon, and baste well. Froth in the usual mamier, and serve with venison sauce, and a good gravy in the dish. A Kid is roasted as a hare. Obs.—These are all, at least hare and kid, very dry meats, and are better dressed, the former as soup or collops, the latter as collops or stew, or both, French fashion. A Rabbit, when large, may be stuffed and roasted as a hare; when young, baste and dredge as in roasting poultry, and make a sauce of the chopped liver and chopped parsley, stirred into melted butter.* BAKING. The baker’s, or the family oven, may often be substitut- ed for the cook and the spit, with greater economy and convenience, and for some particular joints and kinds of viands, it is even more suitable. A baking dish ought to be in form of a trough, and at least six inches deep, that the meat may in fact stew in its own juices, as it gets little or no basting. But a pig must be baked in a shallow tin dish ;—the dripping-pan of a Bachelor’s or Dutch oven will do very well. Prepare things to * A hare’s cars are reckoned a dainty by some affected epicures : they must be singed and cleaned. The Cleikum Club held them in equal respect witn duck’s feet.