CHAP. I.—BOILING. 86 cold ; strew bread-raspings over it, and place it on a hot dish set over the pot before the fire, to brown and crisp. It will crisp easier if put in an oven to dry up the oozing fat. Twist writing paper neatly round the shank. Garnish with greens, or strew raspings in little heaps on the ledge of the dish ; or dish it over dressed Windsor beans. Obs.—This will keep longer than a round of beef, and is an excellent and serviceable article at all hours of the day and night. When cold, keep as directed for a salted round of beef, using the skin instead of cloths. The outside slices pared off before the meat is served can be kept'for culinary purposes. The liquor in which the ham was boiled may be strained; and if you man- age to have fowls or a knuckle of veal dressed on the following day, the liquors may be rapidly boiled down together, with pepper, mace, shalot, and herbs, when the result will be a rich and highly-relishing gravy. Or peas or carrot soup may be made of the mixed li- quors.—See Potted Meats, Peas Soup, Ham Sauce, and Sandwiches * BOILED BACON OR PORK. All pork to be boiled should lie in salt at least two days previous to dressing. Pork requires more boil- * Jekylu was intolerably eloquent on ham sauce, and astound- ed even Touchwood by anecdotes of & grand gourmand, a man of ultra gout, who, pursuing the science as one of the fine arts, soaked his Westphalia hams in Rhinewine, and baked them in fresh wine, with aromatic spices. If ham is tolerably fresh, it will bake very well. It must be soaked as for boiling. The colour will be better than when boiled, and the flavour higher. But Mrs Dods, who detested that new and unnatural practice, said it was dried to a dan- der and Touchwood dropped the point, as he could not think of bestowing a libation of Rhinewine on a Porker of Westphalia; and distance from the metropolis made it impossible to procure Es- sence of Ham, a high-flavoured commodity sold at the London Eat- ing-Houses, which he not irrationally concluded, might make an admirable substitute for wine, and be afterwards applicable to every purpose for which Essence of Ham is used. The experiment is worth trying. In France, hams are boiled wrapped in a cloth, and with carrots, onions, garlic, cloves, bay-leaves, parsley, thyme, and basil. When enough done, the cloth is tied more firmly, and when cool, the ham is dressed as above, and served on a napkin. The French also braise and roast hams, and have the Pate, de Jambon.