232 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. Brown Thickening for Sauces, Ragouts, <%c., another Way.—To make thickening properly is one of the most delicate offices of the cook, and a sort of test of skill. We have heard that the button-hole of a white waistcoat is what shews the accomplished tailor; and we know that in our burghs a young member of the worshipful craft of baxters cannot attain burghal honours till he has proved his skill by a “ sey-pud- din,” pried and approved by the elder brethren. Thickening holds the same distinguished rank in the higher mystery of which we treat. Throw slices of clarified or good fresh butter into a shallow frying- pan ; toss it about briskly till it become of a fine amber colour; skim off the frothy bubbles that float on the surface, and from a dredging-box shake in slightly-browned flour, stirring the composition brisk- ly and incessantly, till it become perfectly smooth, and of the consistence of a thick batter. It must be stirred for at least fifteen minutes. Thickening is best when recently made ; but it will keep for ten days if poured into small jars, and the surface not bro- ken. Put a little of the cullis to it, and mix by de- grees, as if making mustard, till they are thorough^ incorporated. A dessert-spoonful will thicken a sauce- tureen of gravy. In spite of the most vigilant atten- tion, particles of fatty and other matters will some- times, to the great mortification of the cook, be seen floating in the sauce. To remove this, throw a glass- ful of lukewarm water into the thickened sauce, and set the saucepan on the hearth, which will drive those crude particles to the top, when they can be re- moved, and the cook, in serving up a transparent sauce, reap the reward of her toils. This mode of re- fining may also be employed for soups and white sauces; but be it remembered, that the watery ordeal, while it contributes to the beauty, injures the flavour of those gusty compositions.—P. T. THE BEST BEEF-GRAVY, OR JUS BE BCEUF, a Basis for many Sauces. For strong gravy we would once more recommend, in place of all other parts of the animal, the lean and