CHAP. Til.—OF CURING MEAT, &C. 483 inside work is driven a few times round, and then the opening side of the churn is turned down, to let it out, the work being kept going round till the water be completely discharged, in order to throw out any sand or dust that might fall to the bottom, if the water was allowed to settle and run out of itself. The cream vessel is then brought, and the cream put into the churn, where it is wrought till the butter is separated from the milk; when it is taken out into a clean ves- sel, and the milk well wrought out of it. A corn-sickle is then drawn through the butter, several crossways, in order to take out any hairs that may remain in it ; and if any other motes appear, they are also taken out. This part of the work is generally done with the but- ter among clean spring water, as the water keeps it from turning soft, and washes away any milk that may remain. “ The butter is then weighed; and for every stone, ten ounces of salt are taken (after having all the motes carefully picked out) and mixed with it. The salting process is cai-efully performed with the hand; as I have always found, that if salt is not properly mixed and incorporated with the butter at the time of salt- ing, it never keeps so well. I am very particular in this part of the work, the salt being weighed with the same weight the butter is weighed with. In May and June, each stone of butter will take one ounce of salt more; and after the middle of August, it takes one less than the above-mentioned quantity. The butter thus salted is put into a clean well-seasoned kit, and a handful of salt shaken on the top, which keeps it from turning mouldy, or winding, till next week, when the butter is again made as above, and put into the same kit, on the top of what was put in the week be- fore, without stirring it, and a handful of salt shaken upon the top. The same process is continued weekly till the kit is full; after which it is covered up, and set aside till my customer sends for it. It may be proper, however, to examine the kit occasionally, to see that it does not let out the pickle; as butter stand- ing without pickle soon spoils. Indeed, butter salted in this way does not require pickle poured on it, un- less the kit is defective. 9