158 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. or more, a bunch of parsley, two dozen of Jamaica and black pepper corns, a turnip sliced, and three quarts of water. When the meat is tender, lift it out, and cut it into small mouthfuls. Thicken the soup with a little browned flour, rubbed up with a ladleful of the top-fat; strain it into a fresh stew-pan, put in the cut meat, boil it up, and skim it, and finish with a spoonful of mushroom catsup, and pepper to taste. Obs.—Ox-tails make a very excellent onion-soup, by adding to it, when strained, a dozen fried onions, and thickening it with potato-flour.* poacher’s soup. Or Soupe a la Meg Merrilies. This savoury and highly-relishing new stew soup, may be made of any or every thing known by the name of game. Take from two to four pounds of the trimmings or coarse parts of venison, shin of beef, or shanks or lean scrag of good mutton. Break the bones, and boil this with a couple of carrots and turnips, four onions, a bunch of parsley, and a quarter-ounce of peppercorns, the larger proportion Jamaica pepper. Strain this stock when it has boiled for three hours. Cut down and skin a black-cock, or wood-cock, a pheasant, half a hare, or a rabbit, a brace of partridges or grouse, or one of each, (which ever is obtained most easily,) and season the pieces with mixed spices. These may be floured and browned in the frying-pan ; but as this is a process dictated by the eye as much as the palate, it is not necessary in making this soup. Put the game to the strained stock, with a dozen of small onions, a couple of heads of celery sliced, half a dozen peeled potatoes, and when it boils, a small white cabbage quartered, black pepper, allspice, and salt, to taste. Let the soup simmer till the game is tender. * The Nabob who, from poking iiis nose every where, had got, by one means or other, a great deal of useless, and some useful' in- formation, gave a receipt for an economical soup of this kind, made of the trimmings of meat which tanners’ workmen collect from the fresh hides brought to tan-yards. These trimmings are found about the ears, lips, and tails.