348 CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. entSj i. e. a third of each. Pound the whole together, adding an egg at a time till you have three, as in the godiveau. Prove the forcemeat by poaching a small ball. Panada for Forcemeats.—Soak slices of bread in hot milk. Press out the milk when the bread is quite moist; and beat up the bread with a little rich broth or white sauce, and a lump of butter. Stir till this becomes somewhat dry and firm. Add the yolks of two eggs, and pound the whole well together. Quenelles de Volatile, Forcemeat-Balls of Poultry as a Dish.—Strip off the skin, pull out the sinews, and mince and pound the best parts of young fowls, till the meat will rub through a searce. Have one part of this, one of panada, and a third of veal-udder par- boiled and skinned. Pound the whole well together, and season with salt, white pepper, and mace. Put raw yolks to the compound, and beat it perfectly smooth. Try it. as above directed. If not firm enough, add more eggs, one only af a time: Make up the quenelles of egg-shapes, and poach or bake them. N. B.—Quenelles may be made of rabbit, partridge, or pheasant, in the same way. Serve with clear gravy. Boudins cl la Richelieu, Puddings of Rabbits or Poultry.—Make a forcemeat of rabbits or poultry, as directed for quenelles; but instead of panada use pounded potatoes. Put to the force dressed onions or mushrooms chopped, in any suitable quantity. Spread the forcemeat smooth on the dresser, and with a knife roll it up in small sausages or boudins, or mould it to a proper shape, and bake the pudding. Whether boiled or baked, serve with brown Italian sauce. Boudins in general may be made of all sorts of game, poultry, also of whitings, craw-fisli, &c. Boudins Blanc, an exceedingly good kind of White Puddings.—Cook a dozen small onions in broth. Make a rather dry panada of cream or milk, and pound this with the onions and some pounded SAveet almonds. Put to this caul, cut in little bits, some yolks of eggs, a little,cream, the Avhite parts of raw chickens finely minced, Avith salt and spices. Pound the whole Avell, and try it by dressing a little in a small pan before you fill the skins. Boil the boudins in milk and Avater,