362 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH NATIONAL DISHES. When to be used, warm them in hot water, then on the gridiron, on oiled paper, or without, and serve very hot. Liver-Puddings are made as above, using parboil- ed liver grated in the proportion of one-fourth ; the rest suet and meal, with seasonings. ROASTING A PIG, Scotch. The directions of a thorough-bred Scotch cook, sanctioned by experience, authorise us to recommend that a pig intended for roasting shall be slightly rub- bed with melted butter whenever it has warmed at the fire; then thickly dredge every part with fine flour ; keep turning the spit continually, but slowly, allowing twenty minutes for each pound weight in the roast; and frequently dredging it, that the skin may have a complete superfice of flour, uniform as on the locks of an antiquated beau of the last century, shrouding the encroachments of Time beneath the powder of Fashion. When the pig has performed the specified revolutions before a clear fire, let the flour be blown off with a small handy pair of bellows; and with a large piece of butter, within a single press of clean linen, rub the skin all over, turning the roast with great deliberation. Persevere in this unction a quarter of an hour, and the pig crackling will be exquisitely crisp. (From a Correspondent.) TO FRY TRIPE. This Scottish dish is economical, palatable, and agreeable to the eye. The pieces of tripe left after an ordinary stew are best for the present purpose; or, if you are to use tripe just taken from its own jelly, it must be wiped from moisture, and stewed in warm milk, with a small piece of butter and salt. Simmer it slowly till very tender. This should be done in time to let it be thoroughly cold, before the finishing ingre- dients are added. Make a batter with three eggs well beaten, allowing a spoonful of flour to each egg, and as much milk as will make a thick batter. Sea- son with ginger, salt, onions, or chives, and parsley minced very "fine. Cut the tripe in cutlets, dip it in