CHAP. VI. FISH- 181 TO BOIL SKATE.* If to be crimp, boil it quite fresh;—if liked tendei and sapid, it may hang from one to three days in cool weather. Sauce,—melted butter, or lobster or ca- per-sauce. Skate fries very well when cut in thin slices, and dipped in egg and bread-crumbs ; and eats well cold, with mustard, pepper, and vinegar. It is also very good parboiled, and then grilled in slices. ANOTHER WAY. Make a braise of the trimmings of the skate, parsley, onions, a clove of garlic, a sprig of basil^and a hal t- pint of vinegar. When this is cooked put in the skate, let it just boil, and leave it twelve minutes covered with a cloth and the lid ; put also in the liver. Dish on a napkin. Make a sauce with the brown meat nicely minced, and some of the braise-liquor. Garnish with the liver—Caper-Sauce. Skate is also served with onion-sauce. to crimp skate. Clean, skin, and cut the fish into fillets, which must be tied with tape to keep theTn round. Boil these quickly in water made brackish with salt,—drain the slices,.—loose the tapes,—and serve with caper-sauce, or parsley and butter. * Skate differs more in quality than perhaps any other fish. 11 should be broad and thick, and of a creamy whiteness. We have, however, seen a small kind of skate which is caught along the north- east coast of Scotland, of a leaden-blue colour, called by fishermen the dun skate, which is more delicate than any other kind we have met with. In places where this fish is a great part of the food of the common people, it is best relished when it is hung till dry, by which time it has acquired so strong a smell of ammonia as to be intoler- able to the uninitiated. This fish, in those primitive days when as yet mock-turtle was not, wont to be esteemed, when eaten cold with mustard and vinegar, a grand regale by those sober citizens of Edin- burgh, who repaired on holidays to the fishing-hamlets around the city. It is thought to eat like lobster,—by persons of lively imagi- nation. Skate is said, when out of season, to produce cholera and other violent diseases. The same thing is alleged of salmon ill the state of foul or “ black fishand there is no question but that fish undergoes some change at particular seasons, which renders it for the time exceedingly improper for food. There are many instances of seamen dying in consequence of eating dolphin. It is said that ac- cidents of this nature may be avoided by the simple test of putting a piece of silver into the fish-kettle. If it blacken, the fish should be considered dangerous, if not absolutely poisonous.—P. S. T. H