135 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. about a half-pound each ; and improves both the fla- vour and colour, if the meat, onions, and carrots be stewed at the bottom of the soup-pot or digester, .be- fore the water is added to it, with a bit of butter to prevent burning.* The only objection is, that by these means the separation and removal of the scum is not so complete as is necessary to the rock-crystal transparency of clear soups. Broth made of fat meat may have a larger proportion of greens, leeks, cab- bage, or whatever green vegetable is used, than leaner meat. The best plain browning for soups, sauces, gra- vies, See., is red wine, soy, or mushroom or walnut cat- sup. Where these are not admissible, use toasts of bread well browned ; browned jiour or browned oat- meal where thickening is required, the meat browned in the pot, before putting it in the water, and the onions fried a fine deep brown.—(See Browning for Soups and Made Dishes.) To improve the colour, many cooks sacrifice the flavour of their soups. Burnt meat or bones, burnt sugar or treacle, are all condemned by us. The cook is entreated to bear in mind, that the elegance of all brown soups consists in transparency, united with richness and flavour; of white soups, and fish and vegetable soups, in the goodness of the desired colour and fullness on the palate. Soup may be made in an infinity of ways. There is no end to the combinations of meat, game, fish, herbs, roots, spices, and mucilage, with water; but the basis of the best soup is, as we have said, beef,— fresh, full of j uices, young, succulent, and not too fat, —the lean parts of a fat animal. For this primary soup we give the following tried and approved re- ceipt :— To this previous drawing out of the juices without much or any water, we are inclined to attribute much of the superiority of French *°ups‘ ^ome cooks, to regulate the flavour of soups more exactly, boil the roots, herbs, and vegetables separately to a mash, and then squeeze them and add the juice, till the desired flavour is obtained.