339 CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. and browned flour. Add a little veal-gravy, or good consomme, well seasoned, and some bits of turnip, with parsley and green onions. Skim the sauce often to clear it of fat. Have some turnips scooped into balls ready boiled, as for soup Baveau. Put them with the chops into a clean stew-pan, and strain the sauce over them. When the sauce looks clear and brown, and the turnips are done, dish the chops, and serve the sauce and turnip-balls in the middle. Hachis de Mouton d la Porlugaise.—Prepare the meat as for any hash. Heat it in a thick, well-reduc- ed Espagnole, with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve with eggs over it, poached rather hard, and dressed onions between, en cordon, or chainwise. Minced Midton with Cucumbers.—See page 299. Piedde Mouton d la Sauce Robert, Sheep’s Trotters.— —Cook the cleaned trotters in a blanc (see note, p. 333.) When slowly stewed till tender, bone them. Roll them in a dressed forcemeat. Dip them in thin frying batter, and fry them. Obs.—They may also be stuffed with the forcemeat, and braised, and so served. Serve with Robert sauce. Pieds d’Agneau, or lamb’s trotters, are dressed as abovei Cervelles des Moutons, Sheep’s Brains.—These are dressed exactly as calves’ brains, but more pungent seasonings are proper. Obs.—Of mutton the French also make fricandeaux moriadelles, or large sausages, grenadins, and many other dishes. Cochon de Lait au Moine Blanc, or en Galan- tine.—Prepare the pig as directed at page 96, and bone it all except the head and feet; but take care not to break the skin. Make a forcemeat of any degree of richness you choose of veal, beef- &c. suet, calf’s udder. Mince fine herbs (as basil and sage), panada, and some eggs to mix. £Read the article QuenellesAdd plenty of spices. Now proceed as directed for godiveau. Lay the boned pig on a cloth, and cover it equally with the force- meat. Rasp some ham over it. Try to keep the pig as near its natural shape as possible. Sew it up. Bind it in a napkin with tape, and boil it in broth sea- soned with roots and herbs. When unswaddled, after