CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 423 cheaper and more nicely done at home than where they are manufactured by wholesale for the market. A little care and practice will soon give the cook or mistress of a family sufficient skill to prepare the su- o-ar for these things,—attention and cleanliness do the rest. The sugar for preserves ought, generally speak- ing, to be of the first quality. It ought also to be in sufficient quantity, for it is very short-sighted econo- my to make paltry savings, at the risk of injuring commodities which are always costly, however they may be managed. Never squeeze the fruit too much. Take merely the juice that flows freely ; and use what remains for wine, coarse jams, or black butter. Unless preserves are bright, and of a fine colour, they lose half their value; and this they never will be if the fruit is squeezed till the seeds are broken. Let all jelly-bags and sieves be dipt in hot water, or they will absorb a great quantity of the jelly. Sweetmeats are most safely kept in small pots of earthenware, or small stone jars, with papers steeped in brandy put over them as soon as they are cool, and a layer of su- gar sifted either above or below these papers, or both. This sugar is well bestowed, and it can be afterwards used in making other preserves. To keep stone fruit, melted mutton-suet is sometimes used, and is certain- ly an efficacious method of excluding the air, though not very pleasant otherwise. Presses lined with wood, shelves, pantry-drawers, or any place that is perfectly dry, and, if possible, not too warm, are best suited for keeping preserves. Brass and copper pans scoured till brightly clean are still much used for making pre- serves ; but a vessel of double block-tin, or of iron very thickly tinned, if kept for jellies and sweet things, answers equally well, and is far more safe, particularly for the coarser jams, which being gene- rally made with a short allowance of sugar, require long boiling. Sweetmeats are best when rather quick- ly boiled, that the watery parts may be driven off without a process continued so long as to injure the co- lour of the fruit. The shade of colour may be varied in many ways by using white currants to lighten, or black to deepen the colour, or by white or red rasps. Fruit-jellies may be made without boiling at all, by