CHAP. III.—BROILING. 117 thought more delicate are cut, like chops, from the sir- loin or spare rib, trimming oft’ the superfluous fat and chopping away the bone. This is the piece of meat usually cut up into steaks in the shops in Edinburgh and Glasgow, rump beef being used for minced collops and beef sausage. Beef for steaks must be killed for from three to five days, or more, to eat tender, but it does not require to be kept so long as beef to be roast- ed. Cut the steaks of equal thickness (about three quarters of an inch,) beat them out to a level—though much beating is not recommended, as it expresses the juices from the meat. Let them be from three to four inches in breadth, and from four to six in length. Sirloin steaks shape themselves. When the grid- iron is hot, rub the bars with suet, sprinkle a lit- tle salt over the fire, and lay on the steaks. Turn them frequently with steak-tongs, to do them equal- ly and keep in the juices. When the fat blazes and smokes very much, quickly remove the grid- iron for a second, till that is past. From ten to twelve minutes will do a steak. Have a hot dish, rubbed with shalot, placed by the side or over the fire, on the edge of the gridiron. When turning the steaks with the tongs, if there be on the top any gravy that would fall in turning, drop it quickly into this dish to preserve it. Steaks are generally preferred underdone. Sprinkle them with a little salt just before they are dished in the hot dish, in which a little sha- lot, finely shred, may be put, a bit of fresh butter, and a tea-spoonful of catsup, if liked. Turn the steaks over with the tongs once or twice in the dish, to express the gravy. In Scotland, shred raw onion is still sometimes employed instead of shalot. Garnish with pickled red cabbage, or cucumber, or horse- radish scraped as for roast beef. Oyster sauce, Sha- lot sauce, Brown onion sauce, Shalot wine, Carach sauce, General’s sauce, or Miser’s sauce. Those who enjoy a well-dressed beef-steak* discard all sauces save « La! ^ska dozen healthy men under thirty,” said Touciiwoot, t . af was vcry best dinner they ever made in their lives and’ I bet from ctght to ten of them answer, ‘ a beef-steak’, nnd • d you the history of this unique regale, generally founSnljoJrfey" E 2