CHAP. XV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. 387 and a half pint of orange-flower water. Keep the minced meat closely pressed in cans, in a cool dry place. When to be used, cover pans of any size, small saucers, or a small pie-dish, with puff or plain paste. Moisten the meat, if hard, with a little wine or brandy, and fill the pies. Put a cover of puff- paste over them, or if plain paste, ice it. Pare the edges neatly, and mark the top with a paste-knife. Half an hour of a moderate oven will bake them. Slip them out of the tins, and serve them hot. Obs.—Mince-pies may be made cheaper, and yet very good, by substituting gravy for wine; or by using home-made wine, (ginger-wine is best,) by les- sening the quantity of expensive fruits and spiceries, and taking any bit of lean dressed beef the larder af- fords, or a piece of boiled double tripe minced fine. Superlative Mince-Pies.—Rub with salt and mixed spices, a fat bullock's tongue. Let it lie three days, and parboil, skin, and mince or scrape it. Mince se- parately three pounds of Zante currants, picked, plumped, and dried, a dozen of lemon pippin apples pared and cored, and a pound of blanched almonds, with a few bitter ones. Mix them, and add a half pound of candied citron and orange-peel minced, and an ounce of beat cinnamon and cloves, with the juice and grated rind of three or four lemons, half an ounce of salt, and the same quantity of allspice, and a quar- ter-pound of fine sugar pounded, a pint and a half of Madeira, the same quantity of brandy and orange- flower water. Line the pans with a rich puff-paste, and serve the pies hot with burnt brandy. Obs.—The brandy should be burnt at table as it is used. Though the mince-meat will keep good for some time, it is best not to be too old. The fruit, suet, and wine may be added when the pies are to be made, as the suet and raw apples are apt to spoil, and the dried fruits, though in less danger, do not im- piove by keeping in this state. Mince-pies will warm up very well in a Dutch oven, or in a slow oven or before the fire. Common Apple, Gooseberry, or Rhubarb Pasta or Turn-Oyer.—-Make a hot crust with dripping or lard melted in boiling water ; roll it out quickly, and cut it so as to be of a semicircular form when turned over.