CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 445 more flour into which you have rubbed down what butter you mean to put to the rolls. Work the dough, divide it, and mould the rolls ; fire them on tins, and rasp, and keep them covered to keep soft. Manheim Rolls,—a French Receipt.—Put two raw eggs among six ounces of flour, with two ounces of sifted sugar. Mix this to a paste, and add half an ounce of anise-seeds in powder. If the paste be too wet, put in more flour. Make this kneaded paste level, and cut it into rolls'about twelve inches long and two broad. Bake them on a buttered tin, and glaze with the yolk of an egg. Cut them when done into very small cakes. Brown Bread is made as above, with coarse flour, or a proportion of bran added to fine flour. French Bread.—All sorts of fine bread baked with milk, eggs, and butter, receive this name. To a half- peck of the finest flour put a quart of lukewarm milk, a little salt, a quarter-pound of melted butter, and a half- pint of bleached yeast; whisk the fluids together, and add two or three beat eggs; mix the flour with this, handling it as little as possible ; let the dough rise, and mould the bread into rolls, cakes, &c. Bake on tins in a quick oven, and rasp the loaves. Sally Lunn Cakes.—Make them as French bread, but dissolve some sugar in the hot milk. Mould into the form of cakes. A little saffron boiled in the milk enriches the colour of these or any other cakes. Yorkshire Cakes are made as above, only moulded smaller. Irish Bread Breachd*—To as much flour as will make two quartern-loaves put a half-pound of melted butter. Make the dough with fresh yeast, and when it has risen, mix in a half-pound of beat sugar, a half- pound of currants, picked, cleaned, and dried; the same quantity of stoned raisins; a few sweet almonds blanched and chopped, and some candied orange-peel. Mould and bake the loaves. Yeast.—There are many ways of preparing yeast, but no yeast is to be compared with that made of fresh * This Irish word signifies spotted or freckled. This mottled loaf is the holiday-cake of Munster. T