293 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. will not harm calf’s-head as it does other meat. Gar- nish with forcemeat-balls, or curled slices of bacon, or fried bread, which forms a suitable accompaniment to all hashes. Obs.—This hash may be rendered more piquant by anchovy, pickled oysters, &c. It may be dressed as a currie-hash by the addition of fried onions and currie-ponder ; or receive the flavour of a French dish, from finely-shred parsley, knotted marjoram, and a bit of tarragon, being added to the sauce just be- fore dishing, or a little tarragon vinegar. It may also be flavoured very agreeably with a little basil- wine. A brown hash may be made as above by us- ing fried onion, catsup, soy, a little red wine, &c.; but as all brown made-dishes are expected to be pi- quant, while those that are white are usually bland and balsamic, seasonings of a more pungent quality are to be used.* mock-turtle, or calf’s-head.—See pages 148, 149, and 150. Get a large fat head with the skin on. Scald and clean it well. Soak it in hot water, and, if you wish to have the imitation-dish very rich, parboil it in good veal-broth, with a turnip, carrot, onions, and sweet herbs. Skim this well. In half an hour take up the head, and when cold enough to be firm and easily handled, cut the meat thus:—The eyes into round slices, having first picked out the black part, the gristly part about the ears into long narrow stripes, the fleshy part into round slices, the thick of the cheeks into small dice, the thin on the forehead into long stripes, and the peeled tongue into nice small bits. Put the bones and trimmings, with a piece of France, shalot-sauce is served with a plain-dressed calf’s- head ; but the favourite mode of dressing tnis dish is superbe. Make a forcemeat of a pound of minced veal and two pounds of the fat of beef-kidney, bread-crumbs steeped in cream and dried, and fine herbs minced, namely, mushrooms, parsley, and young onions. Adel salt, pepper, and spices. Mix this thoroughly. Stuff' the head with it, but keep some for forcemeat-balls. Braise the head in gravy-broth, put artichoke bottoms, veal sweetbreads cut, truffles and button-mushrooms, to the ragout.