419 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. sweet milk. To a little of it in a basin put the beat yolks of four eggs, and mix them well. Sweeten this, and cook the whole for a few minutes over the fire, as in making custard. Cool this, and gently pour into it the whites of six eggs beaten to a snow. _ (If they are not well beaten, the souffle will never rise.) Put the whole into a souffle-dish, and bake it in a i rather slack oven. I Souffle of Potato-Flour.—Mix a large spoonful of potato-flour and one of sifted sugar, with as much boiled milk or cream as will make a thick batter of them, or a thin paste. Flavour this with rose-water, orange-flower-water, coffee, or chocolate, as you please, and name the souffle accordingly. Work into this the beat yolks of six eggs, and afterwards gently add the whites, beat to a snow. Bake the souffle, and glaze it if you please. This dish is susceptible of many forms ; it may be coloured with saffron, &c. ’ The whipping of the eggs and the state of the oven i are the main points. Omelette Souffle.—Beat separately and strain the whites and yolks of six eggs. Sweeten the yolks, and | j perfume with orange-flower water or lemon-peel. Beat the whites again to a strong whip, and stir lightly into the yolks. Melt a bit of fresh butter in an omelette-pan, and pour in the mixture. Cook it over a slow fire not to scorch. Turn it carefully out. Dredge fine sifted sugar over it, and set in the oven ; I to rise. ! k Obs.—All souffles must be served instantly when I ready, or they will flatten. Clouted Cream.—Season a quarter-pint of new milk with two blades of mace, and put to it a large glass of rose-water. Strain and add to this the beat yolks of two eggs. Stir the mixture into a quart of rich cream, " «i and let it scald, stirring it all the while. The rose- s I water may be omitted when this is to be eaten with I fruit. Wassail-Boml, a Centre Supper-Dish.—Crumble l down as for Trifle a nice fresh cake (or use macca- >'i roons or other small biscuit) into a china punch-bowl or deep glass dish. Over this pour some sweet rich : i wine, as Malmsey Madeira, if wanted very rich, but 7