455 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. Capillaire.—Beat up six eggs and their shells with sixteen pounds of loaf-sugar; put to this three quarts of water ; beat the whole mass, and boil it twice, and skim it well. Perfume with orange-flower water, or can de milles jleurs. Obs.—This syrup answers well for sweetening li- queurs, or, with a little lemon-juice and water, makes a pleasant summer-draught. Aromatic Tincture.—Take an ounce of bruised cin- namon, and an ounce of the seeds of the lesser carda- mom ; take also an ounce of bruised ginger, two drachms of long pepper, and a quart of spirits. Infuse this for a fortnight, keeping it in a warm place, and strain for use. Two or three tea-spoonfuls may be taken in a little capillaire, or eau sucre, or in wine with a little water or without. This tincture is cor- dial ; and, in cases of indigestion and languor, is consi- dered restorative. BRITISH OR HOME-MADE WINES. “ Of wine may be verified the merry induction, that good wine maketh good blood, good blood causeth good humours, good hu- mours cause good thoughts, good thoughts bring forth good works, good works carry a man to Heaven; ergo, good wine carrieth a man to Heaven.”—Howell. Those families who make wine in any quantity will find it useful to procure a treatise on this branch of domestic economy alone. Several of those, well de- serving of notice, have lately been published. We shall, however, give receipts for making and ordering the best and most admired sorts of wine in sufficient variety to suit most private families. General Observations.—The fruit ought to be ga- thered before it is dead ripe, and in dry and sunny weather, which will greatly improve the quality and flavour of the wine. All fruit that is unripe or spoil- ed should be picked out with care, as one ill-flavour- ed berry will taint the juice of three dozen of good ones. The fruit must be carefully bruised and put into a vat (or a cask with the end out of it), to fer- ment with the water and sugar. The more carefully