CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. 253 Dr Kitchener’s Fish Sauce Superlative, a Store Sauce.—A pint of claret, a pint of mushroom-catsup, and half a pint of walnut-pickle; four ounces of pounded anchovy, an ounce of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, and the same quantity of shalot and scraped horseradish ; an ounce of black pepper and allspice, and a drachm of cayenne, or three of currie-powder, with a drachm of celery-seed. Infuse these in a wide- mouthed bottle closely stopped for a fortnight, and shake the mixture every day, then strain and bottle it for use. A large spoonful of this stirred into a quarter-pint of thickened melted butter “ makes,” says the Doctor, “ an admirable extemporaneous sauce.”* * Obs.—This will be found more expensive than the fish-sauce of Harvey or Burgess; the composition of which, so far as such high mysteries are accessible to ordinary mortals, is not materially different from the above, or from the piquant fish-sauces for which we have given receipts, save that more anchovies, and probably fewer expensive seasonings and less wine are employed. The extensive sales, and the complete apparatus of these sauce-chemists, enable them to sell compound essences cheaper than they could be pre- pared in any private family. We have been rather diffuse on the subject of sauces for fish, in the persuasion that this aliment, from its insipidity and softness of texture, requires savoury of Charles II., at least what was accounted such by the Duke of York, who was instructed to prepare it by the Spanish ambassador. It consisted of parsley, and a dry toast pounded in a mortar with vine- gar, salt, and pepper. The modern English would no more relish his Royal Highness’ taste in condiments than in religion. A fashion- able or Cabinet dinner of the same period consisted of “ a dish of marrow-bones, a leg of mutton, a dish of fowl, three pullets, and a dozen larks, all in a dish ; a great tart, a neat’s tongue, a dish of anchovies, a dish of prawns, and cheese.” At the same period, a supper-dish, when the King supped with his mistress, Lady Cas- tlemame, was “ a chine of beef roasted.” * The above sauce was analyzed with great care by the Cleikum Club at sundry sittings. Redgill approved of it in toto the Nabob suggested a little more cayenne, and Jekyll more wine and less catsup, with the substitution of lemon-pickle for walnut pickle. L