112 CHAP. II.—ROASTING. TO ROAST HARE, FAWN, OR KID. A hare will keep from a fortnight to three weeks, if properly managed; and is seldom fit for roasting be- fore eight days, though for soup it may be used near- ly as soon as killed. An old hare is never fit for roasting. A hare keeps best when not opened for some days ; and the vent and mouth may be tied, to prevent the air from hastening the process of putre- faction. When kept four days in this state, (if the object is to keep it as long as possible,) it may be paunched and skinned, and the heart and liver taken out and scalded. Wash and soak it in water when to be dressed, changing the water several times. Drip, dry, and truss it. Make a little slit in the neck, and every part where the blood has gathered, to let it out. A hare makes but a dry roast,- so that a rich and re- lishing stuffing is a sine qua non when dressing it in this manner. For stuffing, take the grated crumbs of a penny-loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, or three ounces of marrow, a small quantity of parsley and eschalot, a boned anchovy, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the same quantity of nutmeg ; salt and pepper to taste, a little cayenne, and the liver parboiled and chopped if in a sound state.* Mix the ingredients with the yolk of an egg, and a very little claret soaked in the crumbs. Put this in the belly, and sew it closely up.+ Baste well with plenty of butter for three quarters of an hour; then drain the dripping-pan into a basin; baste with cream and yolk of egg well beat, and flour lightly. It will take from an hour and a half to two hours. For sauce, venison sauce, or the drippings of the hare mixed with cream, or with claret, a squeeze of a lemon, some thin slices of bread, and a bit of fresh butter, boiled up with the skimmed dripping, and highly-seasoned; also currant-jelly.—See Hashed Hare, Hare Collops. Made Dishes of Hare, tyc. * The liver of an animal is often tainted with disease when the animal is otherwise in perfect health. This will be known by the colour and state of the flesh. It is surely unnecessary to add, that an unsound liver is not a fit ingredient for stuffing. ■)• See also stuffing French fashion, note to page 104.