218 CHAP. VII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. Mushrooms are safest when pickled or made into catsup, because they are then used only in small quan- tities, and their pernicious properties are also correct- ed by the acids and spices employed to preserve them. When good, they approach nearer to animal substances, than any plant whatever, both in their texture, fla- vour, and the gravy with which they abound. Skil- ful cooks have been known to impose a ragout of mushrooms for a meat ragout, even on practised epi- cures ; nor do we know any one flavouring ingredi- ent that the cook could less spare than mushroom- catsup. We by no means, therefore, wish to proscribe this delicacy, but to caution our readers not merely against those of suspicious quality, but also against consuming many at once, however temptingly they may be dressed. to stew or ragout mushrooms in White or Brown Sauce. Gather the largest button-mushrooms, or the smallest flaps. Trim away all that is mouldy or spoiled, and stew them in their own gravy, in a silver or earthen vessel, with a small quantity of water to prevent burning. When nearly done, put in a large spoonful of sweet cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Lemon-juice is employed to whiten them. The French thicken this i-agout with beat yolks of egg; and this is good practice.— Mushrooms are stewed brown in good brown gravy, thickened and seasoned as above, with the addition of a little nutmeg. A piece of ham may be put to a brown ragout, and also veal and herbs. to grill mushrooms, or Mushrooms a la Bordelais. Choose large, firm, fresh-gathered flaps. Skin them, and score the under side. Put them into an earthen we do not vouch for its accuracyBoil a peeled onion with the mushrooms ; if it remain white, they are safe ; if it become black or livid, there are bad ones among them. It is said, if the water in which mushrooms are steeped, or tire broken parts of them be pour- ed upon an old bed, innumerable young ones will spring up.