CHAP. VI.—FISH. 201 lemon-peel, and a few white peppercorns, a little butter kneaded in flour, and a glass of sweet cream, or the serious investigation of the oyster-amateur, who may here re- ceive some excellent hints for fattening and improving the quality of his favourite morsel. We have great doubts on this point. Shell-fish, and the oyster above all, have long been esteemed high- ly restorative and easy of digestion ; they are therefore recommend- ed for the food of the delicate and declining, and of -those whose di- festive powers have been impaired by excess. When eaten for ealth, an oyster is best swallowed with its own liquor the moment the shell is opened ; or, if found too cold for the stomach, a sprink- ling of black pepper may be allowed. Vinegar counteracts the effect of eating oysters to enrich the blood or render it more balsamic, and ought therefore to be avoided by the declining. As there are no rea- sonable bounds to oyster-eating, it may be useful to notice here, that when too many of these or other shell-fish are swallowed, the un- pleasant feeling may be removed by drinking half a pint of hot milk. Consumptive persons are recommended to use hot milk after their oysters at all times. “ Oysters,” says the learned author of Tabella Cibaria, “ were not common at Rome, and consequently fetched there a very high price; yet Macrobius assures us, that the Roman Pontiffs never failed to have them every day on their tables. From the fourth century to the reign of Louis XIV. they were nearly forgotten, but they soon came again into vogue, and from that time have kept up their repu- tation. Gastronomers, we know, can swallow from three to four do- zen before dinner, and then sit down and eat, and perhaps better than if they had abstained from them. They clear the stomach of acci- dental phlegm, increase the gastric juices, and by their natural cool- ness, condense the air which may be fixed in the organs of digestion. When good they are wholesome, but poisonous when bad.” “ The Athenians held oysters in great esteem,” says the same learned au- thority on the matters of the table; and we may add, that in the mo- dern Athens they are held in equal regard. The principal taverns of the Old Ci ty used to be called Oyster Ta- verns, in honour of this favourite viaud; and this name is still kept up by some modern places of genial resort. “How many celebrated wits and bon vivants, now nuite chop-fallen,” said Winterblossom, “ have dived into the dark defiles of closes and wynds in pursuit of this delicacy, and of the wine, the wit, the song, that gave it zest. I have heard my learned and facetious friend, the late Provost Creech —for it was rather out of my day—say, that before public amuse- ments were much known in our Presbyterian capital, an oyster-pfof/, which always included music and a little dance, was the delight of the young fashionables of both sexes.” The municipal authorities were wont to pay considerable attention to the teast of shells,” both as regarded the supply and the price, and tor aught we know, they may do so still. At the commence- ment ot the dredging season, a voyage was boldly undertaken to the oyster-beds in the frith of Forth by the public functionaries, with something of the solemnity of the Doge of Venice wedding his Adriatic bride. Lven the plodding fishermen of our bleak coasts seem to catch inspiration from this delicate creature. Instead of the whisky-inspiration which supports them in dragging the herring-