284 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. will cut up into cutlets or olives, or make a pie. Stuff the middle part of the fillet with a forcemeat, as di- rected for roasted veal, and, rolling it up tightly, skewer it neatly, and simmer it very slowly in a close nice stew-pan that will just contain it. Lay skewers below to prevent the meat from sticking. When quite tender take it up, and thicken and strain the sauce. Serve with mushrooms parboiled, and then stewed in the sauce, and season with white pepper and mace; or the sauce may be enriched with a few pickled oysters and forcemeat balls; season with a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon, and garnish with lemon sliced. Ohs.—The fillet may be half-baked and then stewed. For dividing a fillet, see French Cookery. To stew a Breast of Veal.—Choose thick, fat, white veal. Chop off the neck and the edge-bone, and stew them for gravy. Stuff the thin part of the breast with a relishing forcemeat, made of a sweetbread par- boiled and minced, bread-crumbs, lemon-grate, nut- meg, pepper, salt, shred suet, and yolk of egg to bind the forcemeat. Skewer the stuffing neatly in, or sew it in, and stew the meat for an hour in the gravy made of the neck. Thicken a pint and a half of the sauce, and put to it a half-hundred oysters cut, a few mush- rooms chopped, lemon-juice, white pepper, and mace. Pour this over the stew, and garnish with slices of le- mon and forcemeat-balls. To ragout a Breast or Tendrons of Veal.—Make a little strong gttivy, as above, of the scrag and bones of the breast, and cut the meat into neat pieces, rather larger than if for currie. Brown these nicely in fresh butter; drain them from the fat, and put them to stew in the broth with a faggot of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, cloves, mace, white pepper, all- spice, and three young onions, and salt to taste. This, like all stews, cannot be too slowly simmered over the embers, keeping the lid of the stew-pan very close. When the veal is quite tender, set the stew- pan to cool, and skim off all the fat that floats on the sauce, which must then be strained and thickened to the degree of a thin batter, and enriched just before serving with a glassful of white wine and the juice of