428 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. seasoning. The orange-grate, if a strong flavour is wanted, may either be used in substance, or infused, and tlie tincture strained and added to the marma- lade when boiling. Where marmalade is made in large quantities for exportation, the various articles are prepared and put at once into a thin syrup, and boiled for from four to six hours. Orange-marmalade may be thinned with apple-jelly, or when used at breakfast or tea, it may be liquefied extempore with a little tea. Smooth Orange-Marmalade.—This is made as above, only the skins, instead of being cut into chips, must be pounded in a mortar, and gradually mixed with the syrup,—withholding a part if the marmalade be in danger of becoming too thick. Transparent Orange-Marmalade.—Use the juice and pulp of the fruit only. Wash the latter in a very little water, and strain in to the juice. Take a pound or rather more of refined sugar to the pint of juice, and boil it in the 2d degree. Put the juice to it, and boil and skim well for twelve minutes. Obs.—Use the sldns for orange-chips. Lemon-marmalade may be made as above, but is seldom seen. Black Butler, a cheap Preserve.—Pick currants, gooseberries, strawberries, or whatever fruit you have, and to every two pounds of fruit put one of sugar, and boil till a good deal reduced. To preserve Damsons for Pies.—Have equal to the weight of fruit of clarified sugar. Boil any of the bro- ken damsons in this ; and then add the whole quanti- ty, and boil till it jellies. Pot the compote, and tie pa- per over the pots. Keep them in a dry place. Another Way.—Put the fruit into Dutch stone jars, place the jars in boiling water up to their necks, and scald the fruit by this means for an hour. Next day fill up the jars with cold water, and cover them. N. B.—We place no faith in this receipt, but it is often given. Cheap Method of preserving Fruit for Puddings.— Pare apples, pears, plums, or pick whatever sort ot fruit you have, and place it in a stone jar, with as