]52 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. Cut the hare (or two or three partridges) into small neat pieces.* Wash the pieces, and save the wash- ings, with all the blood, which must be all carefully strained through a fine sieve and added to the stock, as they contain much of the flavour of the hare. Flat- ten and season the hare-steaks; dredge them with flour; brown them lightly in a frying-pan, and put them to the strained stock,—or merely season and add them with onions without frying. Let the soup stew very slowly for an hour and a half at least. Put in the strained blood, and keep the soup for some time at the point of boiling; but do not let it boil through or the blood will curdle. This soup may be thickened with butter kneaded up in browned flour, or with potatoes mashed, or potato mucilage. Or the fleshy parts of the hare, previously boiled in stock, may be pounded in a mortar with the onions to thicken the soup. Skim it again when nearly finish- ed ; put to it a glassful of mushroom catsup and a "point of cayenne. Serve with the hare-steaks in the tureen. Ohs.—Red wine, in the proportion of a quarter-pint to a tureen of soup, is reckoned an improvement by some gourmands; and those of the old school still like a large spoonful of currant-jelly dissolved in the soup. Hare-Soup may be made by cutting down the ingre- dients and placing them in an earthen jar, in a kettle of boiling water for four hours, and then managing as above. Cold roast hare, not overdone, cut to pieces and stewed for an hour in good and highly-seasoned broth, will make an excellent, but not a highly-fla- voured Hare-Soup.—See Civet of Hare (French Cook- ery'). Cold roast hare, game, or veal, will all of them, if cut down, and slowly stewed for an hour in broth, or boiling water thickened with brown flour kneaded in butter, and rather highly-seasoned with onion, pep- per, and cayenne, make a very palatable Stew-Soup. Many prefer this mode of re-dressing cold meat to either hashing or fricasseeing. The burnt outsides, • You may lay aside as much of the fleshy part of a good hare as will make a handsome dish of hare-cakes, or collops, or force-meat balls for the soup.