402 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. A French Fruit-Piulding, or Charlotte.—The prepa- rations known here by this name are much admired on the continent, and particularly in France, where the solid, lumpy, and doughy English pudding, and fat pie or tart crust, are not so much esteemed as they are at home. A Charlotte—French Fruit-Pudding, or by whatever other name it be designated, may be made of any kind of fruit, or of a mixture of such as blend well, as apricot and apple marmalade. Cut even- ly, slices of bread of nearly half an inch in thickness. Butter them richly on both sides, and cover the bot- tom and sides of a buttered pan with them, cutting the bread into dice or long slips, to make the whole join or dovetail compactly. Fill up the dish with ap- ples, prepared and seasoned as marmalade for an ap- ple-pie. For the top, soak slices of bread m melted butter and milk. Cover the apples with these soaked slices. Butter them, and keep them pressed down while baking in a quick oven with a plate and a weight placed on it. Obs.—This, turned out of the shape when baked, is sometimes called an apple-loaf. Any kind of pre- served or ripe fruit may be used instead of apples. A few thin slices of bread buttered thus make a good crust to a rice or other pudding. Yorkshire Pudding, to bake under a Roast.—Mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with a pint ami a half of milk, four beat eggs, and a little salt, and also gin- ger if liked. Butter a shallow tin pan ; pour the bat- ter into it, and place it below the roast. When set- tling, stir up the batter; and when browned on the upper side, turn over the pudding, first drawing a knife round the edges to loosen it. Brown the other side. It should be about an inch thick when done. This is the favourite English accompaniment to a sir- loin of beef, or a loin of veal or mutton : finely-minc- ed parsley, shalot, onion, and also suet well beat, may be added. This pudding, if for roast pork, should have a little minced sage. Potato-Pudding, to go below a Roast.—Peel, boil, and mash the potatoes, with a little milk, salt, pepper, and a finely-shred onion if approved. Dish and score this, and set it below the roast to catch the dripping,, and to brown.