CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 421 Obs.—This, if allowed to become sour, is neither more nor less than Scotch sowens. Rice Flummery.—Mix a couple of spoonfuls of rice- flour with a little cold milk, and add to it a large pint of boiled milk sweetened and seasoned with cinnamon and lemon-peel. Two bitter almonds beaten will heighten the flavour. Boil this and stir it constantly, and when of proper consistence, pour it in a shape or basin. When cold turn it out, and serve with cream or custard round it; or with a sauce of wine, sugar, and lemon-juice. Obs.—This differs in nothing from rice blancmange, except that rice-flour is used instead of the whole rice. French Flummery, or Yellow Flummery, fc., may be made as directed for blancmange, using well-beat yolks of eggs instead of cream. It may be made either in cups or in a mould of any shape. N- B.—This is seldom made. Mille Feuilles, Italian Pyramid, or Fails d'Amour.— This is the self-same thing with different names. A good puff-paste, rather thick, must be stamped out with tin stamps, or any ingenious substitutes, into a number of pieces, each less than the other; the base being of the size of the plate in which the pyramid is to be raised, and the others gradually tapering to the top. Bake the pieces of paste on paper laid on tins, and ice them. Pile them up with raspberry and other jams of different colours laid on the edges, and a bunch of small preserved fruit or some other orna- ment on the top. Another Way, from Beauvilliers.*•—Take puff-paste, and roll it out as above; cut it with figured paste- cutters of different sizes ; cut them equal in number, the large and small; put the large upon a leaf; wet them with water, and put on the small ones ; glaze them, and with the point of a knife cut them in the middle the size of a thimble ; put them into the oven, and when nearly done powder them with sugar; glaze them, take out the heart, replace it with sweetmeats, and serve. To bake Pear s.—Pare, core, and, if large, divide them. Bake them in a stoneware dish with sugar, bruised s