118 CHAP. III.—BROILING. the native juices of the meat, with the addition of pepper, salt, and a little minced shalot or onion. a pedestrian tour, or fishing excursion. Yes, gentlemen, England may well pride herself on a bonne louche which her rival ex- hausts herself in vain endeavours to imitate, though she has never yet succeeded in even spelling its Christian name. The rum'-stick and bif-stick de mouton are not more unlike in orthography than in quality, to the juicy, delicately-browned, hot, tender rump-steak, which has immortalized the name of Dolly. But I am sorry to say, that beef-sticks, literally so, are too often met with even in our own island. 1 have calculated, Doctor, that in the cities of Lon- don, Dublin, Edinburgh, and Glasgow alone, upwards of sixty thousand young men dine on beef-steaks every day of the week,— students, apprentices, clerks, gentlemen of the press, and so forth. What a clattering of gridirons here ! Now if our receipt, by in- structing the thousands of slip-shed wenches who dress those messes, tends to keep said youths from taverns and ordinaries, true to the old sober habits of their country—home-dinners, 1 shall not think this page ill-bestowed, Dr REnoiLi; though you hint that too much space is occupied by simple elementary processes.” The Doc- tor assured his friend, that he held no such opinion, and suggested, that the girls attending the national schools ought to be early ini- tiated into these mysteries, as in the admirable French institution at Ecouen, near Paris, which would be conferring a real kindness on those they were destined to serve in future life. Mr Cargill was startled from his silence by this proposal, which he put down with more energy of manner than he was in the habit of displaying; and Winterblossom, who loved chat, and accordingly detested dis- quisition, cut the subject by breaking in,—“ No spot on earth once like the Old Flesh Market Close of Edinburgh, fora spare- rib steak ; and I believe it has not yet quite lost its ancient celebrity. I never ate one in perfection but there : ”—and the old beau related, with much vivacity, the adventures of a night, in w'hich he had accom- panied to this resort the eccentric Earl of K , and a party of Ca- ledonian bon-vivants of the last age. “ But the receipt ?” inquired Redgill, with grave earnestness, corresponding to the magnitude of the subject. “ O ! neither more nor less than that those taverns were and are kept by butchers’ wives, so that the primest of the meat found its way there. In the darksome den into which we dived Luckie Middritt’s of savoury memory—hungry customers consumed beef-steaks by wholesale, at all hours of the night and day, or rather of the perpetual night. The coal-fire always in prime condition,—and short way between the brander and the mouth, Doc- tor. served hot and hot,—no distance between the kitchen and the hall; before the collop-tongs had collasped in the hands of the cook, in rushed the red-legged waiting wench with the smoking wooden platter. Every man held his weapon ready and his teeth set: trencher after trencher followed. Ay ! thus it is to eat a steak in perfection. It can be known but once.” The Doctor compressed his lips, and sighed in accordance with this melancholy view of life. There were times hours of crudities and evil digestion,—when the hand of a child could stagger the strongest principles of his culinary belief. The vision of some three pounds of steaks, consumed at a country inn in Somersetshire, with all the "vigour and relish of youthful appetite