246 CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. settle, and strain it. A good squeeze of lemon, and a little fresh lemon-grate is the only additional season- ing we could recommend ; a spoonful of good cream may be added; and for fowls, a little more mace and less acid. This may be made a currie-hash, by add- ing a small dessert-spoonful of currie-powder, and withholding the lemon grate and peel. Bechamel, or White Sauce.—Cut two pounds of the lean of a breast or knuckle of white veal, and a quar- ter-pound of lean fresh bacon, into small bits. Melt some butter in a well-tinned deep stewpan, and put in the meat to draw a little, and to whiten, not to brown. Mix two spoonfuls of white potato-starch or rice-flour very smooth with fair water, and then put in a quart of clear broth made of veal, or as much pure water or milk. Let this stew very gently with the meat over a chafing-dish, or by the side of the fire, for an hour and a half, having first seasoned it with a tea-spoonful of white peppercorns, an onion, and a few sprigs of parsley, lemon-thyme, and a bit of lemon- peel. Let the sauce settle, strain it, and stir in rich sweet cream. Bring it to boil, and strain it once more. Obs.—A cheaper white sauce to pour over boiled fowls may be made of broth and sweet milk, thicken- ed and seasoned as above, and the yolk of an egg well beat stirred briskly into it when just ready. A few mushrooms will improve this sauce if for fowls. The Bechamel, before the cream is added, is white cullis, fit for white ragouts, fricassees, and hashes of veal. It is also a rich basis for all savoury white sauces, and for dressed vegetables. custard-sauce for Rice, Bread, Sago, or Custard Puddings, or Fruit Pies. Stir a pint of sweet cream in a very clean saucepan till it comes to boil. Mix in the beat yolks of two eggs with a drop of cold cream, and some fine-pounded sugar put to it; pour backwards and forwards from the saucepan to a basin to prevent curdling, and let it just come to the eve of boiling, constantly stirring it. Serve the sauce in a china basin, and grate a little nutmeg on the top of it. Butter and flour may be added.