105 CHAP. II. ROASTING. ■with another egg work up what remains, into balls, to be fried and served with the turkey. To this stuf- fing, parboiled sausage meat maybe added, or grated ham, or oysters chopped. (The same stuffing is suit- able for a large fowl.) Paper the breast. Score the gizzard. Season it highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and dip in melted butter, and then in bread- crumbs ; cover the gizzard and liver with veal or lamb caul, or buttered paper, and roast them, fixing them under the pinion and basting liberally. A very large turkey will take nearly as long to roast as a sirloin. These are not the best, and are seldom seen in Ireland or Scotland. A moderate-sized turkey will take from an hour and a half to two hours. The fire must be clear and sharp; dredge with flour when laid down. (Fresh butter is always best for basting ; but salted butter may be washed and drained.) Keep the tur- key far from the fire at first, that the stuffing and breast may be done through. Sauce—Bread sauce, with gravy in the dish, oyster sauce, gravy sauce, egg sauce. Hen turkeys are the most delicate, and the whitest; they are consequently preferred for boil- ing. To Hash and Devil turkey.—See Made Dishes of Poultry, and French Cookery. N.B.—A test of turkey, pheasant, fowl, &c. being ready for the spit, is their falling down when sus- pended in the larder by a few of the tail-feathers left for this experiment when the birds are picked. TO ROAST A GOOSE. A goose may, if well cleaned and seasoned inside, with pepper, keep in cold weather for a fortnight or more. Geese are in high perfection from Midsum- mer to Michaelmas. At that season they will improve by keeping in the larder for a week. In Scotland a f . ot J'TJKht,) of soaked bread-crumbs, lemon peel, parsley, and •JJ1® 0l “’/me chopped, pepper, salt, two beat eggs, and a little milk, or broth. 1 his makes an excellent stuffing. See also Queued's French Cookery.French cooks are celebrated for their skill in forcemeat, one half of their merit in this department consists in their patience at the mortar. 111