CIIAP. III.—SCOTCH NATIONAL OISIIES. 360 eggs, and take great care that they do not curdle. Serve with the carved chicken in the soup. Obs.—The stock may be simply made of butter, and the meat may be nicely browned in the frying-pan before it is put to the soup. Rabbits make this very well. Some like the egg curdled. minced collops, an economical Dish. Mince a fleshy piece of beef, free of skins and gristles, very fine, and season it with salt and mixed spices, —that is, kitchen-pepper. Mix up the collops with a little water or broth; and, having browned some butter in a saucepan, put them to it, and beat them with an iron or wooden spoon to keep them from go- ing into lumps, till they are nearly ready. Put some gravy to them, or a little broth made of the skins and gristles. Obs.—Shred onions will be relished by some per- sons ; also a little made mustard : pickles,* or vinegar, plain or compound, is also used. Minced collops will keep some time, if packed in a can and covered like potted meats. Some cooks scrape the meat instead of mincing it. Hare, Venison, and Veal-Collops are made as above, using the seasonings appropriate to those meats. POTTED HEAD, POTTED HEELS, ScC. Dress a cow’s-head as directed for ox-cheek-soup, and, when boiled till very tender, cut the meat into small pieces, shaped as directed for Mock-Tur- tle. Strain the gravy; season very highly with mixed spices and mace, and return the whole into a clean saucepan. Boil for some time, and pour it out into stoneware shapes or basins, and when cold, turn it out. This makes a pretty side-dish, dormant dish, or supper-dish. Garnish with a wreath oi curled parsley, or sliced beet-root pickled. Cow-heels and Calp’s-head are potted in the same manner. Season calf’s-head with lemon-peel and juice of lemon. • Though in all Scotch cookery-books pickles are ordered to be mixed with minced collops and other ragouts, the Cleikum Club refuse their sanction to the semi-barbarous practice of ming- ling crude vegetables with hot dressed meat.—P. rl.