404 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. puddings. Pinch in the paste, tie a floured cloth over the basin, and boil from two to three hours, and turn it out. Norfolk Dumplings.—Make a very stiff batter with flour, a little milk, three eggs, and salt. Work this up into balls of the size of small turkey eggs, and roll them in flour, and boil them in water, or along with meat; or drop the batter from a spoon into wa- ter that boils fiercely. Boil them for ten minutes, drain, and serve them hot. Currants and sweet spices may be mixed with suet or paste dumplings. PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. These articles make an economical and genteel addi- tion to small dinners, and have the advantage of being quickly forthcoming upon any emergency. Common Pancakes.—Beat from four to six eggs, according to the number of pancakes wanted, and put in a spoonful of flour for every egg, with sugar, gin- ger, and a little nutmeg. Stir in milk enough to re- duce this to a batter. Make a small frying-pan hot, melt a little butter in it, pour it out, and wipe the pan, or rub it with a buttered cloth. Put in a very small piece of butter, and when it froths, a ladleful of batter;—toss round the pan to diffuse this equally. Run a knife round the edges, and turn the pancake. Brown very lightly on both sides, double them up to keep hot. Serve a few at a time, hot and hot, with grated sugar and sliced lemon, or roll them lightly up as a collar. Pine Pancakes.—Beat six eggs in a pint of cream, and add three or four ounces of butter, if they are wanted rich. Use rice-flour, or a proportion of it, and sweeten with sugar, and season with nutmeg, cinna- mon, or lemon, as is most agreeable. Sift sugar over them as they are fried.* Irish Pancakes.—These are made as above, with more flour and sugar. * In the Cleikum, and probably in some other old-fashioned inns and Scottish families, pancakes were wont to be served with a layer of currant-jelly between the folds,—a practice for which much might be said by those familiar with it. Is not this the omelette H la Celestine, or an confiture, of our old allies, still lingering in re- mote places of the country ?—P. T.