CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. 377 flatten and season them with mixed spices ; place fat and lean pieces together, and either roll them up as olives, or place them neatly in the dish. Putin either a half-pint of gravy and a glass of vinegar, or the same quantity "of water and vinegar. Let there be enough of fat.' A few small cooked onions maybe added. Obs.—Cut pickles, a little catsup, or other season- ings may be put to the pie, and either forcemeat-balls or a layer of forcemeat above and below the beef. Some prefer a few oysters. Lay a stripe of crust all round the edge of the dish, and then cover it. Veal-Pie.—Cut chops from the back-ribs or breast. Trim off the bones, and season the chops highly with mixed spices and such hei-bs as you choose ; add a little gravy drawn from the trimmings, and cover the pie. A richer Veal-Pie.—Proceed as above, but add a few slices of lean bacon, forcemeat-balls and boiled yolks of eggs, or a scalded sweetbread cut into bits, and truffles, morels, or mushrooms, as is convenient or approved. When baked, pour some well-seasoned hot gravy into the pie by removing the top. A very rich Veal-Pie.—Cut steaks from the breast or fillet. Season them with white pepper, salt, mace and cloves pounded, lemon-grate, and a scrape of nutmeg. Cut down and season as above two sweet- breads or a veal-kidney. Lay an edging of paste round the ledge of the pie-dish, and fill it. " Put hard- boiled yolks of egg or the cut sweetbreads, and either some mushrooms or oysters over the meat. Strew in more mixed seasonings, and place a layer of thin slices of ham over the whole. Put in a half-pint of water or gravy, and cover the dish. When ready, re- move the top, and pour in through a funnel a large glassful of good veal-gravy quite hot, and thickened with flour and cream. I cal Olive-Pie.—Cut long slices from the fillet, and flatten and season them, having first brushed them with the yolk of an egg. Poll them up neatly as olives, and place them in the dish, making the middle part highest, as is proper in all pies. Fill with water, and cover the dish ; or fill with good gravy thickened with cream and flour. A little forcemeat spread on each olive will be an improvement.