140 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. which butter is rubbed), with a little good broth or water. When the jelly is drawn out, and the meat tinged a little, prick it all over with a sharp knife to let the juices flow, and add more clear broth or water till you have enough. Add a bunch of parsley and onions and white peppercorns; boil and skim, and when the soup is ready, skim and carefully strain it. Rice or vermicelli is put to this soup, or, if a white colour is wished, thicken with arrow-root, and add, be- fore serving, a pint of sweet cream first brought to boil, which will prevent it from curdling. N. B.— Always boil cream before putting it to any soup or sauce, and stir till it boil. the old scotch white soup, or Soupe a la Heine. Take a large knuckle of the whitest veal, well broken and soaked, a white fowl skinned, or two chickens, a quarter-pound of well-coloured, lean, undressed ba-, con, lemon-thyme, onions, carrot, celery, and a white turnip, a few white peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Boil for about two hours; skim repeatedly and carefully during that time. When the stock is well tasted, strain it off. It will form a jelly. When to be used, take off the surface-fat, clear off the cdi- ment, and put the jelly into a tin saucepan, or a stew- pan freshly tinned; boil for a half-hour, and serve on a couple of rounds of a small French roll; or macai’oni, previously soaked, and stewed in the soup till perfectly soft; or vermicelli. This is plain white soup. It is raised to Lorraine soup as follows:—Take a half- pound of sweet almonds blanched, (that is, scalded, and the husks rubbed off,) the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs, and the skinned breast and white parts of a cold roast fowl; beat the almonds to a paste in a mortar, with a little water to prevent their oiling; mince very finely the fowl and eggs, and some bread- crumbs. Add to this hash an English pint or more of the stock, lemon-peel, and a scrape of nutmeg; bring it to boil, and put to it a pint of good sweet cream, and the rest of the stock. Let it be for a con- siderable time on the very eve of boiling, that it may thicken, but take care it does not boil, lest the cream curdle. Strain through a sieve.