376 CHAP. XV. PASTRY, PIES, &C. to the consistence of butter. Use this for making pie-crust. Common Tarl-Paste.—Make as above, only use a little more butter, and a spoonful of sugar, if requisite. Short Crust for preserved Sweets.—To a pound of the finest flour put a half-pound of fresh butter, the beat yolks of two eggs, and three ounces of fine sifted loaf-sugar. Mix up with hot milk, knead it smooth, and ice the paste when ready. Cream may be used, and less butter. Obs.—The more finely the butter is crumbled down among the flour the shorter will the crust eat. Those who dislike sweet crust may either omit entirely or use only half the quantity of sugar. The above paste is only employed to line tin pans. This paste may be perfumed by making it of rose or orange flower wa- ter,—almond-paste will enrich it. It may, where suitable, be flavoured with lemon-juice. In this de- partment, like every other, much is left to the taste and discretion of the cook. Venison Pasty-Crust.—Make a paste in the propor- tion of two pounds of flour to more than a pound of butter, with beat eggs and hot water. Roll it out three times, double it, and.the last time let the part intended for the top-crust remain pretty thick. Rice Paste for savoury Pies.—Clean and simmer the rice in milk and water till it plump. Cover veal, lamb, chicken, or game pies, equally with a layer of this, using beat egg to make it adhere. Fine Crust for Cheese-cakes, or delicate preserved Fruits.—Sift a pound of the best flour, well dried, and mix it well with two ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream by work- ing it cold with a spoon or knife. Mix the flour and sugar very gradually with this, and work into it the well-beat whites of three eggs. If the paste is not stiff enough to roll out, put more flour and sugar to it. See Paste-Royal. SAVOURY PIES OF MEAT, &C. To make a Beef-Slcak Pie.—Any tender and well- mixed piece of beef will answer for a pie, though the rump is best. Cut the meat into handsome steaks ;