518 FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. TOUCHWOOD. Stop, Doctor; your instances will outnumber your exceptions at this rate. hedoill. No, Sir; 1 stand or fall by the standard dishes of Old England. That haunch of yesterday, so perfect, so prime in fat, condition and cooking! When will the miserable, dried, burnt ro T i of France equal that?—the venison a l' Angloise, as they call it. When, in point of flavour, richness, and delicacy, will their maigre roasts compare with the paste-covered, fat venison of Old England, or even of Auld Scotland ? ha ! ha ! ha ! pardon the joke. MEG DODS. Ne’er a paste, nor paste with us The Southrons may plaister on a coarse paste to drink up their venison fat and sap ; but I trow we have mair gumption. TOUCHWOOD. Fact, Doctor !—Rousseau claims the honour of having set infancy free from bandages and ligatures. Peregrine Touchwood has eman- cipated the venison-haunch from the abominable coarse water-crust which drank in its juices like a spunge, till, neither boiled, broiled, nor roasted, it came to table, lean, dry, and withered : he now claims the honour of having presented the first unswaddled haunch that ever smoked on the board of any savoir vivre club in Britain. To the devil with coarse paste !—Will it give you crackling ?—Will it give you browned outside ?—Will it give a haunch like mine ?—the pa- pered fat so meltingly done—the brown impregnated with that exquisite—that indescribable something peculiar to roasts, which gives roasting a superiority over all other modes of cookery ! Then those rich, concentrated juices!—Doctor, is that the shake incre- dulous ? REDGILL. No, Sir. I have ate of this haunch ; and even of the next will now boldly say, fiat e.rperimentum !—And this, Mr W interblos- som, reminds me of your project touchwood. For introducing the breed of broad-tailed sheep, or importing live kangaroos for soup,—eh ? REDGILL. No, Sir; not that; though it is said those large tails are delicious— The venison-marrow toasts you promised, Mr Winterblossom ; the marrow-bone commended to the peculiar care of our hostess herself. Ila! here come tire toasts, first marinaded in gravy with a leetle claret; very nicely fried they arc; the marrow-bone heated too 1