48 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. self, and catting off the legs, entering the knife about two inches below the back-bone, and trying to hit the joint (without which his task will not be easy), and jerking the joint open, as in carving a goose. A few nice slices will be got above the place at which he enters the knife, lying along the back-bone. The back may next be divided into three or four parts, and the fore-limbs cut off. To divide the head, cut it off, place it on a clean plate, and cut the upper from the under jaw. Next cut it down exactly through the middle. The ears and brains are fancied. Some care must be taken by papering and basting the ears to have them crisp. Before roasting, they should be singed inside with a hot poker. Rabbits are carved like hare; only, being much smaller, the head is not divided, and the back is only cut in two pieces. N. B. Every elegant carver will try to cover the unsightly gashes he must make, in hsh particularly, by throwing the garnishing over the wreck, or even a fold of the napkin on which the fish is served. Though the remark is somewhat out of place, we must here notice that, in ordinary circumstances, garnishing the ledges of dishes is rather losing ground. At highly-dressed dinners, garnished by thorough-bred professors, all sorts of ornament are expected. For public breakfasts, collations, and suppers, garnishings of coloured jellies, and of sauces iced and moulded in the French style, have peculiar beauty and fitness. And even at small quiet dinners, brain-cakes, forcemeat-balls, small fried fish, or oysters fried, sip- pets, small sausages, pastry-borders, and those of potato, or rice, are always appropriate when served with the respective dishes to which the best usages of cookery have attached them ; while the fried pars- ley, the spinage, or sorrel, or turnip, on which fricandeaux, tongue, or boiled mutton, &c. may be served, is a positive excellence, at al- most no additional expense ; but as it must ever be more convenient, it is also more agreeable, to see such things as sliced orange or lemon- beet, pickles, and scraped horseradish, placed on a small dish near the carver, than tossed awry, soused in the gravy, or sloping the ledges of the assets. In this, as in every branch of the art, good taste and discretion must mutually aid each other. There is one cheap and comfortable mode of imparting a look of fulness, finish, and neatness, in serving an otherwise insignificant dressed dish, des- tined to occupy a principal place, which merits more general adop- tion, namely, serving the dish on a larger one, round which a da- mask napkin is neatly puffed, thus shewing an agreeable frame-work or border, of which a light paste bordering round the dish with the viands may form, as it were, the inner circle. In this manner a turile course is sometimes served, where the shell is used as a dish.