320 CHAP. I.—MAUE-DISIIBS. as in toast and cheese, and keep it hot. Grate down mellow Stilton, Gouda, or good Dunlop cheese; and if not fat, put to it some bits of fresh butter. Put this into a cheese-toaster with a hot-water reservoir, and add to it a glassful of well-flavoured brown stout por- ter, a large tea-spoonful of made-mustard, and pep- per very finely ground, to taste. Stir the mixture till it is completely dissolved, brown it, and, then fill- ing the reservoir with boiling water, serve the cheese, with the hot toasts on a separate dish. Obs.—This is one of the best plain preparations of the kind that we are acquainted with. Some gour- mands use red wine instead of porter, but the latter liquor is much better adapted to the flavour of cheese. Others use a proportion of soft putrid cheese, or the whole of it in that state. This is, of course, a matter of taste, and beyond the jurisdiction of any culinary dictator. To dip the toasts in hot porter makes ano- ther variety of this preparation. Cheese to serve as a Relish.—Grate three ounces of good mellow cheese, and the same quantity of bread. Mix these with two ounces of butter, the beat yolks of two eggs, some made-mustard, pepper, and salt. Mash in a mortar, and spread this paste on small toasts cut as sippets. Toast, brown, and trim these, and serve them very hot.* DIFFERENT WAYS OF DRESSING EGGS OR OMELETS. To poach Eggs.—Boil and skim some spring-wa- ter with a little vinegar in it. Break the eggs. * Toasted Cheese This academic, histrionic, and poetical prepa- ration has produced a good deal of discussion in its day. The Welsh Rabbit, (by the way, we are inclined to think with a learned friend, that the true reading is Welsh Rare Bit,) has ever been a favourite morsel with those gentlemen who think a second simper fairly worth die other three regularly-administered meals of the day. The twenty-eighth maxim of O’Doherty is wholly dedicated to this tasteful subject, and his culinary opinions arc worthy of profound attention. “ It is the cant of the day,” quoth Sir Morgan, “ to say that a M elsh Rabbit is heavy eating. I know this, but did 1 ever feel it in mv own case ? Certainly not. I like it best in the genuine '< elsh way, however; that is, the toasted bread buttered on both sides