414 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES. sweet oranges and three lemons. When cool, add white sugar to taste, the juice of the fruit, wine, and the whites of six eggs well whisked up. Let it just come once more to boil, without stirring it, and run it through a jelly-bag till quite clear. A pinch of saffron to tinge with colour maybe added. Venus’s Jelly.—Make as hartshorn-jelly ; tint this rose-colour with cochineal, and flavour with Madeira. BLANCMANGE. Pick and boil two ounces of isinglass for a quarter of an hour in a quart of milk or sweet cream, with the thin rind of a small lemon, sugar to taste, and a blade of mace. Blanch, split, and pound, six bitter almonds, and two dozen sweet ones, with a little rose- water, or plain water, to prevent their oiling, and stir the paste gradually into the hot milk. Strain through a fine lawn-sieve or napkin into a basin, and let it settle for a good while, that the sediment may fall. Pour it again clear off from the sediment, and fill the moulds. It is sometimes difficult to take out, and dipping the mould in hot water destroys the fine marble-like sur- face ; rub it with a towel dipped in hot water. Raise it from the edges with a fruit-knife, and then use the fingers to get it out. Garnish with flowers, or slices of orange-peel neatly marked. Blancmange as in France—Make the stock of calves’-feet well blanched, or of white fish, as skate, or of feet of poultry. Season it with lemon-peel and co- riander-seeds. In other respects make it as above ; but use as little isinglass as possible. Bice Blancmange.—Swell four ounces of rice in water; drain and boil it to a mash in good milk, with sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, and a stick of cinnamon. Take care it does not burn, and when quite soft, pour it into cups, or into a shape dipped in cold water. When cold, turn it out. Garnish with currant-jelly or any red preserved fruit. Serve with cream, or plain custard. TRIFLES. An elegant Trifle.—Whisk in a large bowl, the day before you make the trifle, a quart of good cream, six ounces of fine sifted sugar, a glass of white wine, the