CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 495 dale, that flame uniformly tends upwards; that every article of her dress will consume much more rapidly if held upright, than if laid along the floor ; and that her life may depend on her presence of mind, should her clothes unhappily catch fire. 2. Give in- stant alarm by pulling the bell (which is generally near the fire-place), by screaming, or any other means $ but, if possible, avoid opening the door, for both the movement of the figure, and the current of air ad- mitted, woidd increase the rapidity of the flames. 3. This alarm may be given while the female is at the same instant sitting down by the rug, attempting to teat off the articles of dress which are on fire, and rolling herself in the rug or carpet, if the latter is not nailed down. She may also catch at any piece of baize, or vessel of water within reach ; and, if very active, may even turn her clothes over her head, to her shift, and thus arrest the progress of the flames. 4. The most ready and effectual assistance a spectator in general can give, will beto turn the dothesofthe sufferer to her shift over her head, and hold them firm thus, till wrappers, cold water, &c. are procured. 5. A man may quick- ly strip off his coat and wrap it round the female. 6. Let the sufferer, even if she fail to pull away the burning articles, or to extinguish the fire by rolling on the floor, and wrapping herself in the hearth-rug, (which is generally always ready), still protect her bo- som and face., by lowering her face and crossing her hands and arms over those parts. 7- A piece of green or scarlet baize, called a ^fire-extinguisher, is kept in some sitting rooms and nurseries, and should be in univer- sal use while thin muslin and cotton dresses continue to be worn. As its name and uses are familiarly known, though it serve as a table or piano-forte cover, it can be instantly seized on an emergency. 8. If, in spite of all exertions, the person is injured, let one assistant throw cold water plentifully over the parts, while another supplies water, and a third cuts off the clothes. Continue the affusion, or apply wet cloths constantly to the parts, (if they cannot be wholly im- mersed in water) till medical advice is obtained. The end.