88 CHAP. I.—BOILING. Tripe or Cow-Heel shops. It requires very long boiling—from six to nine hours of simmering by the fire-side, or, as is very good practice where kit- chen fires are gathered, it is left over the slow fire for a whole night. Tripe requires endless cleaning, and is best managed at a river side in the first instance. Afterwards, to assist in the cleaning and blanching, a piece of quicklime may be dissolved in the water in which it is scalded and scraped; but tripe so blanched will become ill-coloured in the dressing. Tripe, like chickens, veal, &c. may be Avhitened by rubbing it with lemon-juice, where expense is no object. The scalding must be frequently repeated. When bought in the shops, choose it thick, fat, and white, and see that it be fresh. The best way of keeping tripe after it is boiled is to allow it to jelly in its own liquor. When to be dressed, pare off the fat and films, and wash it with warm water. Cut it into pieces about the size of small cutlets, and simmer in milk and water till it is quite soft and tender,.and the sauce thickish. Peel and boil a dozen white firm button onions. Dish the tripe in a deep steak-dish or small tureen, and put the onions to it, taking off the surface-skin if they look black.* Many persons prefer tripe boiled plainly in water, and served with onion sauce and mustard; others boil it in veal broth, or put a fresh beef-bone to the water.f “ Dr R f.dgii. l to the above added a bit of butter rolled in flour, put into the sauce half an hour before it was taken off the fire, a large tea-spoonful of made mustard, or the same quantity of mush- room catsup, and the onions, previously parboiled, or fried in but- ter. This original variation was highly approved of. -)• In modern French cookery, tripe, after being boiled and whiten- ed with lemon-juice, is cut in stripes and stewed in white sauce, or Strong white broth, for four hours. It is then served either in a sauce a la Poulette or in sauce Italienne blanche. In old French cookery, the tripe, when boiled and cut in bits, was stewed in cullis with all sorts of herbs, onions, and chives, a glass of wine, and a little Tar- ragon. When the sauce was thickened, a little made mustard was added, and the whole strained and poured over the tripe. The fat skimmings of Cow-heels and Cow-head are thebest adapt- ed for frying or basting of all boiled fat. They indeed afford a very rich oil, which is sometimes even burned ; and the Perfumers draw largely upon them for some commodities of high name. Calves-fect jelly, so named, is made both of Cow-heels and Tripe ; indeed the former affords a much stronger and richer jelly than the article whose name it usurps. A glaze is made of Cow-heels.