CHAP. III.—OP CURING MEAT, &C. 487 Best Dunlop Cheese.—As soon as the milk is taken from the cows, it is poured into a large pail, or pails, and, before it is quite cold, the substance, called the steep, i. e. rennet, is mixed with it. When it is suffi- ciently coagulated, it is cut transversely with a broad knife made for the purpose, or a broad three-toed in- strument, in order to let the curd subside, and to pro- cure the separation of the whey from it. When this separation is observed to have taken place, the curd is lifted with a ladle, or something similar, into the chissel (for it is to be observed, that where a proper attention is paid to the making of these cheeses, no woman’s hand ought ever to touch the curd, from the milking of the cow to the finishing of the whole), when it remains a few hours, till it has acquired some- thing of a hardness or consistency. It is then taken out of the cheese-press, and cut into small pieces, with the instrument above-mentioned, of the size of one or two cubic inches, after which it receives the due pro- portion of salt, and is again replaced in the chissel, and put into the press, where it remains a few hours again. Then it is taken out a second time, cut as before, and mixed thoroughly, so as every part may receive the benefit of the salt; and, for the last time, it is put into the cheese-press, where it remains until replaced by its successor. After this is done, it must be laid in a clean and cool place, till sufficiently dried, and fit to be carried to market; great care is to be used in fre- quent turning and rubbing, both to keep the cheese dry and clean, and to preserve it from swelling and bursting with the heat, vulgarly, “ f re-fan ging.” When these cheeses are properly made, and dried, as they ought to be, they have a rich and delicious flavour. A rich Cream-Cheese, without Rennet.—Dr Hunter. —Take any quantity of cream, and put it into a wet cloth. Tie it up, and hang it in a cool place for seven or eight days. Then take it from the cloth and put it into a mould (in another cloth), with a weight upon it for two or three days longer. Turn it twice a-day, when it will be fit for use. To fatten Poultry for the Table.—Keep the fowls clean, warm, and dry. Mix together for their food,