CHAP. X.—BOILING. 81 minutes in warm water. Boil in an oval-shaped or roomy kettle, letting the water come very slowly to boil. Skim carefully. Boil carrots and turnip with the mutton, and the younger and more juicy they are the better they suit this joint. Be sure never to run a fork or any thing sharp into the meat, which would drain its juices. All meat ought to he well done, but a leg of mutton rather under than over, to look plump and retain its juices. About two hours will boil it of slow boiling. Garnish with slices of carrot. Pour caper-sauce over the meat, and serve mashed turnip or cauliflower in a separate dish; some good country cooks serve the turnip as a mash, or puree, under the mutton, and as in carving the native juices are all caught by the vegetable sauce, the practice, though not general, is commendable ; but where it is follow- ed, the caper-sauce, if served at all, must be kept in a sauce-boat. If chickens or fowl are wanted for the same dinner, they will boil with great advantage along with the mutton, before the roots are put to it, or in some of the liquor in a separate pot. Ohs.—This joint, above all others, should be boiled slowly to eat well. The liquor in which fresh mut- ton is boiled is very valuable for broth ; and it is a common, and not bad family-practice in Scotland, to make barley-broth at the same time the leg is boiled. The broth so made is, however, frequently thin and Avateiy, the pot-liquor being’ in too great quantity ; so that before it can be properly boiled down the meat is spoiled. When broth is to be made, put in the barley at first; lift out the meat after an hour and r .i £ ioiling ; cover it up to keep warm; take the lid off the.pot, and suffer the liquor to evaporate by rapid boiling, till what remains is strong and good, and the broth of a proper consistence. Cut some of the roots into small slices, and put these, with a head ot celery sliced, or a little shred parsley, to the broth - return the mutton, and boil gently for a half-hour onger. A gigot is an excellent and most economical joint, capable of being turned to many purposes. It may be dressed as chops, and the best balmy, mellow, iai ley-broth may be made of what remains. It m-iv also be roasted, or baked, or made into ham, or, if l