438 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. lemon. Beat the whole together for twenty minutes, and fire in a quick oven. Obs.—This is an excellent cake for a trifle, but it will not keep long. A small proportion of wheat- flour may be mixed with the rice-flour. A fine Seed-Cake.—Take a pound and a half of flour, and sixteen eggs well whisked. Mix with them a pound and a half of fine beat sugar, and whisk them well together. Throw in a half-pound of cut candied citron, lemon, and orange peel, and four ounces of al- monds blanched and cut. Mix this with a pound and a half of dried flour, and twelve ounces of butter beat to a cream. Season with cinnamon and cloves, and throw in a few caraway-seeds. Smooth the top of this (and every sort of cake) when put into the hoop, and throw sugared caraways over it. i Rice-Cake for the Centre of a Table,—the fashionable Gateau de Riz.—Prepare the rice as for a casserole (see page 367), and for four ounces take a quart of boiled cream, in which the peel of a lemon has been infused. Let them soak till the rice has absorbed all the cream, and is swelled. Sweeten this with fine sugar, and season with essence of lemon. When cool, add the beat yolks of eight eggs, and the whites well whisked by themselves, and also a good piece of butter. Then pour four ounces of melted butter into the mould, and turn it round and round till the cooling butter adheres to all. sides of it. Next cover the mould with fine bread-crumbs; and this done, pour in the cake. Bake it for an hour in a moderate oven, turn it upside down on the dish, and garnish it with flowers, &c. &c. Obs.—If any of the material is left after filling the mould, roll it up in the shape of corks, dip them in butter, and fry as fritters. Dressed round fried pars- ley, this makes croquets of rice. A dozen sweet and a few bitter almonds may be put to this cake ; and it may be made of vermicelli, or served as a pudding, with a custard-sauce. A common Seed-Cake.—Mix a half-pound of beat white sugar with two pounds of flour in a large bowl or pan. Make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a half-pint of lukewarm milk, and two spoonfuls of yeast. Mix a little of the surrounding flour with this.