323 CHAP I. MADE-DISHES. brown on the other side; or, without turning, hold the pan before the fire till the raw is taken off the upper side; double it, and serve it very hot. Obs. A more delicate but less relishing omelet may be made by seasoning the battei with lemon- peel, mace, nutmeg, &c. and using neither meat nor fish. Some cooks put a little pulped apple, or mash- ed potato, to omelets ; others flavour them with tarra- gon and mushroom-powder. Omelets may have grat- ed ham, minced roast veal, kidney, or grated Parme- san cheese, sprinkled over them. In the old French cookery omelets were garnished with anchovies, fat livers, red herrings, and all the pungent herbs used for toasts. To a simple omelet, the squeeze of a le- mon or Seville orange is an improvement. Asparagus and Eggs.—Beat three or four eggs well with pepper and salt. Cut some dressed asparagus into pieces the size of pease, and stir them into the eggs. Melt two ounces of butter in a small stew-pan, and pouring in the mixture, stir it till it thicken, and serve it hot on a toast. Obs.—Eggs may be made into a pie, using mince- pie meat with the hard-boiled chopped eggs. They may be served as a vol-au-vent, or with sippets, &c. Eggs may be filled with a relishing forcemeat, using the hard yolks as a part of the farce. Fairy Buticr.—To six hard-boiled yolks add a half- pound of fresh butter and the same weight of sifted sugar. Pound this with a spoonful or two of orange- flower-water to keep it from oiling, and squirt it; or rub it through a tightened cloth. It is served over ham and bread for breakfast, and in many ways for garnishing; or by itself, as a little dish garnished with savoury jelly of either fish or meat. Dressed Cucumber.—Pare and slice the cucumbers thin, and with a penknife cut the slices into small skeins (the length of the dish), wound up. Dress these along the dish, and pour vinegar over. Cucumbers thus cut may be served over beet-root sliced. Salads ad- mit of many elegant decorations of contrasted colour; as scraped horseradish, squirted fairy butter, young radishes, &c. &c. Cucumbers in skeins may also be cooked. j 3