CHAP. X. MADE-DISHES. 319 with grated Stilton or Parmesan cheese, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Obs.—Instead of gravy-stock melted butter may be put to it. It may also be covered with ramakin- batter, or boiled with milk instead of water, or stew- ed in white ragout-sauce, with a little chopped lean ham. The grated cheese may also be mixed up with the boiled macaroni, and having dished it, strew fine bread-crumbs lightly over it, and pour melted butter on the crumbs through a colander. Brown it in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. To pot Cheese.—Cut down half a pound of good sound mellow Stilton, with two ounces of fresh but- ter ; add a little mace and made-mustard. Beat this well in a mortar, and pressing it close in a potting- can, cover with clarified butter if to be long kept. Obs.—Currie or anchovy powder, cayenne or pep- per, may all be added to the cheese. Toast and Cheese.—Pare the crust off a slice of bread cut smooth, and of about a half-inch in thick- ness. Toast it, but do not let it wither or harden in the toasting. Butter, and cover the toast with slices of sound fat Stilton, Gouda, or Dunlop cheese of the first quality. Lay the toasts on a cheese-toaster, and notice that the cheese is equally done. Pepper, salt, and made-mustard, are to be added at discretion. Obs.—The toasts may be covered with the cheese previously grated, which will favour the equal melt- ing of it; or the cheese may be toasted on one side before being put upon the bread. Cheese-Fritters.—Pound good cheese with bread- crumbs, raw yolks, rasped ham, and butter. Make this into oval small balls, dip in still' fritter-batter and fry them. Braised Cheese.—Melt some slices of fat good cheese in a small dish over a lamp or over steam. Add butter and pepper, and mustard if chosen. Have ready soft toasts in a hot water-dish or cheese-dish with hot wa- ter, and spread the cheese on these. tlels/i Gallimaufry.—Mix well in a mortar cheese with butter, mustard, wine, flavoured vinegar, or any ingredient admired. A Scotch Rabbit—Cut, toast, and butter the bread