CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 311 strained stock. When nearly ready, thicken the sauce with browned flour and butter. Another Way.—Clean and season the ducks with pepper and salt inside. Par-roast them, and stew them in beef-gravy, with shred onions fried in the stew-pan before the gravy is put in. When the ducks have simmered for twenty minutes, and been turned, put in a few leaves of sage and of lemon-thyme chop- ped very fine, or, in the season, a pint and a half ot young green pease. When these are tender, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and serve the ducks and pease together in a deep dish. Obs.—When pease are not in season, a dozen or two of button-onions may be par-roasted and stewed with the ducks, or sliced cucumbers and onions, first fried.* To hash Ducks.—Nothing hashes better than a fat duck. Cut it into pieces as in carving at table, and soak them by the side of the fire in a little boiling gravy till thoroughly hot. Add a glass of wine and a sufficient quantity of mixed spices, to give the sauce a high relish ; or cut up the ducks, make a gravy of the trimmings and some onions. Thicken it when strained with butter browned with flour. Stew the cut ducks gently till ready, and having seasoned the sauce, serve the hash on fried sippets. Obs.—A cold goose may be dressed in the same way, adding a little finely-shred sage and onion to the hash-sauce ;—or the legs of a goose may be scored, sea- soned, and grilled, as directed for a turkey. Cold poultry, rabbits, and game may all be hashed as above. See that the liash-sauce be well thickened, smooth, and carefully cleaned of all the fat. Where there is any cold stuffing left, cut it into slices, and serve it warmed in the Dutch oven round the hashed meat. * Fillets cut from the breast of plump under-roasted ducks (that have been stuffed with chopped young sage and onion before they were roasted), served in hot orange-gravy, and the juice that flows from the birds, with cayenne and high seasonings, is esteemed a rare luxury by the skilful gourmand. This is a dish for the solitary epi- cure, not for a table. Wives, children, and friends have no portion in such dainties. This is the French Table Salmi.