266 CHAP. VIII.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. time. Keep a board floating over them, for if they are exposed to the air they will turn black. Drain them, and run a bodkin or large pin into each walnut in se- veral places. Lay plenty of vine-leaves or cabbage- leaves in the bottom of a pan. Place the walnuts in these, and cover them with more leaves; fill the ves- sel with water, and give them a scald; let them stand to cool, and repeat this several times, pouring off the blackened water, and supplying its place with scalding water. When the husks become soft, scrape them off with a knife as quickly as possible ; and, rubbing the walnuts smooth with flannel, throw them into a vessel of hot water. Boil for three minutes a quart of the best vinegar for every fifty walnuts, with white pep- per, salt, ginger, cloves, and cayenne. Dry the wal- nuts in a cloth, and pour the liquor over them. Wal- nuts are pickled black in an easier manner, by merely steeping for twelve days in strong brine, renewed every three days, rubbing them smooth and dry, and pouring boiling vinegar over them, with a seasoning of pepper, horseradish, garlic, and mustard-seed. To pickle Mushrooms.—Choose small white button- mushrooms, and rub them with flannel or sponge dipped in a little salt. Put them into a stone-jar, with some mace, ginger, pepper, and salt, and let them stew in their own juices over a slow fire, shak- ing them well, but not breaking them. Let them re- main over the fire till they are almost dry, but take care they do not burn. When the liquor is all imbib- ed by the mushrooms, or gone off in vapour, put in as much hot vinegar as will cover them, and let them just come to boil. When cold, bottle them in jars, and after a week fill up with vinegar, first scalded and then cooled, and pour a little oil into the bottles, which will greatly aid in excluding the air. Cork the bottles, wrapping bladder or leather round the corks, and dip what is to be long kept in bottle-rosin. To pickle Onions.—Choose small sound silver onions, as equal in size as may be. Top and tail them, but do not pare the tops very close, as the air softens and spoils the onions. Scald them with brine. Repeat this on the second day, and when cold, peel the onions as quickly as possible, throwing them into