494 CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. To take Stains out of Mourning Dresses.—Boil a handful of fig-leaves in two quarts of water, till re- duced to a pint. Strain and apply this with sponge. Honey-Water for the Hair.—Mix three drachms of tincture of ambergris, and one of tincture of musk, with a little spirit of wine. Afterwards add a pint of spirit of wine, or strong spirits, and shake them well and often. Lip-Salve.—Put four ounces of the best olive-oil in a bottle, with a half-ounce of picked alkanet-root; stop the bottle, and set it in the sun till the oil is co- loured ; strain it into an earthen pipkin in which an ounce of white wax and one of mutton-suet are placed; melt this by the fire, and perfume with a drop of oil of rhodium, or bergamot, or lavender; pour it off the sediment into very small gallipots. Paste for chopped Hands.—Make a paste of fresh lard, honey, yolks of eggs, and a little of the fine dust of oatmeal or bean-flour: it may be perfumed with a drop of essence of lemon, &c. Cold Cream for the Skin.—Take two ounces of oil of sweet almonds, a drachm of white wax, and one of spermaceti. Melt them in an earthen pipkin, and stir in a mortar till quite smooth and cold. Add orange- flower or rose-water till the mixture is as thin as double cream. Keep in a gallipot covered with leather. An excellent Shoe-Blacking.—Eight ounces of ivory- black, six of treacle, two of spermaceti-oil, and three pints of coarse vinegar or alegar; a quarter-ounce of vitriolic acid may be added. These things must be well mixed. The vinegar made hot may be poured over the other ingredients. Liquid Japan Blacking.—Mix with four ounces of ivory-black, a large spoonful of sweet oil; then put to these two ounces of sugar and a little vinegar; make a paste of the blacking. Add an ounce of sulphuric and one of muriatic acid, and nearly a pint of good vinegar. Mix them well. To extinguish Fire in Female Dresses.—So many fatal accidents arise from light dresses catching fire, that every receipt-book intended for females should contain the following necessary cautions:—1. Let it be diligently impressed upon the mind of every fe-