CHAPTER III. OP CURING MEAT, TONGUES, HAMS, SAUSAGES', COLLARING, &C. Meat should either be salted before the animal heat has left it, or be allowed to hang for a few days, to become tender. It should be wiped free of moisture, blood, &c., and have the kernels and pipes taken out. As a general rule, which is too little attended to, meat 'should first be rubbed with about the half of the salt ordered; and, after lying a day or two, have the re- maining half rubbed in. This twice salting, from the effectual rubbing it causes, will be found an excellent method, not only for meat, but for butter and fish. Bay-salt is thought to give meat a better flavour than any other salt. Bay-salt is thought sweeter, from be- ing dried by the gradual action of the sun, than manu- factured salt. There are various modes of purifying salt for preserving meat, butter, and fish, but they are too complicated and troublesome for domestic use. The Dutch, who are celebrated for the mild mellow' flavour of their butter and fish, often refine the salt by boiling it up wdth whey ; and this is quite practicable in any dairy. Sugar is an admirable ingredient in curing meat and fish.—Without making them salt, it preserves and keeps them mellow; and some recom- mend that the meat should be first rubbed with sugar for some days, and then salted. Saltpetre dries up meat so much, that it is daily less and less employed. Much less of it will colour meat, or sausage meat, than is imagined, or sanders-wood will give the colour. All troughs and tubs in which meat is cured ought to be kept closely covered with several folds of blanket, or something of the kind. Meat, till it be taken out to hang up, should be kept entirely covered with pickle, and rubbed, basted, and turned in the troughs, at least once a day ;—the doubled parts ought to be looked at and rubbed, and if any mouldiness gather on the meat in any stage ot curing, it must be care- fully taken off. If the brine become rank with blood and slime, it must be boiled up, skimmed, and,