INTRODUCTION. 17 “ Your grices will smother him, you mean, clame,” said Touchwood. “ Here, sir; ay, there you are on end again. This way,—follow me. You shall have your revenge though. They bemire you ; you shall cruush their bones.” Reeking and panting from the struggle, the Doctor, even more provoked by the fancied insolence of the landlady, and the ill-timed mirth of the Nabob, than by the assault of the felon-sow, growled forth something that, were such enor- mity possible, sounded very like wishing the whole party in that place from which it was his duty as a churchman to keep them. ‘f Neither my swine nor my guests boded themselves on you,” said Meg. “ Them that come unsent for, sit unserved ; but that cannot be said of you ; ye contrived to get far ben on short notice. If folks will scrape acquaintance ” “ A scraping acquaintance indeed ■” interrupted Touch- wood; “ Here, Jerry Ostler,—your currycombs here. Soap, water, towels ! Uncase, Doctor. Faith, as you say, dame, a worse job than Saunders Jaup’s jaw-hole yet.” The grumbling Doctor, wise enough to make a virtue of necessity, rallied his natural good temper ; for all gourmands are good-natured, except, perhaps, about meal-times; though it may be as Lord Shaftesbury says of other good-natured men, “ because they care for nobody but themselves; and as nothing annoys them but what affects their own interest, they never irritate themselves about what does not concern them, and so seem to be made of the very milk of human kindness.”—Such was the Doctor. His rubicund counte- nance, soft and swelling as a jelly, generally beamed easy good-nature; his ample bosom seemed a reservoir of the very gravy of human kindness; his full moist lips curved over like the ledges of an overflowing sauce-tureen. Having cast his slough, and got purified from the defilements of the stye, arrayed his outward man in a scanty suit of brown tendered by the Nabob, and fortified the inner with the full of one of Meg’s long-stalked, enamelled, antique glasses