CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, &C. 443 of all the flour. Cover this with a dust of flour, and let it once more rise for half an hour. Then shape the dough into buns, and lay them apart on buttered tin plates in rows to rise for a half-hour. Bake in a quick oven. Cross-Buns are made of the same sort of dough, with the addition of a little more sugar, and a season- ing of cinnamon, allspice, and mace. They must, when moulded, have the figure of the cross impressed on them with a stamp. Seed-Buns are also made as above, with the addition of caraway-seeds. They may be baked in pans, and glazed. Plum Buns.—Mix with the dough of common cross- buns, currants, candied orange-peel, blanched almonds chopped, and a seasoning of cinnamon and mace. Mark them round the edge when moulded, and bake as common buns. A Scotch Half-peek Bun, from Mrs Fraser’s Cookery. —Take half a peck of flour, keeping out a little to work it up' with; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and break in sixteen ounces of butter; pour in a mutchkin (pint) of warm water, and three gills of yeast, and work it up into a smooth dough. If it is not wet enough, put in a little more warm water ; then cut off one-third of the dough, and lay it aside for the cover. Take three pounds of stoned raisins, three pounds of cleaned currants, half a pound of blanched almonds cut long ways; candied orange and citron-peel cut, of each eight ounces ; half an ounce of cloves, an ounce of cinnamon, and two ounces of ginger, all beat and sifted. Mix the spices by them- selves, then spread out the dough ; lay the fruit upon it; strew the spices over the fruit, and mix all toge- ther. When it is well kneaded, roll out the cover, and lay the bun upon it; then cover it neatly, cut it round the sides, prickle it, and bind it with paper to keep it in shape; set it in a pretty quick oven, and, just before you take it out, glaze the top with a beat egg. WAFERS. An ere are wine, butter, and cream wafers. The latter is the sort commonly made. Mix in equal quantities dry flour and sifted sugar. To every six spoonfuls of this you mean to use, allow three eggs.