176 GHAF. VI.—FISH. lobster-sauce made with strong veal-broth, with cay- enne and nutmeg, and salt; thicken with brown roux, letting the lobster meat stew in it first; dish the baked fillets in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with slices of lemon and curled parsley. Obs.—Where the party is not very large, this is a very excellent way of dressing this expensive fish. Fillets of the tail will make,a.-.good dish, and allow plenty of an ordinary-sized fish for. boiling on another day. Many persons admire the above more than boiled turbot. TO DRESS A cod’s HEAD AND SHOULDERS,* SCOTCH FASHION. This was a great affair in its day. It is still a formid- able, nay even a respectable-looking dish, with a kind of bulky magnificence which appears imposing at the head of a long board. Have a quart of good stock ready for the sauce, made of lean beef or veal, with onion, carrot, and turnip. Rub the fish with salt over night, taking off the scales, but do not wash it. When to be dressed wash it clean, then quickly dash boiling water over the upper side, and with a blunt knife take off the slime which will ooze out, taking great care not to break the skin. Do the same to the other side of the fish; then place it on the strainer, wipe it clean, and plunge it into a turbot-kettle of boiling water, with a handful of salt and a half-pint of vinegar. It must be entirely covered, and will take from thirty to forty minutes slow boiling. Set it to drain, slide it carefully on a deep dish, and glaze with yolks of eggs, over which strew fine bread-crumbs. * Cod is in high perfection about Christmas. It comes into sea- son about Michaelmas, when the other large fish are going out. The Dogger-Bank cod are the most esteemed in the London market, but very excellent fish are now sent from Orkney, and many parts of our own coast. Cod of very good quality are salted in the Hebrides, and a little has been done in Ireland ; but the great continental supply of salted fish still comes from Newfoundland. The best cod are such as, with good size and shape, have yellow spots upon a very pure skin. Many persons prefer salt Ling to cod ; the Tusk is much superior to either of them, but is found in very small quantities.