524 FINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. jekyl. The dearest privilege of the subject, damebut now for Kit. chener’s famous duet—If I take Squeak, you may try Bubble, Weibach ; you usually succeed best in that Redgill !_He is sound as a dormouse!—In what Elysium of Lubber-land is he lapped ?—By what turtle brooks, lakes of brown stout, and dead seas of old port, does his fancy meander !—Redgill, awake ! A cinder has fallen into the dripping-pan :—I say, Redgill, Meg has forgot cayenne and onion in the palates—no buttered toast to the grouse !—How he snores—untie his cravat Now for our song (both sing.) MEG DOM. Nawbob, are ye hearing ?—First the laigh hiss-s-s-s—then the baulder biz-z-z-z—next the gradual guller, like the blutter o’ the bagpipe—and then the lang, low, settled-like boom It’s a perfect frying-pan pibroch—wi’ a’ the points o’ war !—Human pipes could gang nae farther than that, Mr Weighbauks. REVIEWER. Beautiful Cruelty—lovely Culinaria—Love my song, love myself. So do pray replenish the claret-stoup. Awake, old Touchy !—What, I say, if, throwing literary fame to the dogs, I pull a Kilmarnock cowl over my brows, gird my_loins with a linen apron, and sit down for life, mine host of the Cleikum !—But what rich distilled per- fume rises yonder !—By Jove the very echo of my music !—Girzy ! —O, gemini and jilliflower-waters, a brandy posset!—Winter- blossom, awake !—Hold the posset-dish under the Doctor’s nose, Girzy—Doctor, a sleeping cup ! an Oxford night-cap of velvet, of cygnet’s down,—inviting repose like the swing couch of the brood- ing halcyon. Draw it off, Girzy—he’ll snuff it up even in his sleep like leviathan drinking up the rivers ! MEG DODS. As it’s no just ilka night, Nawbob, a Cookery Beuk comes ou t that’s to last for ever and ever, I thought I wad like ye to drink great luck till’t Pree that, Maister Weighbauks !—though ye ha’e got- ten eneuch already. REVIEWER. Prosperity to the Cook and Housewife’s Manual! and may tile ten thousand copies just printed be all sold before Christmas !— Now for a long pull—and a strong pull—{drinks)—O ! thou para- gon of exquisite cooks and kind landladies I—compared with this thy posset, Bishop of Burgundy were a drug—the nectar of Jove ditch- water !—Thus on this fair hand, or horny spatula, let me adore thee This chaste salute