CHAP. VI.—FISH. 200 middle of a dish, crowned with what, by the courte- sy ot the kitchen, was called a pine apple made of fresh butter. Around were laid, stratum above stra- tum, chopped eggs, minced herring and veal, rasped meat, and minced parsley; the whole surmounted by a triumphal arch of herring-bones, and adorned with a garnishing of barberries and samphire. TO STEW OYSTERS.* Plump juicy oysters alone will stew to advantage. When opened, pick them out, beard and wash them in their own liquor, and strain it repeatedly. Put it into & silver or block-tin saucepan with a bit of mace, and • Oysters are conceitedly said to be in season in every month of the year that has an r in its name, beginning with September and ending with April; but the season in many places extends from Au- gust to May. Every city has its favourite oyster-bank. In London the Colchester and Milton oysters are held in most esteem. Edin- burgh has her “ whiskered pandores,” and latterly Aberdour oys- ters ; and Dublin the Carlingford and “ Powldoodies of Burran.” For the convenience of obtaining a ready supply of oysters, they are often transported from their original beds, and laid down on other places of the coast; but these exiles are seldom found in such perfec- tion as those which are called natives, that is, such as have never been rudely tom from their native homes, and sent on voyages of profit. Oysters, when just dredged, may be so packed in small bar- rels as to keep good for a week or ten days, and in this state they are sent to distant places. Oysters may be dropped out of the shell into a bottle, and kept in their juice for a little time by corking the bot- tle closely. They may also be preserved good for some time by feeding; and custom, which brings gourmands to admire game most when in a state of putridity, has taught them to relish the flavour of stale oysters better than those recently taken from the beds. The fresher oysters are they are the better ; but when to be kept, lay them bottom downwards in a tnb, or any vessel suited to the quantity to be preserved, and cover them with water in which a good deal of salt is dissolved. In this manner Apicius sent oysters to Tiberius when he was in Parthia. Change the water every twelve hours. Most cooks direct that this delicate animal should be fed with oatmeal or flour sprinkled in the water ; and others, on the principle which leads a mother of the parish of St Giles to give her new-born dar- ling a drop of gin, are for feeding them with white wine and bread- crumbs ! It is said by those who have the charge of fish-ponds, “ that fish will eat nothing but what comes out ot the sea now, though we are not perfectly convinced of this fact, we can at least believe that salt-water gruel is not over well suited to the delicate sto- mach of an oyster. Those large fat oysters called Pandores, which are so much prized in Edinburgh, are said to owe their superior ex- cellence to the brackish contents of the pans of the adjacent salt-works of Prestonpans flowing out upon the beds,—a subject this worthy