4G0 CHAP. X.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, &C. out crushing the parsnips. To every gallon of the liquor put three pounds of loaf-sugar, and a half- ounce of crude tartar. When nearly cold, put fresh yeast to it. Let it stand four days in a warm room, and then bung it up. N. B.—Parsnip-wine is said to surpass all the other home-made wines as much as East-India Madeira does that of the Cape. So much is said for it, and on good authority, that it certainly deserves a trial. Horseradish-wine is made as above, and is recom- mended for gouty habits. Ginger-Wine, a pleasant Cordial Wine.—To ten gal- lons of water, in which fifteen pounds of loaf-sugar have been dissolved, put the beat whites of a dozen eggs ; mix this well, and boil and skim it; then put to it twelve ounces of the best ginger peeled and bruised. Boil the whole a half-hour in a covered boiler to ex- tract the flavour. When the liquor is nearly cold, put a glassful of fresh yeast into the tub. Let it fer- ment for three days, and on the second add the thin parings of four Seville oranges and six lemons. Cask it, and bottle off in six weeks or less. Obs.—This wine may be perfumed, or aromatized, as it is called, by a few cloves, some mace, cinna- mon, and nutmegs, bruised and infused in brandy : the strained infusion must be put to the wine before it is bottled. Bircli-Wine.—To every gallon of the sap of the birch-tree, boiled, put four pounds of white sugar and the thin paring of a lemon. Boil and skim this well. When cool, put fresh yeast to it; let it ferment for four or five days, then coidc it. Keep the bung very close, and in four weeks rack and bottle it. N. B.—The pith must be carefully corked up when it is drawn off from the trees, till it is to be used. Less sugar will answer. BEERS AND OTHER HOUSEHOLD BEVERAGES. White-Spruce Beer.—To five gallons of waterj put seven pounds of loaf-sugar, and three-fourths of a pound of the essence of spruce. Boil and skim this. Put it into a vessel, and, when nearly cool, add fresh.