CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. 417 well, and fill patty-pans lined with, a thin light puff- paste nearly full. Twenty minutes will bake them in a quick oven. They may be iced. Almond-Cheesecakes.—Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones with a glass of common or orange-flower water. Add four ounces of sugar, a quarter-pint of cream, and the whites of two eggs beat to a froth. Mix and fill small I patty-pans; or these almond-cheesecakes may be made by merely mixing a few beat almonds with common cheesecakes. Lemon or Orange Cheesecakes.—Grate the rinds of threelemons, and squeezetheir juice over threesponge- I biscuits soaked in a glass of cream. Add to this four ounces of fresh butter, four of fine sugar, and three eggs well beaten. Season with cinnamon and nut- meg. Mix the whole ingredients thoroughly, and bake in small pans lined with a light thin paste. Lay a few long thin slices of candied lemon-peel upon the top. An Egg-Cheese, or Curd-Star.—Boil and season with cinnamon and lemon-peel a quart of milk or cream, and put to it eight eggs well beat, and a very little salt. Sweeten and season with orange-flower water, wine, or any seasoning that is preferred. Stir and let this boil till it curdles, and till the whey is completely separated ; then drain it through a sieve, I and put it into a star-mould or other shape, with holes : to let the whey drain wholly off. When firm, turn it ■ out, and serve with cream, custard, or wine and sugar 1 around it. Gooseberry-Fool.—Put the picked fruit and a glass of water in a jar with a little moist sugar, and set the jar over a stove, or in boiling water, till the fruit will pulp. Press it through a colander, and mix the pulp : by degrees with common plain custard made with i very few eggs. Apple-Fool.—This is made as above. The fruit may either be mixed with sweetened milk thickened with eggs, or with plain custard. Buttered Apples.—Pare and core pippins or rennets. 1 Stew in their syrup as many as will fill your dish, i and make a mash or marmalade of the rest. Cover J the dish with a thin layer of the marmalade. Place