278 CHAP. I. —MADE-DISHES. saucepan for an hour, and then skin it, strain the li- quor, put some fresh broth to it if necessary, a faggot of sweet herbs, three bay-leaves, and a head of young celery sliced. When the tongue has stewed in this very slowly for nearly another hour, take out the herbs and bay-leaves, and season the gravy with cay- enne, pounded cloves, mixed spices, and a little wal- nut-pickle. Serve the tongue in a soup-dish, with the sauce about it, and a few mushrooms when in sea- son, or small onions previously roasted and peeled. This is an excellent and not an expensive dish; and if any gravy be left, nothing can be better adapted for a sauce to ragouts, &c. The tongue may be cut open the long way, but not quite divided, and so spread on the dish. Obs.—This differs little from the French langue de bceuf a la braise, save that the French dish is en- riched by trimmings of game, poultry, or veal, in the stewing, and has a little wine put to the sauce. To dress Kidneys, or Scotch Kidney-Collops.—Cut a fresh kidney in slices of the size of small beef-steaks, or into mouthfuls. Soak the slices in water, and di-y them well. Dust them w'ith flour, and brown in the stew-pan with fresh butter. When the collops are browned, pour some hot water into the pan, a minced shalot, or the white of four young onions minced, with salt, pepper, shred parsley, and a spoonful of plain or shalot vinegar, or onion-pickle liquor. Cover the stew-pan close, and let the collops simmer slowly till done. If flavoured vinegar is not used, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup put in before the collops are dished will be a great improvement. Garnish this dish like liver with fried parsley. Obs.—Some good cooks season this dish with an anchovy and lemon-pickle, others add made-mustard. Beef-Kidneysfor the dejeuner a la fourchelte.-Mince the kidneys, and season highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Fry the mince, and moisten it with gravy and champagne, and serve in a hot dish. Catsup, or lemon, or walnut-pickle, may be used in place of wine. To dress Ox-Tails.—Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Scald them, dry and brown them in 6