429 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DIIISES, &C. much Lisbon or brown sugar as will sweeten it. Bake in a cool oven till clone. It will eat with rice or with breach make small pasties, &c. To preserve Fruit without Sugar, for Pies, Pud- dings, <§c.—Gather Morello cherries, green gages, cur- rants in bunches, green gooseberries, &c. not over ripe, and pick them as soon and as gently as pos- sible. All bruised ones must be laid aside. Drop them softly into wide-mouthed short-neckecl glass bottles, and shake the bottles gently that the fruit may lie compactly. Stop the bottles with good corks, and set them in a slow oven till the fruit begins to shrivel. Take them out, and in a little while make the corks firm, dip them in bottle-rosin, and keep till wanted. Obs.—We do not pledge ourselves for this receipt* RECEIPTS FOR BEAUTIFUL PRESERVES FOR DESSERTS, &C. &C. Jargonel Pears.—Take large, finely-shaped pears, and pare them very smoothly though thin. Simmer them in a thin syrup, and let them lie in this syrup in a covered tureen or basin for a day or two. See that they are covered with the syrup. Drain off the syrup, and put more sugar to it. Clarify it, and simmer the pears till they look transparent. Take them up, and pour the syrup over them. About a fourth more sugar than the weight of the fruit is the requisite quantity. Obs.—The syrup may be seasoned with the juice of lemons. The pears may either be served dry by dry- ing them in the sun, or in a slow oven when wanted ; or served in the syrup, which is better and more econo- mical, as the fruit that is not used can be potted up afresh. If the seeds of this and of all preserved fruits are picked out, which may be done by an opening at both ends that will allow an ivory bodkin to be intro- duced, they will keep much better. Large finely- shaped pears done in this way, and iced while, as di- rected for cakes, look exceedingly well. Pears are preserved red, by putting a grain or two of pounded cochineal into the syrup, and pouring red gooseberry or currant jelly over them. s 2