334 CHAI>. II.-—FRENCH COOKERY. with cook s-pepper. Put it in a stew-pot that will just hold it. Cover it with good broth, and a glass of wine. Season with a bay-leaf and two cloves, two carrots, and three onions, with any trimmings of veal, poultry, or game, you have. Put paper over it, and fire over the lid, and stew it slowly for two hours and a half. Garnish with the roots, and sauce the tongue with the strained gravy, to which add a little Espag- nole. N.B.—This is of very high gout,—one of the most cloying specimens of French cookery. Ox Rumps in the French manner, see page 279. Gras Double, Tripe to dress.>—Take the fattest thick tripe well cleaned, and repeatedly scalded and scrap- ed. Boil it in water two hours, and clean it again, then stew it in a blanc* for four or five hours. Cut it in lozenges, and serve in white Italian sauce. VEAL. The French Manner of dividing and dressing the Fillet.—The fillet is formed of three distinct parts; the large fat fleshy piece inside of the thigh, which the French call the noix. Of this they make a principal first-course dish. The piece below this they call the under noix, and the side part the centre noix. Of the principal noix they make a fricandeau, or a small roast, by stuffing and skewering this piece, to w'hich in a cow-calf the udder is attached ; or they fry it u. la bourgeoise. Of this part they also make cutlets, and grenadins. The under noix they use for piemeat, forcemeat, &c. the centre noix, or fat marrowy piece of the cutlet next the rump, for godiveau, sauce tournee, &c. The trimmings and bones help to make Espag- nole, or any soup or sauce. The part next the rump or centre noix is also dressed a la bourgeoise. Noix de Veau en Bedeau, or in the Beadles Fashion.— Flatten the noix, and lard it lengthways v'ith lard, seasoned with minced parsley, green onions, and cook’s-pepper. Line a stew-pan that will just hold * A rich broth or gravy in which the French cook palates, lamb’s- head, and many other things. It is made tints :—A pound of beef- kidney fat, minced, put on with a sliced carrot, an onion stock, with two cloves, parsley, green onions, slices of lemon without tbe peel or seeds, or, if much is wanted, two pounds of fat, and two lemons. When a good deal melted, put in water made into brine with 6alt; and when done, keep the btanc for use.