CHAP. VI.—FISH. 177 grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Stick numerous bits, of butter over the fish, and set it before a clear fire, strewing more crumbs, lemon-peel, and minced parsley over it, and basting with the butter. In the meanwhile thicken the stock with butter kneaded in flour, and strain it, adding to it half a hundred oysters nicely picked and bearded, and a glassful of their li- quor, two glasses of Madeira or sherry, the juice of a lemon, and the hard meat of a boiled lobster cut down, the soft part pounded. Boil this sauce for five mi- nutes, and skim it well; wipe clean the edges of the dish in which the fish is crisping, and pour the half of the sauce around it, serving the rest in a tureen. Garnish with fried oysters, small fried flounders, and pickled samphire, or slices of lemon. Cod’s head is dressed with brown sauce, by browning the stock with butter nicely browned, and adding a little mushroom- catsup. This sauce is generally made more piquant than the white, by the addition of a few boned ancho- vies. Obs.—This Scotch mode of dressing cod is nearly the same as the French Cabillaud u la Sainte Menc- hoult; only the cod is then stuffed with either a meat or fish forcemeat. It may be parboiled and finished in the oven with the above sauce. to boil con. Cot off the tail, which would be useless before the other part is enough done. Rub well with salt inside, without washing; let it lie from one to two days, ami wash and boil slowly in plenty of water, with a hand- ful of salt. Drain the fish, serve it on a napkin, and garnish with the boiled roe and liver, or small floun- ders or whitings nicely fried, or parsley. The tail cut may he in salt for a few days, and be boiled and served with egg-sauce, or parsnips mashed with butter and cream; or it may be broiled fresh, or fried in fillets 01 slices, and served with oyster or shrimp sauce ; or a sauce made of half a pint of veal-gravy, a glass of red wine, a boned anchovy chopped, white pepper and salt, and a few pickled oysters, and thickened with a little flour kneaded in butter. Boil up and skim