378 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. Rich Vcal Olive-Pie.—Make a forcemeat of minced veal with alittle suet; or of veal-kidney, a few bread- crumbs, some finely-chopped parsley, lemon-grate, salt, and mixed spices. Work up the forcemeat with the yolks of two eggs, and place a little of it in the middle of each slice of the meat cut for olives. Let the olives be previously flattened and seasoned. Boll them neatly up, and fill up the pie-dish. Make a do- zen or more of forcemeat-balls round and oval of the remaining forcemeat, and lay them in the dish, with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs divided, two pickled cucumbers cut in round and oblong slices, and a few p’ckled mushrooms. Make a gravy of the bones and trimmings of veal, seasoning it with parsley and onion. Thicken and strain this gravy, and put to it a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Pour this into the pie, and cover it with a good puff-paste. Calfs-head-Pie to eat cold.—Scald and soak the head, and simmer it for a half-hour in a very little water with a large knuckle of veal, the rind of a le- mon, two onions, a fagot of parsley and winter sa- voury, a few white peppercorns, and two or three blades of mace. Take up the head, and when cold, cut it into bits of different forms as for a ragout. Peel and cut the tongue into square pieces. Boil the broth in which the head was simmered with a few chips of isinglass till it is reduced to a strong jelly- gravy. Put a layer of thin slices of lean ham in the bottom of the pie-dish ; then some of the head and tongue, mixing fat and lean, and forcemeat-balls made of the knuckle; and add hard yolks of egg cut in two. Strew above each separate layer a seasoning of white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-grate. Fillup the dish with the jelly-gravy, and bake the pie. Obs.—This pie will keep cold for a fortnight, and slices of it make a very neat side-dish or supper-dish, from the variety of colours and forms. Calf s-foot-Pie.—Clean and boil two feet till ten- der, but not slobbery. Mince the meat when cold with suet and pared apples, in the proportion of a third part apples and suet. Mix dried currants, a little sugar, and a quarter-pint of white or raisin wine with the mince. Cover the dish with rich puff-paste. A half-hour or little more will bake this pie.