250 CHAP. VIII. SAUCES, ESSENCES, &C. A plain Sauce for Fish.—Melt some butter in wa- ter and vinegar; add the liver boiled and chopped, and thicken with the yolk of an egg and flour. Mus- tard, a tea-spoonful of catsup or walnut-pickle, is a cheap pungent addition to the above. Egg Sauce for salt Fish, roasted Poultry, fyc.— Boil three or four eggs for a quarter of an hour. Dip them in cold water, and roll them quickly under your hand to make the shell come easily off. Cut the yolks by themselves into little half-inch cubes, and cut the white of one egg in the same manner. Stir first the white and then the yolk into thinnish melted butter in the tureen.—For Sauces to Fish-Pies, see page 195. Mackerel Poe Sauce.—Boil two or three soft roes ; take away the filaments that hang about them, and bruise them with the yolk of an egg. Stir this into a little thin parsley, or fennel and butter, and add a little vinegar, or walnut-pickle, with pepper and salt. Admirals Sauce.—Chop an anchovy, a dozen ca- pers, and four or five shalots or rocamboles ; simmer them in melted butter till the anchovy dissolves; sea- son with pepper and salt; and when ready, add the juice of a lemon, and grated nutmeg. Grill Sauce.—Thicken some good brown gravy with butter and browned flour to the consistence of a batter ; add to it a spoonful of walnut-catsup, the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and a dozen chopped capers, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, a bit of shalot finely minced, a few grains of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of grated rind of lemon. Simmer these ingredients for a few minutes, and pouring a little over the grill, serve the rest in a tu- reen. This compound piquant sauce will suit several kinds of white fish, such as skate, holibut, &c. to those who like a highly-stimulating relish. It is ap- propriate to Devils of all orders. Dutch Fish-Sauce.—Equal quantities of water and vinegar, boiled, seasoned, and thickened with beat yolk" of egg, and sharpened with a good squeeze of lemon ; do not beat it after the egg is added, or it will curdle. Stew it well, but it must not boil. An excellent Store English Fish-Sauce.—A half-pint 3