1G6 CHAP. V. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. Obs—This makes the Potage de Lait of French cookery, by the addition of a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds with a few bitter ones blanched, pounded, and sifted. PORTABLE SOUP. This soup is best made of shin of beef, but knuckle of veal or cow-heels may be used in a small proportion. Have from ten to twenty pounds of shin of good fresh- killed beef, well broken, and from five to ten of knuckle of veal. Place this in a digester, or close-covered pot, and cover it with water. It must heat very gradually, that the fibres of the meat may have time to soften and swell; skim it carefully; retard the boil with a little cold water, and skim till no more scum rises. No roots nor vegetables are boiled with this soup; for although they might improve the flavour, they would both prevent, in some degree, the jelly from forming, and make it more difficult to preserve after- wards. The digester may be allowed to remain by the kitchen fire all night, if a fire is kept up ; and at any rate the soup will require from ten to twelve hours very slow boiling. Strain the broth from the meat, which will be boiled to a glue. When the soup has stood to be perfectly cold, take off the fat carefully, and in pouring it out, hold back not merely the sedi- ment, but all that looks muddy. Pour it once more through a sieve, into a thick-bottomed cast-metal stew- pan, well tinned, or into a double-bottomed tin pan ; with a quarter-ounce of black peppercorns. Let the fire be clear and brisk, and let the soup boil quickly, which is necessary to drive off the watery particles. Ten minutes’ brisk boiling will do more in reducing this soup, or any jelly to be kept, to the proper con- sistence, than twenty of a slower ebullition^ Take off any scum that rises, and when the soup begins to thicken and get gluey, and the quantity is much di- minished, it will be safe to pour it into a pan of much less diameter, for fear of burning. Put a little of it in the bottom of a saucer, which may be floated in cold water, or set in a draught of air. If this sets into a strong jelly, it is enough • if not, boil it briskly for 2