CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, &C. 400 layer of cleaned currants with a few raisins stoned and chopped, then again bread, and then fruit; but have the top layer of buttered bread. Pour the cus- tard through a fine sieve over this ; let it soak for an hour or two, and bake it for a half-hour. Chancellor s or Cabinet-Pudding, a very delicate Pud- ding.—Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon-peel, and some fine sugar, and pour it hot over a half-pound of newly-baked savoy biscuit. Cover the dish. When the cream is soaked up, add the yolks and whites of eight eggs separately well whisked. Bake the pud- ding, serve with custard-sauce. Dates, plums, or rai- sins may be added, and also minced marrow, almonds, and grated citron. College-Puddings.—Beat six yolks and three whites of eggs, and mix them to a smooth batter with three heaped spoonfuls of flour, a little ginger, and half a nutmeg, with pounded loaf-sugar to taste. Add four ounces of shred suet, four of picked currants, and an ounce of candied orange-peel and citron sliced. Bake in patty-pans, or fry these small puddings, making them up of an egg-shape. Serve with puclding-sauce and sliced lemon. Obs.—Bread-crumbs or pounded biscuit may be used instead of flour when the pudding is to be bak- ed. For all puddings bread is much lighter than flour, and more suitable to delicate stomachs. Duke of Cumberland’s Pudding.—Mix in equal pro- portions grated bread, shred suet, chopped apples, loaf-sugar, and cleaned currants, with six eggs well beat. Season with the grate of a lemon, half a nut- meg, a little salt, and two ounces of candied citron, lemon, and orange-peel. Mix the ingredients thorough- ly, and when they have stood for an hour to amalga- mate, put the mixture into a buttered mould. Tie several folds of a floured cloth over it, and boil for two hours and a half. Northumberland Puddings.—Make a thick batter by boiling and sweetening milk and flour. When cold and firm, mash it up, and add to it four ounces of melted butter, the same weight of currants, two ounces of candied lemon and orange-peel sliced, and a little brandy if liked. Butter tea-cups, and bake