CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, &C. 469 ly as they harden, and should always be fresh-made. It is good practice to put on the surface of the poul- tice oil or lard. Very nice persons stitch the poultice in a fold of fine muslin. Fomentations are generally made of the leaves or flowers of plants, as chamomile-flowers, mallows, elder- flowers, poppy-heads, wormwood, &c. They are best made by infusion in boiling water kept hot by the fire; but the vegetables may also be boiled. Fomen- tations are generally applied by dipping flannel (about a square of flannel) into the boiling decoction, and wringing it quickly out. The hot vegetables are also applied in substance ; but this is more of the nature of a poultice than a fomentation. The proper Medium Temperature of Baths.'—The tepid from 86° to 97°, the Hot Bath from 97° to 108°, the Vapour Bath from 100° to 180°. Pot Pourri.—Put into a large china jar used for this purpose, damask and other single roses, buds, and blown flowers, as many as you can collect: add to every peck of these, a large handful of jasmine-blos- soms, one of dame violets, one of orange-flowers; orris- root sliced, an ounce ; benjamin and storax, each an ounce (many dislike this); two or three handfuls of clove gilly-flowers and lavender-flowers, cloves, nutmegs, rosemary-flowers, allspice, knotted marjoram, lemon- thyme, rind of lemon, balm of Gilead dry, and a few laurel-leaves. Chop all these, and mix them well with bay-salt. Cover the jar. The various ingredients may be collected in succession as they flower. To these are added woodroof, jonquille-flowers, citron, and many other things. Thieves’ Vinegar.—Take an ounce of the tops of wormwood; rosemary, sage, mint, and rue, of each half an ounce; flowers of lavender, two ounces; aro- matic gum, cinnamon, cloves, nutmegs, and fresh garlic, two drachms of each; half an ounce of camphor, and eight pounds of red vinegar: beat all these ingre- dients well, and put them into a proper earthen jar, and pour the vinegar upon them ; the garlic ought to be sliced; and after stopping the jar, put it in the sun or in a hot place, such as a sand-bath, for three or four weeks; wring out the ingredients, and filter it u