CHAP. II. MADE-DISHES. 351 pound of clarified sugar put a pound of cherries, of which half the stalk is cut away. Give them a boil of three minutes. Skim, and serve them in a glass dish. Or take out the stones and cut away the stalks. Pears in Sugar.—Put a clove into the eye of each pear. Throw them into hot water to scald them. Pare, and keep them in water to preserve the colour. Boil them in a very thin syrup of a large pint of wa- ter to a half-pound of sugar. Add the juice of a le- mon, and serve in a glass dish in the syrup. Another Way.—Divide large pears. Take out the seeds. Blanch them in hot water and lemon-juice, to keep the colour white. Pare them. Throw them into fresh water, and give them a few boils in their syrup before serving them. Apples a la Portugaise.—Wash and core fine large rennets, but do not pare them. Prick them with a knife, and boil them in thin syrup. Then put them in an earthen dish under a small furnace to brown, basting them with the syrup. Peaches in Sugar.—Blanch six or eight in hot water, that they may peel easily, then give them a boil in syrup, and serve. The French serve all sorts of fruit en compote, which form tasteful and economical dishes. 1 asliionable French small Pastry for second Courses and Suppers, chiefly made of paste royal. Paste Royal to make.—Put four ounces of butter into a stew-pan with a large glassful of water, two ounces of beat sugar, and a bit of lemon-peel. When > the butter is nearly melted, shake some dry flour to it through a fine sieve. Take out the lemon-peel, and with your hand put in as much more flour as the boil- ing liquid will take, stirring briskly with a wooden spatula or spoon, till it come easily from the sides of the stew-pan. Put it in another pan. Let it cool. Bieak an egg into it, and stir it well to mix, and af- l terwards three or four more eggs till the paste becomes tenacious and ropy. This is used for many small ar- ticles, as pains a la duchesse, choux, Chantilly basket. In short, it may be moulded into any form, according to the ingenuity of the cook. The things made of it 5