425 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. till on dipping a stick into the pan, and putting it af- terwards in cold water, the sugar will immediately become hard. Caramel Sugar.—Boil crackling sugar till on dip- ping a stick into it, and then into cold water, it har- dens and snaps like glass. Obs.—This last makes a very elegant cover for sweetmeats, when prepared thus:—Set the pan with the caramel sugar instantly into a vessel of cold water. Have the caramel-moulds oiled with almond-oil, and with a fork or spoon spread fine threads of sugar over them in form of net-work or chain-work. All sorts of fruits may be caramelled, whether fresh or preserv- ed. They must be washed free of sugar, if the latter, and dried in both cases; the process is, however, troublesome, and seldom succeeds but under the hands of thorough-bred confectioners, to whom, in general, all merely ornamental affairs should be left. If fami- lies can afford ornament, they must not grudge the cost of having it well executed. FRUIT-JELLIES. Red-Currant Jelly.—Let the fruit be good of its kind, fully ripe, and gathered on and after a dry day. Strip off the stalks; weigh it, and clarify and boil to the 2d degree an equal weight of refined sugar. Put the fruit to this in the preserving-pan. Skim and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim again, and run the jelly through a hair sieve, pot it, and wjien cold paper it up. What remains in the sieve will make pies, or mix with any common jam. Obs.—A small proportion of raspberries will greatly improve the flavour of the jelly. It may be made pa- ler by the mixture of a fourth or third part of white currants; or white raspberries may be used. This jelly may be made with less boiling, or no boiling, as it may be worked cold as it is technically termed ; but though this method is very suitable for jellies made to serve in shapes, for immediate use in short, it does not, in our opinion, or by our experience, answer for preserves. White-Currant Jelly.—Make as above, or squeeze the fruit and strain the juice. Use only a silver skim-