PINAL SEDERUNT OF THE CLEIKUM CLUB. 519 These are the little things which show the neat careful cook and economist Girzy deserves promotion, Madam. JEKYL. The thanks of the eatings—though she did the other day forget peas-pudding, that inseparable satellite of boiled pork. But are the Nabob and you yet agreed on wholes or splits ? In the pea-war I stood neuter, caring little which, provided they are melters. B.EDGILL. Sir, my travelled friend and myself, like discreet practical men, made mutual concessions. If whole peas, then steep for an hour or two ; boil, tied loosely up, till the peas will pulp through a col- ander ; add salt, pepper, two yolks of eggs beat; a good piece of butter, and, tying up firm, boil for a half-hour. Splits need only be beat after the first boiling, which is all in all; (some good judges object to pepper, and give no egg). Turn out and serve. Any left will make a good extemporaneous peas-soup. How neatly you do scoop out that marrow, Mr Winterblossom ! Sir, there is an art in those things Now the thin slice of unmelted currant-jelly over all, Captain. JEKYL. None for me, Doctor; surely the gentlemen of this Club are not now to learn how I loathe, detest, and abominate all Hottentot mix- tures of sugar and fat; your apple-sauces, and your currant-sauces, and your whole animals stuffed with sweet pudding. MEG DODS. Will ye say’t yet na ? Nae sweet sauces ! What wad the auld English country leddies say, and the orthodox ministers ? They wad ne’er look at our Beuk ! No that ingans and sage are forbidden, or ony ither savoury wholesome kitchen to our meat, be it even your French chestnuts. My certes, Nawbob, if there had na been aulder heads and stouter stamacks at the cooking o’ our Beuk than his, a bonny-like mess we wad ha’e made o’t. The Cleikum wad ha’e been harried, and the plenishing poinded yet to pay the prenter, and that wad been seen. (Aside,) Corky-headed, Frenchified smaik, wi’ his dabs and his freakasies,—ne’er could thole the haggis either ! Anither six months o’ mules’ flesh and mouldy biscuit, under Wel- lington, would bring down his stamack to the gauge o’ common sense. TOUCHWOOD. No more speech, Luckie ; both wrong, and the misunderstanding all in words too. What think ye is the basis—the foundation, Mrs Margaret, of the cookery on which you pride yourself, but the French—of that genuine old Scottish court-cookery taught us by a