165 CHAP. V.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. or flank, when salted for a week, makes excellent broth, while the meat eats much better. An econo- mical way of managing where beet is salted for win- ter-provision, is to boil a piece of fresh and a piece of salt meat together, by which method the broth is not grouty nor yet over salt, which it will be when, made wholly of salt meat. Turkey beans, stripped 01 their blackening outer husk, are admirably adapted for Hiking barley-broth.* Barley is very apt to spoil. It becomes inil), and, what is worse, this fault is not easily detected. Barley should, if good, no more be washed than flour; but then it must be sound if we would avoid the glary, ropy decoctions which are sometimes seen on tables where better things might be expected. The quality of flour used in cookery ought also to be attended to. When ex- posed to air and damp, it becomes musty much sooner than is generally known. English books of cookery order a sauce for meat boiled in broth, of red wine, mushroom catsup, and gravy with cut pickles—a piece of extravagance completely at variance with the cha- racter and properties of the better part of the dish,— namely, the bland balsamic barley-broth of Scotland. But if a fine name is admired, use the French sauce hackee. For cheap and excellent soups and broths, see National Dishes. MILK-SOUP. Boil two quarts of milk, with a little salt, a stick of cinnamon, and a little sugar; lay thin slices of toast- ed bread in a dish; pour over a little of the milk to soak them, and keep them hot upon a stove; take care it does not burn. When the soup is ready to serve, beat up the yolks of five or six eggs, and add them to the milk. Stir it over the fire till it thickens ; then take it off lest it should curdle, and put it in the dish upon the breach Mrs Dods, with her usual sagacity, stated, and it must be owned, with great plausibility of reasoning, that one capital defect of broth cooked by Englishers and other unqualified persons, is pro- duced nine times out of the ten by the bad quality of the barley often used in England. G 2