162 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. origin, submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the fraenum epiglottidis, and from the fascia along Fibres, the middle line; from this attachment they are directed obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue, at which they end like they began. Ending. This is the most superficial lingual muscle, and assists in forming the cortex. Position The inferior lingualis is much stronger than the preceding, tongue, and is placed below the tongue, between the hyo and genio- origin. hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia on the dorsum, near the root of the tongue *; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle in the position before Ending, noted. From its attached surface bundles are continued vertically through the transverse fibres upwards to the dor- sum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle, and distributed with them. Perpen. Some perpendicular fibres, distinct from those of the genio- fibres, hyo-glossus, are said by anatomists to occupy more or less of the middle line of the tongue. A few of these appear to be present in the apex of the tongue, where they pass where from the upper to the lower surface, and through them the present:. fagcjcu]j 0f transverse muscle are transmitted. Mucous The mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the Sane ; mouth, and is provided with a laminar epithelium : partly investing the tongue, it is reflected off at different points in the form of folds (p. 140.). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottid folds, connecting this to the root of the tongue; the central one of these is called the frasnum of the its epi- epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished thduim, nliraerous muciparous glands, and some follicles. follicles, The follicles occupy the dorsum of the tongue, especially between the papillae vallatae and the epiglottis, where they form a continuous stratum, some projecting under the mucous membrane. and The glands (lingual) are compound in structure similar fh^tmsel to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed mostly beneath the mucous membrane and follicles covering the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. A few are found in front * The fibres are sometimes continuous with the small chondro-glossus.