530 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Prepare for turn ing the body by remov- ing the viscera. Direc- tions for the dis- sector. Defini- tion. Separate and blow up the stomach. Form, direc- tion, size, divi- sions. Dissection.—The viscera are now to be removed from the abdomen in order that the body may be turned for the dis- section of the back, and the other parts. The stomach and the spleen with the duodenum and the pancreas are to be taken away by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, and dividing the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be also removed by cutting across its ligaments, and dividing the vena cava between its posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time the right kidney is to be taken out with its suprarenal body ; and lastly the dissector should remove the left testicle by cutting through the cord. Directions. — Supposing the body now to be turned for the dissection of the back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual time, the dissector may examine first the dispo- sition of the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dis- section of the Back, p. 409. The rest of the time he should occupy in learning the form and structure of the viscera in the following Section. Section IY. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube be- tween the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme. Dissection. — To see the form of the stomach this viscus must be blown up moderately, and the surface cleaned ; but previously, the spleen is to be detached and the duodenum cut through near the pylorus. Form and Divisions. — The stomach is somewhat conical in form, with the base or wider part turned to the left, and the apex to the right side ; and is directed obliquely across the abdomen. Its size varies much in different bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction in the centre: when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide. This viscus presents for examination two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curves.