126 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. In the neck differ- ence in nerve. Thyroid body consists of two lobes united by a cross piece. right and arteries; for on the left side the vessel arises alone, and left ca- rotids. from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore deep in the chest, and longer than the right. The part of the artery between its origin and the upper piece of the sternum will be seen in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation the vessels, on both sides, so nearly resemble one another that the same description will serve for the two (p. 79.). It must be re- marked however that, on the left side, the jugular vein and vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are much nearer to the accompa- nying artery than on the right side, and are placed over the artery in the lower third of the neck.* The thyroid body is a soft reddish mass, which is situate opposite the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lobes, one on each side, which are united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, about half an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller Connec- end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is inter- tionsand A # ° posed between the windpipe and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno- extent of hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe depends upon the variations in its size; but usually the lateral piece reaches as high as the ala of the thyroid carti- lage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most com- monly from the left lobe, there is occasionally found a conical piece—pyramid—ascending towards the hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator glandulce thyreoidece of Soemmerring. This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, and weighs from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. No excretory tube has been found attached to it. Structure. — The thyroid body is not provided with a dis- Accesso- ry piece or pyra- mid. Weight and size. No dis tinct capsule, tinct capsule; but it is surrounded by connective tissue, that * Sometimes these differences will be reversed — the vein and nerve being over the artery on the right side, and away from it on the left.