DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 2o8 conceals subcla- vius, and joins a sheath around vessels. Sheathof vessels. Strong- est in liont. Dissec- tion of costo- coracoid fascia. Clean vessels. Subcla- vius muscle s at- tached to clavicle and first rib. ment it is inserted into the clavicle, enclosing the subclavius muscle, and is joined by the piece of fascia that incases the small pectoral muscle. From its strength and position it gives protection to the vessels surrounded by their loose sheath; and when traced downwards it is found to descend on the axillary vessels and nerves, joining externally the fascia on the coraco-brachialis muscle, and blending below with the sheath on those trunks beneath the small pectoral muscle: its extent is not so great on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves is derived from the deep fascia of the neck, being prolonged from that on the scaleni muscles, and resembles, in its form and office, the funnel-shaped tube of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. It is strong- est near the subclavius muscle, where the costo-coracoid band is placed ; and it receives below an accession from that same membrane. The anterior part of the tube is per- forated by the acromial thoracic artery and the anterior thoracic nerve. , Dissection. — The tube of fascia around the vessels will be demonstrated by making a transverse cut in the costo-cora- coid membrane near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. By raising the lower border of the subclavius this muscle will be seen to be in- cased by fascia, which is attached to the bone both before and behind. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, the remains of it are to be taken away; and the upper part of the axillary vessels and nerves, with their branches, should be carefully cleaned. The subclavius muscle is thin and roundish in form, and is placed between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a tendon from the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres ascend obliquely, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle, which reaches between the two tubercles (internal and external) for the attachment of the costo and coraco- clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large ves-