32 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. ous sur- face of gland. Dissec- tion to see deep parts. Deep part sinks behind jaw.j Vessels and nerves in the gland. one or two lymphatic glands seated on it; but from the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection.—By removing with caution the parotid gland, the hollows that it fills up will come into view: at the same time the dissector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through the gland. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels that are in relation with it, will demonstrate the impossibility of com- pletely removing this body, and the dangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be now opened, and a probe passed along it to the mouth to show the diminished size of its aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid pro- cess ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Passing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the auricular, transverse facial, and superficial temporal and internal maxillary branches. Superficial to the artery is the trunk formed by the junction of the tem- poral and internal maxillary veins, from which the external jugular vein springs; and opening into this common trunk are some veins from the parotid, whilst a branch through the gland connects it with the internal jugular vein.* Crossing the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which passes over the artery, and distributes its branches through the parotid. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve likewise lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and offsets of the great * Oftentimes a different arrangement of these veins will be found. In such case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (half or all) and posterior auricular veins. Whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), that receives the facial below the jaw, and opens into the internal jugular vein opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary trunk accompanies the external carotid artery.