BRANCHES OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. 85 soft palate. This branch frequently arises from the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and ascends between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Oppo- site the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in off- sets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland from the part of the artery in contact with it. d. The subm,ental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and passes forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle, where it ends in branches ; some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perforat- ing the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 30.) joins the internal jugular vein. In the cervical part of its course it receives branches corre- sponding to those of the artery, and often throws itself into the temporo-maxillary trunk. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined for the back of the head. It arises from the carotid opposite the facial branch, and near the lower border of the digastric muscle. From this spot the artery ascends to the inner part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; next it turns horizontally backwards on the occipital bone, passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally becomes cutaneous near the middle line (p. 6.). In the neck this artery passes beneath the digastric muscle and a part of the parotid gland ; and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. tonsil, sub- maxil- lary gland and mylo- hyoid muscle. Facial vein. Occipi- tal artery ends on occiput; in neck has an offset to The only offset from the artery in the front of the neck is a the dura ' ni^tcr small posterior meningeal branch to the dura mater in t^e posterior fossa of the base of the skull. This ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen jugulare (p. 18.). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. The occipital vein begins at the back of the head (p. 7.), Occipi- -.1,1 i • . x , tal vein. and has the same course as the artery; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and opens into the internal, sometimes into the exiernal jugular vein. The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the pre- poste-