394 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. in the upper aperture. In mid- dle line. On each side. Partly the same on both sides, and part- ly not. position of the several bodies that enter or leave the thorax by the upper opening may be now studied. In the middle line lie the trachea and the oesophagus, with the remains of the thymus gland. In front of those parts are the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mus- cles with layers of the fascia, and behind them is the longus colli muscle : between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve of the left side. On each side, the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung project into the neck ; and between the pleura and the trachea and oesophagus, are found the several vessels and nerves that pass from the thorax to the neck, or in the op- posite direction. At both sides, there is the innominate vein with the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, but farther back the objects on the two sides are different: — thus, on the right side, come the innominate artery and the cardiac nerves; but on the left side, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind, on both sides, are the cord of the sympathetic, the first intercostal nerve, and the superior intercostal artery. Soft parts bound- ing the thorax. Inter- costal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle or head of the rib. Connec- tions. Infra- costal, PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Between the ribs, forming part of the wall of the thorax, are the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the inter- vening nerves and arteries. At the base of the thorax is the diaphragm, which bounds the cavity in this direction. Intercostal Muscles. — The anterior part of these muscles has been described with the wall of the thorax in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 264.). The posterior part of the same muscles may be now examined from the inner side. The internal intercostal muscle is fixed to the inner margin of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. Begin- ning at the sternum, it reaches backwards only to the angle of the ribs in the middle spaces, but above and below the muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the muscle ceases, a thin fascia is continued to the spine. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. The infracostal muscles are small slips of fleshy fibres,