RECTI MUSCLES. 51 in the orbit. Whilst entering this space between the heads of branch the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above nerve is the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve iar, divides into three branches. One of these enters the in- ternal rectus; another the inferior rectus; and the third, the longest and most external branch, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle. Soon after its origin the?ndi°ins last nerve communicates with the lenticular ganglion, form- 1ga1[QSan* ing the short root of that body, and furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus. The sixth nerve enters the orbit between the heads of sixth the external rectus, below the other nerves in that interval, enters • • • • • • • external and above the ophthalmic vein. In the orbit it is distributed rectus, to the external rectus muscle. Recti Muscles. — The internal, inferior, and external straight rectus muscles are placed with reference to the eyeball as 3Ueye-s their names express. They arise posteriorly from the cir- origin, cumference of the optic foramen by a common attachment, that partly surrounds the optic nerve. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads ; an upper which joins the superior rectus ; and a lower and larger one that blends with the inferior rectus, and is attached to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near to the inner end : some muscular fibres are also con- nected with a tendinous band between the heads. The mus- Jnser_ cles are directed forwards, and have a tendinous insertion tl0n‘ into the ball of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the cornea. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different nerves before mentioned enter the orbit, viz. the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, to- gether with the ophthalmic vein. Dissection. — By opening the optic foramen, the attach- Dissect ment of the recti muscles will be more fully seen. To dissect oblique, out the inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural position ; then by taking away the conjunctival lining of the lower eyelid near the inner part, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball, bending from the inner to the outer side. The inferior oblique muscle is situate near the anterior Lower margin of the orbit, and differs from the other muscles in muscle, the circumstance of its course being directed across, instead