DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 774 Posi- tion and form of pigment cells. Pig- ment gives the colour. Arteries are ra- diating and looped. Nerves of the iris. Mem- brane of the pupil in the fetus; situa- tion ; time of disap- pear- ance. The pigment cells are spread out in the stroma, as well as collected on both surfaces. In the substance of the iris they are ramified and irregular cells as in the choroid ; on the fore part they are ovalish or rounded, but still ramified; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uvea), the cells are rounded and filled with granules. The colour of the iris is dependent upon the colour and position of the pigment. The arteries of the iris have a looped arrangement: they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches, but some come from the vessels of the ciliary pro- cesses. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the former form a circle around the margin of the iris ; from this loop other anastomotic branches are directed towards the pupil, near which they terminate in a second arterial circle, and end in small veins. The nerves of the iris divide into branches, which com- municate and extend towards the pupil; they are without dark outline, and their ending is not known. Membrane of the pupil.—In the fetus before the seventh month the aperture of the pupil is closed by a vascular transparent membrane. This structure is attached to the anterior surface of the iris, over the situation of the inner vascular circle, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is suspended. Vessels shoot into it from the circle before referred to, and communicate across the middle line ; but at about the eighth month the vessels become impervious, and at the time of birth only fragments of the membrane remain. Arteries Ciliary Vessels and Nerves.— The ciliary arteries are of* tId 0 eyeball offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 49.), and supply the choroid coat, the ciliary processes, and the iris: they are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary, but they will not be seen without a special in- jection of the vessels of the eye. posterior The posterior (short) ciliary branches pierce the sclerotic back; coat around and close to the optic nerve, and run on the surface of the choroid membrane till they enter its substance, two of Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forward to the named c^aiT ligament, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a tong circle around the iris in the ciliary muscle, as before ex- cihary. J * plained, before being distributed in it; in the eye the outer 1