DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 770 the ci- liary pro- cesses by an anterior and a posterior view. To see the in- terior, and the struc- ture. To make a vertical section. Form and ex- tent Anterior termina- tion. choroid coat in the ciliary processes, let another eyeball be taken on which the sclerotic covering has been divided, and the cornea removed as before ; and after making two or three cuts in the sclerotic towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps should be pinned to the wax in the plate, so as to sup- port the eye in an upright position. Let another eye be prepared in the same manner. On the one ball, in which the anterior view of the processes is to be obtained, proceed to remove with care the iris, tearing it away from both the white ring of the ciliary muscle and ligament, and the ciliary processes beneath, so as to leave these undisturbed and dis- played. On the other ball a posterior view of the processes is to be prepared: in this dissection the iris is to be left un- touched, but the choroid coat is to be divided around with a scissors, a little behind the ring of the ciliary muscle, and to be taken away with that ligament, the attached iris, and the ciliary processes behind — all in one piece. By gently washing the back of the iris the small processes will be made manifest. By means of the last dissection, the inte- rior of the choroid coat may be seen. The structure of the membrane may be examined on a fragment obtained from the eye that was destroyed in making the preparation of the sclerotic coat. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This sec- tion, which it is difficult to make, should be attempted in water with a sharp, large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood: after the eye has been divided, the halves should re- main in water. The choroid coat is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and forms a segment of a sphere ; like the sclerotic stratum, it extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eye- ball. When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary ligament is entire, it appears to end at the ligament; but it may be seen in the other dissections to bend inwards behind that ring and the iris, and to end in a series of folds or processes (pars plicata), around an anterior opening for the admission of the rays of light. This covering is thicker and stronger behind than in front: it is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in