DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 608 and in the spot at which it ends. Branch- es of the posterior trunk. Ilio- lumbar has an ascend- ing and a trans- verse branch. Lateral sacral arteries supply spinal branch Gluteal artery. Small offsets. thirds of a certain number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. The increased and diminished extent of the internal, is dependent upon the shortening and lengthening of the common iliac artery. The ending of the vessel may be at any spot between the usual place of origin and termination. The branches arising from the posterior division of the internal iliac, are, ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. 1. The ilio-lumbar branch passes outwards beneath the psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lumbo-sacral nerve, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch in the iliac fossa. a. The ascending or lumbar offset, which is beneath the psoas, supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery: it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. b. The transverse or iliac part divides into branches that ramify in the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries ; and some twigs from the deep branches communicate with the obtu- rator artery, and enter the innominate bone. 2. The lateral sacral branches are two in number, su- perior and inferior, but the upper is the largest; they corre- spond in situation with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures in the front of the sacrum. These branches supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with the foregoing, as well as with the middle sacral branch. A small spinal branch enters the spinal canal through each aperture in the sacrum. 3. The gluteal artery is a short thick trunk, which appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the innominate bone, and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the border of the pyriformis muscle, with its accom- panying vein and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis this artery gives small branches to the con- tiguous muscles, viz. the iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone.