60 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. plexus .that as- cend,viz. Small occipital. Great auricu- lar. supplies facial, auricu- lar : and mastoid branch- es. Super- ficial cervical nerve. Nerves that de- scend are sternal, 6upra- clavicu fications of the cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name, and superficial branches are furnished from these both upwards and downwards. A. The ascending set are three in number, viz. small occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. 1. The small occipital branch comes from the second cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 9.). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. 2. The great auricular nerve is a branch of that part of the plexus which is formed by the second and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is then directed upwards beneath the platysma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches : — The facial branches are sent forwards to the integument over the parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect; one or more reach the opposite surface by piercing the pinna. On the ear they commu- nicate with the branches furnished from the facial and pneumo- gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the integument between the ear and the mastoid process; and it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 8.). 3. The superficial cervical nerve springs from the same source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space beneath the platysma myoides (see p. 62.). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. B. The descending set of branches (supra-clavicular) are derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the posterior triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three on the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its inner end; the middle branch lies about the middle