105 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath is be- the anterior part of the tongue, in contact with the inner tongue, surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo- glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual resembles the other salivary glands in its Re- composition (p. 33.). The ducts of the lobules—ductus Ducts Riviniani— are from eight to twenty in number, of which ^cuth? some open beneath the tongue along a crescentic shaped fold of the mucous membrane; others join the Whartonian duct; and one or more form a larger tube, which either joins that duct or opens near it. Section VIII. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERYE AND VESSELS. The remaining trunk of the fifth nerve, viz. superior maxil- superior lary, may be learnt conveniently after the dissection of the ry nerve pterygo-maxillary and submaxillary regions. Dissection. — The superior maxillary division of the fifth Rsec‘ nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal; and to lay bare the nerve in its whole extent the skull, the fossa, and the orbit must be opened. The skull and the orbit will have been already opened, if the preceding in- structions have been followed ; but if the latter has not been dissected, refer to the necessary steps (p. 43.). To trace the nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the stu- in sphe_ dent may make the following dissection:—The middle nRax" fossa of the base of the skull is to be cut through from the tossa‘ inside with a chisel; the cut is to be made from the sphe- noidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and external to the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is then to be sawn through vertically in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards, with a bone forceps or a saw the outer wall of the orbit is to be divided into the spheno-max-