DISSECTION OF THE LTPER LIMB. 270 Dissec- tion. Small infra- scapular artery. Position for the shoulder. Dissec- tion of the shoul- der. Cuta- neous nerves of the shoul- der. Dissec- tion of deltoid muscle. Deltoid muscle. Dissection.— The subscfipular muscle is to be next sepa- rated from the bone; and at the same time its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon of in- sertion and the capsule of the shoulder joint, as well as the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anastomosis on the ventral surface of the bone is likewise to be dissected out. The infrascapular artery ramifies on the ventral surface of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 261.). It enters beneath the sub- scapularis muscle, and forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra and posterior scapular branches. Position.— The examination of the muscles on the opposite surface of the scanula may be next undertaken. For this purpose the scapula is to be turned over, and a block, which is of sufficient height to allow the shoulder to be made pro- minent, is to be placed between it and the arm. Dissection. — The skin is to be removed from the pro- minence of the shoulder, by beginning in front at the an- terior border of the deltoid muscle. Some small cutaneous nerves are to be found in the fat: some of these descend from above, over the acromion, and others come to the sur- face about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. — Branches of nerves, supra-acromial, descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 60.). A cutaneous branch of the circumflex nerve turns forward from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integument covering the lower two thirds of that muscle. Dissection. — The fat and fascia are now to be taken from the deltoid muscle, its fibres being made tense at the same time. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres, in order that its coarse, rough, muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. At the same time the fascia may be removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the teres major and a part of the infra- spinatus muscle. The deltoid muscle is triangular in form, and has its base at the scapula and clavicle, and its apex at the humerus.