398 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. inter- articu- lar with two sacs. Liga- ments of neck of rib. anterior costo- trans- verse. Pos- terior costo- trans- verse. Middle costo- trans- verse. Synovial sac. first, eleventh, and twelfth, this ligament is limited also to the one centrum. The inter articular ligament will be seen when the stellate ligament is divided. It is a short thin band of fibro-car- tilage, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular surfaces on the head of the rib, and becomes blended by the other end with the fibro-cartilaginous sub- stance between the vertebrae. In the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs it is absent. Synovial sacs. — There are two sacs in the articula- tion, one on each side of the interarticular ligament, ex- cept in the three ribs before mentioned, 'where there is but one. B. Ligaments from the neck and tubercle of the rib. — Three ligaments (costo-transverse) pass from the neck and tubercle of the rib to the transverse processes. And there is one synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. The anterior costo-transverse ligament is larger and longer than the others ; it ascends from the upper border of the neck of the rib to the lower edge of the transverse process of the upper of the two vertebrae with which the head of the rib is connected. It is wanting necessarily in the first rib. Between this ligament and the vertebrae the pos- terior branches of the intercostal artery and dorsal nerve pass backwards ; and by the outer edge it is continuous with the fibrous membrane between the strata of the inter- costal muscles. The posterior costo-transverse is placed at the posterior aspect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the tip of the transverse process of each vertebra and the rough part of the tubercle of the rib. This band is longest on the lowest two ribs. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse is placed hori- zontally between the neck of the rib and the transverse process with which the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the trans- verse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish connective tissue. If the posterior ligament is divided, a synovial membrane will be found in the joint, but this is absent in the lowest