DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 564 diasti- num and finer septa. A vas- cular layer „ lines it (tunica vascu- losa). Seminal tubes ; into the gland for the distance of a few lines with the blood- vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower part, and is larger and deeper above than below. When cut across it will be seen to be formed of two lateral pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle : to its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected; and in its interior are contained the bloodvessels, and a network of seminal ducts forming the rete testis. Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea, which enter the testis, there are two- kinds : those of one set are round, cord-like, but of different lengths, are fixed posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serve to maintain the shape of the testis; those of the other, form delicate membranous septa, which divide the seminal tubes into masses named lobes, and are continued, like the rest, to join the mediastinum. Tunica vasculosa.—Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, which has been named as above by Sir A. Cooper. It lines the fibrous coat, covering the different septa in the interior of the gland ; and is formed of the ramifications of the bloodvessels united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain. In it the arteries are sub- divided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the veins in the interior are supported by it. Form and length of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). —These secerning tubes are the minute branched extremities anceand the duct or vas deferens. They are very wavy, and are but slightly held together by fine connective tissue and sur- rounding bloodvessels, so that they may be readily drawn length; out of the testis for some distance. Their length is said by Monro to be sixteen feet, but by Lauth to be only two feet and a quarter. The size and the characters of the minute tubules can be learned only with the aid of the microscope. Ending, size and structure. —Towards the circumference of the testis, the tubes have for the most part distinct closed commu. extremities: but some communicate, forming loops or arches, niea- m m tionsj and others are united deeper in the gland. The diameter of size; the tubules varies from -ji^-th to TJ0th of an inch. The wall tureC* °f the ^buli, formed of connective tissue, is thin, but it has considerable strength : lining the interior is a nucleated