DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 386 Thora- cic aorta, Extent, ourse, and con- nections. Branch- es. Arteries of the lung. Distri- bution. One right. two left. Vein of the lung. Pericar- dial branch- es. (Eso- phageal branch- es. The thoracic aorta is the part of the great systemic vessel, which is above the diaphragm. Its extent is from the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, to the front of the last dorsal ver- tebra. Contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine, the vessel is rather arched in its course, lying at its upper part on the left, but at its lower part on the front of the spinal column; beneath it are the vertebrae and the smaller azygos vein. In front of the vessel is the root of the left lung with the pericardium. On the left side it is covered by the pleura in all its length; and on the right side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, but near the dia- phragm the former is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the sur- rounding parts, and are named from their destination, viz. bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and inter- costal. 1. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and arise from the front of the aorta, but their num- ber and place of origin are liable to vary. These vessels adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, and so enter the interior of the lung, in which they ramify (p. 385.); they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oeso- phagus. The artery of the right lung arises either in common with one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of the right side. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and in- ferior), that arise from the aorta at a distance from each other. Bronchial veins.— One vein issues from the root of each lung, to end in the following manner: — the right one joins the larger azygos vein; and the left ends in the superior intercostal vein of its own side. 2. The pericardial* branches are some irregular twigs that are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac covering. 3. (Esophageal branches arise at different points of the aorta, and are four or five in number. Ramifying in the structure of the gullet, these vessels anastomose with one another; above, they communicate with branches of the