DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 110 carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In dissecting the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and with care two small filaments may be recognised, — one from Jacobson’s nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal ; the other from the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. Piece of on the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector tyropa- A 1 ta!nedb’ may PrePare very readily the tympanum with its membrane, chain of bones, and chorda tympani nerve, internal The internal carotid artery springs from the bifurcation carotid # 0 of the common carotid trunk, and extends from the upper theskuii border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, its where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course is _ first course oi the artery may be divided into three parts: —one part in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third inside the skull. through1 Cervical part.—In the neck the artery ascends almost the neck ver^capy from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in con- tact with the pharynx on its inner side. Its depth from the surface varies as in the external carotid; and the line of the digastric muscle may be taken as the index of this difference, where it Thus, below that muscle, the internal carotid is contained in ficKe- the anterior triangular space, being overlapped by the sterno- mastoid, and covered by the common teguments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, but deep though behind it. But, above that muscle, the vessel is abov e ’ placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and by the pharyngeal branch of the vagus resting nerve. Whilst in the neck the internal carotid lies on the us coin," rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebrae, also on the superior laryngeal and sympathetic with in- nerves. Accompanying the artery is the internal jugular jugular vein, which is placed on the outer side; and between the two vagusnd vessels is the pneumo-gastric nerve. This part of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, and usually does not furnish any branch.