ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINiEAL SPACE. 449 ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINATAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinaeal space the tube of the urethra is lodged, as this passes from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed about midway between the bones, the tube is supported by a fibrous structure named the triangular ligament. Muscles are col- lected around it, to aid in the expulsion of the urine: some of these are before, and some within the triangular ligament before alluded to. The vessels and nerve lie, as in the posterior half, along the outer side, and send inwards offsets. Supporting the anterior part of the urethra is the penis: this body and its muscles and vessels have to be examined generally with the other contents of this half of the peri- naeal space. Dissection. — To raise the skin from the anterior part of the perinaeum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the scrotum, and continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected. After the reflection of the skin the superficial fascia, which covers the front of the perinaeal space, is to be blown up by means of a blow-pipe introduced beneath it at the posterior part. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate the fact that a partition exists in the middle line : at the same time, it will be evident that there is another partition between the perinaeal space and the thigh, for the air does not pass along the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side, from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa, and to remove some loose and fatty tissue, to bring into view the line of attachment of that fascia to the bones externally, and to the triangular liga- ment posteriorly : the septum along the middle line should also be defined. To demonstrate more completely the par- tition of the superficial fascia between the perinaeal space and the thigh, which is connected with the pubic arch, it will be necessary to take away, on the left side, the fat from the fascia lata of the thigh, external to the line of the bones before mentioned. In the fat of the thigh on the right side, the student G G Contents and ge- neral po- sition of parts. Incisions to raise the skin. Blow up superfi- cial fas- cia. and reflect it. Define partition between thigh and pe- rinatal space. On right side seek