DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 422 Deep cervical artery. Inter- costal arteries are split into inner and outer branch- es. and give a branch to spinal cord. Lumbar arteries are also divided into inner and outer branch- es. branches are supplied by the vessel to the surrounding parts. Beneath the artery is the suboccipital nerve. The deep cervical artery is a branch of the superior inter- costal (of the subclavian, p. 75.), and resembles the posterior branches of the other intercostal arteries. Passing back- wards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and the neck of the first rib, the vessel appears in this dissection between the complexus and semispinalis muscles. Finally, the artery ascends as high as the upper border of the semispinalis muscle, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from the deep cervical artery, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral artery. * In the dorsal region. — The posterior branches of the intercostal vessels accompany the nerves between the ver- tebrae and the anterior costo-transverse ligaments. In the back they are divided like the nerves into inner and outer branches. * a. The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus spinae and semispinalis muscles, and furnish small offsets with those nerves which reach the surface. * b. The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and supply it and the erector spinae. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest, because they extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the in- tervertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the cord and its membranes, as well as other twigs to the vertebrae. * In the loins. — The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the lon- gissimus dorsi and multifidus spinae. They give also a spinal branch to the spinal canal, and the cord with the investing membranes. * a. The internal branches are small, and end in the mul- tifidus spinae muscle. * b. The external branches supply the erector spinae, and some are continued onwards, with the nerves, to the integu- ments. Veins. — With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, Veins