665 gimbernat’s ligament. rived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of arch; the abdomen, which stretches from the front of the iliac crest to the pubes (p. 475.). When viewed on the surface, form; the arch has not a straight direction between its bony at- tachments, as long as the fascia lata is entire, but is curved downwards towards the thigh. Its outer half is oblique ; but its inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is inserted into the spine, as well as into the pectineal line of the hip bone for about an inch, forming Gimbernat’s ligament. The space beneath parte the crural arch, between it and the innominate bone, is closed hollow . beneath. by the parts passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and is larger in the female than in the male. The outer half of the interval is filled by the fleshy psoas and iliacus muscles, to which the arch is so closely bound by fascia, as commonly to prevent any protrusion of intestine at this spot; and the inner half of the space is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath. Gimbernat's liqament. — The structure that has received Gimber- " # m nat’s li- the name of Gimbernat’s ligament, is the part of the tendon gament of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen that is in- of the insertion serted into the pectineal line of the hip bone (p. 475.). It ofPou- is only a portion of the attachment of the crural arch to the bone ; but when Poupart’s ligament is in its natural position, and the structure is looked at from below, this piece of the tendon appears triangular in form, with its base directed Form, r. . ... situa- outwards. Viewing it as a separate structure, it is about tion, . . and con- one inch in length. Its apex is at the pubic spine ; whilst nections. its base is in contact with the crural sheath, and is blended with the fascia lata, — the part that forms the outer margin of the saphenous opening. By one margin (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal, and one surface is directed upwards to the abdominal cavity, whilst the other is turned towards the thigh. On forcibly raising the crural arch, the continuation of Gimbernat’s ligament with that band will plainly appear. The crural sheath is a loose tube of membrane around the Crural sheath femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel which is sloped unequally on the sides: the wide part or base of the tube is shape