DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 300 Mouth of pul- monary artery ; position; has three semi- lunar valves ; their at- tach- ment. Struc- ture of sigmoid valves. Arrange- ment of fibrous tissue. Their use. To open left au- ricle. Shape of cavity of left au- ricle. trusion of it into the latter cavity is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The mouth of the pulmonary artery will be seen when the incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged upwards into it. It is situate on the left of the opening into the auricle, and is opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to the sternum. Into it the funnel-shaped part of the right ventricle, or the infundi- bulum is prolonged, and in its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the vessel by its convex border, and is free in the cavity by the opposite border, in which there is a slightly thickened and projecting part that has been named the corpus Arantii. The semilunar valves resemble in structure the tricuspid, for they are formed of fibrous tissue, with a covering of the lining membrane. In the valves the fibrous tissue has a special arrangement: — There is one band along the attached margin; a second along the free margin, which is connected with the projecting nodule; and a third set of fibres is di- rected from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a triangular or semilunar interval almost free from fibres be- tween it and the band in the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of these little valves is obvious, viz. to give free passage to fluid in one direction, and to prevent its return by closing the area of the vessel. Whilst the blood is entering the artery, the valves are placed against the wall; but when the vessel acts on the contained blood, the valves are thrown towards the centre of the cavity, and arrest the return of the circulating fluid into the ventricle. Dissection. — To open the cavity of the left auricle, the apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another incision should be made in the auricula, at right angles to the former one. The apex of the heart must necessarily be kept raised during the exa- mination of this auricle. The cavity of THE left auricle is smaller than that of the right side.* Irregularly conical in shape, the wider part is turned towards the spinal column, and receives the * The division of the cavity into auricle and sinus venosus may be made on this as on the other side.