495 CORDS AND FOSSAE OF THE WALL. ing. The constriction may be removed by cutting from above, or upwards if the sac is opened, but there is not any vessel to be injured in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia.— At each of the other natural other abdomi- apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine nai her- 1 J # A mae are may be protruded, so as to form a hernial tumour. For instance, there may be femoral hernia below Poupart’s liga- femoral, ment, with the femoral vessels; obturator hernia through obtura- tor, the thyroid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; and ischiatic hernia through the ischiatic notch. The ischia- ° _ tic. femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student must refer to some special treatise * for his information respecting the other abdominal herniae. Dissection.— The abdomen may be now opened to see the pusec- cords and the depressions on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, below the umbilicus. For that purpose a transverse cut is to be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen. On holding up the lower part of the abdominal wall certain cords will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. — In the middle line of the Cords . # . . . inside abdominal wall, at its posterior aspect, is the prominence of abdo- the remains of the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another on.e middle cord, formed by the obliterated hypogastric artery ; this is line> directed from the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus, and another lies usually behind or close to the epigastric artery, near sicle> Poupart’s ligament. Fossce. — When the disposition of the cords is such as forming above mentioned, two fossae are seen near Poupart’s liga- sa?- ment, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, corresponding with the situation of the internal and external abdominal rings, and with the places where the external and internal (common kind) herniae occur. But occasionally the some ) ' # # J times cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from last cord iTPi • . r ® ' * moved the line of the epigastric artery, and lies behind the trian- inwards gular space between this artery and the edge of the rectus, at the line of junction of the outer with the inner two thirds of the space. In this last case there would be a hollow or causing * A Treatise on Ruptures, by W. Lawrence, F.R.S.