POPLITEAL SPACE. 705 sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the attachments of the Bounda- nes * muscles on the back of the limb to the femur, and the ✓ lateral boundaries are therefore formed in part by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and in part by those of the leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the biceps muscle as outer far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius beyond that spot. On the inner side, as and low as the articulation, are the semimembranosus and semi- tendinosus muscles, with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The upper point of the ham is Limit limited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstring muscles, in the middle line of the thigh ; and the lower point, and by the union of the heads of the gastrocnemius. Stretched below' across this cavity is the fascia lata; and, forming the deep Deep^ boundary, or the floor, are the following parts,— the lower ary. end of the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, as well as the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and the popliteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. p The popliteal space is widest opposite the knee joint, Greatest where the muscles are most drawn to the sides, and is deepest and above the articular end of the femur. In it are contained dep*h the popliteal vessels and their branches, and the ending of the external saphenous vein; the popliteal divisions of the great sciatic nerve, and some of their branches ; with some lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of fat. The small sciatic nerve lies over the space ; and a branch of the obtu- rator is on the artery in the bottom of the hollow. The popliteal artery is the continuation of the femoral Popliteal trunk, and reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus extent; to the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; at this spot it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. In a part of its extent it lies in the ham, and part is in . , . . the ham, is uncovered by muscle; but, lnfenorly, it is beneath the gastrocnemius, and beyond the limits of the popliteal space and part as above defined: the description of the artery may there- fore be divided into two parts, corresponding with the differ- ence in the connections. beyond.