DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 658 lympha- tics. Raise the deep stratum of the super- ficial fascia. Deep part of the su- perficial fascia covers saphe- nous opening, and part named cribri- form fascia. Dissec- tion of the front of the thigh. To take away the skin. surface of the lower limb ; whilst the upper or transverse set are joined by the lymphatics of the penis, and by those of the lower part of the abdomen and the buttocks. The glands vary much in number and size, and not unfrequently those by the side of the vein are united together. Dissection.— The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is to be detached from the subjacent fascia lata, by means of incisions similar to those for reflecting the subcutaneous stratum, except that the lower cut across the thigh is not to be made so far down. The handle of the scalpel is to be employed in the separation, and the dissector is to endeavour to avoid cutting the nerves and vessels. Internal to the saphenous vein a thin membrane can be easily raised, but external to that vessel there scarcely exists a continuous layer distinct from the fascia lata. In reflecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will be apparent. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is a very thin membraniform stratum, which is most evident near Poupart’s ligament, and on the inner side of the saphenous vein. About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and is there pierced by the saphenous vein with some of the ducts of the lymphatic glands. As it stretches across the opening it is connected to the circumference, — internally by loose connective tissue, but externally by firm fibrous bands ; and it is connected also with the loose crural sheath of the subjacent vessels in that aperture. The part of this stratum over the saphe- nous opening is perforated by many small apertures for the transmission of the ducts of the glands, and has been named cribriform fascia from its sieve-like appearance. In a hernial protrusion through that opening the cribriform por- tion is projected forwards by the gut, and forms one of the coverings. Dissection. — Now the student has observed the disposi- tion of the superficial fascia near Poupart’s ligament, he may proceed to examine the remainder of this subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and the nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to be carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee joint,