741 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. inch above) of the interosseous membrane, and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these tendons are continued to the outer four toes, and are inserted by processes into the middle and ungual phalanges. On the phalanges of the toes the tendons have the same arrangement as in the hand. For, on the metatarsal pha- lanx, the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form a membranous expansion. At the further end of this phalanx the expansion divides into three parts — a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral ones unite at the front of that bone, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peroneus on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis on the other ; it lies on the fibula, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve of this part are internal to them. The peroneus tertius is situate below the extensor longus digitorum, from which it is seldom separate at its origin. It arises from the lower fourth of the inner surface of the fibula in front of the membrane between the bones, from the lower end of the interosseous ligament, and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the peroneal muscles ; and it is inserted by a tendon into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. The anterior tibial artery extends from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle joint, where it loses the name tibial, and is called the dorsal artery of the foot. The course of the artery is at first forwards, through the aperture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, and then along the front of that membrane and the tibia to the foot. A line from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel. 3 b 3 inserted into four outer toes. Ar- range- ment of the ten- dons on the toes. Connec- tions of the muscle. Pero- neus tertius is the lower part of the ex- tensor. Anterior tibial artery; course and ex- tent ;