589 FASCIA OF THE PELVIS. turator vessels and nerve are to be cut away on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away a large quantity of fat with the handle of the scalpel. But the membrane is now apparent only on its upper half, or as low as the situation of the piece that is prolonged inwards to the viscera; to see its lower half, the student must raise the outlet of the pelvis and look to the fascia covering the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. Should the perinaeum be undissected, the fat must be taken from the hollow referred to. If the scalpel be pushed upwards in the fossa, it will enter the pelvis where the visceral joins the parietal piece, and will mark the position of the levator ani muscle between the two. The pelvic fascia is a thin membrane in close contact with Fascia the obturator muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the wall of • • the pel- attachment of the fleshy fibres, so that it might be called the vis. special fascia (obturator) of that muscle. Above it reaches its at- the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the lateral SeSt aspect of the cavity; in front of that spot it does not extend th°oi£ so high as the brim, but following the muscle, forms an misde; arch below the obturator vessels ; whilst farther to the middle line it is fixed along an oblique line near the lower part of the symphysis pubis. Inferiorly the fascia is attached to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and to the side of the pubic arch ; but below the pubes it is continued from the one hip bone to the other for a certain distance, so as to ioin the recto-vesical piece at this spot, and to partly close the front of the cavity of the pelvis. At a certain aperture J of pelvis level, viz. that of a line prolonged from the lower part of in front; the symphysis pubis to the ischial spine, the fascia sends inwards the recto-vesical piece to the viscera of the pelvis : ^ives off x recto- the origin of this offset is indicated by a whitish band, v?sical a ° piece. which marks also the attachment of the levator ani muscle beneath. The outer surface of the fascia is in contact with Connec- ' tions of the obturator muscle. The inner surface, above the origin the of the recto-vesical piece, corresponds with the cavity of the pelvis, but below that spot, with the ischio-rectal fossa. At the posterior border of the obturator muscle a thin mem- brane is continued backwards to the front of the sacrum, fascia.