743 DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. near its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor pollicis is on the inner side ; and that of the extensor brevis digi- torum on the outer side, except for about half an inch before the artery dips into the sole of the foot, at which spot this tendon crosses as before said to the inner side of the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in the leg, and the nerve is external to it. Branches. — Offsets are given to the bones and the liga- ments of the foot: those from the outer side of the vessel have received the names tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is likewise fur- nished to the first intermetatarsal space. The tarsal branch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and runs beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer side of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal plantar, and peroneal arteries: it supplies offsets) to the extensor muscle, beneath which it lies. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer part of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the extensor muscle, and its terminal branches anastomose with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the convexity of this arch, which is turned forwards, three interosseous arteries are furnished to the three outer intermeta- tarsal spaces : these supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two dorsal collateral branches. At the fore part and the back of each space the interosseous arteries join the deep vessels in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior and posterior perforating arteries. The first interosseous branch (arteria dorsalis pollicis pedis) arises from the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other interosseous offsets of the metatarsal branch. Position of veins and nerve. Branch- es. Tarsal. Metatar- sal, which gives in- terosse- ous. First interos- seous. Anterior tibial The anterior tibial veins have the same extent and con nections as the artery they accompany. They have their veins, usual position along the artery, one on each side, around which they form loops by cross branches; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond with those of the artery ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Peculiarities in size. — The anterior tibial may be small, or even Varie- •' ties in 3 B 4