DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 768 tion on the rays of light. Has not blood- vessels. Nerves. Com-'' posed of layers. Cornea proper is formed oflayers, with in- tervals between. Its tissue continu- ed into that of the sclero- tic. humour, it deflects the rays of light transmitted to the eye, and thus influences by its greater or smaller convexity the different degrees of sight at a distance. After death it be- comes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour; or if it is immersed in water it is rendered opaque by infil- tration of the tissue by that fluid. Structure. — The cornea is laminar in texture. In the healthy condition bloodvessels do not permeate its structure, but cease in capillary loops at its circumference. Nerves exist in it in great abundance (Schlemm). It is constructed of a special, thick part called cornea proper: in front of this is a thin elastic layer with an epithelial stratum ; and be- hind it is another fine elastic membrane covered by an epi- thelium. The two structures in front of the proper cornea constitute the conjunctiva: and the two behind, the mem- brane of Demours. The cornea proper (lamellated cornea) is made up of a series of superposed layers, about sixty in number in a section at a given spot, which join one another at numerous points, and cannot therefore be detached for any distance.* This structure possesses great toughness; and its trans- parency depends upon the parallelism of the different strata, and their distance from one another being duly maintained, for, if they are disarranged by compression or other means, the translucency is destroyed. The laminae of the cornea are formed of fibrous tissue, continuous with that of the sclerotic coat, and containing also similar ramified nucleated cells, but here flattened into membranous layers, and ar- ranged one over another. Layer The membrane at the back of the cornea — membrane of cornea. Demours — consists of a basement layer (posterior elastic lamina, Bowman) coveredIby epithelium. Poste- The posterior elastic layer may be peeled off after a cut elastic has been made across the cornea. It is a thin, but dense a)er' and hard membrane, -jo^th to ^'^th of an inch in thick- ness, which tears readily when an attempt is made to detach it, and curls up with the attached surface innermost when * The facts stated in this, and in many other places in the description, are obtained from Mr. Bowman’s Lectures on the Eye, and from the Physiological Anatomy, part third, 18 4 7, of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.