676 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Muscu- lar branch- es. Femoral vein. The fe- moral artery may be divided, The vein may be inside the artery; or split; or very small. To ex- pose muscles on front of the femur. Tensor vaginae femoris arises from pelvis. it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus ; this forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur with an offset of the external articular artery, and supplies the joint. The two pieces of the anastomotic artery may be separate at their origin, and spring from distinct parts of the parent trunk. Muscular branches. — The branches for the supply of the muscles leave the outer part of the femoral artery, and be- long mostly to the sartorius and the vastus internus. The femoral vein, in its connections with the parts around, and in its branches, corresponds closely with the femoral artery. Its position with respect to the artery is, as above said, external to, and in contact with it. Peculiarities in the splitting of the artery. — Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two below the origin of the profunda. Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with, but, in all, the trunks were blended again into one above the opening in the adductor muscle. Position of the vein. — The femoral vein may change its position here, as in the upper part (p. 672.), being found on the inner side of the artery; or it may be divided into two trunks, which lie on the sides of its companion vessel. Size of the vein.— In some bodies this part of the femoral vein is very small in size, in consequence of the popliteal coursing along the back of the thigh to enter the profunda vein, instead of accom- panying the main artery of the limb through the aperture in the adductor magnus. Dissection. — The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and to be thrown downwards, preparatory to the deeper dissection. After these are cut, all the fat and the small veins are to be care- fully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and the anterior crural nerve. By this step the upper part of the vastus internus and crureus muscles will be pre- pared for learning. The tensor vaginae femoris extends only along the upper third of the thigh, and is the smallest and the most external of the outer set of muscles. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the hip bone at the outer aspect, from the anterior upper iliac spine, and from the part of the