DISSECTION OF TIIE HAND. 314 of deep the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor pro- flexor ^ fundus is divided into four pieces; whilst in the forearm only one tendon, that of the fore finger, is distinct from the cross the rest, hand From the ligament the four tendons are directed through the hand to the fingers. to their inser- tion. Short folds to both flexor tendons. Lumbri- cal mus- cles are At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are small mem- branous folds (ligamenta brevia), one for each. By means of this fold each tendon is connected with the fore part of the phalanx, and the capsule of the joint, immediately be- hind the bone into which it is inserted.* The lumbricales muscles are four small fleshy slips that are connected with the tendons of the deep flexor. They todeepd ar^se from the side of the tendons near the annular liga- flexor, ment? and are directed to the radial side of the fingers, one for each, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on and first the dorsal aspect of the first or metacarpal phalanx. These phalanx. muscies are concealed for the most part by the tendons and Differ- vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous origin!1 for a short distance in the hand between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise from single tendons, but each of the others is connected with two tendons. Tendon Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. — Beneath the an- flexor of nular ligament this tendon is external to those of the flexor thumb, . jj. then turns outwards between the heads of the to its in- flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the last phalanx sertion. q£ the thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection. — The deep palmar arch of the radial artery and the interossei muscles will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lum- bricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the ten- Dissec- tion of muscles of thumb * In the ligament to the long flexor tendon Mr. Marshall finds two thin bands of elastic tissue, which he names the vincula sub/lava. He assigns to those bands the office of drawing down the long tendons after bending of the fingers. — On certain Elastic Structures connected with the Deep Elexor Tendons of the Fingers and Toes. By John Marshall^ F.R.C.S.—MecL-Chir. Review, Jan. 1853.