DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 86 ceding brancli, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Ascending in the same direction as the occipital artery, viz. rior auri- cular necky m to the interval between the ear and the mastoid process, it supplies ^*vj^es fina]jy in^o two branches for the ear and occiput p. 6.). A small branch, stylo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same name, and supplies the internal ear. The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and internal maxillary veins. The temporal artery is in direction the continuation of the external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending through the parotid gland, in the interval between the ear and the articulation of the jaw, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia, about two inches above the zygoma, into anterior and posterior branches; and these are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 6.). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the surrounding parts, viz. : — a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland which conceals es to ° parotid, the artery. Articular twigs are supplied to the articulation of the cuiation l°wer jaw i and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some of jaw, and the ear. a branch to the ear. Vein with artery. Tempo- ral ar- tery. besides terminal branch- es, gives branch- Branch to face. Branch to tem- poral muscle and of the tem- ple. anterior auricular branches are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. b. The transverse facial branch quits the temporal artery oppo- site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over the mas- seter muscle (p. 30.); on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and the integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. c. The middle temporal branch arises just above the zygoma, and pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the temporal muscle. In the muscle it anastomoses with branches of the internal maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal artery is likewise found between the layers of the temporal fascia; this becomes cutaneous near the orbicularis muscle. Corre- The temporal vein commences on the side of the head Sding (P- 7.), and is contiguous to its companion artery. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein; next by other branches corresponding to those of the artery; and finally it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. — The lower part of the neck will not be again