354 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. \ left coronary artery. Veins of the heart. Coro- nary sinus ; extent; struc- ture; veins joining. Large cardiac vein is single, and opens into sinus. Small anterior and pos- terior cardiac veins. and anastomoses towards the apex with the left coronary artery. b. The left coronary branch is inclined behind the pul- monary artery to the left side of that vessel, then in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle to the back of the heart, where it anastomoses with the right coronary branch. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes offsets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle. The largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus, over the partition of the ventricles, towards the apex of the heart, and communi- cates with the descending branch of the right coronary artery at the back of the heart. The veins of the substance of the heart (cardiac) are not the same in number, nor have they the same distribution as the arteries. There may be said to be three sets, but for the most part they are united into one large trunk, the coro- nary sinus, which opens into the right auricle. The coronary sinus will be seen on raising the heart to be apparently the dilated ending of the great coronary vein. The points in its anatomy will be better seen if it is opened with a scissors. About an inch usually in extent, it is limited on the one side by two valves that exist at the opening of the great coronary vein into it, and on the other by another valve (Thebesian), where it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and on the right it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles, whose openings are guarded by valves; and nearly at its outer termination is another vein without a valve, — the oblique vein of Mi*. Marshall, that ascends along the back of the left auricle. a. The great cardiac or coronary vein begins in front, near the apex of the heart, in the substance of the ventricles. From this origin, the vessel turns to the back of the heart in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens into the coronary sinus. It receives collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves. b. Anterior and posterior cardiac veins. — Some small veins on the anterior part of the right ventricle open sepa- rately, by one or more trunks, into the lower part of the right auricle. Similar small veins exist over the back of