18 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. Poste- rior me- ningeal from occipital and verte- bral. Nerves of dura mater. Cranial nerves in base of skull only partly seen. Olfac- tory nerve, ends in the nose. Optic nerve The posterior meningeal branches are likewise small, and are furnished by the occipital and vertebral arteries. Those from the occipital, one on each side, enter the skull by the jugular foramen; and those from the vertebral arise opposite the foramen magnum. Both sets ramify in the posterior fossa of the skull. Meningeal Nerves.—The source of the nerves of the dura mater is very uncertain. Offsets to it are derived from both the cranial and sympathetic nerves. To make these nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid.* Cranial Nerves. — The cranial nerves pass from the encephalon through apertures in the base of the skull. As each leaves the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed:—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane is reflected back, after a short distance, to the interior of the skull. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, are received into sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. For the present the nerves will be referred to as nine in number, but notice will be subsequently taken of a different mode of enumerat- ing them. Only part of the course of each nerve will be now seen, the rest must be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The first nerve ends anteriorly in the enlargement of the olfactory bulb. This swelling lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies about twenty filaments to the nose through the small foramina in the subjacent bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, whose dis- position will be noticed in the dissection of the nose. The second nerve diverging from its commissure to the * Many of the cranial nerves are said to supply the dura mater; and the student who is desirous for further information may consult Professor Kolliker’s Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 495.