679 MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE THIGH. inwards, to the internal margin of the linea aspera as well as the lines continued from it towards the ends of the bone, viz. to the anterior intertrochanteric line in one direction, and the inner condyle of the femur in the opposite direction. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres terminate in a insertion by a cutaneous aponeurosis that blends in the common tendon of common insertion. The upper part of the muscular mass is buried upper beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles ; bat the lower deep,ls part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus externus Kerfs at the opposite side of the thigh. The adductor muscles are Sf' almost inseparably joined with this vastus along its attach- ment to the linea aspera. Dissection.—The common tendon of the vasti and rectus Lay bare can be demonstrated, after the expansion from it over the mon knee joint is divided along the middle of the patella to the of the exten- head of the tibia. By reflecting inwards and outwards that sors. thin prolongation the tendon will be laid bare. A strong transverse band will be likewise seen on each side of the patella; the outer of the two is the strongest. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg is common Tendon as before said, to the rectus, the vastus externus, and the exten- united vastus internus and crureus. Its position is in front b°rs * of the knee joint, to which it serves the office of an anterior ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, attach- it narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted in- mentSl feriorly into the prominence of the tubercle of the tibia and into the bone below it for an inch. Close to its attachment bursa beneath. to the tibia a synovial bursa is beneath it; and in its fibres the patella is situate, like a sesamoid bone in other situations. (See Ligament of the Patella.) From the upper part of the Expan- tendon an aponeurotic expansion is derived : this prolonga- from tion, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule around the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Subcrureus muscle. — Beneath the united vastus andcru- Small ... t subcru- reus, near the knee joint, is a thin subcrural band of pale reus ** * muscle; fibres. It is but a part of the muscle on the front of the femur, which is separated from the rest of the fibres by a layer of connective tissue. Attached therefore to the front ends on of the femur in its lower fourth, it ends in aponeurotic the sa° x x 4