109 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. i The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies parts within the Internal A * carotid head, viz. the brain and the eye and its appendages, and artery, takes a circuitous course through, and along the base of the skull before it terminates in the brain. Dissection. — The part of the arterial trunk in the base of some . parts the skull, and its offset to the orbit, have been already exa- already mined, but the part in the neck and the temporal bone remains to be dissected. Its branches to the brain are de- scribed with the encephalon. For the display of the cervical part of the artery there is Djssec- now but little dissection required, since by detaching the carotid styloid process at the root, and throwing it with its attached «eck ; muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia now conceals them, which is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the eighth and ninth nerves, that are in contact with the vessels near the base of the skull, may not be injured. In the fascia, and superficial to the artery near the skull, are the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches ; whilst the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus is beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, also near the skull, are the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the position of the vessels will be found a loop of the first and second cervical nerves, over the transverse process of the atlas, which communicates with the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and with the eighth and ninth nerves. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, is the ascending pharyngeal artery. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to in the follow the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut bone.°ra1 down the side of the skull in the following manner: — the saw being placed behind the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo- mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of detached bone has been taken away, the