THE PLANTAR FASCIA. 725 nerves are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat anddis- near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve taneous of the sole of the foot (p. 724.), and trace out, at a little dis- nervc> tance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat of the sole of the foot is very subcu- abundant, and forms the thickest cushion over the parts of £[!eous the surface that press most on the ground in standing, viz. over the os calcis, and the line of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. jDissection. — The fat should be now removed, and the Lay bare the plantar fascia laid bare. Begin the dissection near the plantar fascja heel, and follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between these processes the digital nerves and arteries will be found and the r ° . digital covered by much fatty and fibrous tissues; but the vessels and vessels nerves to the inner side of the great toe, and the outer side nerves, of the little toe, pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to dissect a transverse fibrous band Define between the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves ; and ment of when this has been defined, to remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. — The special fascia of the sole of the plantar foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends fasCia' septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and from the existence of longitudinal depressions where the two chief intermuscular septa are attached, the fascia is divided into a Division central and two lateral parts. par°s The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed Central at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes part thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corre- sponding with an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side. Opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides divides into five processes, which send bands to the integu- pieces.'6 ment near the web of the foot, and are then continued on- wards to the toes, one to each. If one of the processes be Termi- divided longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it of the will be seen to join, at the centre, the sheath of the flexor piLCes' tendons, whilst it is attached on the sides to the margins of the metatarsal bone, and to the ligament uniting one of 3 a 3