765 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. The eyeball is the organ of vision. It is lodged in the situa tion orbit, and is supported in this hollow on a mass of fat; it is of the surrounded by muscles which impart to it its several move- ments. Two lids or shields protect the eyeball from external Parts. injury, and moderate the quantity of light admitted into the *”djn interior; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by u- a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. — In the absence of specimens of the human The dis- section eye, the structure must be learnt on the eye of some large to be J ^ made on animal, as the ox for example. Let the student, therefore, the eye ’ r o n 0fthe procure half a dozen or more eyes of the ox for the purpose ox. of dissection. One or two small basins will be needed, and in the bottom of one of them, or of a deep plate, some melted wax or tallow should be run. Dissection. — To see the general form of the ball of the Detach n i i the mus" eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attach- cies. ment of the different muscles should be taken away, and the loose mucous membrane should be removed from around the anterior part. The ball of the eye is roundish in form, and consists of Form of i • t i • • the ball. two parts which diner greatly in appearance, viz. an opaque or posterior, forming four fifths of the whole, and a smaller transparent portion (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different-sized spheres, and the anterior portion belongs to the smaller sphere. To the back of the globe Position the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the nerve!c axis of the ball; and around it the nutritive vessels and the nerves are disposed. The antero-posterior diameter of the Diame.> ball amounts to about an inch, and exceeds the transverse ter' by about a line. The organ of vision is composed of certain parts essential Outline to sight, and of others requisite for their protection and consti- support. Its sentient constituent is a delicate expansion of of the