SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. 451 G G 2 manner as on the left side. One long slender artery is the right superficial perinaeal, which gives a transverse branch near its commencement: sometimes there are two superficial branches. Two superficial perinaeal nerves are to be found with the artery ; and the inferior pudendal is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perinaeal and the inferior haemorrhoidal posteriorly; and all the nerves are to be followed back to their origin. Arteries.—The arteries beneath the fascia, viz. super- super- ficial ficial and transverse perinseal, are branches of the pudic, and vessels , . , of pudic. are two or three m number. The superficial perinceal branch is given off from the pudic artery Super- in front of the branch to the rectum. Perforating usually the base perineal of the triangular ligament, it turns forwards over or under the transverse muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches for that part. ends in 1 scrotum. As the vessel lies beneath the fascia, internal to the pubic arch, it supplies offsets to the muscles beneath; and in front, it anasto- p^gSstuhpe‘ moses with the external or superficial pudic branches of the muscles, femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second superficial perinaeal branch. At the origin of the superficial perinaeal, some other muscular other branches pass inwards to the front of the levator ani (p. 448.). iar s The transverse artery of the perinaeum arises from the preceding, ^anch' or at the same spot, and is directed transversely to the middle of Trans- the perinaeal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and artery, the transverse muscles. It anastomoses with the one of the oppo- site side. Branches of veins correspond with those of the artery, and Veins . i r J with the open into the trunk of the pudic vein. arteries. Nerves. — There are three long cutaneous nerves of the cuta- scrotum, viz. the interior pudendal from the small sciatic, nerves and two superficial perinaeal branches from the pudic tum. nerve. The superficial perinceal nerves, two in number, are Two su- named anterior and posterior from their relative position at jSrinaai. their origin: both arise from the perinaeal branch of the pudic nerve. a. The posterior branch appears near the front of the ischio-rectal Pn^te- . fossa, and entering beneath the superficial fascia, is continued for-