36 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Carti- lage forms part of the lid. Differ- ence in the two lids. Liga- ment of eye-lids attaches carti- lages. Follicu- lar tubes beneath carti- lage, their struc- ture. Tendon of leva- tor pal- pebrse. Mucous lining of lid The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, give the form and strength to the lids, and are of the nature of yellow or spongy cartilage. Each is fixed internally by the liga- mentum or tendo palpebrarum, and externally by a fibrous band — external tarsal ligament — to the outer part of the orbit. The margin corresponding to the edge of the lid is free, and thicker than the rest of the cartilage. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous mem- brane or conjunctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the two lids. In the upper eyelid, where the cartilage is largest, it is about half an inch wide in the centre, but gradually tapers to the ends ; and to its fore part the tendon of the levator palpebrae is attached. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow band, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight. Ligament or tendon of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, in- ternal tarsal ligament) is a small fibrous band at the inner part of the orbit, which serves to fix the lids, and is attached to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, which are united one with each tarsal cartilage. This ligament gives a fibrous expansion over the lachrymal sac, and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. The Meibomian glands or follicles are placed in grooves on the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend parallel to one another, from the thick towards the opposite margin of the cartilage ; and their number is about thirty in the upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the glands are at the posterior edge of the free border of the lid. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by scaly epithelium. If the palpebral ligament be cut through in the upper lid, the tendon of the levator palpebrae will be seen to be attached to all the fore part of the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeurotic expansion. The conjunctiva, or mucous membrane, lines the interior of the eyelids, where it has numerous fine papillae, and covers the anterior part of the ball of the eye. At the free margin