DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 506 Position is chang- ed by dia- phragm, by pos- ture of body, and by disease in other parts. Situa- tion of spleen. Connec- tions. Kidney occupies lumbar region. Parts in the ribs, but in women and children it projects below that line. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The posterior border is thick, and is connected to the diaphragm by certain ligaments or folds of the peritoneum ; it lies on the large vessels (aorta and cava), and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver is constantly changing its situation with the ascent and descent of the diaphragm in respiration ; thus in inspiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its for- mer level. In the upright and sitting postures this viscus descends lower than in the horizontal condition of the body; so that in the former state, the anterior border may be felt underneath the edge of the ribs, but in the latter it is with- drawn within their margin. The connections of the liver with the surrounding parts may be changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgement, as in tight lacing. The spleen. — The spleen lies deeply in the left hyponchon- drium, between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum to the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other side. Its position is almost vertical. Its outer surface is convex: it corre- sponds with the diaphragm, and is opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. At the inner surface, which is concave, the vessels enter, and to it a fold of peritoneum, the gastro- splenic omentum, is attached; in front of the vessels it touches the stomach, and behind them it is in contact with the left crus of the diaphragm, the suprarenal capsule, and the tail of the pancreas. Below the spleen are the kidney and the beginning of the descending colon. When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. The kidney. — The kidney should be examined on the left side of the body, so that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order that it may be seen, the descending colon and the peritoneum must be separated from the abdominal wall. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the lumbar region (one on each side), opposite the last dorsal, and the upper two or three lumbar vertebrae. Its position is somewhat oblique, so that the upper is nearer than the lower end to the spinal column. In front of the kidney are the