457 DEEP MUSCLES OF THE URETHRA. it is a layer of circular fibres around the urethra which are not fixed to bone.* The transverse part of the muscle arises by aponeurotic Trans- V0| ยง0 fibres from the subpubic arch above the preceding, for the part distance of half an inch ; but this attachment is not very from evident unless the muscle has been dissected from behind, arch, From this origin the fibres pass inwards, and separate near the urethra into two layers, of which one passes over, the other under that canal; in the middle line these unite, and sometimes by tendinous bands, with the muscle of the middle opposite side. Or the fibres may be described as extending line* across the perinasum from the one lateral attachment to the over and % under other, and enclosing the tube of the urethra in their passage, urethra, like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. The circular fibres surround the urethra between the Circular fibres of bulb and the prostate, and form a layer about ^th of an urethra, inch thick; they are involuntary in their nature, and are continuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate and the bladder. External to these are the voluntary or transversely striated fibres of the constrictor. This layer is usually described as part of the constrictor. Its fibres are, however, involuntary instead of voluntary as in the con- strictor. It appears to be only a portion of a large involuntary orbicular or constrictor muscle, of which the prostate is part, sur- rounding the beginning of the urethra.'j' The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting through cow- the transverse muscle: they are situate below the mem- gf-Ld. branous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle s.itua- . line, and close behind the bulb. Each gland is about the size- size of a pea, and is made up of many small lobules. Con- nected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Length which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra (corpus Jlf" spongiosum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an theduct. inch in front of the triangular ligament: the aperture of the * Further information respecting this muscle may be obtained by- consulting the Septemdecim Tabulae of Santorini ; a Paper by Mr. James Wilson, in the first volume of the Med. Chirur. Transactions; the Work of Mr. Guthrie, On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and Urethra; and the Treatise of J. Muller, Ueber die Organischen Nerven der erectilen Mannlichen Geschlechts- Organe, Sfc. f See a Paper on the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Urethra, &c., in vol. xxxix. of the Trans, of the Med. Chir. Society, 1856.