LATERAL VENTRICLE. 219 of the brain, as forms the roof of the cavity, is to be re- moved. A part of the ventricular space dips down in the middle lobe of the cerebrum towards the base of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to be carried outwards through the substance of the left hemisphere, and then downwards, also through the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. Ventricles of the Brain. — The ventricular spaces in Five the interior of the cerebrum are derived, as before explained, cies^re from the subdivision of the large central space, and are four brain, in number. One extends into both halves of the brain; but commonly the part in each hemisphere is described as a separate ventricle (the lateral), so that these constitute the first and second. Another (third) occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface ; and another small one (fifth) is included in the partition between the large ven- tricles of the hemispheres. The fourth ventricle is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. The lateral ventricles are two in number, one occupying Lateral each hemisphere; they are incompletely separated in the cieentn' middle line by a septum, for they communicate by an aper- ture below that partition. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of nucleated epithelium, with, in some spots, a sub- jacent stratum of connective tissue. Each is a narrow interval, which extends into the anterior, shape posterior, and middle lobes of the corresponding hemisphere. siUon° Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the points (cornua) by which it reaches into the different lobes are curved. There are three cornua in each, which have the three following dispositions :— The anterior is directed outwards cornua' from its fellow in the other hemisphere. The posterior or the digital cavity is much smaller in size, and is bent inwards in the posterior lobe towards the one of the opposite side. And the inferior cornu, beginning opposite the posterior fold of the corpus callosum, descends in a curved direction in the middle lobe, with the concavity of the bend turned inwards. For the purpose of examining its boundaries, the ventricle consists may be divided into an upper or horizontal, and a lower or partT° descending part.