DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 496 three fossae. Number of the hernial protru- sions same as fossae. Situation of the femoral hernia. Dissec- tion of the parts concern- ed. Anato- my of the struc- tures. fossa at the lower part of the abdomen on each side of that cord, corresponding with the subdivisions of that triangular space, and with the spots at which the two kinds of internal hernia escape. When the hypogastric cord has the unusual position last mentioned, there may be three fossce at each side, on the lower part of the abdominal wall; one between it and the urachus, another between it and the epigastric, and a third outside the epigastric artery. The presence of these fossae determines the production of the different kinds of inguinal hernia; there being one, two, or three, on each side, according to the fossae. Femoral Hernia. — In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen below Poupart’s ligament, in the loose membra- nous sheath that surrounds the femoral vessels. The course that the intestine takes, and the coverings that it receives, will be readily understood after the anatomy of the parts among which it passes lias been learnt. Only so much of the structures will be described here, as can be now seen, the rest are fully noticed in the dissection of the thigh. Dissection. — The examination of the parts concerned in the femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the pubes, and the peritoneum is to be detached from the inner surface of the wall, and from the iliac fossa. The layer of the subperitoneal fat is next to be separated in the same way, but before doing this it will be necessary to cut through the cord at the abdominal ring : as this layer is raised, one or more lymphatic glands will be seen by the side of the iliac vessels. Any loose tissue that remains, is to be taken away to show the upper opening of the membranous sheath which contains the femoral vessels. In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the iliac fascia and the fascia transver- salis are to be traced to Poupart’s ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the crural sheath. Anatomy. — The structures concerned in the femoral hernia are severally to be examined, viz. the subperitoneal fat; the membranes (transversalis and iliac fascia) lining the interior of the abdominal cavity near Poupart’s ligament, with the sheath to which they give origin; and, lastly, the crural ring, or the space through which the hernia leaves the abdomen.