66 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. thetic nerve. Crossing over the vessels, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives downwards its branch (descendens noni) most commonly in front of the sheath. Along the outer part of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, till it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. And on the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve appears; whilst a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thy- roid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve. Appearing also on the inner side of the two carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which courses forwards between them. Two glandular bodies, the submaxillary and thyroid, have their seat in this triangular space of the neck. Altogether in front of the vessels, and partly concealed by the jaw, is the submaxillary gland; and beneath it on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus is the small nerve to that muscle, with and thy- the submental artery. By the side of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the common carotid artery, is the thyroid body, which is covered by the sterno-thyroid muscle: in the female this body is much more strongly marked than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, would be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projects some- what below the level of the jaw. Its connections have been noticed at p. 31. roid body. Parotid gland. Anterior jugular vein joins subcla- vian vein. Direction. — The student has next to proceed with the examination of the individual parts that have been referred to in connection with the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein. — This small vein occupies the middle line of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of development of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then turns outwards beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, to open into the subclavian vein, or the external jugular. In the neck the anterior and external jugular veins communicate. There are two anterior veins, one for each side, though one is usually larger than the