439 STRUCTURE OF THE CORD. lateral, and posterior, whose limits are the following: — The division anterior reaches from the anterior roots of the nerves to the median fissure in front, and is in a line with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata (p. 203.). The lateral column is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves, and is continued with that name into the medulla oblongata. The posterior, with its small segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind: above, it is prolonged into the restiform body. Structure of the Cord. — A horizontal section of the cord medulla shows more distinctly the division into halves, of gray with the commissural or connecting piece between them, white The same cut demonstrates the existence of white and gray matter * matter in its composition, as in the brain ; but it will be at once perceived, that the gray substance is surrounded by the white, instead of being external as in the encephalon. a. The commissural piece consists chiefly of a transverse these in , . , commis- baud ot gray matter, but it has a white stratum at the sure, anterior part. The gray part consists of nerve cells, and of transverse struc- nerve fibres derived from the opposite halves of the cord the gray and the posterior roots of the nerves. In its centre is a streak or band of a lighter yellow colour, which has been named the gray nucleus by Kdlliker, and is composed of small multinuclear, and branched cells. The white anterior piece of the commissure is formed and of partly by fibres of the anterior column; and partly by fibrils jjjjte of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from the one half to the other (Kolliker). It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and least developed in the dorsal region. b. In the half of the medulla, the gray and white material The ° . . same in have the same position to one another as in the commissure, the half r 5 of the but the former is elongated from before back, and is quite cord- surrounded by the latter. The gray matter has the same general structure as that in struc- the commissural piece, and is semilunar or crescentic in ^ and ar- shape, with the horns of the crescent directed towards the ranse- ment of roots ot the nerves, and the convexity to the centre of the thepart. cord: the crescentic masses in opposite halves of the cord Connec- • , . . 1 . tions of are united by the commissure. The posterior cornu is Ion0, the cres. r ° cent. r f 4