THE SPERMATIC CORD. 483 i i 2 VIOUS, or saccu- of the abdomen than elsewhere. A prolongation is sent from it along the cord. This structure will be more spe- cially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, Perito- projects slightly forwards opposite the abdominal ring, the groin Connected with it, at that spot, is a fibrous process, the longed remains of a prolongation from it to the testis in the fetus, cord; which extends a certain distance along the front of the cord; but there is great variety in its condition. In one body the process can be followed only a very short distance, whilst in piece^ another it may be traced as a fine band to the tunica vagi- imper nalis of the testis. In other instances it may be sacculated at intervals, or, in rarer cases, it may form only one large bag lated> in front in the cord: these last two conditions can be ex- plained by an arrest in the changes usually taking place in the piece of the peritoneum that is prolonged to the testis, for should it be closed only opposite the abdominal ring, one large pouch or sac would be left in front of the cord, and should it be obliterated here and there, the sacculated state would result. Lastly, as a rare condition, the tube of peri- or open, toneum may be found unobliterated, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the tube of peritoneum sometimes remains In fe- . . male, pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; partly ° open. the unobliterated passage is named the canal of Nuck. The spermatic cord extends from the internal abdominal sperma- . . _ tic cord ring to the testis, and consists of the vessels and the efferent duct of that gland united together by coverings from the structures by or through which it passes. In the wall ofisob-. J A lique m the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its aperture of th^ab- entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit from the muscles ; but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in the pas- and ver- sage, which has been named the inguinal canal, it is placed at yond. first (beginning externally) beneath the internal oblique, §Sec' and rests against the fascia transversalis; but beyond the palts lower border of the oblique muscle, or nearer the pubes, it around rests on the upper surface of Poupart’s ligament, and has the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it.