519 CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. L l 4 the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (cceliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava will be dissected at the same time as the aorta. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the Aorta diaphragm, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left middle side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At the diaphragm the ot spine' vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but it gradually inclines to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta parts is covered at first by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas around’ and the splenic vein ; still lower (beyond the superior me- senteric artery) by the left renal vein and the duodenum ; and thence to its termination by the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lumbar vertebrae ; and to its right side is the vena cava. Its branches are furnished Branch, to the viscera and the wall of the abdomen, but these will be enumerated farther on. The vena cava inferior commences on the right side of vena the fifth lumbar vertebra by the union of the common iliac extent veins, and reaches from that spot to the heart. In the abdo- nections; men this venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column ; and it and the aorta are concealed by the is by the same parts, as high as the crus of the diaphragm. It lies close the to the aorta, as far as the diaphragm, but above that spot it a°lta’ ascends on the right of the crus, and is imbedded in the except posterior part of the liver. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen above* by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of the aortic opening. The vena cava is joined Branch- by some branches from the abdominal viscera, and by others es' corresponding with the branches of the aorta that are sup- plied to the parietes of the abdomen. CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Directions.— The situation, and the connections of the duodenum and pancreas should be next looked to. Dissection.— To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the Remove pancreas, the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be intestine removed in the following way : — one ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end