DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 518 Other branches ■of radial. Digital artery of the thumb. Digital artery of the fore linger. Deep branch of ulnar nerve. Muscu- lar off- sets. Liga- ment of head' of metacar- pal bones. Seven inter- osseous arteries, which occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers : these branches supply the interosseous muscles, and vary much in their size and distribution. Branches of the radial artery. — As soon as the radial artery enters the hand, it gives off the large artery of the thumb, and the digital branch of the index finger : — The large artery of the thumb (art. princeps pollicis) runs along the metacarpal bone of the thumb, between the ab- ductor indicis and the flexor brevis pollicis, to reach the interval between the heads of the last muscle, where it divides into the two collateral digital branches of the thumb. The distribution of these is the same as that of the arteries of the superficial arch. The digital branch of the index finger (art. radialis in- dicis) is directed over the abductor indicis, and beneath the short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of the fore finger. At the free or anterior border of the ab- ductor indicis this branch is connected by an offset with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the finger it unites with the digital branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery. The deep branch of the ulnar nerve accompanies the deep palmar arch of the radial artery as far as the muscles of the thumb, and terminates in branches to the adductor pollicis, the inner head of the short flexor, and the abductor indicis. Branches.— Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives an offset to each palmar and dorsal interosseous muscle, and to each of the two inner lumbrical muscles, besides the terminal branches to the muscles before mentioned. The transverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of the metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is hollowed where the flexor tendons cross it; and beneath it the interossei muscles pass to their insertion. To the pos- terior border the fascia that covers the interossei muscles is united. This ligament should be taken away to see the interossei muscles. The interossei muscles are so named from their position between the metacarpal bones, and are seven in number. Two muscles occupy each space, except the first in which