DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 356 Form of right auricle. Its base; apex. Anterior wall presents auricula. Poste- rior wall is mark- ed by fossa ovalis. Annulus of Vieus- sens. Aper- tures of cardiac veins. the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of these cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of thread, and removing the coagulated blood, the shape of the cavity will be apparent. The cavity of the right auricle * is rather of an irre- gular form, though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up as above directed, it has somewhat the appear- ance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex to the left. The base or wider part of the cavity is turned towards the right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and inferior cavae. Between those vessels the wall of the cavity projects somewhat, and presents a slight ele~ vation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the large opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near its upper part is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or auricula, which will admit the tip of the little finger. Around, and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati, which cross in different directions, forming a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall corresponds for the most part, in con- sequence of the position of the heart, to the septum between the auricles. On it, nearer the inferior than the superior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis, which is the remains of an opening in the fetus between the auricles. Inf$riorly the fossa merges into the opening of the lower cavta. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fossa, and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture at its upper part. Around the upper three fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of muscular fibre, called annulus seu isthmus Vieussenii, which is most prominent above and on the inner side, and gradually subsides inferiorly. Alto- gether at the lower part of the posterior wall, between the opening into the ventricle and that of the inferior cava, is * Sometimes the term cavity of the auricle is applied only to the appendix, and the term sinus vcnosus to the rest of the space here named auricle.