160 DISSECTION OP THE TONGUE. glossus position and extent. Fibres. Rest of stylo- glossus joins fellow. Hyo- glossus ; super, ficial parts; mode of ending. Deeper part or chondro- glossus, origin, connec- tions the three anterior fourths of the dorsum, beneath the super- ficial lingualis. In this muscular stratum the fibres radiate from the point of contact of the muscles with the tongue, — some passing almost horizontally inwards to the centre, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the side of the tongue, and some fibres are inclined in front of the hyo-glossus, to the under surface, to join those of the oppo- site muscle beneath the tip. Hyo-glossus. — The two superficial parts of the muscle (basio and cerato-glossus, p. 101.) enter the under surface of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the lingualis. After entering that surface by separate bundles, they are bent round the margin of the tongue, and then form, with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum, whose disposition and extent have been before stated. The third part of the muscle, or the chondro-glossus, is distinct from the rest at its origin, and is separated from them higher up by a slip of the genio-hyo-glossus, and by the lingual vessels. About two or three lines wide at its origin from the root of the small cornu, and from part of the body of the os hyoides, the muscle is directed upwards and forwards to the root of the tongue beneath the hinder fibres ending 0f the genio-hyo-glossus. In entering the tongue the fibres tongue, spread out beneath the upper lingualis, passing obliquely in- wards and forwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, and extend as far as the hyo-glossus, with which they be- come blended. Muscu- Cortex of the tongue. — The muscles above described, to- cortex of gether with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, that covers the tongue, except below where some muscles are placed, and resembles “ a slipper turned upside down.” * This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. Ar- The genio-hyo-glossus enters the tongue vertically on the ment in side of the septum, and perforates the cortical covering to the m tongue; end in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres * This apt simile has been used by Mr. Zaglas in an accurate paper on the muscular structure of the tongue. See Annals of Anatomy and Physiology, Part I., by Mr. Goodsir. Edin. 1850.