636 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Wall. An erec- tile structure in the wall. Erectile tissue forms semi- bulbs, which corre- spond to the bulb of the male. The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly, where the urethra is situate, than at any other part of the canal. Structure.— The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy erectile tissue ; this is covered externally by a muscular layer, and lined internally by mucous membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphincter vaginas muscle (p. 462.). The erectile tissue is more abundant at the ends than the middle of the vagina, and in greatest quantity below where it gives increased thickness to the wall. Two masses of the erectile tissue, one on each side of the opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor, and as the bulbi vestibuli by Kobelt. These are elongated masses of plexiform veins, about an inch in length, which are enclosed in fibrous membrane, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vaginae. At its upper part each is pointed, is continued to the clitoris, and commu- nicates with the vessels of that body ; whilst at the posterior rounded part it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies are supposed by Kobelt to be the homologue of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrae in the male; but in the female this corresponding part is split, instead of forming one piece in the middle line, and each lateral half is thrust aside towards the crus clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina. Mucous The mucous membrane is continued through the lower mem- . ° of the aPerture> over the vessels of the nymphae, which it encloses, vagina, to join the integument on the labia majora; and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many muciparous glands and follicles abound on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. The papillae on the surface are conical or filiform in shape. A laminar epithelium gives a lining to the membrane. Muscu- The muscular layer is outside the erectile structure, and lar stra- . . tum. consists of longitudinal fibres; some reach all along the va- gina; others, and these are the strongest, only as far upwards as the recto-vesical fascia, to which they are attached on each side. Above they end in the superficial layer of the uterus and in the peritoneum, but below in the subdermic tissue. Arteries. Bloodvessels and nerves. — The arteries are derived from the