CONNECTIONS OF THE LUNG. 347 between, as low as the fourth costal cartilage; but below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch, whose apex is oppo- site the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib, and whose ase is turned to the middle line. Two fissures are seen in this border of the right lung, but only one in that of the left lung. The posterior border is as long again as the anterior, and projects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column. On the outer aspect the lung is convex, and is in contact with the wall of the thorax. A large cleft divides this sur- face into two pieces (lobes of the lung), and on the right side there is a second smaller fissure. The inner surface is flat when compared with the outer, and is marked by the following inequalities: — Altogether in front, is the hollow corresponding to the heart and its large vessels, which is greatest on the left lung ; behind this, but nearer the pos- terior than the anterior border, is a fissure about three inches long (hilum pulmonis), which receives the vessels forming the root of the lung. Each lung is divided incompletely into two parts or lobes by an oblique fissure, which begins near the apex, and ends in the anterior border near the base. From the form of the lung and the direction of the fissure, the lower lobe is neces- sarily the largest. In the right lung a second horizontal fissure is directed forwards, from the middle of the oblique one, to the anterior border, and cuts off a small triangular piece from the upper lobe: this is the third lobe of that lung. Occasionally there may be a trace of the third lobe in the left lung. Besides the dilference in the number of the lobes, the right lung is larger and heavier, and is wider and more hol- lowed out at the base than the left; it is also shorter by an inch. The increased length and the narrowness of the left lung are due to the absence below of a large projecting body like the liver, and to the direction of the heart to the left more than to the right side. Root of the lung. — The vessels of the lung entering the fissure on the inner surface are bound together by the pleura and some connective tissue; they form a foot-stalk or the root, which fixes the lung to the heart and the windpipe. Poste- rior edge is thick. External surface. Internal surface gives at- tach- ment to the root. Division into lobes. Left lias two, and the right three lobes. Differ- ence in form and size of the lungs. Root of lung.