DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 572 Nerves from about the kidney. The psoas muscle is the more in- bar ’ ternal, and lies on the side of the spine: on its surface, and plexus • in the fat external to it, the branches of the lumbar plexus will be found. The genito-crural nerve lies on the front; and four other nerves issue at the outer border — the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along the inner border of the muscle the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and somewhat below the Dissect pelvic part of the muscle, the obturator nerve. External to tus^um- the psoas is the quadratus lumborum muscle, and crossing it near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In macus the hollow of the hip bone is the iliacus muscle. Both muscle. x muscles may be cleaned on the right side, whilst the fascia that covers them may be observed on the opposite side. Extent The abdominal aorta extends from the last dorsal ver- aorta. tebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar ver- tebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the fleshy pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is nearly on a level with the highest part Connec- of the crest of the hip bone. The connections of the vessel tions. with surrounding parts have been before referred to (p. 519.), and its branches now remain to be examined. Place of The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the the8 '1 ° following order: — First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two esj in number, which, if they arise separately, leave the sides of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front of the aorta; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on its front, the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the fore part of the trunk, close above each renal, is the small capsular branch, and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the front of the aorta, one to two inches above thq bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery ; and from the angle of division the small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four or five small lumbar arteries on each side come from the pos-