DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 474 Outer margin. A fascia prolong- ed from the opening. The cord in male. and her- nial pro- trusion pass through. Inter- colum- nar fibres. Attach- ment in- teriorly. They cross upper part of ring, and pro- duce the thin in- terco- lumnar fascia. To see insertion of Pou- part’s li- gament. Throw down piece of external oblique. where it crosses the corresponding piece of the opposite side — that of the right muscle being superficial. The outer mar- gin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but is bent around the spermatic cord, so as to form a kind of groove for it. This margin is continuous with Poupart’s ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine or tube- rosity. A thin membrane (intercolumnar or spermatic fas- cia) obscures the sides of the opening, and is derived from some intermarginal or intercolumnar fibres on the surface of the aponeurosis. The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in the female to the round ligament; in each case the transmitted part lies on the outer or lower margin or pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar fibres. Through the same aperture the inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fibres form a layer over the aponeu- rosis, and bind together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a resisting membrane. Inferiorly it is strongest, and there a bundle of the fibres is connected with the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, and is extended back to the crista ilii. At the external abdominal ring they stretch from side to side (hence the origin of their name), and, becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper part of that open- ing. Moreover they are prolonged on the cord from the margin of the ring, and give rise to the membrane named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female. Dissection.— To see the attachments and connections of Poupart’s ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both sides of the body, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeurosis from the front of the iliac crest nearly to the linea alba. The aponeurosis is to be detached from the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel; and when it cannot be separated farther from the tendons be- neath, near the middle line, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the trian- gular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the thigh, the cord is to be dislodged from the surface of the ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubes,