148 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Gan- glion of Meckel. Situa- tion and con- nection with spheno. palatine branch, es. Struc- ture. Branch, es given to the orbit; to the palate, are three. Large the petrous part of the temporal bone, and the internal carotid artery ; and is to be pursued on the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii. Its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. It is rather a troublesome task to trace the nerve through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). The sphenopalatine ganglion (ganglion of Meckel) occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- palatine foramen, and is connected with the palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve. The ganglionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a greyish colour. It is situate, for the most part, behind the branches of the superior maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround only part of their fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the vidian nerve. Meckel’s ganglion resembles the other ganglionic masses in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots con- nected with it, and in this wise : — its sensory nerve fibres come from the fifth nerve, its motor fibres from the facial nerve through the vidian branch, and its sympathetic fibres are continued from the carotid plexus through the sheath of the vidian. The Branches of the ganglion are directed upwards to the orbit; downwards to the mouth ; inwards to the nose ; and backwards to the pharynx, and the facial and sympathetic nerves. Branches to the orbit. — These are two or three in number, which ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum. It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Branches to the palate. — The nerves of the palate, though connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continua- tion of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 106.). Below the ganglion they are divided into three palatine nerves (large, small, and external), which are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate and tonsil, and the lining membrane of the nose. a. The large palatine nerve (anterior) reaches the roof of the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and extends forwards nearly to