747 ARTICULATION OF THE KNEE. from around it, and to remove the fibrous structure that may obscure or conceal the ligamentous bands. In the knee joint a kind of capsule is to be defined around a cap-' ^ x sule and the articular surfaces of the bones : and there are four other the ex- ternal ligaments, anterior and posterior, internal and external, which are thickened bands at their respective parts of the articulation. Some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, and a part of each is to be left. The Articulation of the Knee. — The knee is the Bones in • • • • • th 0 largest hinge joint in the body, and is formed by the con- knee tiguous ends of the tibia and femur with the patella. The J0int' articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by the following ligaments : — A capsule surrounds the ends of the bones, and fills the Capsule intervals between the stronger special ligaments. The i°mpe?-n fascia lata is closely united with it. In front it receives veringT accessory fibres from the vasti and crureus, and from the biceps and sartorius; and, behind, from the tendon of the semimembranosus. It is connected with the interarticular cartilages, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle per- forates it. a. The external lateral ligament is round and cord-like ; External • lateral it is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the ligament tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to the outer part of the head of the fibula. A second fasciculus, short external lateral ligament, is sometimes found behind the other. Be- neath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into the upper part of Tendon the head of the fibula by two processes, and from one of biceps is these there is a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament passes between the pieces into which the tendon splits. The tendon of the popliteus may be followed to the femur Tendon by dividing the external lateral and capsular ligaments. It popliteus arises from the fore part of the oblong depression on the ed to outer surface of the external condyle of the femur : and in condyle; its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external