STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. 365 of involuntary muscles, and yet they are marked with trans- verse striae. a. In the wall of the auricles the fibres are mostly trans- verse, and are best marked at the lower part, though they form here but a thin layer; and some of these fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. Besides this set, there are annular fibres around the appendages of the auricles, and the openings of the different veins. Lastly, a few oblique fibres pass upwards over the auricles, and are attached below, both in front and behind, to the fibrous rings surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifices. b. In the wall of the ventricles the fibres are disposed in layers, which pass spirally downwards from the base towards the smaller part of the heart, where they make a sudden bend, and are reflected upwards with a straighter direction and a deeper position, to form the inner surface of the ven- tricular cavity. To allow of this turning inwards of the fibres, the deepest layers extend the shortest distance from the base of the ventricle. Each ventricle has, for the most part, its own formative fibres, which assist in constructing the septum between the cavities; but some bands are con- cerned in the production of the wall of both ventricles on the anterior and posterior aspects of the heart, near the base of the ventricles, where the fibres are nearly circular in direction, and cross the interventricular grooves. When these intercommunicating fibres are divided, the ventricles may be detached from one another.* Endocardium. — Lining the interior of the cavities of the heart is a thin membrane, which is continuous on the one hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. This membrane is so named in opposition to the external investment or pericardium. Where the membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures or valves, in which fibrous tissue is enclosed. In the ventricle it also covers the tendinous cords of the valves, and the projecting muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is less in the auricles than in the ventricles. * For fuller detail concerning the structure of the heart, the student may refer to the article “ Heart ” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology. Disposi- tion in the au- ricles, where they are trans- verse, annular, and ob- lique. In the ventri- cles they pass from base to apex. The fibres of the ven- tricles are mostly separate. but some common to both. Lining mem- brane of the heart forms folds in the in- terior contain- ing fibrous tissue.