GUSTATORY OR LINGUAL NERVE. 103 anastomoses with the artery of the other side of the body. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue. This artery corresponds to the fraenum linguae, near the tip This lies of the tongue, but lies close to the muscular fibres. franum. The lingual vein commences both on the upper and under Lingual surfaces of the tongue. It lies with its companion artery, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The gustatory or lingual nerve has been followed in Lingual the examination of the pterygo-maxillary region to its passage nerve between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal ptery- goid muscle. In this dissection the nerve is seen to be along inclined forwards to the side of the tongue, over the mucous tongue membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior con- strictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side to the apex of the tongue. In this region the gustatory nerve is separated altogether from the cavity of the mouth by the layer of mucous membrane. Branches are furnished to the surrounding parts, thus : — gives branches Two or more branches connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, t0 the near the gland of that name. ganglion Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite to ninth nerve in a kind of plexus with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the to mu- mouth and the gums, and to the sublingual gland. cous mem- brane. Lastly the branches for the tongue ascend through the to the^ muscular substance, and are distributed as well to the conical and fungiform papillae. ‘ Submaxillary ganglion. — Closely connected with the sub- gustatory nerve is this little ganglion, which resembles the ry gan- other ganglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth gh°n ’ nerve, since it communicates with sensory, motory, and sym- pathetic nerves. It is a small reddish body, about the size nature; of the lenticular ganglion, and is placed above the deep pro- cess of the submaxillary gland. Offsets proceed upwards to connect it with other nerves, and from the lower part arise the branches that are distributed to the adjacent structures. Connection with nerves — roots.— Two or three branches, in the joins form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatory nerve. At foTyf' the posterior part, the ganglion is further joined by an offset from andfym the chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies in contact with Pathetic y nerves.