ORGANS OP GENERATION. 633 rectum; and of those that are special to the female, viz. the organs of generation. Dissection. — The contents of the pelvis are to be removed To re- . move together with the genital organs. In this proceeding, the the vis- student is to keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid the end of the rectum, and the crura of the clitoris that are connected to the bone. After and pre- pare the parts referred to are taken from the body, the rectum is them- to be detached from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until the genital organs are examined. The bladder may be moderately distended, and the fatty tissue and the vessels are to be removed from the viscera. ORGANS OF GENERATION. The generative organs of the female are classed into ex- ternal and internal, from their position with respect to the pelvis. The external or genital organs consist of the following External parts: — the mons Veneris and the external labia, the clitoris ar!ans and the internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen or the remnant of it. Sometimes the term vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pudendi. — In front of the pubes mons . . . . 1 Veneris the integument is covered with hair, and is raised into a and slight eminence,—mons Veneris, by a layer of subjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence mentioned, are two folds of integument, the labia pudendi (labia majora), labi.a which correspond with the scrotum in the male. Above and below, the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures, but between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inferiorly; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with a mucous membrane provided with follicles and seba- ceous glands. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named Four- chette fourchette, or frenulum; and between this fold and the lower and e/ ' f()SS<i commissure is the interval of the fossa navicidaris.