389 (ESOPHAGUS. left azygos veins; some oesophageal, mediastinal, and verte- bral veins, and the right bronchial vein. The left lower or smaller azygos vein (inferior) begins in the abdomen, in the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Having entered the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the diaphragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, and then crosses beneath that vessel and the thoracic duct to end in the larger or right vein. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal veins. Most commonly there is a left upper azygos vein (M. Breschet), which is formed by offsets from the spaces be- tween the superior intercostal vein and the highest branch of the left lower azygos. Receiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosse's the spine to open separately into the right vein. The (esophagus is a hollow muscular tube which extends from the pharynx to the stomach. The cervical part of the tube has been described at page 128., and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Entering the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed inwards beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fourth or fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the greater part of the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, and superficial to the other contiguous bodies; but at the lower part of the thorax, it is again inclined to the left, over the aorta, to gain the oesophageal opening of the dia- phragm. As far as the arch of the aorta the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube : but beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium, down to the diaphragm. In this extent the tube is covered on the sides by the pleurae, and lies, below the arch, on the right of the aorta. At the upper part of the thorax the oesophagus will be found to rest on the longus colli muscle and the ver- tebrae ; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the intercostal vessels, and lastly it lies on the aorta. Below the situation of the bronchus the pneumo- gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with their branches, c c 3 Small, or left lower, begins in abdo- men. ends in larger azygos. Branch es. Another left azygos vein (upper). (Eso- phagus is partly in neck and partly in the thorax, where it lies in front of the spine, passes through dia- phragm. Parts covering it, on the sides, and be- neath.