DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 536 how formed. Extent on the intes- tine. Opening of bile duct; ■where situate. Some- times double. Parts to be learnt in the intes- tine. The villi cover 1 the sur- face ; 1 1 Lfl their shape. L size, and \ number. i Compo- sition. Several ones are about two inches long, with two-thirds of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each valve is formed of a doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses vessels between the layers. The valves begin in the duodenum, about one or two inches beyond the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle of the jejunum; but beyond that point they become smaller, and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudimentary. The valvulse are largest and most regular beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The aperture of the common bile and pancreatic ducts is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches from the pylorus, and is situate in a small prominence on the mucous mem- brane of the duodenum, at the inner and posterior part of the intestine. A probe passed into the bile duct will show the oblique or valvular course (half an inch) through the wall of the intestine. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. — With the use of the microscope, and with fresh pieces of intestine, the student will be able to make out the nature of the villi, the several glandular structures, and the epithelium. Villi.— When the mucus is washed away from a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, and this is examined in water, the mucous membrane will be found to be studded over very thickly with small projections, which give it the appearance of velvet. Existing along the whole of the small intestine, both on the valves and between them, these bodies are irregular in form, some being triangular, others conical, or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from J^th to g^th of an inch. They are best marked where the valvulee conniventes are largest; there their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 over the same surface.—Krause. Each villus is an extension of the mucous coat, which contains a capillary network of arteries, mostly a single vein, and lacteal vessels. The entire surface of each is invested with columnar epithelium. Glands. — In the glandular apparatus of the small intes-