DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 792 Inferior palatine. Nerves from several sources. Dissec- tion to prepare the nerves before entering, and in the tym- panic cavity. Tympa- nic nerve supplies mem- brane and other branch- es ; a circle around the membrana tympani, from which branches are directed inwards. c. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the inferior palatine artery, enter the space along the Eus- tachian tube. Nerves.—The lining membrane of the tympanum is sup- plied from the plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) established between Jacobson’s and the sympathetic nerve; but the muscles derive their nerves from another source. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection.—The preparation of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves are hardened in spirit. The origin of Jacobson’s nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the skull (p. 113.); and the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric is to be looked for at the same time. Supposing the nerves to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it backwards through the vaginal and styloid pro- cesses of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but not to open the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, lest the facial nerve should be injured. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson’s nerve is to be followed in its canal, and the branches that lie in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pur- sued — one of these arching forwards and two coursing upwards. The connections of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (nerve of Jacobson, p. 115.) enters a special aperture in the temporal bone, and is conducted by it to the inner wall of the tympanum. At this spot the nerve supplies filaments to the lining membrane of the cavity; and it terminates in the three following branches, which are contained in grooves on the promontory, and connect this nerve with others.* * Instead of viewing these filaments as offsets of the nerve of Jacob- son, it may be supposed that they are branches derived from the other