DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 326 and in- serted with it, Dissec tion of supi- nator brevis. Origin of short supina- tor; and in- sertion into the radius. Over- lying and con tiguous parts. Poste- rior in- teros- seous artery is be- tween the two layersof muscles that muscle, and becomes blended with it in the expansion on the first phalanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer but afterwards it is subaponeurotic. Dissection.— To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, its fibres are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The supinator brevis arises from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint; from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna; and from the external margin of the ulna below that depression for about two inches. From this origin the fibres pass outwards, and are inserted into the upper third or half of the radius except at the inner part, reaching downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and for- wards to the hollowed anterior surface. This supinator is altogether concealed at the posterior and external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer; and an- teriorly the radial artery and nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the posterior interosseous artery intervening. Through the substance of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve winds to the back of the limb. The upper part of the radius is surrounded by the fleshy fibres of the muscle, except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone beneath it. The posterior interosseous artery is an offset from the common interosseous trunk (p. 304.), and reaches the back of the forearm above the ligament between the bones. Passing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends between the superficial and deep layers of muscles nearly to the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal . and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes many mus- cular offsets, and the following recurrent branch: — The recurrent branch springs from the artery near its Its re-