703 SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. the sacral nerves; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other small near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united ment ' with the large ligamentous band, but at the opposite end attach, it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is concealed, and rests on the coccygeus muscle. These ligaments convert the large sacro-sciatic notch of they: . . . . give r*se the dried pelvis into two apertures or foramina by their to two A A p notches : attachments to the bones. Between the insertion of both into the innominate bone (the spine and tuberosity) is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal ob- JJJJJ1* turator muscle with its nerve, and the pudic vessels and contents; nerve. Whilst above the smaller ligament is the large sacro- sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis ]**^aYts muscle, and several vessels and nerves, viz. the gluteal ves- f^|h sels, and the superior gluteal nerve above, and the sciatic il- and pudic vessels and nerves, with some muscular branches of the sacral plexus below the muscle. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. — The ham or the popliteal space may be dis- Hireo sected after the buttock, in order that it may be seen with its size and boundaries less disturbed than they would be if it was dissected subsequently to the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. — The limb is to remain in the same position as Position, in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection. —To remove the skin from the popliteal region, Take the skin let an incision be made behind the knee joint, beginning it from over the about six inches above the knee, and ending it four inches ham. below the joint. At each extremity of this longitudinal cut, let a transverse incision be made, so as to allow the skin to be raised in two flaps, the one being turned outwards, and the other inwards.