DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 382 Crepita^ tion, and elas- ticity of the pul- monary textuue. Specific gravity, and weight of the lung. Follow bronchi and ves- sels into the lung. Outline of the elements of the lung. tion being made into it, the pulmonary substance will appear porous and spongy; but the lung which is deprived of its air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. In the ordinary condition of the lung, slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from its containing cells through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as cre- pitation. If the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic ; this elasticity causing the organ both to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the condi- tions of dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary tissue is free from fluid, and filled with air it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is influenced greatly by the quantity of fluid or other material contained in its texture; ordinarily it varies from eighteen to twenty-one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection.— By tracing the large branches of the bronchi, and the bloodvessels and nerves into the lung, the mode of branching of the air tubes will be apparent; and by in- flating a part of the lung, the cellular structure may be seen. But the arrangement of the air cells about their tube, and that of the different vessels cannot be ascertained without injections and a microscope. Structure of the Lung. — The spongy pulmonary structure consists of minute cells, in which the smallest branches of the air tube terminate ; and the mass of the lung is formed by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of these into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from the surrounding ones, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its own set of vessels concerned in both its function and nutrition. The constituents of the lung are united by a serous covering, which is prolonged con- tinuously over the surface, and by a subserous layer of con- nective tissue which penetrates into the interior, subdividing