150 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Vidian a com- pound nerve. Seek other nerves and ves- sels of nose. Nasal nerve lies be- neath nasal bone; gives branch to sep- tum and to outer wall. Branch- es of internal maxil- lary ar- tery are men lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve. Lastly it is con- tinued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlarge- ment on the facial nerve. "Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve may be considered to consist of motor and sympathetic fibres in the same sheath, these being combined here in the same manner as in the connecting branches between the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. — The student may now direct his attention to the remaining nerves and vessels that are distributed in the nasal cavity. Dissection. — The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose behind the nasal bone, by gently detaching the lining mem- brane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum nasi, but probably this and the trunk of the nerve will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery with its veins in the spheno- maxillary fossa are to be completely traced out. The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) has been already seen in the orbit and skull, and at its termination in the face (p. 47.) ; and the part that connects the two through the nose is now to be learned. Entering the nasal fossa by an aperture at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a branch to the membrane of the septum of the nose, and is then continued in a groove behind the os nasi to the lower margin of this bone, where it escapes to the surface of the nose. Branches.— The branch to the septum divides into filaments, that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or two filaments are likewise furnished by the nerve to the mucous membrane of the fore part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. — The branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not been hitherto seen, are the following: — superior palatine, naso-palatine, pterygo-palatine, and vi- dian.