96 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. Sensory trunk of inferior maxil- lary. Conveys a few motor fibres. Auricu- lo-tem- poral division lies be- neath jaw, and sup- plies branch- es to the meatus and joint of jaw • a'branch to the ear, and parotid branch- es. to join facial and otic ganglion. Inferior dental is be- tween ptery- Its offsets are inclined towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integument, together with the buccinator muscle and the lining mucous membrane. This branch is united freely with the facial nerve, and forms a kind of plexus. B. The larger part of the inferior maxillary nerve ends in three trunks, auriculo-temporal, dental, and gustatory. A few of the fibres of the small (motor) root of the fifth are applied to this part, and are conveyed by it to certain muscles, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, and mylo- hyoideus and digastricus. The auriculo-temporal nerve separates from the others near the base of the skull, and oftentimes has two roots. Its course to the surface of the head is first backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle, as far as the inner part of the articulation of the jaw ; and lastly upwards with the temporal artery in front of the ear, and beneath the pa- rotid gland. In this course the nerve furnishes branches to the surrounding parts, viz. to the joint, the ear, and the pa- rotid gland, and communicates also with the facial nerve. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the following : — a. Branches for the meatus auditorius and the articulation.— Two offsets are directed from the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculo-temporal nerve to the interior of the auditory meatus, between the cartilage and the bone. The branch to the articulation of the jaw is supplied from the trunk of the auri- culo-temporal near the same spot, or from its branches to the meatus. h. The inferior auricular branch supplies the external ear below the meatus auditorius. This branch also furnishes offsets along the internal maxillary artery, which communicate with the sympa- thetic nerve. c. Parotid branches.— These are small filaments that enter the substance of the gland. d. Branches communicating with the facial and sympathetic nerves. — Two or more branches around the external carotid artery con- nect the auriculo-temporal with the facial nerve ^ and filaments to the otic ganglion arise near its beginning. The inferior dental is the largest of the three trunks into which the inferior maxillary nerve divides, and is directed to the canal in the lower jaw. At first the nerve lies beneath the external pterygoid muscle, where it is