350 DISSECTION OF THE TnORAX. Its struc- ture. Serous layer lilies fibrous. and covers surface of heart. Pecu- liarities in its reflec- tions. V essels. This hollow body is centre of circula- tion. Form. Sur- faces and borders. Size. of that tendon, and reaches the fleshy fibres. This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres that cross in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior of the fibrous pericar- dium, and is reflected over the surface of the heart. Like other serous membranes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral part. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives the shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface of the heart by the different vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the pulmonary artery, it contains those vessels in one tube, not passing between their contiguous surfaces; and at the pos- terior part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of opposite sides. The cavity of the serous sac is lubricated by a little fluid. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the in- ternal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular body, and is divided into four compartments by septa. It is the centre of the vas- cular system, and the agent in the propulsion of the blood through the body. Into it all veins enter, and from it the arteries issue. Form. — When the heart is distended, its form is rather conical; and it lies in the chest with the wider part, or the base directed upwards and to the right, and the rounded apex forwards and to the left side of the cavity. It is rather flattened from before backwards, and rounded on the left side, so that the surfaces and borders have differences which serve to distinguish them one from another: — thus the anterior surface is slightly convex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat; the left border is thick and round, but the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size. — The size varies greatly, and in general the heart of the woman is smaller than that of the man. The mea- surements may be said to be, commonly, four inches and