DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 468 sets from the lumbar plexus, viz. the ilio-hypogastric and ilio inguinal, are present at the lower part of the abdomen. Lateral The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge be- cuta- neousof tween the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the same set of nerves on the thorax; and the lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they appear on the surface they divide, with the exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branches are of small size, and are directed back- wards to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle. The anterior branches run forwards in the superficial fascia nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle, and supply the integuments on the side of the belly; they furnish offsets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger than the rest, and does not divide like the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region. Anterior The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen reach the neous surface by piercing the sheath of the rectus : in the integu- of'inter- ments they turn outwards towards the lateral cutaneous COStaL nerves. The number, and the place of exit of these small tercos- tal, which divide into poste- rior and anterior branch. Last dorsal nerve. Ilio-hy- pogastric nerves from the abdominal wall, are very uncertain. The ilio-hypogastric nerve is distributed on the surface by oPiumT two pieces : one lies over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the plexus, other ramifies on the lower part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch). The iliac branch is close to the crest of the innominate bone be- hind the last dorsal nerve, and enters the integument of the gluteal region : its size and its position on the bone are dependent upon the development and the situation of the offset of the last dorsal nerve. The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle above the external abdominal ring, and is distri- buted, as the name expresses, to the integument of the lower region of the abdominal parietes. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the external abdominal ring, and having perforated the deeper layer of the superficial fascia, descends to the scrotum and the upper and inner part of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. — Some cutaneous vessels are found with both sets of nerves on the abdomen : with the lateral Iliac branch. Hypo- gastric branch. Ilio-in- guinal nerve of the plexus. Vessels from two sources.