LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 175 convex from above down. To its sides the arytaano-epiglot- Sides, tidean folds of mucous membrane are united. The lower Foot part is connected by a fibrous band (thyro-epiglottidean liga- ment) to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, near the notch in the upper border. The epiglottis is further connected to the hyoid bone and the root of the tongue, in front of it, by strong bands of elastic and fibrous tissue. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the Glands epiglottis, the fibro-cartilaginous structure will be seen to be perforated by numerous apertures, that lodge muciparous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of sup-^ yellowish fat with some glands, which has been sometimes gland- called the epiglottidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx.— The larynx is connected Liga- by ligaments with the hyoid bone above, and with the theia- trachea below. Besides, there are connecting fibres uniting y"X’ together the cartilages; and between some of the cartilages synovial membranes exist. Union of the larynx with the hyoid hone and the trachea, between os hv- — A thin loose elastic membrane (thyro-byoid) passes from oides the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone, and a second mem- chea. brane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-liyoid ligament is attached on the one part to Thyro- the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and on the other, mem- to the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards the sides, and finally ends in a rounded elastic cord that intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal nerve and artery perforate this ligament, and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral part of the ligament will be sometimes found a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid Crico. cartilage to the first ring of the trachea — crico-tracheal S-al ligament, resembles the band joining the rings of the trachea brane’ to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages.— These car- Between tilages are joined, in the middle line in front, by the crico- andThy-