DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 346 lung. is to be dissected out by taking away the pleura and the connective tissue from its front and back, without injuring its several vessels. In this dissection the phrenic artery Trace and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with the . ° nerves, a few nerves (anterior pulmonary); the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the large vagus nerve. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. CONNECTIONS OF THE LUNG. Number The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column, and use. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. Form. The lung is of a somewhat conical form, corresponding to the shape of the half of the chest in which it i3 lodged, and is unattached on all sides, except at the inner part where the vessels enter and form its root. It is covered, as before said, by the bag of the pleura, except at the root. From the irregularity of its shape, it presents for examination a base and apex, two borders, and two surfaces; it is also divided into lobes by fissures, and has a root composed of the vessels and nerves entering its inner surface. Base The base of the lung is hollowed, and fits on the convexity dia- of the diaphragm ; at its circumference is a thinned part, i>iiragm. projects jnt0 ^he narr0w space between that muscle and shape the thoracic wall. Following the shape of that muscle, it is level, sloped obliquely from before backwards, and in consequence reaches much lower at the posterior than at the anterior edge. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be ascertained externally by taking the levels of the diaphragm as guides (p. 342.); and it must be remembered that the lung will be a rib’s breadth lower in front on the Apex is left, than on the right side. The apex is rounded, and neck.c projects an inch to an inch and a half above the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. Anterior The anterior edge or border is thin, and overlays in part thin!ls the pericardium. On the right side it lies along the middle on right °f the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. On the apd left left side it is in contact with its fellow, only pleura being