416 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. is in- serted into six lower ribs. IVIuscu- lus ac- cesso- rius is at- tached to the ribs. Cervi- calis ascen- dens reaches the neck, Longis- simus dorsi is in- serted into ribs and trans- verse pro- cesses ; is con- tinued to the neck by the trans- versalis colli, and to the head by the trachelo- mastoid. Connec- tions of spinas. The fibres that compose it end in six or seven flat tendons, which are connected together by their margins, and are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs and the neck by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under- mentioned muscles: — * The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem begins by a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the lower six ribs, internal to the tendons of insertion of the outer part or ilio-costalis ; and ends in tendons, which are inserted into the remaining ribs (upper six) in a line with those of the ilio-costalis, and into the transverse process (diapophysis) of the seventh cervical vertebra. * The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip that prolongs the accessorius into the neck. United with the preceding, this muscle is attached to four ribs (third, fourth, fifth, and sixth), and is inserted into the tips of the transverse pro- cesses (diapophyses) of three cervical vertebrae, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth. * The longisseuus dorsi gradually decreases in size as it ascends along the thorax, and is continued like the former to the neck. Internally the muscle is inserted into the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae by a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles ; and externally into the ribs, except the two or three first, by thin fleshy processes which are fixed between the tubercle and angle. Its mus- cular prolongation to the neck is inseparably united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces: — The transversalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse processes (diapophyses) of the cervical vertebrae, except the first and last. The trachelo-mastoid muscle arises in common with the preceding, and has besides an attachment by distinct tendons to the articular processes of the last three or four cervical vertebrae. The fibres form a thin muscle, that is inserted beneath the splenius into the upper half of the posterior part of the mastoid process: its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide. * Connections of erector spince.—The erector spinae and its