DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 122 the skull. Branch- es are sent to ex- ternal carotid, forming plexuses and ganglia; to inter nal ca- rotid, which join cra- nial nerves; to pha- ryngeal plexus; to car- diac plexuses. One nerve to deep plexus joins others in neck. Middle gan- glion. of the offset continued upwards from the ganglion into the carotid canal. Branches for Distribution. — This set of branches is more numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are of larger size. 1. Branches for bloodvessels (nervi molles). These nerves pro- ceed to the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches, forming plexuses on the vessels, which have the same name as the arteries they surround. Some small ganglia are occasionally found on these ramifying branches. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the submaxillary ganglion communicates with the sympa- thetic : and through the plexus on the internal maxillary afctery the otic ganglion is supplied with a similar communication. With these nerves may be described another offset of the gan- glion to the internal carotid artery and its branches. This offset ascends from the upper part of the ganglion, of which it appears to be a continuation. Near the skull it divides into two pieces, that enter the canal for the carotid artery, one on each side of that vessel, and are continued, forming secondary plexuses on the oph- thalmic and cerebral arteries, to the eyeball and the meninges of the brain. In the carotid canal communications are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 115.) and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 148.); the former being placed near the lower, and the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses that these nerves form in their course to the base of the brain are described at p. 22. 2. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join in the pharyngeal plexus with the other pharyn- geal branches of the eighth cranial nerve. 3. Cardiac nerves.— The cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the cardiac plexuses of the heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, middle, and infe- rior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side con- tinues through the neck, behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax beneath, or in front of the subclavian artery. In some bodies this nerve ends in the neck by joining one of the other cardiac nerves. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. The middle cervical ganglion (gang, thyroideum) is of small size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra,