DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 348 situa- The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway be- tween the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth of Conncc. that surface from the posterior border of the lung. In front nous. root, on both sides, are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonic nerves, the former being at some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind, on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the vena azygos, and on the left side the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligamentum latum pulmonis. consti- In the root of the lung are found the vessels connected tuents of > ... the root; with the function of respiration, viz. a division of the air tube (bronchus), a branch of the pulmonary artery, and two pulmonary veins; together with small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. These different bodies have the following position to one an- other : — their On both sides the bronchus is most posterior, the pul- relative # # x position, monary veins most anterior, and the pulmonary artery between the other two. In the direction from above down- wards the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side there is a slight difference, owing to the bronchus and artery having changed places ; consequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the fact of the left branch of the air tube being at a lower level than the right one. THE PERICARDIUM. situa- The bag that contains the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval be- tween the pleurm of opposite sides. Before proceeding with the anatomy of this sac, the following dissection should be undertaken : — clean Dissection.— Supposing the surface of the pericardium to VpSvCl s of heart be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the and seek J . . T small large arteries and veins connected with the heart, lie nerves 0 crossing should afterwards seek carefully the following nerves of the