PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 117 * The auricular branch traverses the substance of the temporal aurieu- lar bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. This branch; little nerve arises from the ganglion, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process. Its farther course to the outer ear will be described with the anatomy of the ear. * b. From the ganglion of the trunk.—This ganglion is connected with intimately with the hypoglossal nerve. Other branches pass be- sympa. tween it and the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and between spinal’ it and the loop of the first two cervical nerves. nerves. Branches for Distribution. — These branches arise from Branch- 47 e§ to the inner side of the nerve, and are directed to the middle supply line of the body, to supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. 1. The pharyngeal branch is an offset from the upper part of the ganglion- of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, and terminates, as the name expresses, in the pharynx. The nerve is directed in- wards over the internal carotid artery, and joins the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on that vessel. Finally it courses to the side of the middle constrictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympa- thetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus of the same side. This plexus is opposite the middle constrictor, and branches are fur- nished by it to the muscles, and to the pharyngeal mucous mem- brane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. 2. The superior laryngeal nerve is much larger than the pre- ceding branch, and arises from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. From this spot the nerve inclines obliquely inwards, beneath the internal carotid artery, and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. (See “ Larynx.”) In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the following offset to one laryngeal muscle. The external laryngeal branch arises in the neck beneath the internal carotid artery. Taking a course similar to that of the superior laryngeal nerve, but below it, this branch reaches the side of the larynx, and gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus. Finally, the nerve is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus, to supply the crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid body. Near its origin this branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve (superficial cardiac branch). 3. Cardiac branches.— Some small cardiac nerves arise from the pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac i 3 pharynx and join glosso- pharyn- geal" and pha- ryngeal plexus. To enter larynx, and sup- ply it and a branch outside larynx to crico- thyroid, and thy- roid body. Branch- es to the heart