DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 134 Seven aper- tures, viz. Poste- rior nares. two prominences named pillars of the soft palate,—the one proceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and the other from the same part to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, is the aperture of the larynx: and close in front of it is the epiglottis, or the valve which assists to close that opening during deglutition. And lowest of all is the opening from the pharynx into the oesophagus. The apertures into the pharynx then are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries : — The posterior openings of the nasal fossce are two in number. Each is oval in form, is constructed of the osseous parts that bound it in the dried skull, and is lined by mucous Eusta- chian tube; cartila- ginous part is an inch long, has a wide opening; is a bent piece of carti- lage. Mucous mem- brane covers and lines it. Opening of the fauces. membrane. The Eustachian tube is a canal, partly osseous, partly car- tilaginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear com- municates with the external air. Only the cartilaginous part that is external to the bone can now be seen. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on one side, the cartilaginous part appears to be nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margins of a groove between the sphenoid and the petrous part of the temporal bone ; directed downwards to the pharynx, it ends by a wide aperture opposite the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate, and rather above the inferior spongy bone of the nose. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form; and the inner side, which is larger than the outer, projects forward, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed chiefly by a triangular piece of cartilage, whose margins are bent down- wards so as to enclose a narrow space ; but at the outer and under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the wall is formed by fibrous membrane. Closely united to the pterygoid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane ; and through it the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. The isthmus faucium is a somewhat narrowed passage be- tween the mouth and the fauces, whose size is altered by the elevated or pendent position of the soft palate. The space is bounded below by the root of the tongue ; above by the soft palate ; and on each side by those projecting arches of the soft palate, which are named pillars of the fauces.