DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 154 To define gan- glion and its branch- es. Otic ganglion is on inner side of inferior maxil- lary. Struc- ture. Branch- es join it with fifth, sympa- thetic, define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and that tube, using much care in removing the last. When some loose connec- tive tissue has been cleared away, the internal pterygoid muscle comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it, and a small branch (internal pterygoid) descending from that nerve to the surface of the muscle. If this branch of nerve to the pterygoid muscle be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. * To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the petrous part of the temporal bone, a little nearer the middle line than the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported whilst it is divided. Taking off now some mem- brane that covers the ganglion, the student may follow backwards a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle, but he must previously open tl^e small canal that contains the muscle, by entering it from below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal nerve), that issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle, and one, near the same spot, to join the sympathetic nerve on the middle meningeal artery. The otic ganglion (gang, auriculare, Arnold) resembles the other ganglia connected with the fifth nerve. It is a small reddish body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance behind is the middle meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the others above referred to, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished by it to muscles. * a. Connecting branches — roots.— The ganglion is joined by a fasciculus from the motor part of the inferior maxillary nerve, and is closely united with the branch of that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by a twig that is received from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. Further, the ganglion is connected with