DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 720 Popli- teus arises within knee joint. Inserted into tibia. Parts around it. Flexor longus pollicis is at- tachedlj * to fibu- la, is partly super- ficial Muscles and vessels on sides. Fie xor longus digito- rum lies on tibia ; in the liga- ment; part is super- ficial part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The popliteus arises within the capsule of the knee joint; it is attached by a tendon to the fore part of an oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, below the external lateral ligament. External to the capsule of the joint some fleshy fibres arise from the posterior ligament, and the tendon gives origin to other fibres which radiate from it; all are inserted into the tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface. The muscle lies on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia, derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. On it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, with the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower articular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee. The insertion of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia; and the origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee joint. The flexor longus pollicis pedis arises below the soleus from the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula except an inch inferiorly, from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei muscles, and from the apo- neurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and afterwards crosses the sole of the foot to reach the great toe. In part the muscle is covered by the soleus ; but in part it is superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It rests on the fibula and the lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels ; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by the fascia, are the peronei muscles. The flexor longus digitorum pedis (flexor perforans) is attached to the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the popliteus to about three inches from the lower extremity, and it takes origin also from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition in the annular ligament, which is superficial in this position to the sheath of the tibialis; and escaped from the ligament divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed superiorly and is placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in con-