195 ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from its sulcus, it may be seen to be prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position). Anteriorly the nervous substance swells into the olfactory forms bulb,— a mass of gray matter, that rests on the ethmoid bone, buu5,tory and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriorly the olfactory process is connected to the cerebrum by three roots of origin, external, internal, and middle. The external or long root is a slender white band, which has „ . external passes along the outer part ol the anterior perforated space, and across the fissure of Sylvius, and disappears by sinking into the substance of the middle lobe of the cerebrum. The internal or short root is also white and delicate, and internal and comes from the inner part of the anterior lobe of the cere- brum. The middle or gray root is connected with a conical ele- middle vation at the posterior part of the sulcus which lodges the nerve. Deep origin.—The external root is said to be connected with Deep” the corpus striatum and the anterior commissure, and with the °ngin* white matter covering the end of the hippocampus major. The inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyrus fornicatus) to be afterwards examined. And the middle root is continuous with the gray matter of the convolutions. The second or optic nerve is the largest of the cranial optic nerves, except the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the ncrve> crus cerebri. Anteriorly the nerves of opposite sides are united in a commissure. The part of the nerve posterior to partcaii- the commissure is named optic tract; but the part beyond c tracV the commissural union, which is round and firm from being invested by a neurilemmar sheath of dura mater, is called optic nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball, part. The tract is the flattened part of the nerve, winding round the peduncle of the cerebrum, which is destitute of neuri- °£rlvhee lemma. In front it ends in the commissure, and behind it splits into two parts at its attachment to the brain. As the tract reaches forwards it crosses the crus cerebri, to which it is attached by its outer or anterior edge; and in front of that peduncle it is placed between the substantia perforata antica on the outside, and the tuber cinereum on the inside, but o 2