THE DIAPHRAGM. 571 transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. As before said, fleshy fibres take origin from both bands. Apertures. — There are three large openings in the dia- Aper. phragm for the aorta, the vena cava, and the oesophagus ; are— with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The For the opening for the aorta is rather behind than in the diaphragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and jt^con- sometimes the vena azygos. The opening for the oesophagus For and the pneumo-gastric nerves is rather above and to the Ju° and left of the aortic aperture: it is situate in the muscular part nerveb- of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres of the pillars, as above explained. The opening for the vena cava is For the placed in the right division of the central tendon, or between cava. the right and middle pieces, and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres. It is described as being of a square form (foramen quadratum). There is a fissure in each pillar for the splanchnic nerves, Fissures with one, in the left, for the small azygos vein. Sometimes pillars, the large azygos vein pierces the right pillar instead of passing with the aorta. Dissection. — After the diaphragm has been learnt, the Take away ribs that support it on each side may be cut through, and greater the pieces of the ribs together with the diaphragm, except thedia- the pillars and the arches with the diaphragmatic vessels at the posterior part, may be taken away to make easier the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz. the aorta and the Aorta> , ° cava,and vena cava, are to be now cleaned by removing from their branch- surface the fat with the remains of the sympathetic and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are also to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and the suprarenal body, to the testicle, and to the lumbar vertebras and the spinal cord. In like manner the large iliac divisions of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart’s ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery ; and on this artery branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought near the thigh. The psoas, quadratus, and iliacus muscles are to be cleaned Dissect on the right side ; but on the left side the fascia covering the muscles is to be shown, and the fat to be cleared away