MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 203 tacked by one edge to the hinder part of the restiform body, but is free by the other, where it is connected with the vascular fold of the ventricle. Structure.— The elements of the spinal cord, viz. ante- Fibres of rior, middle, and posterior columns, are continued into the duiia. lower part of the medulla oblongata, where they can at first be recognised; but they soon become mixed together, and have an arrangement different from that of the cord. Dissection. — In the pyramid two sets of fibres have to be Dissec- x J t tion to shown, — one from the same, and one from the opposite side trace of the cord. The fibres from the opposite half of the cord pyra- . mid. will appear in the median fissure, when the pyramids are gently drawn from one another, where they are named the decussating fibres ; and to lay these bare more completely, the small part of the anterior column of the cord on their side, that remains below the cross fibres (for the cord has been cut through near these), may be forcibly detached from its position, and turned outwards. The fibres to the pyramid from the same half of the cord will be demonstrated by evert- ing the anterior column below the decussation, as on the other side. The anterior pyramid receives fibres, inferiorly, from the Fibres of • i J anterior anterior column of the cord of its own side, and, internally, pyramid, from the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord. The inner set of fibres are deep at their origin, but they Deriva- become superficial in the median fissure, and are then di- tlon rected upwards, close to that fissure, so as to push outwards the inferior fibres continued from the anterior column; and as the inner fibres of each pyramid are derived from the lateral column of the opposite side, they cross each other in the anterior median fissure of the spinal cord: — thus they form the decussation of the pyramids. The pyramid is continued into both the cerebrum and and dis-' cerebellum. Its fibres are white and longitudinal, and are tion.' collected into a bundle of a prismatic form. Superiorly most of the fibres enter the pons, to reach the cerebrum, but two offsets proceed from the outer side. One is very small and superficial, and is directed below the corpus olivare to the restiform body and the cerebellum; the other invests the olivary body so as to be thickest on the sides, and receiving