SUPERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. £13 room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the cavity. Mesenteric Vessels.—The mesenteric arteries (superior vessels and inferior) are two large visceral branches of the aorta, t!ne^s~ which supply the whole of the intestinal tube, except the duo- denum and the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name, derived from the sympathetic. Dissection.— For the dissection of the superior mesenteric Dissec- vessels and nerves, the great omentum and the transverse superior mcscn- colon are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one teric. layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, the student will meet with corresponding veins, and with offsets of the sympathetic nerves on the arteries. Some mesenteric glands and a few lacteal vessels will come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intestine are to be next followed. After all the branches have been cleaned, the trunk of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas, and the plexus of nerves surrounding it should be defined. The superior mesenteric artery supplies branches to the Supe. w rior mes- small intestine beyond the duodenal part, and to half the enteric ' r artery. large intestine, viz. as far as the end of the transverse colon. Arising: from the aorta near the diaphragm, the vessel is courses n to intes_ directed downwaras between the layers of the mesentery, tine in " * the mes- where it forms an arch with the convexity to the left side, entery. and terminates in offsets to the caecum and the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas and the splenic vein; and as it descends to the connec- mesentery it is placed in front of the duodenum and the left renal vein. This vessel is surrounded by the mesenteric plexus of nerves, and is accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches. — Whilst the vessel is covered by the pancreas and it gives a small branch to that body and the duodenum. Its es. other branches are intestinal: those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) supply the jejunum and the ileum ; and those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named colic arteries. The pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) is of small J^re*