ADDUCTOR MAGNUS. 689 it is superficial, being between this and the femoral vessels. Sometimes the vein is suddenly enlarged at the upper part by the union of a large trunk from the popliteal vein, which is directed upwards behind the adductor magnus, and then pierces this muscle. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz. the adductor magnus, the obturator externus, and the insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through, and the investing layer of areolar tissue to be removed from each. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, it will be needful to detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The adductor magnus is narrow at the pelvis, and wide at the femur: it is triangular in form, with the base directed upwards, whilst one side is attached to the femur and the other is free at the inner part of the thigh. The muscle takes its origin from the part of the innomi- nate bone corresponding with the subpubic arch, and extends from the lower border of the symphysis to the lower part of the ischial tuberosity. The fibres are directed to their at- tachment to the femur with different degrees of obliquity. Thus the upper fibres diverge from their origin, and con- fibres struct almost a distinct part: they are horizontal above, but to their become more and more oblique below, and are inserted (from tion." above down) into the lower end of the linea quadrati, and into the lower part of the line continued from the great trochanter to the linea aspera; into all the linea aspera; and some into a small part of the line leading from that crest of bone horizon- to the inner condyle of the femur. Whilst the remaining * fibres from the ischial tuberosity are vertical in direction, others and end in a tendon about the lower third of the thigh; vertlca1, this tendon is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from that point of the bone to the linea aspera. The muscle consists of the two parts above described, and form which differ in their characters. The upper one, thin and different fleshy, forms a septum between the other adductors and the 1>a‘ts‘ muscles on the back of the thigh; but the inner or lower piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface connec- are the other two adductor muscles and the pectineus, with fhean^ Y Y is some- times joined by popli- teal. Cut through adductor brevis. Adduc- tor mag- nus j origin is narrow ;