511 LIGAMENTS OF THE LIVEK. b. By the ascending and the descending meso-colon, the Ascend- ascending and the descending part of the colon are kept in descend- IB gj place. In these folds, as in that of the caecum, the perito- neum is not commonly in contact behind the intestine, though it may meet behind and form processes. The sigmoidand ., ° , 17 ° sigmoid meso-colon is a long piece of the serous membrane, and at- ™eso- taches the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum contains the haemorrhoidal vessels, and con- nects the rectum to the front of the sacrum. c. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fold than Trans. verse either of the others connected with the large intestine, and meso- colon. serves as a partition between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other side to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It is formed of two layers of peritoneum, as be- fore said, which enclose the vessels of the colon. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the Appen. tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon; epi-* they are the appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. pl0ica2' Folds of the small intestine. — The small intestine is not perito. enveloped by the peritoneum after the same manner through covering all its extent. For whilst the jejunum and ileum are at- [JSIf11 tached to the abdominal wall by one fold (mesentery), the tine* duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. — The first part of the perito- duodenum is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach ; the dudde-°n next part is covered only in front; and the last part, which num‘ crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane, for it lies at first between the strata of the trans- verse meso-colon, and then beneath the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery. The mesentery supports the rest of the small intestine (je- Mesen. junum and ileum), and is stronger than any other of the folds ter>‘ of the serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is at- porm. tached to the spine, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right hip bone with the sacrum. The other end of the fold is wide, and is connected Attach- with the intestine. Between its two layers are the superior ments" J r Parts mesenteric vessels and nerves, with lymphatic glands and contain- . . J r ° ed in it. lacteals. Ligaments of the liver. — The reflections of the peritoneum Peri. toneal