417 COMPLEXUS MUSCLE. prolongations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cervical parts the erec- of the back. In the loins the muscle is contained in an apo- spins, neurotic sheath (p. 409.), and has the multifidus spinas on its inner side : the attachments of the superficial tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus, will be described with the last mentioned muscle (p. 426.). Opposite the ribs the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi are concealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck its accessory small muscles are beneath the splenius and the trapezius : the cervicalis ascendens is attached in a line with the splenius colli; and the transversalis colli and the trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between these and the complexus. The complexus is internal to the prolongations from the Com. plexus* longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous points from the tips of the Origin, transverse processes of the upper six dorsal and last cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the other cervical vertebrae as high as the third: to the inner side of the muscle is frequently added a fleshy slip from the spines of one or two of the lower cervical vertebrae. From the tendons of origin the fibres pass upwards, the inferior more vertically than the superior, to be inserted into an inser- impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the middle line. The biventer cervicis is but a part of the preceding, inter- its ac- nal to which it lies. It is usually described as a separate piece*!7 muscle, and has been named from its having two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon. The conjoined complexus and biventer cervicis muscles Connec- are concealed by the splenius and the trapezius ; and on the cutaneous surface is a tendinous cross intersection towards the upper end. Two or three of the cervical nerves per- forate the complexus. Along the inner side is the semispi- nalis muscle, with the ligamentum nuchas. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the cervical nerves and vessels. jDissection. — In the neck the nerves and vessels will be Dissec. • • # tion of brought into view by detaching the complexus from the the E E