440 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Substan- tia gela- tinosa. Ar- range- ment of white matter. Deep origin of nerves uncer- tain. Anterior roots. from anterior column of other side, with a decus- sation ; and from lateral column of same side. Poste- rior roots from hinder and late- ral co- lumn of and slender, and reaches to the fissure along the attachment of the posterior roots: at its extremity it is cased with a more transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been named the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The anterior cornu is shorter and thicker than the other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching the surface of the cord. The white covering of the half of the cord is composed chiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. By the projec- tion of the cornua of the gray crescent towards the surface, it is separated more or less completely into three parts — an- terior, middle, and posterior, corresponding to the columns of the cord; but the anterior and middle portions are united along their line of contact, because the anterior cornu does not reach the surface. Origin of the Nerves. — The deep origin of the spinal nerves is uncertain, like that of the cranial nerves: the fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord, but their precise connection with it has not been made out.* The anterior roots penetrate between the anterior and lateral columns into the anterior cornu of the gray mass, and are connected with the anterior column of the opposite side, and the lateral column of the same side in this way:—In the gray matter the fibrils divide into two sets: One is di- rected inwards, forming part of the white layer on the front of the commissural piece of the cord, and ends in the anterior column of the opposite side; so that the roots of opposite halves of the cord decussate on the front of the commissure. The other more considerable part of the root turns outwards to the fore part of the lateral column of the same side, and its fibres are continuous with it. The posterior roots enter the cord between the lateral and posterior columns, and are connected with both those columns of the same side, if not of both sides of the cord after passing through the substantia gelatinosa. Thus, as in the other root, the fibrils divide in the gray substance : some of these bend upwards, and become continuous especially with the * The statement in the text respecting the origin of the nerves, em- bodies the dews of Professor Kolliker. In many respects these cor- respond with opinions previously held.