641 FALLOPIAN TUBES. stroma of the ovary. They are largest in size towards the Size and circumference of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat, and contains a fluid. Coat; The coat of the vesicle, named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine connective tissue, and is united to the stroma of the ovary by a network of bloodvessels, which ramify in the wall of the ova: lining it is a layer of nucleated cells— the membr. granulosa of Baer. The fluid in the interior is contents, transparent and albuminous ; and in it is suspended the minute vesicular ovum, together with molecular granules. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the Shed- % ding of a surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into vesicle, the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus Form- luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix. corpus luteum. Bloodvessels and nerves. — The ovarian artery pierces the ovary Artery j at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma. The veins begin in the follicles and tex- veins; ture of the ovary, and after escaping from its substance, form a plexus {pampiniform) near the ovary, and within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic on nerves, the ovarian and uterine vessels. \ Fallopian Tubes. — These tubes convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their office with the vasa deferentia in the male. The tubes are two in number, one on each side. Each is about four inches in length: it is cord-like at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, but increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity, like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fringed and named corpus fimbriatum, and the serra- tions of its circumference are called fimbriae : when the fim- briated end is floated out in water, one of the processes may be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovary. In the centre of the fimbriae is a groove, that leads to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space, and the small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at different spots ; — the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus, where it scarcely gives Fallo- pian tubes; use. length. and form. It is di- lated ex- ternally, and fim- briated. Size of the tube is least at the ends.