583 BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. The branches of the sympathetic that join the spinal nerves ^ of are to be followed along the lumbar arteries. JJJjJJ” On the right side the psoas may be left untouched to see 11» at what places the nerves issue trom it. right. Spinal Lumbar Nerves.—The anterior primary branches Four of the lumbar nerves, except the last, enter into the lumbar nerves plexus. Five in number, they increase in size from the plexus, first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sym- pathetic near the intervertebral foramina. They supply and branches also to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, muscfes; The fifth or lowest nerve receives a communicating branch fifth • . to the from the fourth nerve, and descends into the pelvis to enter sacral 1 p|exus the sacral plexus. After this nerve is joined by the offset named from the fourth, the name lumbosacral is applied to the sacral, common trunk. The lumbar plexus is formed by loops of communica- Plexus tion between the highest four lumbar nerves. Contained in formed, the substance of the psoas, near its posterior part, the plexus situa. increases in size from above downwards, like the individual nerves. Superiorly a connection is found sometimes be- Connec- tween the first lumbar and the last dorsal nerve, and infe- with riorly the large lumbo-sacral cord unites the lumbar and nerves* sacral plexuses. The branches of the plexus supply the lower part of the six abdominal wall, the fore part of the thigh, and the inner es, viz. side of the leg ; they are six in number, viz. : — The ilio-hypogastiic branch is derived from the first nerve, ifio. and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the gayst°ic upper part: this and the following branch are cutaneous nerves of the buttock and the lower part of the trunk. The is the branch is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac Each, crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by penetrating the transversalis abdominis. Its termination in the integu- course ments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and inMo' hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 468.). The ilio-inguinal branch arises with the preceding from ifio. the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same arSis"al spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch preced- courses outwards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the crest of the hip bone, where it pierces the transversalis abdominis. The farther course of the nerve and ac- p r 4 •