713 THE HIP JOINT. front, and is connected with the tendon of the gluteus mini- mus. Posteriorly the joint is covered by the external rotator Muscles J J ^ around. muscles, and anteriorly by the psoas and lliacus, a bursa being between them. Above is the gluteus medius, and below is the obturator externus. Dissection. — The capsular ligament should be divided cLut °Pen 1 ° the cap- OVer the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone sule- disarticulated to see the cotyloid and interarticular liga- ments. The cotyloid ligament is a band of fibro-cartilage, which is con- fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged sament across the notch on the inner side, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. It is thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free mar- attached gin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This liga- a^ntabu* ment deepens the socket for the femur in the same manner as the glenoid ligament increases the surface for the reception of the head of the humerus. The transverse liqament is a firm but narrow band, which Trans- ^ m verse li- reaches across the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum : gament, how it consists partly of special fibres that are attached to the margins of the notch, and partly of some from the cotyloid ligament. Beneath it is an aperture by which the vessels enter the acetabulum to nourish the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular ligament (ligam. teres) is a strong band connecting the femur with the innominate bone. One extre- mity is roundish, and is inserted into the pit in the head of the femur; the other is bifid, and is connected to the sides of the notch in the cotyloid cavity, the lowest lip of the notch receiving the strongest band. A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along it to the acetabulum and the head of the femur. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation, and surrounds the ligamentum teres. Dissection. — To see the surface of the acetabulum the lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and cutting through any parts that attach it to the rest of the body. Surfaces of bone. — The articular surfaces of the bones are formed, forms a hole Wiith bone. Round ligament is divid- ed ex- ternally. Synovial mem- brane. Detach the limb. Articu- lar sur-