SPINAL NERVES OF THE NECK. 419 E E 2 first two, appear beneath the posterior intertransverse muscles, and subdivide into an internal and an external branch. In both the first and second nerves, the posterior they primary branch crosses the arch of the vertebra next beneath, into two. after leaving its trunk. a. The external branches are very inconsiderable in size, External • branches and end in the muscles inserted into the transverse pro- are cesses, viz. the splenius, and the prolongations from the erector spinse muscle. There is not any external branch to None to . . J the first. the first, or the suboccipital nerve. b. The internal branches are larger than the external, internal ° branches All are directed inwards beneath the complexus towards the above three spinous processes ; and those of the lowest three nerves pass i^give in addition beneath the semispinalis muscle. By the side of neou* the spines of the vertebree, cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck and the head, but only by those nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis; these superficial offsets ascend to the surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as before seen (p. 405.). In their course to the spine the nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz. the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinas, and interspinales. The inner branches of Those°f the second and third nerves end on the occiput, and require a separate notice. That of the second nerve, named great occipital, appears Second beneath the inferior oblique muscle to which it gives offsets : head, it is then directed upwards to the head through the com- plexus and the trapezius, and ends on the occiput (p. 9.). The branch of the third nerve supplies an offset to the Third x 1 _ supplies integument of the neck; and then ascending to the head jj^ckand through the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the great occipital nerve. Usually this nerve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The posterior primary branch of the suboccipital or first pjj!|°cci- spinal nerve, deviates from the others in its course and nerve branching. It is very short, and appears in the interval has aif- • • ferent between the recti and obliqui muscles ; in passing from the branch- spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and U S * the vertebral artery, and pierces the ligament between the first cervical vertebra and the occipital bone. The follow- ends in