CUTANEOUS NERVES AND VEINS. 737 round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro cartilage or a sesamoid bone. O Section VI. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Position.— The limb is to be raised to a convenient height Position by blocks placed beneath the knee, and the foot is to be limb, extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection.— To enable the dissector to raise the skin Raise the skin* from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line, from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the web of the foot. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels seek the cut^n e- and nerves are to be looked for. At the inner part of the ous nerves in leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nerve, and the leg; at the outer side, others from the cutaneous ramifications of the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, is the musculo-cutaneous nerve, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is an arch of veins, which ends on the at the sides in the saphenous veins. On the outer side is vessels r # and the short saphenous nerve; and in the interval between the nerves, great toe and the next, is the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve. The nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments. After the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its con- Cutane- vexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from veins, the toes; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it joins the saphenous veins. The internal saphenous vein begins at the inner side of internal saph*1- the great toe, and in the arch of veins; it ascends along the nous, inner side of the foot, and in front of the inner ankle to the inner part of the leg, where it has been before seen (6d9.). It receives branches from the inner side and the sole of the foot.