DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 682 the foot (p. 661.). In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep bloodvessels: thus it approaches the femoral artery where this is concealed by the sartorius, and is con- tinued along the outer side of that vessel, beneath the apo- neurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes becomes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is continued under the cutane- ous at sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, to become knee; cutaneous as before said. It supplies two cutaneous offsets whilst it is contained in the thigh beneath the fascia. has a One of these offsets (communicating branch) arises about the nicaung middle of the thigh, and crosses inwards, beneath the sartorius, to join the internal cutaneous and the obturator in the plexus : this branch is sometimes absent. The other branch to the front of the and a 'patella springs from the nerve near the knee joint, and perforating offset.31 the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument over the knee (p. 661.). From the deep part arise branch- es to pecti- neus, sarto- rius. rectus, vastus exter- nusand knee joint. and vastus internus. Its ar- ticular B. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve gives branches to all the muscles of the front of the thigh, except the tensor vaginas femoris ; and supplies also an offset to one of the adductor muscles, viz. the pectineus. Two slender nerves cross beneath the femoral artery, and enter the anterior surface of the pectineus. Branches to the sartorius are furnished by the middle or by the internal cutaneous nerve, whilst it is in contact with that muscle. A nerve enters the under surface of the rectus muscle at the upper part, and divides into branches as it is about to penetrate the fibres. The nerve to the vastus externus separates into two or more branches as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is continued downwards to the knee joint, which it enters on the anterior aspect. The nerve to the vastus internus is nearly as large in size as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper part of the muscle it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued beneath the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels as far as the centre of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee joint. The articular branch is prolonged to the inner side of the knee joint on or in the vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor mag-