521 CHYLO-POIETIC VESSELS. spine, it ascends from the third to the level of the second and is lumbar vertebra, and corresponds with the attachment of the able, transverse meso-colic fold of the peritoneum, being between its layers ; it has the following connections with the parts around : — In front of it are the superior mesenteric vessels with their plexus of nerves; beneath it lie the aorta and it. the vena cava, with the pillars of the diaphragm, and some- times the left renal vein is between it and the aorta ; above it is the pancreas. Pancreas.— The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an ation of elongated form, it extends across the spine from the spleen creas. to the duodenum, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right lumbar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer of J?"” the transverse meso-colon, and is in contact posteriorly with the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm; it conceals likewise the splenic vein and the commencement of the vena porta. Projecting above the upper border, near borders, the centre, is the arterial trunk of the coeliac axis ; to the left of that vessel, along the same border, is the splenic artery, whilst to the right of it are the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border, the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the coeliac axis; to the right of that spot is the third part of the duode- num, and to the left of it the inferior mesenteric, ascending to join the splenic vein. The left end or the tail of the and . pancreas touches the spleen, and is placed over the leftties- kidney. The right extremity or the head is received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being partly sepa- rated behind by the common bile duct, and in front by the pancreatico-duodenal artery: this part projects above and below the body of the gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle, and the lower projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenum as far as the superior mesen- teric vessels, beneath which it passes. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE CHYLO-POIETIC VISCERA. A short branch from the aorta, viz. the coeliac axis, fur- Vessels • i i . and nishes arteries to the stomach, duodenum, liver, pancreas, nerves