257 PECTORAL MUSCLES. Insertion of the pectoralis.—The tendon of this muscle Tendon consists of two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment tion’oT" to the bone; the anterior receives the clavicular and upper raiS" sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital groove to the head of the humerus, another back- wards to line the groove, and a third to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered by the pectoralis.—The great pectoral muscle parts • covered covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below by the • muscle. that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subcla- vian muscle, the sheath containing the axillary vessels, and the branches that perforate the sheath. Below the small pectoralis it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and, near the humerus, on the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. The pectoralis minor resembles the preceding muscle in Pectora- - . _ lis minor shape, and is extended like it from the thorax to the arm. arises Its origin is connected by slips with the front and the upper chest; border of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages; and between the ribs, with the aponeurosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the upper surface of inserted the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed pu£uCa before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in Conner forming the middle part of the anterior boundary. In that with position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- around, ing nerves, and two small anterior thoracic nerves. The upper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with that of the short head of the biceps and the ccraco-brachialis. The costo-coracoid membrane, or ligament, is a firm mem- costo- branous band, which receives this name from its insertion on the one side into the rib, and on the other into the cora- brane coid process of the scapula. Between those points of attach- s