DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 748 adduc- tor mag nus to the inner. Internal lateral liga- ment ; attach- ments ; semilunar cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articulation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle. The teridon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a tubercle on the inner surface of the internal condyle above the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. b. The internal lateral ligament is scarcely distinguish- able from the capsule at its attachment to the condyle of the femur ; but it becomes thicker, and separate from the capsule opposite the head of the tibia, and is fixed to the inner surface and the posterior border of the tibia nearly as low as the popliteus muscle. The tendons of the sar- torius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the internal lower articular vessels are beneath it: to the posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is to be fol- lowed beneath the internal lateral ligament. It is inserted beneath the ligament into an impression at the hinder part of the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, and sends some fibres to that band ; it gives also one membranous prolonga- tion to join the fascia covering the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee joint. c. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow) is formed in great part by the fibres from the tendon of the semimem- branosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer condyle, but a deeper set of fibres is continuous with the general capsule. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels and nerves to the interior of the articula- tion. d. The anterior ligament (ligamentum patellae) or the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscles of the leg, is about three inches long, and is narrower in the middle than at the ends. Superiorly, it is attached to the lower part of the patella and the depression on the inner surface; and, in- feriorly, it is inserted into the tubercle of the head of the tibia, and an inch of the bone below it. The expansion of the vasti covers it; and a bursa intervenes between it and the tubercle of the tibia (see p. 679.). Orenihe Dissection.— To see the reflections of the synovial mem- is joined by semi- mem- bran o- sus. Inser- tion of the se- mimem- brano- sus. Poste- rior liga- ment. 'Two sets of fibres. Anterior liga- ment, or tendon of the exten- sors.