482 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Fascia trans- ■versalis is best marked in the groin. Near Pou- part’s ligament is the internal abdomi- nal ring. Is partly joined to Pou- part’s li- gament, and part- ly not. Situation of abdo- minal ring. Dissec- tion to trace process on cord. Subperi- toneal fat in the groin. one of these is to be carried through the fibres that are attached to Poupart’s ligament; the other, across the muscle from the front of the hip bone to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily from the thin fascia beneath. The fascia transversalis is a thin fibrous layer between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum, which has been so named by Sir A. Cooper. In the groin or inguinal region where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is consider- ably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle; but above that region it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes an unimportant thin membrane. In the part of the fascia now laid bare is an opening — the internal abdo- minal ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round ligament, according to the sex. On the inner side of that opening the fascia is thinner than on the outer side, and is fixed internally into the pubes and the pectineal line of the hip bone, behind the conjoined tendon with which it is united. When traced down to Poupart’s ligament, this membrane will be found joined to the posterior margin of that band along the outer half; but only slightly connected with the ligament along the inner half, as it is directed down to the thigh in front of the bloodvessels, and forms the anterior part of a loose sheath (crural) around the vessels. Abdominal ring. —The opening of the internal abdominal ring is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the fascia is continued around the cord. Dissection. — The ‘prolongation of the fascia tranversalis on the cord may be traced by cutting the fascia horizontally above the opening of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side from the subperitoneal fat. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be reflected to trace the remains of the tube of peritoneum along the cord. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum. Its depth varies much in different bodies, but the stratum is thicker at the lower part