686 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and widi at the inser- tion. Parts in front, behind, and at upper border. Obtura- tor nerve is divid- ed into two: the su- perficial part joins' plexus in the thigh, ends on femoral artery. Branch- es are to hip joint. Muscu- lar to some ad- ductors. This part may be larger pubic border of the bone close to and outside the gracilis; but it reaches upwards rather higher, viz. to the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the muscle with which it is j conjoined. It is inserted behind the pectineus into the whole of the line leading from the linea aspera towards the small trochanter. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus ; but it is gradually uncovered by the latter below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their insertion into the femur: on this aspect, too, are the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the pro- funda artery. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve. In contact with the upper border is the obturator externus, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. The obturator nerye is a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 585.), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as well as the hip and knee joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen; and it divides in that opening into two parts, which are named superficial and deep from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. The anterior or superficial part of the nerve joins the plexus of the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves at the inner aspect of the thigh (p. 681.). The nerve is directed over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus. At the lower border of the last muscle it furnishes an offset to join in the interlacement of the nerves, but the remainder of it is continued to the femoral artery, on which it is distributed. In addition to the branches be- fore mentioned, the nerve receives (sometimes) the commu- nicating twig from its accessory branch, and supplies the hip joint, and some of the surrounding muscles. Branches.— Near the pelvis or in the aperture of exit, this division of the nerve sends outwards an articidar twig to the hip joint, with the artery to the same part. Muscidar branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the adductor brevis, and the gracilis. Unusual condition of the nerve.— In some bodies this superficial division of the nerve is of large size, and extends beyond the plexus in the middle of the thigh. In such instances the nerve joins freely in the plexus, and gives cutaneous offsets to the integument