210 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Parts of convolu- tions of corpus callosum. of medi- an fis- sure. of fissure of Sylvi- us. Three lobes in each hemi- sphere ; anterior, middle, oste- rior. bodies like peas, the corpora albicantia; and in front of these a grayish mass, called tuber cinereum. From the tuber cinereum a conical reddish tube, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to this same mass (tuber cinereum), are the converging optic tracts with their commissure. Beneath the commissure of the optic nerves lies a thin grayish layer (lamina cinerea); and still farther forwards is the anterior part of the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius is another spot, perforated by vessels, and distinguished by the name substantia perforata, or locus perforatus anticus. Parts of some special convolutions may now be seen. One convolution, that of the corpus callosum (gyrus forni- catus), is visible at its beginning and ending; its anterior part is in contact with the body from which it takes its name, and its posterior extremity rests on the outer side of the crus cerebri. Another is the convolution of the margin of the great median fissure, which is bare at its anterior part, and con- tains the olfactory nerve in a groove on its surface. A third large convolution surrounds the fissure of Sylvius ; and in that fissure are some other small convolutions, which will be examined with it. The several parts of the base of the brain are now to be noticed more in detail. Lobes of the cerebrum. — There are three lobes in each hemisphere, but this division into parts is confined to the under surface. The anterior lobe is triangular in form, and the apex is turned backwards; it is somewhat excavated on the surface now seen, which, in the natural position of the brain, rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The olfactory nerve lies near the inner margin. The middle lobe is the most prominent of the three, and projected, before the brain was removed, into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The fissure of Sylvius intervenes between it and the anterior lobe. The posterior lobe has no fissure to separate it from the middle one; its extent forwards is determined, as before said, by the anterior or outer margin of the cere- bellum. This lobe would not be in contact with the base of