769 CHOROID COAT. it is separated; it is always transparent, and remains so charac- after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after mace- ration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into processes (“pillars of the iris,”) which turn backwards, attach- and become blended with the outer margin of the iris, and margin; with the choroid and sclerotic coats. Though very elastic, this membrane is apparently without a definite structure. A laminar epithelium, like that on serous Inembranes, clothes has an r epithe- its free surface. hum. The conjunctiva in front of the cornea has also a base- Layer ment layer (anterior elastic lamina, Bowman), with an epi- ofcor- thelial covering in front. The anterior elastic layer is a transparent structure, Anterior clastic similar in its properties to the posterior, but thicker than it (from Wonth to ygVoth of an inch), which extends over the conjunc- front of the cornea, and seems to be the basement membrane of the conjunctiva. From its posterior surface fine shreds are continued into the cornea proper. The epithelium is has an formed of three or four layers of scales, the deeper being hum. columnar, but the superficial laminar in form. Vascular Coat of the Eyeball. — The next covering choroid coat is is within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of bloodvessels vascular, and pigment cells ; its strength is but slight, and its interior c°™p°- is lined by a pigmentary membrane. It may be divided into three parts; a posterior (choroid) corresponding with the sclerotic; an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea; and an in- termediate ring (ciliary ligament and muscle) on a level with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. — Supposing only the sclerotic coat of an eye Dissec- cut through near the anterior part, as before directed (p. 766.), see the it will be necessary, in order that the choroid coat may be coat, laid bare, to take away the rest of the sclerotic. The outer coat is to be removed in water, and two or more incisions are to be directed backwards in it, on the sides of the ball, to the optic nerve. In removing the flaps some slight con- nections are to be broken through, but the slender vessels and nerves are to be preserved. The white ring around the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle which limits the extent forwards of the black choroid coat. For the purpose of seeing the anterior termination of the To see 3 D