EXTERNAL EAR. 37 of the lids this membrane joins the common integument; and it is further continued down the lachrymal canals and sac to the interior of the nose. At the inner commissure of forms . . /» . caruncle the eyelids the conjunctiva forms a prominent, red, fleshy - looking body — caruncula lachrymalis, which encloses a group of mucous follicles, and has a few minute hairs on its surface. External to the caruncle is a small fold of the and the contigu- mucous membrane—plica semilunaris; this extends to the,ous fold, ball of the eye, and resembles the membrana nictitans of birds. Bloodvessels of the eyelids. — The arteries of the eyelids Artenes are furnished by the ophthalmic artery, and consist of the palpebral and lachrymal branches. The palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from ^aipe- the inner canthus, lying between the orbicularis muscle and the tarsal cartilage, and anastomose externally with the lachrymal artery. From the arch that each forms, branches are distributed to the eyelids. The lachrymal artery perforates the palpebral chrymai. ligament near the outer part of the orbit, and its offsets supply the lid, as well as anastomose with the palpebral branches. The veins of the lids open into the frontal and angular Veins, veins at the root of the nose. The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic JJer and facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth) that give from offsets to the upper lid, are the following: lachrymal, near the outer part; sapra-orbital, about the middle; and supra-troclilear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (p. 45. 48.). In the lower eye- lid, about its middle, is a branch of the superior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. The branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the seventh outer part, and supply the orbicularis muscle; they communicate with the branches of the fifth nerve. nerve. External Ear. — The outer ear consists of a trumpet- external ear. shaped structure, named pinna or auricle, which collects sounds ; and of a tube — meatus auditorius, which conveys those sounds to the inner ear. The pinna may be examined on the left side of the head, but the meatus will be described with the rest of the anatomy of the ear. The pinna, or auricle of the ear, is an uneven piece of Texture yellow cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is f?rm of fixed to the margin of the meatus auditorius externus. It is d 3