DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 216 ( outer part of cere- brum. more or less obliquely, from the convolution of the margin of the great median fissure to the convolution of the Sylvian fissure. The posterior are most oblique and become irregular. On opposite sides of the brain these convolutions are not symmetrical. Aeon- Structure of the convolutions. — From the section now ha!Ubase made into the brain, it may be perceived that each convo- summit; lution is continuous with the interior of the brain on the one side (base), and that it is free on the surface of the brain on the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts, outsfde Externally it consists of a layer of grayish cerebral substance as a cortical layer, which is continued from one eminence to and^ another over the surface of the hemisphere ; and internally within, it is composed of white brain substance — its medullary part, that is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior, itsstruc- On a closer examination the cortical layer is found to be ture. , „ , . composed ot three strata: — an outer white stratum, an inner reddish-yellow one, and an intervening gray lamina. The outer white stratum differs in development in different parts of the brain, and is most marked over the hinder and lower portions of the convolution of the corpus callosum, where it is pierced by minute holes. The inner stratum equals in thickness the other two, and has on its external surface also a thin white lamina, so that white and gray laminse will alternate with one another in the gray matter of the con- volutions. sulci. The sulci, or the intervals between the convolutions, vary in size in different parts of the brain ; they are deepest generally on the outer aspect of the hemisphere, where they measure about an inch. The There is one of considerable depth on the inner surface of where the hemisphere, on a level with the corpus callosum, which projects inwards beneath an eminence (hippocampus minor) in the floor of the lateral ventricle. From it another sulcus is directed vertically upwards to the convex part of the hemisphere. Compo- Interior of the Cerebrum. — When viewed from the sicion. # outer surface, the cerebrum appears like a twisted tube, but when a cut has been made into it, it will be found to be solid, with a convoluted crust or exterior. Outline Each half of the brain consists of a foot stalk or peduncle,