THE MAMMARY GLAND. 251 seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its depth is about one inch and a half. The weight of the breast ranges from six to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side of the centre) is the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is like- wise rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring, — the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is influenced by the complexion of the body; and is altered during the time of menstruation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin of both the nipple and the areola is provided with nume- rous papillae and lubricating glands; and on the surface are some tubercles marking the position of the ducts of those glands. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in general form; for it is prominent though in a much less degree, and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is very imperfect. Structure. — In its texture the mamma resembles those compound glands that are formed by the vesicular endings of branched ducts. During lactation the glandular mass is of a reddish white colour. It consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct; and the whole is surrounded, and bound together by areolar tissue. A layer of connective tissue, containing fat, surrounds the gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes. Some fibrous septa fix the gland to the skin, and support it; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of Sir A. Cooper. In the ultimate structure of the gland, in the nipple, and in the areola, there is not any fatty substance. Vesicles, lobules, and lobes.— The little vesicles or cells at the ends of the most minute ducts are lenticular or rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye, being about the size of a small pin- hole in paper.— (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. A collection of the vesicles around their duct forms the smallest divisions of the gland, and weight. Position and form of the nipple, and the areola. Colour is altered. Skin has glands. Breast of the male. Struc- ture. Invest- ing and fibrous tissue. Texture and form of the vesi- cles. Vesicles form lobules.