DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 470 Tegu- mentary cover, ing of penis is thin, and without fat; forms prepuce the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is then to be reflected by means of a vertical incision on the left side. Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. — The penis is attached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory liga- ment, and is provided with a tegumentary covering with vessels and nerves. On the penis the tegumentary covering is continuous with that of the abdomen, but the superficial fascia loses the fat that it possesses in most other parts of the body, and acquires special characters. — Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way: — when the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as to the base of the glans, constituting thus the double layer of the prepuce; it is afterwards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a andfrae- small triangular fold, frcenum prceputii. Where the integu- ment covers the glans it is very thin, assuming in some sebace- cases the character of a mucous membrane ; and behind the glands, glans are some sebaceous follicles — glandulce odoriferce. Tegu- In the scrotum. — The superficial fascia becomes thin, and scrotum, of a reddish colour. If it is cut through, the student will perceive that the prolongation sent around the cord on one side, does not communicate with that on the other side ; and that the two pouches come in contact in the middle line, and form the septum scroti. The superficial fascia in the scrotum and penis, and in the front of the perinaeum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corrugation of the skin is owing. This con- tractile structure is named the tunica dartos. , « Dissection. — By removing the superficial fascia from the root of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries, nerves, and vein of the penis, which are seen in the preced- ing step, are to be followed forwards in the superficial fascia. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a rather deep band of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the front of the symphysis pubis near the lower part. Widening as it descends, the ligament divides Muscu- lar na- ture of fascia. Dissec- tion of vessels and nerves. Suspen- sory li- gament of penis. Attach- ments.