DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 380 nerve may be seen entering the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, for oftentimes the middle cardiac throws itself into the lower cardiac nerve. divi- sions. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. To see Dissection.— To see the bronchi, or the divisions of the the trachea air tube in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery and its branches, together with the pulmonary veins. When the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the fibrous tissue from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The trachea, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to the lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins at the lower part of the larynx, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra; and ends at the third dorsal ver- tebra *, by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. Its connections in the neck are described at p. 127., and its structure at p. 176. The partin the thorax remains to be studied. In the thorax the trachea is situate, with the great vessels, in the space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta., by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves; and super- ficial to the last arteries is the left innominate vein. Behind the air tube is the oesophagus, which is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance after this has passed over the trachea; and on the left side is the vagus with its recurrent branch. Bronchi The bronchi, or the divisions of the air tube, are con- roots of tained in the root of the lung, where they are surrounded lungs; by vessels, glands, and nerves. Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes to are like that organ. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble inform *he windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, Trachea lies in the neck, and in the thorax, where it ends in bronchi. Its con- nections in the thorax. * The place of its bifurcation is sometimes opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra.