DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 48 In orbit Branch- es. Long root of lenticu- lar gan- glion. . Long ciliary branch- es. Infra- troch- lear branch. In the nose. On the face. Lenticu- lar gan- glion. Situa- tion. Connec- tions. Struc- ture. Three roots: long, short. and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed out- wards between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit, the nasal lies at first over the optic nerve, but beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebrae muscles, and afterwards below the superior oblique; in this part of its course it furnishes the following branches: — The branch to the lenticular ganglion is about half an inch long and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve enters the orbit: this is the lon^ root of the lenticular "anjdion. Long ciliary branches.— As the nasal crosses the optic nerve, it supplies two or more ciliary branches to the eyeball. These lie on the inner side of the optic, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular "anglion. D D The infra-trochlear branch arises as the nasal nerve is about to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the superior oblique muscle to the inner part of the orbit, where it ends in the upper eyelid, the conjunctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of commu- nication from the supra-trochlear nerve. In the nose. Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- nishes branches to the lining membrane of both the septum narium and the outer wall: these will be subsequently re- ferred to with the nose. Termination of the nasal nerve. — After the nerve be- comes cutaneous on the side of the nose, it descends beneath the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the wing and tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION is a Small roundish body, of the size of a pin’s head, and of a reddish colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part the ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots); and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary nerves to the eyeball. In the ganglion, sensory, motory, and sympathetic filaments are combined. The offsets of communication are three in number. One, the long root, is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thick- ness (short root) passes from the inferior angle to join the branch of the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And