677 MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE THIGH. notch between this and the inferior spine, as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about three inches below the great trochanter of the femur, and rather in front of it. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending branches of the external circumflex artery, and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve that enters it at the under aspect. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Dissection. — After the muscle has been learnt, the slip of fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and the tensor of the fascia lata being detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus muscle may be fol- lowed to the pelvis. The triceps extensor of the leg consists of three parts, which may be described as three muscles with a common in- sertion, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. Or, like the extensor of the arm, the muscle may be considered single below and attached by a common tendon ; but divided into three heads above, which are in- serted into separate points of bone. The rectus femoris forms a fleshy prominence on the front of the thigh, and reaches from the pelvis to the common insertion. At its origin from the pelvis the muscle has two tendinous processes or heads:—one arises from the anterior inferior iliac spinous process; the other (to be afterwards seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the hip bone, close above the brim of the acetabulum. Fleshy fibres succeed to tendon ; and they end inferiorly in another ten- don, which joins the tendinous parts of the muscles beneath, and is inserted with them into the head of the tibia. The rectus is larger at the middle than at the ends; and its fibres are directed trom the centre to the sides, like the feather of a quill, giving rise to that condition called pen- niform. It is subcutaneous, except above where it is overlaid by the sartorius ; but it conceals branches of the external circumflex artery and the anterior crural nerve, and rests on the muscular mass of the vastus and crureus. The upper tendon of the muscle reaches farthest on the anterior surface, where the sartorius lies on it; whilst the lower x x 3 ends in' fascia lata.. Parts around. Cut through the last muscle. Outline of mus- cles on front of thigh. Rectus has an. origin^ at the pelvis, which is double, and an insertion into the head of the tibia. The muscle is pen- niform, and su- perficial, except above.