343 CAPACITY OF THE THORAX. windpipe, bloodvessels, &c. lie ; but is prolonged on each side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid. Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and touches the sub- clavian bloodvessels. In the interval between the apices are the several parts that pass between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions.—The hollow of the thoracic cavity does not correspond to the visible size of the thorax; for about the lower half of the space included by the ribs is occupied by the abdominal viscera, and, above, it reaches beyond the ribs into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm the depth of the space must vary greatly at different points. At the centre, where the depth is least, it measures about seven inches, but at the back as much again; and the other vertical measurements can be estimated by means of the data given with respect to the correspondence of the base to parts of the wall of the thorax. Alterations in capacity.— The size of the thoracic cavity is constantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and the diaphragm in breathing. It is increased in the horizontal measurements in inspira- tion, when the ribs are raised and separated from one another; and is diminished in expiration as the ribs approach one another, and the sternum sinks. An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the dia- phragm in respiration; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the lungs, thus increasing the cavity ; and ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or in violent efforts to dimi- nish it. But the movement of the diaphragm is not equal throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased proportionally more than others. For instance the central tendinous piece is joined to the heart case, and moves but slightly; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separation from the thoracic parietes. It is evident that the thoracic cavity may be diminished by the base being pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the upper part of z 4 is bifid, how bounded. Size of chest not that of Cavity ; depth varies ; before ; behind ; on sides. Size is altered in life; in trans- verse dimen- sions by ribs ; in depth by the dia- phragm, but un- equally ; thorax lessened by addi- tions to abdo- men.