GLANDS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 537 tine are included the crypts of Lieberkiihn, some solitary kinds of glands, and Peyer’s and Brunner’s glands. The crypts of Lieberkiihn are minute simple tubes, similar simple to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, in the and are found throughout the small intestine. I hey open but not . so close; on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands; but at the opposite end they are closed, and project into the submucous layer. Their length is from T^th to ^th of an inch, and their their diameter is 3-^th °f an inc^. They are filled with a and fluid that contains granules, and are lined by a columnar contents- epithelium. The solitan/ qlands are roundish white eminences, about solitary ^ simple the size of mustard seed, if distended, which are scattered §lands; size and along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the sjtua- jejunum. Placed on any side of the intestine, or even on or between the valvulae conniventes, these bodies are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and have around them the apertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These glands closed are small sacs, which contain an opaque whitish granular sacs' fluid, but are not provided with an aperture into the in- testine. The glands of Peyer (glandulag agminatag) are found Glands chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which mea- sure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, size; and about half an inch in width. These glands are situate situa- on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut. Usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the number; lower part of the ileum the patches are largest and most pecu- 1 . 5s liarities; numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. A patch, when examined with the microscope, appears to compo- be but a collection of the solitary glands, for it consists of a a gi°andf number of small flattened vesicles or sacs, which are round or oval in form, and are covered by the mucous membrane. Like the glands referred to, the vesicles contain a whitish same as consistent fluid, and are commonly without any aperture, the soli- though they have been found with openings into the intes- glands.