DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 388 a small spinal branch to the vertebrae and the spinal cord. — (See Vessels or the Spinal Cord.) inter- The intercostal vein closely resembles the artery in its costal J J vein. course and branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. Superior The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk is costal referred to in the dissection of the neck (p. 75.). Descending from over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the subcla- vian. sympathetic, it supplies a branch to the first intercostal one1or* sPace : continuing to the second space, which it may supply spaces. like manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic branch. Each intercostal offset from it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The The vein corresponding to the right artery opens into the innominate vein. On the left side the superior intercostal on the # # L right vein is formed by branches from the two or three highest and on J ° leftside, spaces; it is joined by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. Two or three azygos veins. Large azygos is on right side of spine, and joins superior cava. Branch- es join- ing it. The prevertebral or aztgos veins are one or two in number on the left side, and one on the right, and receive branches corresponding to the offsets furnished by the de- scending part of the thoracic aorta. By means of the larger or right vein, the inferior cava communicates with the su- perior, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower part of the body or vice versa, if one of the cavae should be obliterated. The larger or right azygos vein begins in the lumbar veins on the right side of the spine, and its origin is de- scribed with the vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the inter- costal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrae. Opposite the third intercostal space, the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very incom- plete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branches. — In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right side below the upper two spaces; some of the intercostals of the left side of the thorax, by means of the