615 SYMPATHETIC IN THE PELVIS. B R 4 Most of the branches of the plexus arise outside the pelvis, its and are distributed to the back of the lower limb. Only two t0 mus_ cies in- internal muscles of the pelvis (pyriformis and obturator in- J{J,e the ternus) receive their nerves from the sacral plexus. pelvis; The nerve of the obturator internus muscle arises from the one to n obtura- ’ part of the plexus resulting from the union of the lumbo- tor, sacral with the first sacral nerve ; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone and through the small sacro-sciatic notch to enter the perinaeal surface of the muscle. The nerves of the pyriformis are commonly two in number, and arise from separate parts of the plexus: they enter the mis- muscle at its visceral aspect. The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, sup- plies the rectum, the perinaeum, and the genital organs. The nerve arises at the lower part of the plexus as this is now about to pass from the pelvis, and then accompanies its at its artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch to the perinasum. (See p. 459.) The remaining branches of the plexus, viz. the small and Branchy great sciatic nerves, with small muscular offsets to the gemelli ^er and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb.— after- See Dissection of the Buttock. The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral superior cord, and arises from it opposite the upper part of the large nerve sacro-sciatic notch. It passes outwards above the pyriformis ends in muscle to the back of the pelvis, where it ends chiefly in muscles, branches for the two smaller gluteal muscles. Dissection.— Besides the large plexus of the sympathetic Trace by the side of the bladder, the student will have to dissect sympa- •' thetic. the part of the gangliated cord that lies in front of the sacrum: its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches will come into view, on the removal of the connective tissue. Sympathetic Nerve. — In the pelvis the sympathetic sympa- nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side, and of two the pei- lateral plexuses for the supply of the viscera. The gangliated cord lies on the front of the sacrum and The internal to the series of apertures in that bone. It is con- ItSf *' tinuous superiorly with the lumbar part of the cord by a single or double internodal piece ; whilst inferiorly the cords joins one of opposite sides converge, and are united in front of the site side