DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 390 A mus- cular coat of volun- tary and and above the same spot the thoracic duct will be found to the left of the tube. Three Structure. — If a piece of the middle of the gullet be in it. removed and distended with cotton wool, it will be found to consist of a muscular, a fibrous, and a mucous coat. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of two layers of fibres; the external of these is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the fibres are red, and have the striated or voluntary muscular fibres mixed with the invo- invoiun- luntary; but below this the striated fibres gradually dis- ffbres. appear, the colour becoming paler with their absence, and then only involuntary muscular fibres remain. Exter- The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal gUudinai fibres, which form an entire covering, and end below on the to?en-ed stomach. The fibres begin by longitudinal bands opposite points* the cricoid cartilage (p. 139.); and at intervals vary- ing from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are con- nected with tendinous points (^th to y^th of an inch long, and y^th wide) like the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. and in- The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above ternal . circular with the fibres of the pharynx; these are more oblique at fibres. . -1 the middle than at either end of the oesophagus. The fibrous layer is between the muscular and mucous coats, and attaches one to another loosely. The mucous coat or lining will be seen on cutting open the tube to be reddish in colour above, but pale below, and of some thickness. It is very loosely connected with the mus- cular coat, and is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. Lining the interior is a thick layer of scaly epithelium, and the surface is studded with minute papillae. Some compound glands (oesophageal) are scattered along the tube ; and at the lower part of the gullet they form a ring (cardiac glands) close to the stomach. Lymphatics of the Thorax. — In the thorax there are the lymphatic vessels of both the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of glands in certain positions, and end in either the one or the other of the two lymphatic ducts. Fibrous coat. Mucous coat. Some glands. In the thorax, lymph- atic glands andduct.