DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 594 Outline of their position. Take away fascia and some vessels, The several viscera are to be cleaned. The pe- ritone- um covers partly the rectum the bladder with its excretory tube — the urethra ; together with some generative organs, viz. the seminal vesicles and their ducts. These have the following relative situation: — The rectum is behind all, and takes a curved course, with the convexity backwards, along the front of the sacrum and the coccyx. The bladder is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland ; and the urethra curves forwards from it above the tube of the intestine. Beneath the bladder — that is to say, between it and the rectum, — are the little seminal sacs with their ducts. Some of these organs are partly surrounded by the peritoneum. Dissection. — All the recto-vesical fascia, except the ante- rior ligament of the bladder, may be now taken from the viscera. The obliterated remnant of the internal iliac artery (hypogastric) should be next followed forwards, along the bladder, from the back of the pelvis ; but the other branches of the same artery to the lower limb are to be cut through. When the fat and the vessels have been cleared away, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which wool has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter passing to the bladder. The prostate may be now cleaned, and the vesiculm semi- nales which are behind it defined: the part of the bladder below the peritoneum is likewise to be prepared, and at the same time the vas deferens, which lies on the lateral aspect of that viscus, is to be followed down to the seminal sacs. Lastly, the layer of fascia is to be removed from the part of the rectum below the peritoneum, but the branches to the gut from the inferior mesenteric artery are to be preserved. If the bladder has become flaccid, half fill it with air, in order that its connections may be studied. The 'peritoneum, does not envelop the viscera of the pelvis so completely as those of the upper part of the abdomen. After partly surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—meso-rectum, the membrane can be traced to the back of the bladder, where it projects for some way between this viscus and the rectum, forming the recto-vesical pouch. On each side of the rectum the serous membrane is arrested by the internal iliac artery, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. Tracing