LIGAMENTS OF THE FINGERS. 337 appear, viz. one on each side of the os semilunare in the first carpal, row, and between all in the second row. Lateral union. — Where the metacarpal hones touch they side are covered by articular cartilage, and the surfaces are fur- nished with prolongations of the same synovial membrane that serves for their articulation with the carpus. Dissection. — For the examination of the joint between the Dissec- J tion of head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger ... # joints. finger, it will be requisite that the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it should be cleared away. A lateral ligament on each side, and an inferior thick band are to be defined. Another joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Union between the Metacarpal Bones and the First Meta- Phalanges.—In these joints the convex head of the meta- carpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and the following ligaments: — The lateral ligaments are the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by its upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and ends below by being inserted into the side of the phalanx and the inferior ligament. The inferior ligament is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor ten- don : to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon; this takes the place of a superior ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side which serves as a capsule to the joint. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are connected with the inferior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Union of the Phalanges. — The ligaments of the first joint are similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal arti- culation, viz. two lateral and an inferior. z carpal bones and pha- langes. Lateral liga- ments. Inferior liga- ment. Capsule. Synovial mem- brane. Joint of thumb. Joints of the pha- langes have