DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 arises at shoul- der ; inserted into jaw; covers triangle. Dissec- tion. Exter- nal jugu lar vein crosses side of neck to subcla- vian. Cervical fascia. Part be- hind sterno- mastoid muscle. from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fibres take origin from the clavicle and the acromion, and below these bones from the fascia covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; and then ascend over the side of the neck, to be inserted into the jaw. The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. Dissection.— The platysma is now to be cut across near the clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the inci- sion over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is here to be left attached. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and should dissect out the external jugular vein, and the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath it. The external jugular vein commences in the parotid gland (p. 32.), and is directed backwards between the pla- tysma and the deep fascia to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. The part of the vein now seen is joined by small superficial branches, and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in other regions of the body, of a superficial layer that sur- rounds the part continuously, and of processes that are pro- longed inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane incases the sterno-mastoideus, and presents a different disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and then encloses the trapezius, in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck the fascia is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein, and