618 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Clean the bladder and pro- state. Pro- state gland : use and situa- tion. Form, dimen- sions. and weight. Sur- faces ; and base. Three lobes ; boundaries, so as to detach the crura of the penis from the bones, and to divide the parts connected with the end of the rectum. When the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be sepa- rated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the peritoneum and the con- nective tissue are to be dissected from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesiculae seminales are to be then cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed into the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the urethra it is to be taken away. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland.— This is a firm muscular and glan- dular body which secretes a special fluid, and surrounds the neck of the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections with the surrounding parts have been enume- rated (p. 598.). This body is conical in form, with the base or larger end directed backwards, and is usually likened to a chesnut, which it much resembles. Its dimensions in different direc- tions are the following :— Transversely at the base it mea- sures about an inch and a half; from apex to base rather more than an inch ; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely downwards and outwards from the apex to the base, at its lateral part, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this respect it varies greatly. The upper surface of the prostate is rounded, but a slight groove lies along the middle; and the under surface, which is larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow that indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, or the base, is thick, and in its centre is an excavation which receives the common ejaculatory ducts. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz. a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral parts or lobes are similar on each side, and