DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 76 Subcla- vian vein; The subclavian vein has nearly the same limits as the artery of the same name, viz., from the lower border of the first rib to the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is a con- tinuation upwards of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. Its course is nearly straight, and commonly below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalenus muscle. The anterior and external jugular join this vein outside the scalenus, and the vertebral vein enters it inside opening that muscle. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and it™ph_ jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens; and at the same spot, on the left side, is the entrance of the large lymphatic duct. It should be borne in mind that not un- frequently the vein is as high in the neck as the third part of its companion artery; and that the vein has been twice seen with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. its branch- es ; atic ducts Cervical The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL nerves. nerves spring from the common trunks in the interver- position tebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between and # A ■L number, the intertransverse muscles. These spinal nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. At their commencement the nerves intermix by communi- cating branches, and receive offsets of communication from the sympathetic. First To this general statement respecting the position of the fer°from nerves between the intertransverse muscles, some modifica- tion is necessary for the first two nerves; and the pecu- liarities concerning them will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Brachial Plexus.— The first dorsal and four lower plexus; cervicai nerves are blended in this plexus, and a fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical formed plexus- Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the lowest nerves Part the nec^to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexi- form disposition: they lie at first between the scaleni muscles, and have the following arrangement: — The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebrae; the Disposi-