SCAPULAR MUSCLES. 269 tire connected indirectly to the bone by means of an ex- pansion from it. Internal to these muscles, and inserted into the whole extent of the base of the scapula, is the ser- ratus magnus muscle. On the angles of the scapula the fibres of the serratus into the magnus are collected in this way: the highest fibres are of the fixed to the under surface of the upper angle, and the lower fibres are inserted into an impression on the corresponding aspect of the lower angle. On the outer surface of the in- ferior angle lies the teres major, which will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the front into co- x # racoid of the upper part of the coracoid process may be now process, ascertained. Dissection.—By the separation of the serratus from the Dissec- subscapularis a thin fascia comes into view, that belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins. After the fascia has been observed, it may be removed; and the muscle is then to be followed forwards to its insertion into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the offsets of these to the muscles, should be nicely cleaned. The subscapularis muscle occupies the under surface of subsca- the scapula, and is concealed by that bone, when the limb is in its natural position. The muscle arises from all the con- fills the cave surface on the ventral aspect of the scapula, except the scapula; neck and the angles, and is connected to the ridges of the bone by tendinous processes. It is inserted by a tendon into is in- serted the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy fibres into into the neck of the bone for nearly an inch below that ru™e" process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and Connec- is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves and the serratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which generally com- municates with the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint. The lower border projects much beyond the bone: it is contiguous to the teres major, and comes into contact with the latissimus dorsi and the long head of the triceps : along this border is the subscapular artery, which here gives backwards its dorsal branch.