STRUCTURE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 533 Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. — With the aid of a lens the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed, will be seen to be marked all over by shallow depressions or alveoli, which measure from ^i-g-th to of an inch across : these depressions are occupied by the apertures of minute tubes. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach. Near the pylorus, too, the margins of the alveoli project, and are irregular, so as to resemble rudimentary villi. By means of a thin section under the microscope, the membrane is seen to be formed almost altogether of minute vertical tubes that lie side'by side, and project into the sub- mucous tissue. Measuring from an across and ^gth y&th of an inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end; but they open on the surface of the stomach both in the alveoli, and in the interalveolar spaces. For the most part they are straight, but towards the pylorus they become longer and somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity. In their interior they are lined by columnar epithelium, which becomes spheroidal in the bottom of the tube; and filling them is a colourless fluid, which contains a granular material. Over the surface of the mucous membrane small lentiform, follicles are scattered, which have a depression in the centre, and correspond with the solitary follicles in the intestine. These are in greatest number near the pyloric end of the stomach, and are most marked in young children. A columnar epithelium covers the surface of the mucous membrane, and enters the small tubes, as before men- tioned. * On the surface are pits or al- veoli ; their size. shape. and ap- pear- ance near pylorus. The texture made up of tubes of small size; mostly straight with closed deep end, lined by epithe- lium ; contain fluid. Folli- cles, Epithe- lial co- vering. Bloodvessels and nerves of the stomach. — Tbe different arteries Arteries, of the stomach, after supplying the muscular coat, ramify in the submucous tissue, and terminate in the mucous coat. From that anastomosis in the submucous stratum, small offsets are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous membrane, where they form a network. The veins begin in the mucous membrane veins. * A thin submucous stratum of muscular fibres has been described as lying on the outer or deeper surface of the mucous membrane through- out the whole alimentary canal. A. T. Middeldorpf, Be glandulis Brun- nianis, 1846. E. Briicke, Berichte der Wiener Akademie, 1851. mm3 »