DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 320 Annular ligament of front of wrist. Dissec- tion. Insertion of ten. don of flexor carpi radialis. Insertion of bra- chialis an tic us. Inser- tion of the biceps tendon. To define the ligament the small muscles of the thumb and little finger must be taken from it. Before reading the description of this structure, the ends of the cut ligament should be placed in apposition. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band that arches over and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached externally to the front of the os scaplioides, and to the fore and inner part, as well as the ridge of the os trapezium; and internally to the unciform and pisiform bones. By its upper border it is connected with the aponeurosis of the forearm, and by its anterior surface with the palmar fascia. On the cutaneous surface lie the palmaris longus and the ulnar artery and nerve. Dissection. — Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis to its insertion, and dissect out more fully the attachment of the biceps and bracliialis anticus muscles to the bones of the forearm. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the forearm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os tra- pezium between the attachments of the annular ligament to the bone, but outside the arch of that ligament: here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial mem- brane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bones of the index and middle fingers. The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broad thick tendon, about an inch in extent, which is fixed into the anterior rough part of the coronoid process of the ulna. Insertion of the biceps. — The tendon of the biceps is inserted into the inner part of the tubercle of the radius, and into the bone behind it. A bursa is found between it and the bone. Near its attachment the tendon changes the direction of its surfaces; the anterior surface becoming external, and vice versa. The supinator brevis muscle partly surrounds the insertion. Section VI. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. — During the dissection of the back of the fore- arm, the limb lies with the fore part down, and a small