DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 728 Abduc- tor of the little toe. Origin and in- sertion. Is at side of the foot. Dissect plantar vessels and nerves. Two plantar arteries: inner and outer. internal smallj ends on side of the foot. External artery has curved course ; The abductor minimi digiti has a wide origin behind from the outer and inner tubercles of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted, with the short flexor of the little toe, into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of that toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor acces- sorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Dissection. — To bring into view the second layer of muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles al- ready examined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it; divide the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek a small nerve and vessel to it close to the bone. The abductor pollicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Now the plantar vessels and nerves are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lum- bricales, should be freed from loose tissue. The plantar arteries are the terminal branches of the # posterior tibial trunk. They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two the external is the larger ; and it forms the plantar arch of arteries, from which digital branches are furnished to the toes. The internal artery is commonly inconsiderable in size, and is directed forwards, under cover of the abductor pollicis, to the root of the great toe : here it ends either in small branches to the side of the foot, or in digital branches to the inner two toes which anastomose with the external plantar artery. The external artery has an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch turned inwards, and supplies branches to the toes. Starting from the inner part of the foot, the vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely forwards towards the root of the great toe, or to the side on which it began, so that the vessel crosses twice the foot. In the first half of its extent, the artery is com-