100 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. and nerves. Parts be- neath mylo- hyoid on side of neck, and along middle line. membrane of the mouth. To enable the dissector to raise upwards sufficiently this loose piece of bone, let the apex of the tongue be drawn well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose; then let the scalpel be passed from below upwards between the cut surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and let it be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. After these directions have been followed the loose piece of the jaw can be easily turned upwards; and it is to be fastened in that position with thread. By means of a hook the os hyoides may be drawn down, and the muscular fibres made tense. All the connective tissue is now to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct; of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches that lie on the hyo-glossus muscle ; also of the gustatory nerve, nearer the jaw, with its small ganglion close to the submaxillary gland. The student should endeavour to follow the small chorda tympani nerve, which is applied to the trunk of the gustatory, onwards to the tongue, and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. The ranine vessels, and the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves are then to be found on the under part of the tongue, and to be followed to the tip. Parts beneath mylo-hyoideus. — The following is the posi- tion of the objects brought into view by the steps of the previous dissection. Extending from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus are placed, from below up- wards, the hypoglossal nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct; and near the inner border of that muscle those two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle is the lingual artery with its vein. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the os hyoides, along the middle line, is the genio-hyoid muscle ; and larger and deeper than this is a fan-shaped muscle, the genio-liyo-glossus. Along