471 DORSAL VESSELS OF THE PENIS. into two pieces, which are fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and are prolonged on it for some distance. In the interval between the two pieces or layers are the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. Dorsal vessels and nerves. — The arteries and nerves on the dorsum of the penis, are the terminal parts of the pudic trunks of both sides. The vein corresponding to the arteries enters the front of the pelvis through the triangular perinseal ligament. The dorsal artery, one on each side, appears between the layers of the suspensory ligament, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many branches for that structure: in its course the artery supplies the integuments and body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 459.). The dorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by numerous branches from the prepuce and the glans penis. The course of the vein is backwards by the side of the artery, between the layers of the suspensory ligament, and then through the triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. In its extent along the penis the vein receives branches from the erectile struc- tures of that body. Each dorsal nerve takes the same course as the artery to the glans penis, and ends like it in numerous branches to that part. It furnishes a large branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, the sides, and the prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male; they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris, as in the other sex. Dissection. — The surface of the external muscle of the abdominal wall is next to be freed from fascia on both sides of the body. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because there it has only a thin aponeurosis, which is readily removed with the fat: behind, however, the muscle is thick and fleshy, and cannot well be injured. Whilst beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the knife obliquely upwards and down- wards in the direction-of the fibres. The thin aponeu- rosis before referred to is in front of a line extended upwards from the anterior part of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be more careful not to injure it, especially at the upper part where it lies on the margin of the ribs. Con- tains vessels and nerves. Source of vessels and nerves. Dorsal artery of penis, a branch of pudic. Peculia- rities. Dorsal vein ends in prostatic plexus. Dorsal nerve of pudic. Vessels on cli- toris. To ex- pose exter- nal ob- lique muscle. HH 4