DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 550 dinai fissure are the remains of a vessel which has the undermen- fissure in the tioned arrangement in the foetus. Before birth the large fcetus umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava; and the part of the vessel beyond the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied from the vein at that period to both lobes of the liver, and a large one, which is directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left divi- sion of the vena portse. condi- After birth the anterior part of the umbilical vein is birth. er closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament: and the posterior part, or the ductus venosus, is also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its place ; whilst the lateral branches, which are in a line with those of the vena portae, remain open, and subsequently form part of the portal system of vessels. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious. Glandu- Structure of the Liver.— The substance of the liver turei**5 consists of a collection of small secreting bodies, called byCtwo lobules or acini; together with a large proportion of vessels, coat!’' which are concerned both in the production of the secretion and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. 1. Serous coat. — The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At certain spots, intervals exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, at the lines of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface covered by the gall-bladder. Where the right lateral ligament is inserted the space is the largest. 2. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. ed°tonth"e It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse lienor.; gssure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) surround- ing the vessels in the interior of the hepatic mass. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it is found to be connected with fine shreds, that dip between the lobules or the glandular structure of the liver. Size and form of the lobules. — The lobules constitute the proper hepatic substance, and can be seen either on the ex- terior of the liver, or on a cut surface, or by means of a rent Serous coat. where deficient. Fibrous covering is Lobules of the liver :