BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. 609 The branches from the anterior division of the internal Branch- es of the iliac artery are the following: — trunk0* 1. The vesical arteries are named superior and inferior, vesical and are distributed to the upper and lower parts of the artenes; bladder. a. The upper vesical are three or four in number, and three or arise at intervals from the partly obliterated hypogastric upper, trunk ; the lowest is sometimes called middle vesical branch. Offsets are distributed from these branches to all the body and the upper part of the bladder. b. The lower vesical artery arises from the front of the and a . lower, internal iliac in common with a branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and the pros- tate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens, and ascends on it as far as the inguinal canal. 2. The branch to the rectum (middle haemorrhoidal) is with an commonly supplied by the inferior vesical, as before said, or jjj^rec" by the pudic. It ramifies on the anterior and lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries. 3. The obturator artery is distributed outside the pelvis, Obtura- and merely crosses this cavity to reach the aperture of exit, tery The branch springs usually from the anterior division of the courses internal iliac artery, and is directed forwards below the brim pelvis, of the pelvis to the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Passing from the pelvis by that opening, the artery ends in two branches, which join on the membrane closing the thyroid foramen, and lie beneath the muscle in that spot. In the pelvis the artery has its companion nerve Offsets above, and vein below it, and it distributes the following pelvis; small branches: — a. Iliac branch. — Amongst other small offsets, the obtu- rator furnishes a twig to the iliac fossa to supply the bone and the iliacus muscle ; this anastomoses with the ilio-lum- bar artery. b. The pubic branch, arising as the artery is about to Pubic . J branch. leave the pelvis, ascends on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, as well as with an offset sent downwards from R R