DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 306 Supplies the mus- cles, except one and a half, in both layers. A cuta- neous branch to palm of hand. Radial nerve in the fore- arm. ends on back of thehand. Dissec- tion of deep layer of muscles, Three muscles in the deep layer. Deep flexor of fingers. Origin. a. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except the flexor carpi ulnaris; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep layer through the following branch (interosseous), except a part, viz. the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. b. The anterior interosseous nerve.— By means of this nerve, the remaining muscles of the deep layer are supplied, with the excep- tion above specified. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery, and will be dissected with that vessel. c. The cutaneous palmar branch arises at the lower part of the forearm; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses the ligament to reach the palm of the hand. The radial nerve is the larger of the two branches into which the musculo-spiral divides in front of the outer con- dyle of the humerus. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus, and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior part of the tendon of the supinator. On the surface of the limb it divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand, and on the thumb and the next two fingers (p. 296.). No offset is furnished by the part of the nerve beneath the aponeurosis. Dissection.— To examine the deep layer of muscles it will be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the fore- arm the pronator teres and flexor sublimis muscles ; or if it is thought necessary, these muscles may be divided. The connective tissue is to be taken from the muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Deep layer of muscles. — Only three muscles are present in the deep layer on the front of the forearm. One lies on the ulna, and is the deep flexor of the fingers ; another covers the radius, — the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which is beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. The flexor digitorum profundus vel perforans arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three fourths of the length of the bone, and from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance; from the inner part of the olecranon ; and from an aponeurosis common