25 MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. outer margin of the muscle. The external fibres (orbital) and con- are the strongest, and project beyond the margin of the three orbit; the internal fibres (ciliary) are very pale and thin, fibres, and form a small bundle close to the cilia or eyelashes; whilst the fibres which occupy the eyelids (palpebral), are oiffer- intermediate in size. The external fibres pass continuously ^tach- around the margin of the orbit; but those in the eyelids are interrupted externally, and are fixed to the external tarsal ligament and the malar bone. The muscle is subcutaneous, Connec- and its circumference is free, except above, where it is parts blended with the occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are sometimes joined by slips to the other contiguous muscles. The corrugator supercilii is found beneath the orbi- corru- gator su- cularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise percim from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed thence outwards to ioin the orbi- is biend- ' ° . ed with cular muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It is orbicu- laris. a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Muscles of the Nose. — The muscles of the nose are Four muscles the following: pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, levator of nose, alae nasi, with some fibres that dilate the nostril, and de- pressor alae nasi. The pyramidalis nasi is a small pyramidal slip that covers Fy™mi- the nasal bone, and appears to be a prolongation of the occi- f*sjver pito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous part of the nose £a*al its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins that of the com- pressor naris. Along its inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Compressor Naris.— This muscle is not well seen till Cora- pressor after the examination of the following one. Triangular in naris shape, it arises by a point from the canine fossa of the upper maxillary bone. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers covers cartilage the cartilaginous part of the nose, and joins the tendon of of nose. , the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the