644 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Inser- tion. Its con- nections with parts around. Obtura^ tor muscle is bont over pelvis. Origin in the pelvis. Arching of its tendons over the hipbone. Inser- tion. Part of muscle is in pelvic cavity. part in perinasal space. Coccy- geus of the hip bone which forms the upper part of the large sacro-sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter. (See Dissection of the Buttock.) The anterior surface is in contact with the rectum, with the sacral plexus, and with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels; whilst the opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip bone, but between them are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and the lower is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, only the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. The obturator internus muscle, like the preceding, has its origin in the pelvis, and its insertion out of the cavity at the great trochanter of the femur; but the part outside is almost parallel in direction with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the inner surface of the obturator membrane, and from the fibrous arch bounding the canal containing the obturator vessels and nerve ; slightly from the surface of bone internal to the membrane; and from all the smooth surface of the hip bone behind the thyroid hole, reaching upwards to the brim, downwards to the outlet, and backwards to the great sacro-sciatic notch of the pelvis. The fibres are directed backwards and somewhat downwards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the sharp pulley-like surface at the back of the bone corresponding with the space of the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis these tendons are blended into one, which is fixed into the great trochanter, and is met with in the dissection of the buttock. The pelvic portion of the muscle is in contact by one side with the wall of the pelvis and the obturator membrane; by the other side with the fascia lining the pelvic wall, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve. Above the level of the levator ani, viz. from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the ischial spine, the muscle corre- sponds with the cavity of the pelvis, but below that line, with the ischio-rectal fossa. Coccygeus muscle. — The position and the connections of