602 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and their situa- tion. Use descrip- tion of male pelvis. Then clean' the viscera of the female pelvis. Reflec-' tions of the peri- toneum, Position. — The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of these are the bladder and the urethral canal. In this sex there are three tubes connected with the viscera, and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface, viz. the tube of the ure- thra, that of the vagina, and that of the rectum. Directions.— The description in Section I. (p. 588.) of the male pelvis must be used for instructions respecting the removal of the innominate bone, and for the anatomy of the fasciae, and the muscles of the outlet of the pelvis. After the student has learnt, as directed above, the fasciae and the muscles, which are nearly alike in both sexes, he may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. — On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much fat, the several viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of the uterus, this may be held up with a piece of string passed through the upper part. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be pre- served, and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated part of the in- ternal iliac artery is to be followed forwards to the bladder, but all the other branches may be cut away on this the left side ; the ureter will be found passing to the bladder close to that artery. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned and partly separated from one another at the anterior part of the pelvis, but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued for a short distance on the front of the intestine to the posterior part of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and the greater part of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder without again touching the vagina. On each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen and pelvis. As the peritoneum is followed upwards to the wall of the