DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 524 offsets to the sto- mach. duode- num, viz near the transverse fissure of the liver into two large termi- pi!esSUp* na^ arter^es — the right and left hepatic. Its branches are distributed not only to the liver, but freely to the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas. a. The superior pyloric branch descends to the upper border of the stomach, and running from right to left ana- stomoses with the coronary artery; it distributes small arte- rial twigs on both the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach. Branch- b. The right gastro-epiploic branch* (art. gast. epiploica stomach, dextra) is a trunk of considerable size, which descends be- neath the duodenum near the pylorus, then turns from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the pieces of the great omentum, and inosculates with the left gastro-epiploic branch of the splenic artery. On the sur- faces of the stomach, some offsets are given upwards, and others downwards between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following branches to the stomach, and the pancreas and the duodenum : — Small inferior pyloric branches end in the small extremity of the stomach. and pan- The pancreatico-duodenal branch (superior) l^ves the trunk duode- " opposite the duodenum, and runs along the curve of that intestine, lying between it and the pancreas ; it anastomoses below with the pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric artery (p. 513.). Both the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect of these viscera is another small artery with a similar position and distribution. c. The hepatic branches sink into the liver at the trans- verse fissure, and ramify in its substance, one for The right branch is divided when about to enter the liver lob/and at the right end of the transverse fissure, and supplies the bladder, following small artery to the gall bladder. The cystic artery, on reaching the neck of the gall bladder, divides into two twigs that ramify on the opposite surfaces, and are distri- buted to the coats. and one The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the left lobe, liver at the left end of the transverse fissure. A branch to the Spigelian lobe of the liver arises from this division of the artery. * This artery is named commonly gastro-duodenal as far as to the spot where it gives off the branch to the duodenum and pancreas. inferior pyloric. nal Branch- es to the liver ;