49 THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. the third root is derived from the sympathetic (the cavernous andsym- plexus), either as a distinct branch to the posterior border of the ganglion or in union with the long root. Branches. — The short ciliary nerves are ten or twelve in ciliary number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper eJat"ch~ and lower parts (superior and inferior angles) of the ganglion. In eyeba11- the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy the outer and under parts, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal caro- Oph- tid, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen. At artery first the vessel is outside the nerve, but it then courses inwards, over or under the nerve, to the inner angle of the in orbit, orbit, where it ends in terminal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though incon- granch- siderable in size, and they are sometimes arranged in three sets : — one being outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on its inner side. es. a. The lachrymal branch accompanies the nerve of the same name to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva; and it anastomoses with the middle meningeal and deep temporal arteries, by offsets through the sphenoidal fissure and the outer wall of the orbit. b. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch that en- ters the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eyeball. c. The supra-orbital branch arises beneath the levator palpebrae and superior rectus muscles; it then takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 6.). As it winds round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. d. The ciliary branches are uncertain in their place of origin, and enter the eyeball at both the front and back. The posterior ciliary are furnished from the ophthalmic trunk, or some of its branches. About twelve in number, they are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve) are named long ciliary ; they pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and are then placed along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the E Lachry- mal branch supplies gland. Branch to the retina. Supra- orbital branch. Ciliary arteries are pos- terior — two named long ciliary;