DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 118 at upper and low- er part of neck. Another branch to la- rynx, ends in mus- cles in interior. It has branches to heart, to tra- chea, and oeso- phagus. Left re- current nerve. Spinal acces- sory has two parts acces- sory to vagus in fora- men. Below fora- men ; how ends. branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on each side, there is a single cardiac nerve: — that of the right side enters the chest, and joins one of the deep nerves to the heart from the sympathetic; and on the left side the corresponding nerve terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus of the thorax. 4. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve of the right side leaves the pneumo-gastric trunk opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx. To reach its destination, the nerve ascends beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and then between the trachea and the oesophagus. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and it will be afterwards traced into the interior. The following branches arise from it: — a. Some cardiac branches leave this nerve as it turns round the subclavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. • b. Muscular branches spring from the recurrent nerve whilst it lies between the trachea and the oesophagus, and are distributed to both those tubes. Near the larynx also some filaments are fur- nished to the inferior constrictor muscle. On the left side of the body the recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, around which it bends. In the neck its position is between the trachea and the oesophagus, as on the right side. The spinal accessory nerve passes through the foramen jugulare with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion while in the foramen. This nerve is constructed of two parts, viz. accessory to the vagus, and spinal, which have different origins and distributions. See Origin of the cranial nerves. The part accessory to the vagus is the smaller of the two, and finally blends with the vagus beyond the skull. In the foramen of exit from the skull, it lies close to the vagus ; and here it joins the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Having passed through the foramen, this part is applied to the vagus; it is then continued over the lower ganglion of that nerve, and blends with the trunk of the vagus only beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper laryngeal branches of the vagus ; and according to Bendz, offsets from it may be traced into many other branches of the same nerve.