ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 65 parts are displaced, overhangs or conceals the vessels — in some bodies to a level with the hyoid bone, and in others as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the mus- Bifurca. cles at the root of the neck, the common carotid artery re- tl0n mains a single trunk, but opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these trunks are continued onwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the internal parts of the head being the trunks x ° to one more posterior of the two, but above the digastric muscle another, one becomes superficial to the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the Branch- 6S. neck and the outer part of the head, viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face; others backwards to the oc- ciput and ear; and others upwards to the head. The deeper trunk (internal carotid) ascends to the head without branch- ing, and is distributed to the interior of the skull. But the common carotid does not always divide, as here Changes said, for it sometimes ascends as an undivided trunk (though place of very rarely), furnishing offsets to the neck and head. Or oiTcarol the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from tld- the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or downwards, so that the trunk of the carotid may remain undivided till it is beyond the os hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. In close contact with the outer side of both the Jugular common trunk and the internal carotid artery, is the large vem internal jugular vein, which receives branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the superficial artery; but in some cases the vein covers the artery, and alters the branches joining it above may form a kind of plexus p0hltl0:1' over the upper part of the common arterial trunk. In connection, more or less intimate, with the large ves- Nerves sels, are the following nerves: — in front of the sheath is Section the descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve ; within the Series6 sheath, between the carotid artery and jugular vein, is the pneumo-gastric nerve; and behind the sheath is the sympa- F