227 ANTERIOR COMMISSURE OF THE CEREBRUM. of the cavity it also exists in abundance, entering into the corpora albicantia, and uniting the structures that form the floor of the third ventricle. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms most of the soft com- missure. The anterior commissure of the cerebrum is a round Anterior bundle of white fibres, which passes through both corpora sureT's striata, and connects the opposite hemispheres. To see it in formar.a one half of its extent, the student should make the following extent' dissection: — Dissection.—On the side on which the corpus striatum has To see- been cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the corpus interior of that body, by scraping away the gray matter stnatum’ (intraventricular) with the handle of the scalpel. The commissure may then be seen to perforate below the white fibres of the corpus striatum, and to pass through the other mass of gray matter (extraventricular) of the same body. Free only in the middle line, where it lies before the Position; pillars of the fornix, the anterior commissure perforates the corpus striatum, and passes in succession through the intra- and ventricular gray mass, the white fibres, and the extraventri- cular gray matter. Lastly, the commissure pierces the white to roo.t stratum bounding externally the corpus striatum, and ends ?Jrior in the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The 'posterior commissure of the cerebrum is smaller than p0ste- the anterior, and is placed above the opening into the fourth Sure ventricle. Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus. The thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the cerebrum) Thaia. will be best seen on that side on which the inferior cornu of ^ticus. the lateral ventricle has been opened. It is a square-shaped Form body, which forms part of the lateral and third ventricles, sS?on°" and is free where it enters into those cavities. The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral Upper ventricle, and is marked in front by a prominence — anterior sullace# tubercle, near the taenia semicircularis. The under surface uader forms part of the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral part' ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By the inner side this body enters into the third ventricle; and inner along its upper part, on this aspect, lies the peduncle of the Slde‘ pineal body. On the outer side are the corpus striatum, and °.uter _ side, Q 2 course