DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 684 into tibia. Position to other muscles. Pecti- neus. Origin from pubes, inserted into femur. Muscle is twisted. Surfaces. Parts on the sides. Adduc- tor lon- gus ex- tends j from pelvis to femur. Its con« nections with muscles and,* vessels. an inch wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. At the upper part of the thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third it intervenes between the sartorius and semimembranosus muscles, and forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. Its tendon, at the insertion, is nearer the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg, as in the tendon of the sartorius. A bursa separates it from the ligament of the joint, and projects above it to the sartorius tendon. The pectineus is the highest of the muscles directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the ilio-pectineal line of the hip bone, and from the triangular smooth surface in front of that line ; and it is inserted inferiorly by a tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, so that the sur- faces which are directed forwards and backwards near the pelvis, are turned inwards and outwards at the femur. One surface is in contact with the fascia lata; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the ad- ductor longus; and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the former muscle. The adductor longus lies below the pectineus, and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubes near the angle of union of the crest and the symphysis, and is inserted along the middle third of the shaft of the femur—into the inner margin of the linea as- pera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, and forms part of the inner boundary of the triangular space containing the femoral vessels. Its anterior surface is covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sartorius; and the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep