DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 584 compa- nies it. May be absent. Genito- crural pierces psoas, and divides into genital and crural branch. Course of exter- nal cuta- neous nerve in the ab- domen to reach the thigh. Origin of ante- rior cru- ral nerve. Position in the abdo- men ; its branches here to ilia- cus. to femo- in the abdominal wall, and its distribution over the scrotum and the groin, are before noticed (p. 468. 481.). The size of this nerve depends upon that of the ilio-hypo- gastric branch ; and the nerve may be absent if the latter is large. The genito-crural nerve is distributed, as the name ex- presses, to the genital organs and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop be- tween this and the first: it soon pierces the fibres of the psoas, and descending on the surface of the muscle divides into a genital and a crural branch. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the branches perforate separately the muscle. a. The genital branch descends on the external iliac ar- tery, and furnishes offsets around it; it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. b. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart’s ligament to supply the integument of the thigh. (See Cutaneous Nerves of the Thigh.) The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh arises from the second nerve of the plexus, or from the loop between it and the third, and appears about the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then takes an oblique course across the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous processes, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart’s liga- ment, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb. The anterior crural nerve is by far the largest offset of the plexus, and supplies branches to the extensor muscles of the knee joint, and the front of the thigh. Taking origin from the third and fourth nerves, and receiving a fasciculus also from the second, this large nerve appears towards the lower part of the psoas, and then lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Poupart’s ligament; but before its final branching in the thigh, the nerve furnishes the following twigs : — Some small branches are given to the iliacus from the outer side of the nerve, whilst it lies in contact with that muscle. A branch to the femoral artery is distributed around