704 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Seek the cutane- ous nerves. Fascia of the limb over the ham. Remove fascia. and take the fat from the ham. Seek the nerves in the space. and clean the vessels. with ob- turator nerve. In the superficial fascia some small cutaneous nerves may be found, viz. one or two twigs in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath the fascia; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous towards the inner part. Fascia lata. — After the fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Where it covers the popliteal space it is strengthened by transverse fibres, par- ticularly on the outer side ; and at each side it is connected with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphe- nous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Dissection. — The fascia over the ham is now to be re- moved without injuring the small sciatic nerve and the short saphenous vein, which are beneath it. A large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, and the several vessels and nerves looked for. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced on the inner side. In the middle line the student will first come upon the large internal popliteal nerve, and nearer the outer side, on the external popliteal; both give branches, and their offsets will be recognised more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction. In fat bodies the small nerves to the knee joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve (ex- ternal), which sometimes arises from the great sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, and the vein is more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur. Numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially below, are to be cleaned. On the upper part of the artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee joint may be found. The The popliteal space, or the ham, is the hollow behind li&m m 7 ' the knee which allows of the free flexion of the joint. In it situa. the large vessels of the limb are contained. When dissected, extent, this interval has the form of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and downwards along one sixth of the tibia; but in the natural condition of the parts the