DISSECTION OP THE FRONT OF TnE FOREARM. 294 Dissec- tion to remove of the fingers may be used to point out the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the joint between the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found about a line in front of the chief of the transverse grooves, that appear about the middle (in length) of the finger ; whilst the articulation between the two last phalanges is situate about a line in front of the single groove which is nearer the tip of the finger. Dissection. —With the position of the limb still the same, an incision is to be carried through the skin along the the skm. 0f the front of the forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist; and at its termination another transverse one is to be united with it. The skin is next to be reflected care- fully from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves that are beneath; and it should also be taken from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along the margins of the hand to a little beyond the knuckles. One finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves mav be traced to the end. * seek the The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in cial ves- the fat. They have the following position : — Along the nerves inner side of the forearm are the ulnar veins, with the con- in front, . . « , tinuation ol the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side are the radial vein, and the super- ficial part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, is the small palmar branch of the median nerve. At the back of the forearm the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced; and offsets are to be followed to this surface from the nerves in front. On the posterior part of the hand is an arch of superficial veins. The radial nerve, and a branch of the ulnar nerve, should be found on the back of the hand, as they run to the fingers, — one along the outer, the other along the inner border of the hand. Cittaneous Veins. — The superficial veins are named einsof median, radial, and ulnar, from their position in the limb. the fore. . ’ r arm are 1 hey commence in the hand, chiefly at the dorsal aspect, where they form an arch, and are continued along the behind. Subcu- taneous