187 PIA MATER. The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially visceral at the under surface, and beneath it there is a considerable not close interval (subarachnoid space). When it is traced over the t0 brain> brain, the following is the disposition of the serous mem- brane. On the upper or convex surface of the cerebrum the membrane passes from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening hollows; though it lines the great median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On hollow beneath. the lower or under surface of the cerebral mass the arach- noid covers the anterior lobes, and sinks also into the median fissure : but farther back there is a space between it and the varies at A spots; brain. Still more posteriorly the serous membrane is closely connected to the pons and the under surface of the cere- bellum ; but between the hemispheres of the little brain there is another space beneath it, similar to that at the under part of the cerebrum. The subarachnoid space, or the interval between the it is the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot arach- than another, and contains more or less fluid, that has been space, named cerebro-spinal. This space is largest at the under part of the great brain about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres both of the cerebrum and the cere- bellum. If the arachnoid covering is removed from the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum, the aperture of the fourth ventricle will be perceived, by which the cavity in the interior of the brain communicates with the subserous space both of the encephalon and of the spinal cord. The pia mater, or the vascular covering of the brain, Pia raa- closely invests the different parts of the cranial mass, and ter dips into the fissures, as well as into the hollows between the surface convolutions and laminae. Besides covering the sends pieces exterior of the brain, it sends processes into the interior to into the supply vessels to the walls of the enclosed spaces : thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fringes project into the fourth ventricle, and are known as the choroid plexuses of that cavity. This membrane is a net-work of vessels, and is constructed it is a of the minute ramifications of the arteries entering the of blood- • • • vessels substance of the brain, and of the veins issuing from the cerebral substance ; whilst the intervals between the vessels