k THE GALL-BLADDER. 553 vein penetrate between the lobules, around which they form a circle, and then end in the interior as before explained: where these twigs lie between the lobules they are named interlobular. Hepatic duct. — The commencement of the duct within the lobules is uncertain; but probably the duct has a reticular arrange- ment amongst the portal vessels, its radicles corresponding to the spaces between the rows of cells, and being lined by a thin membrane. On leaving the lobules the branches form a plexus, interlobular, between them; and the small ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches, that lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into a right and a left trunk, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure as before described. Ducts have been found in the left lateral ligament of the liver, between the layers of the peritoneum ; they anastomose together and are accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz. vena portae, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. The hepatic artery is consumed in the nutrition of the structure of the liver. Whilst surrounded by the capsule of Glisson it fur- nishes vaginal branches to that sheath, which ramify in it and give it a red appearance in a well injected liver; it supplies other twigs to the coats of the vena portse and the biliary duct. From the vaginal branches some few offsets are sent to the lobules to supply their structure. This artery is supposed by Mr. Kiernan to ter- minate in venous capillaries that communicate with the branches of the vena portse. The hepatic veins (vense cavse hepaticae) begin by a plexus in the interior of each lobule, and from it an intralobular vein issues at the base ; these join together and form still larger or sublobular branches. The next sized branches cease to receive any intra- lobular twigs, and merely unite with neighbouring branches to produce larger veins. Finally, the hepatic veins are collected into large trunks, that are directed from before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The vense cavse hepaticae may be said to be without a sheath, for this is very slight only in the larger trunks : so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent in consequence of their close connection with the hepatic structure. terlobu- lar branch- es. Bile duct. Some ducts in the lateral liga- ment Hepatic artery nourish- es the liver, and joins vena portse.’ Hepatic veins without a sheath begin in the lobules, and end in the vena cava. THE GALL-BLADDER. The gall-bladder is the receptacle of the bile, and is situate use and in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the tiona-_1 liver, to the right of the square lobe. Conical in form, or form. pear-shaped, its larger end (fundus) is directed forwards