DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 138 Attach- ments. in pillar terior pillar of the soft palate, and bounds the tonsil pos- paiate. teriorly. The muscle arises inferiorly from the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, and some fibres blend with the contiguous portion of the pharynx. Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and separate into two fleshy strata. The posterior of the two, thin and in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the middle line the corresponding muscle. The deeper or an- terior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins also, at the middle line, the like part of the opposite muscle. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos uvulae between its two strata. The azygos uvulas is situate along the middle line of the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Be- hind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. The tonsil is a collection of muciparous follicles close above the base of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft pillars of . .. .... palate, palate. It is roundish in shape, but variable in size, and the apertures of the follicles are more or less apparent on its surface. Externally the tonsil is opposite the superior con- strictor muscle, and the angle of the lower jaw; and when enlarged it may press against the carotid blood-vessels. Azygos muscle is single along middle ; attach- ments. Tonsil is be- tween Vessels. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lin- gual, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid; and its veins have a plexiform arrangement on Nerves, its outer side. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and eighth cranial nerves. Mucous The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous an- brane of teriorly with the lining of the mouth and nose. Covering the cont?-nx soft palate and its numerous small glands (palatine), the to them membrane is continued to the tonsils on each side, and is tures. prolonged by the Eustachian tubes to the tympanum. From the dorsum of the tongue it is continued over the epiglottis, forming three small folds, and then lines the pharynx. In front of each arytaenoid cartilage it encloses a mass of muciparous glands (arytaenoid). It is prolonged into