DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 402 Inner part without marked strata; con- struc- tion. Carti- lage co- vering bones. Several liga- ments of the ver- tebral pro- cesses. To the articu- lar, are capsule and sac. Those of the arches are two to each space. Attach- ments. the parts of the letter X. This disposition of the fibres will be best seen on the discs between the lumbar vertebrae; and it may be rendered evident by dissecting layer after layer. The central portion of the disc is very soft and elastic, and projects when two vertebrae and the interposed mass are sawn through. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient in the stratiform arrangement so conspicuous at the circum- ference. Towards the confines of the two portions of the intervertebral substance, there is still an alternating arrange- ment of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, though the former is gradually diminishing; but towards the centre a loose fibro-cartilaginous material preponderates, and amongst it are spaces containing much fluid. The surfaces of the vertebrae in contact with the discs, have a cartilaginous covering. This may be seen by cutting the intervertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but towards the circumference it consists of separate pieces. B. Ligaments of the processes of the vertebrce. — The several processes of the vertebrae have special uniting liga- ments:— thus the articular processes are joined by a cap- sular ligament and a synovial membrane ; the neural arches are connected by yellow ligaments; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between their borders; and the transverse processes are provided with intervening bands of fibres. a. Ligaments of the articular processes. — Between the articulating processes there is a moveable joint. The bones are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres enclosing a synovial membrane. In the cervical region of the spine the capsular ligaments are larger and looser than in the dorsal or lumbar part. h. ligaments of the arches. — The ligamenta subflava, so named from their colour, are situate between the neural arches of the vertebrae, and close the spinal canal behind. In the interval between the arches of two contiguous verte- brae are two somewhat square ligaments, one for each half of the arch, which approach one another along the middle line. Each consists of elastic yellow tissue, and is attached above to the inner surface of the one arch, but below to the