574 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian) descends into the pelvis to the ovary and the uterus. In the foetus, before the testicle leaves the abdomen, the spermatic artery is very short, but the vessel becomes elon- gated in proportion as the part supplied is removed from its former site. B. The parietal branches of the aorta are the phrenic, lumbar, and middle sacral arteries. The diaphragmatic or inferior phrenic arteries are directed phrenic i upwards and outwards along the under surface of the dia- phragm, near the posterior part, and end in anastomotic and course°f muscular branches. The left artery passes behind the oeso- r ght phageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each Distri. ends in two branches : — one (internal) passes onwards to- but‘oii. warcjg fore part 0f diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the branches (mus- culo and superior phrenic) that are supplied to the dia- phragm from the internal mammary (p. 267.) ; the other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it meets with the intercostal arteries. Small Small brandies supplied to the suprarenal body by the external division of this artery are named superior capsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. In the female. Condi- tion in foetus. Branch- es to wall of abdo- men. Tnform** Common iliac : extent and ter- mina- tion. Connec- tions. Branch- es. Differ- ence be- tween right The other parietal branches, viz. lumbar and middle sacral, are not dissected in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus (p. 586.), and the latter in the pelvis. The common iliac artery is directed outwards from the bifurcation of the aorta to the base of the sacrum, and divides into two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between that bone and the last lumbar vertebra : — one of these sup- plies the lower limb (external iliac), and the other enters the pelvis (internal iliac). Placed obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length, and is covered by the peritoneum, by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The artery of the right side is rather the longest, in consequence