591 COCCYGEUS MUSCLE AND LEVATOR ANI. sciatic notch, with the gluteal artery and nerve above it. by 7 ° J coccyge- Next he will come to the coccygeus muscle, with the sacro- us> and J ° sacro- sciatic ligament stretched between the ischial spine and the sgatic coccyx, one border of the muscle reaching towards the ments» pyriformis, and the other to the levator ani; and between vessels the posterior border and the pyriformis will be the sacral nerves; plexus of nerves, and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the rest of the space will be seen to be closed by the levator ani, which extends forwards from the coccy- by,eva- J 7 ^ tor am, geus to the posterior part of the symphysis pubis ; it meets and by its fellow inferiorly, but, in front, the muscles of opposite fatda sides are separated by the urethra and the prostate gland, ^e°w and the interval between them is closed by the fascia lining pubes‘ the pelvis. The coccygeus muscle is flat and triangular, and assists Coccy- to close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises by a narrow origin process from the upper part of the ischial spine, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. Widening as it passes inwards, the muscle is inserted into and in- the side and anterior surface of the coccyx, and the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to Connec- the pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left surfaces side ; the opposite surface rests on the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The hinder border is contiguous to the pyriformis and . . , . borders. muscle, only vessels and nerves intervening, and the anterior or lower border is parallel with the levator ani muscle and is connected with it. The levator ani is a thin flat muscle, which is attached Levator am ; above to the side of the pelvis, and descends below into the situa. outlet of that cavity, where it joins its fellow, and supports tlon‘ the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an Origin oblique line on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and pos- from teriorly, from the inner surface of the ischial spine ; and and ’ . . p, . . , . . partly between those two points ot bone the muscle takes origin from from the under part of the recto-vesical fascia, along the brane. line of the white band before alluded to (p. 589.). All the fibres are directed downwards to the middle line of the body, to be inserted after the following manner : — The Inser- •' ' ' tion anterior, the longest, descend by the side of the prostate ' and join, anterior to the rectum, with the muscle of thelineof J 7 / the peri- opposite side in the central point of the perinseum; the naeum-