DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 24 Facial 1 vessels and parotid. In the face the muscles surround the aper. tures. Four muscles of eye- lids. Orbicu- laris palpe- brarum arises in- ternally, injury, except the small risorius muscle that comes from the angle of the lower jaw towards the corner of the mouth. When removing the fat from these muscles, each fleshy slip may be made tense with hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as the parts are cleaned ; but the nerves may be disregarded on this side. Near the ear is the parotid gland, whose duct is to be preserved; this is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face.— The superficial muscles of the face are gathered around the apertures of the eye, nose, and mouth. An orbicular or sphincter muscle surrounds the apertures of both the eye and mouth ; and other muscles are blended with each to enlarge the opening in the centre of the fibres. There are three distinct groups of muscles : one of the opening of the eyelids; another of the nostril; and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One of the muscles of mastication, viz. the masseter, is also now seen, but it will be afterwards examined. Muscles of the Eyelids.— The muscles of the eyelids are four in number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator palpebrae superioris, and tensor tarsi.* The two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be de- scribed with that part. The orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of the elliptical opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, which extends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumference of the orbit. At the inner angle of the orbit the muscle is fixed to the surface and borders of the small tendo palpebrarum or tarsal ligament; above that tendon, to the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and to the internal angular process of the frontal bone; and below it, to the same process of the superior maxillary bone, and to the inner part of the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the * The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 52.) is sometimes described as part of the orbicularis.