499 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. opening in the thigh. To free the intestine from the con- either in stricting band of the saphenous opening and Gimbernat’s at saphe- ligament, an incision is to be made down to the neck of the opening, sac at the inner and upper part; and to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, the knife is to be carried incision 7 # to divide horizontally inwards, or upwards and inwards through the it. thickened sac, and a few fibres of the free edge of Gimber- nat’s ligament. Danger to vessels.— When the incision is made upwards Risk of and inwards to loosen the deep constricting band, there will ing ves- sols ill not be any vessel injured unless, indeed, the cut should be regular made so long as to reach the spermatic cord, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And in the division of the stricture inwards with the same view, there is not, in ordinary cases, any vessel on the inner side of the ring, and therefore in the way of the knife, as this is carried in- wards. But in some few instances (once in about eighty and irre- operations, Lawrence), the obturator artery takes its un- condi-^ usual course, lying in front of and on the inner side of the them, neck of the sac, and will be before the knife in the division of the stricture. This condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, but the surgeon would best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the Defmi- spinal column and the visceral arches continued forwards tlon from it, with the intervening muscles. It contains, the di- and gestive, urinary, and generative organs, and their vessels contents' and nerves. Dissection. — To prepare the cavity for examination, the Dissec- .f f J . ’ tion to remainder ot the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be °Pen ab- domen. divided by a cut along the left side of the linea alba as far as the xiphoid cartilage, and the flaps are to be thrown to the sides. Size and form.— This space is the largest in the body, is largest It is oval in form with the ends of the oval upwards and body. K K 2