DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 256 Pecto- ral is muscle. Origin from chest and clavicle. Insertion into the hume- rus. Parts covering it. and along the borders. Dissec- tion of the parts be- neath pecto- ralis. Its inser- tion. The pectoralis major is a triangularly-shaped muscle, which has its base at the thorax and its apex at the arm. It arises internally from the front of the sternum, and the car- tilages of the true ribs except the last; superiorly from the sternal half of the clavicle; and inferiorly from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions,—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those from the lower ribs upwards, beneath the former; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus for about two inches. This muscle bounds the axilla anteriorly, and is connected sometimes to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures and the mamma, the platysma covers the pectoralis major close below the clavicle. A lengthened interval, which corresponds to a depression on the surface, separates the clavicular from the sternal attachment. One border (upper) is in contact with the deltoid muscle, and with the cephalic vein and a small artery ; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. The parts covered by the muscle will be subsequently seen. Dissection.—The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across now in the following manner. First, only the clavicular part is to be divided, so that a branch of nerve and artery to the muscle may be found, and a thin membrane around the bloodvessels prepared. By raising the cut part of the muscle, and carefully removing the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous sheath (costo-coracoid), that covers the axillary vessels and nerves, will be seen close to the clavicle; at the same time the cephalic vein will be detected as it crosses inwards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromial thoracic artery perforate that tube of membrane, and are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut about its centre, and the pieces thrown inwards and out- wards. Any fat, now coming into view, is to be removed, and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be fol- lowed to the humerus. The parts beneath the pectoral muscle are now laid bare.