PLATYSMA MYOIDES. 55 consequence of the direction of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum, whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno- mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, near the clavicle, is another slight hollow, which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the middle line of the neck the following parts can Promi. nonces in be recognised through the skin : — About two inches and a the mid- half from the base of the jaw is the eminence of the os of neck, hyoides, with its cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this may be felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is most marked in the man; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval corresponding .to the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico- thyroid membrane. From this spot to the sternum, and be- and tween the sterno-mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose sternal1 depth is much increased in emaciated persons, in which the sion. tube of the trachea can be felt. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be per- ceived by the side of the upper part of the trachea. Direction. —As the time will not allow now the examina- tion of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare in this stage only the parts behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. —To raise the integuments from the posterior Dissec- triangle of the neck, and from the structures immediately the pia- connected with it, the skin may be divided along the sterno- mastoid from the one end to the other, and afterwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The triangular flap of skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, which will then be brought into view, contains the platysma; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous fat from its surface. The platysma myoides is a thin subcutaneous muscular piatys- layer, which is now seen only in its lower half. The Se.raus* muscle is placed across the side of the neck, and extends e 4