263 LATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE. tery, to the under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it com- municates with the following branch, b. The inner thoracic and branch turns upwards between the artery and vein, and, after receiving the offset from the other, divides into many branches that enter the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through or above the border of the pectoralis minor. The subscapular nerves are three in number. Two enter Three the subscapular muscle, and are named upper and lower puiar; from their relative position; and the third is the long sub- scapular. a. The upper branch is the smallest, and enters the highest upper, part of the subscapularis muscle, b. The lower subscapular lower, branch (nerve of the teres muscle) gives an offset to the in- ferior part of the subscapular muscle, and ends in the teres major, c. The long subscapular nerve takes the course of longsub- p i . scapular the artery ot the same name along the posterior wall of the axilla, and ends in the latissimus dorsi muscle. Another small nerve, posterior thoracic (nerve to the Poste- serratus, external respiratory, Bell) is now seen on the sur- racic.10” face of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 77.), from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; — to reach its destination, it descends behind the axillary artery, and enters the surface of the serratus magnus muscle which is towards the axilla. The latissimus dorsi muscle may be now examined as Latis- far as it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising tiwouT from the back of the trunk of the body, and crossing the ax!ua. lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted by a tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove. At its attachment to the bone, the tendon is about one inch and a half in depth, and is in front of that of the teres ; at its lower border aponeurotic fibres connect it with the teres, but a well marked bursa intervenes between the two near the bone. The fibres have a cross arrangement in their course to the Disposi- tendon of insertion ; for whilst those that are attached to the 5™ ot lower ribs ascend to the upper edge of the tendon, those fibres' from the spines of the dorsal vertebras descend to the lower edge. Thus the fibres produce a hollow or groove, which