668 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Femoral hernia. Defini- tion. Course; first ver- tical, next directed for- wards, and then upwards. By what means it is to be pushed back. Cover- ings for the gut from the perito- neum, crural septum, crural sheath, cribri- form fascia, fat and skin. The co- verings may be altered. Femoral Hernia. — This kind of hernia consists in a pro- trusion of the intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart’s ligament. In this affection the gut descends always in the crural sheath, and commonly on the inner side of the vein, though occasionally it may be situate on the outer side of the artery. Course. — At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its progress from the abdomen to the surface of the body, and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards ; and should the gut protrude still farther the hernia again alters its direction and ascends towards the abdomen, in consequence of the ascent being easier than the descent on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia must suggest to the dissector the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the intestine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be neces- sary first to press it down towards the saphenous opening, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. The previous dissection will have demon- strated the necessity of raising the limb, and rotating it inwards during the manipulation to return the displaced in- testine to its cavity, in order that the margin of the saphe- nous opening, and the other tissues may be relaxed. Coverings. — As the intestine takes the course above specified it is clothed by the following structures, which are elongated and pushed before it: they are here enumerated from within outwards, in the order in which they are re- ceived. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen ; next one from the crural septum across the crural ring ; after this comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side ; still farther out is a layer of the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together with the skin. From without inwards the order of the different strata will be reversed. The coverings may vary, or be conjoined in different degrees according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances, as above ex- plained, the prolongation from the crural sheath is wanting ; and in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum