DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 353 To open Dissection. — Seizing the right ventricle, the student veritri- should pass the scalpel through it below the opening from the auricle, and cutting downwards bring it out inferiorly near the apex of the heart, without injuring the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior part of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks, so that the space may be looked into from below. Cavity of The cavity of the right ventricle is triangular in form, right ° ' ventri- and has the base turned upwards to the auricle of the same side. On a cross section the cavity would appear semilunar in form, and the septum between the ventricles, convex towards the cavity. Apex. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the Base and heart, at a little distance from the apex. At its base the ns open- # # L ings. ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures; one of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening; the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pulmonary artery. The part of the cavity which communicates with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infundibulum, or conus arteriosus. Anterior The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is comparatively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of posterior the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds in greatest part to the septum between the ven- tricles, and is of considerable thickness, interior Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is irre- cavity is gular, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular fibres, the column* carneae, but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy on it columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds, threeare Some merely form a prominence in the ventricle, like those fteshyf on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free columns. *n (trabeculae carneae). And a third set, which are fewer in number, and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi papillares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little ten- dinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening.