DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 712 surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Number Ending of the perforating arteries. — These arteries are rie^rte four in number, and the spots at which they pierce the ad- ductor muscles have been before referred to (p. 688.). Muscles On the back of the thigh all of them supply offsets to the supphe £exor muscie3 0f the leg, and end in the vastus externus. The lowest three are directed outwards to the vastus close end in to the bone, and usually through the short head of the exter- biceps, though the second perforating artery may run higher up than the attachment of the head of the biceps. Hip The Hip joint. — This articulation is a ball and socket how1’ joint, in which the head of the femur is received into the acetabulum, or the cup-shaped cavity of the innominate jtaiiga- bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments: — one to deepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid ; another between the articular surfaces of the bones, the interarticular ; and a loose capsule around all. Day Dissection. — The muscles are to be taken away from the bare the ... capsule, back of the hip joint, and the upper and lower attachments of the capsular ligament to be defined. Afterwards the front of the joint should be dissected in the same manner, with the body turned over for a short time, if this change in the posi- tion does not interfere with the other dissections. Capsule. The capsular ligament is a loose fibrous covering that is fixed by one end around the acetabulum, and by the other to Attach, the neck of the femur. Its upper margin is attached to the ments t x r o above circumference of the acetabular cavity at a short distance from the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower and margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric below* line, and behind by a very thin attachment into the neck of the femur about a finger’s breadth from the posterior inter- trochanteric line and the trochanters. The capsule is thinnest below, where it is in contact with the obturator On the externus. In front it is thickened by a band of fibres — band ofa iliofemoral ligament, which crosses from the lower of the fibres • • • • • • two anterior iliac spines to the trochanteric line ; and at the Another upper and outer part there is another strong band, which is outside, attached externally to the top of the great trochanter in