218 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. shoulder; and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed internally by the clavicle, and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Con- tinued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle, between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, is a slight depres- sion, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove is sometimes seen extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle ; this corresponds to the interval between the clavicular and sternal origins of the great pectoral muscle. Arm. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps muscle; and on each side of that muscle is a groove, which subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow joint. The inner of the two grooves is the most marked, and corresponds to the position of the brachial vessels. Elbow If the elbow joint be semifixed, the prominences of the outer and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, especially that on the inner side of the limb. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it by a slight interval, is the projection of the head of the radius, which may be recognised by rotating this bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissec- Dissection.— The dissection is to be commenced by raising raise the the skin from the side of the chest, and from the arm-pit, so integu- ment. as to lay bare the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of the axilla beneath it. These parts may be denuded by means of the following incisions:—one is to lx? made along the middle of the sternum (the whole length); another is to be continued along the clavicle for the inner two thirds of the length of that bone, and thence down the front of the arm as low as the fold of the arm-pit. From the xiphoid cartilage two other cuts are to be directed outwards: — one is to extend along the free edge of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, till it is a little below the extremity of the other cut on the arm; and is then to be turned across the inner part of the arm as far as to the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The remaining incision is to pass horizontally outwards over the side of the chest, opposite the xiphoid cartilage, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The two flaps now marked out should be reflected outwards, and be