452 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. crosses over fossa to the scrotum, and an- terior has same anatomy as poste- rior ; muscu- lar branch- es ; both are joined and dis- tributed to scro- tum and penis. Inferior puden- dal nerve ends in scrotum, and joins superfi- cial pe- rineal. Other offsets of small sciatic. Dissec- tion of muscles of the urethra and penis. Of nerves. wards with the artery of the same name to the back of the scro- tum. Whilst in the fossa, the nerve gives inwards an offset to the integuments in front of the anus, and this communicates with the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve. b. The anterior branch, appearing somewhat farther forwards than the other, passes either over or under the transverse muscle, and accompanies the posterior branch to the scrotum. At its origin muscular offsets are furnished to the levator ani muscle. Other muscular branches arise from the pudic nerve at the same spot as the preceding nerve, but these will be afterwards ex- amined. The superficial perinseal branches communicate with one another, and the posterior one is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, some of which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. The inferior pudendal nerve is a branch of the small sciatic : it pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and coursing forwards along the inner part of the thigh, enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaeum ; finally, it passes forwards with the superficial perinseal nerves, and ends in the outer part and front of the scrotum. A communication takes place between this nerve and the posterior of the two superficial perinseal branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is dis- tributed to the labium. On the surface of the thigh some other offsets (internal branches) of the small sciatic nerve may be observed. Dissection.—For the dissection of the muscles, the super- ficial fascia, as well as the vessels and nerves that have been examined, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perinseal space : it will be also necessary to remove a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer from the muscles. The muscle in the middle line is the accelerator urinse ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres, which are prolonged from it, one in front, the other behind. On the outer side of the space is the erector penis; and behind, passing horizontally between the other two, is the transverse muscle. The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of nerves to the muscles : to the erector penis there is a sepa-