Ill INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. Part in the temporal hone. — In the carotid canal the tor- second tuous course of the vessel commences. Following the wind- temporal ing of its canal, the artery first ascends in front of the inner ear (cochlea and tympanum) ; next it is directed for- wards almost horizontally; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium opposite the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid sur- J rounded in the temporal bone. by sym- A . . pathetic. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base Third of the skull (see p. 22.). part> Peculiarities in the carotid.— The length of the internal carotid Pecu- liarities vessel varies in a given number of bodies, both from difference in in the length of the neck, and in the point of division of the common length’ carotid trunk. The course of the vessel may be very tortuous, ‘brec. instead of being straight. It has been already said (p. 80.), that and’ori_ the internal carotid may arise sometimes from the arch of the sin* aorta. Further, this vessel may be absent from the neck : in such Absencc« case the common carotid may take its place, and give the usual offsets of the external carotid. In one instance (Quain) where the artery was deficient in the neck, two branches of the internal maxillary entered the skull, and formed by their union a substi- tute for it in the cranium. The internal jugular vein is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the foramen jugulare to the sterno-clavicular articulation. At the lower part of the neck it has been seen to join the subclavian, to form the innominate vein (p. 80.). As far as the thyroid cartilage this vein accompanies the internal carotid, but below that point it is with the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close in all its extent, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the eighth and ninth nerves; and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger intervening space, in which the pneumogastric nerve is found. The size of the vein remains much the same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased by the addition of those branches of the head and neck, corresponding with branches of the external carotid artery, that do not join the external jugular vein. The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz. the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pharyngeal; and Internal jugular vein joins in- feriorly subcla- vian. Is on outside of caro- tids, and is joined by branches below os hyoi- des.