DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 758 and the cuboid bone Union of the cunei- form bones one with another, and with the cuboid bone. Synovial sac. Union of the meta- tarsus, by dorsal, plantar, and in- ter os- b. In the articulation with the os cuboides there is a dorsal oblique band of fibres ; a plantar transverse band, which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. When the bones touch the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. Articulations of the cuneiform bones.—These bones are united to one another by cross bands ; and the ex- ternal one articulates with the os cuboides after a similar manner. a. The three cuneiform bones are connected together by short transverse dorsal bands between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except between the two innermost. There are also interosseous ligaments be- tween the contiguous surfaces of the bones. b. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and are furnished with either a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane, or a distinct synovial sac. A dorsal ligament passes transversely between the two, and a plantar ligament takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. The synovial membrane of the articulations of the cunei- form bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, it sends a prolongation forwards between the inner two cuneiforms to the joints of the second and third metatarsal bones; another outwards to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone; and sometimes a third to that of the external cuneiform with the os cuboides. Articulation of the metatarsal bones.—The bases of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected toge- ther by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments ; and where their contiguous parts touch they are covered with cartilage, and have part of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments are small transverse bands that pass from the base of one metatarsal bone to that of the next, on the upper surface, in the outer four toes. The plantar liga- ments are similar to the dorsal, between the same bones. The interosseous ligaments are short, transverse fibres be-