THE BLADDER. 597 intestine is very much enlarged, especially in women or old men ; and it then rises up on each side of the prostate in the latter, so as to surround this viscus except above. The urinary bladder (vesica urinaria) is situate in the Bladder \ ' is in pelvis, and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the Pe^is kidneys. When the bladder is contracted it is of a trian- empty, gular form, and lies within the pelvis against the anterior wall of the cavity. But when it is distended it becomes of a"cdtspro* a conical shape, with the larger part directed towards the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall; and it is fulL slightly curved over the anterior part of the pelvis as it projects beyond the bone. If a line through its centre were Axis, prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall somewhere (according to the distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes in the one direction, and the end of the coccyx in the other direction. The organ is maintained in its position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (p. 593. 595.). For the purpose of studying its connections the bladder is dm. divided into the following parts: —a summit and base, and a body and neck. The summit or apex of the bladder is rounded, and from ,APex , its anterior part three ligamentous cords are prolonged to on u- the umbilicus : the central one of these is the remnant of the urachus, and the two lateral are formed by the obli- terated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is full, the apex is above, but otherwise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peri- toneum. The base (fundus) is large, and rests on the middle piece Base of the rectum. In the state of emptiness of the bladder the base is scarcely prominent; but in distension of the viscus, alters in this part extends lower, and becomes widened. Connected shape; with the under part of the bladder are the vesicuke seminales co“ta.ct A with it. and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular space, from which the peritoneum is absent. Surfaces of the body. — The anterior part of the bladder sur- is in contact with the posterior surface of the symphysis anterior pubis, or with the lower part of the abdominal wall if it is distended, and is altogether free from peritoneum; whilst the posterior surface, on the other hand, is entirely covered JJjJJJ0*' QQ 3