573 BRANCHES OF THE AORTA. terior part of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the corre- sponding vertebrae. The branches may be classified into two sets, — one that supplies the viscera of the abdomen (visceral), and another that is furnished to the abdominal walls (parietal). A. The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesenteric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. All this set, except the last three, viz. the renal, capsular, and sper- matic, have been examined (p. 513—522.). The renal arteries leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which enter the renal substance between the vein and the ureter. Each lies beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal capsule (inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta. The right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. Varieties, both in the number, and the place of origin of this artery, are frequent. The middle capsular artery is a small branch that runs almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body, to which it is distributed. This artery anastomoses with the other branches supplied to the suprarenal body by the renal and phrenic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. The spermatic artery is destined for the testicle, and is remarkable for being small in size in proportion to its length; for leaving the cavity of the abdomen ; and for having the part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen, beneath the peri- toneum, to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord, as before described (p. 484.). In the course specified the vessel passes first along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter; and as it leaves the abdomen it turns round the epigastric artery, but is separated from that vessel by the vas deferens. On the right side the artery crosses the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the spermatic plexus of nerves. their classifi- cation. Visceral branch- es. Renal artery. is be- neath its vein; gives offsets. Differ- ence be- tween left and right. Capsular artery. Sperm- atic artery is remark- able. Course to the testicle.