DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 424 the occipital bone. The two small recti muscles correspond to the interspinales between the other vertebras, obii- The obliquus inferior lies obliquely between the first ferior"* two vertebrae. It arises from the spinous process of the to first two verte- bra. Obli- CjUUS su. perior extends from atlas to occiput. Connec- tions. . Semi- spinalis is di- vided into setm- spinalis dorsi, and semi- spinalis colli. Connec- tions. Inter- spinal muscles in pairs axis, external to the rectus major muscle, and is inserted into the transverse process (diapophysis) of the atlas. The obliquus superior takes origin from the upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, where the preceding muscle terminates, and is directed inwards to be inserted between the curved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process. This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion is beneath the splenius, but above the rectus major muscle. The semispinalis occupies the vertebral groove in the dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse and articular processes to the spines of the vertebras. The lower part of the muscle is called semispinalis dorsi, and the upper part semispinalis colli. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae, from the tenth to the sixth ; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and the last two cervical vertebrae. The semispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the upper five or six dorsal vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae, except the first three : it is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae above the attachment of the semispinalis dorsi, the atlas not receiving any slip. The semispinalis muscle is covered by the complexus, and by the deep cervical artery and the cervical nerves. To its inner side is the multifidus spinas muscle. * The interspinal muscles are placed as their name ex- presses : they are arranged in pairs, a muscle being on each side of the interspinous ligament, and are best seen in the neck and loins. in the In the cervical region the muscles are situate between the ntLk’ spinous processes, but they are absent from the interval be- tween those of the first two vertebras. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and below to the bifurcated {" *??? apices of the spines.