RADIAL ARTERY AT THE WRIST. 327- commencement, and ascends through some fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply the elbow joint, and to anastomose with a long branch of the superior profunda artery in the last named muscle. The 'posterior interosseous nerve takes its origin from the musculo-spiral trunk in front of the outer condyle of the humerus, and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nerve is placed between the superficial and deep layers of the muscles as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous mem- brane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve en- larges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digi- torum, and terminates in filaments to the ligaments and the articulations of the carpus. Branches. — This nerve furnishes offsets to all the muscles of the deep layer; and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of these three, viz. the anconeus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Radial Artery at the Wrist.— At the wrist the radial artery winds below the end of the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first inter- osseous space, between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and is beneath the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb ; but afterwards it is more superficial and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery. Its branches are nume- rous, but inconsiderable in size. a. The dorsal carpal branch passes transversely beneath the extensor tendons, and forms an arch with the corresponding offset of the ulnar artery. From this arch branches descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute the dorsal in- terosseous arteries. b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch reaches the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anas- tomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is con- tinued to the cleft of the fingers, where it ends by joining the current branch. Interos- seous nerve. Position to mus- cles. Termin- ation on back of the carpus. Its mus- cular oil- sets. Radial artery on back of wrist. Connec- tions with parts around. Branch- es are small. To back of car- pus. Meta- carpal branch.