DISSECTION OF THE ERAIN. 194 roots may be traced deeply into the nervous substance. Each nerve has therefore a superficial or apparent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. Respecting the superficial attachment to the brain there cannot be any doubt; but respecting the deep origin there is Real much difference of opinion, in consequence of the difficulties grayFS attending any inquiry into this subject. When the roots matter‘ are followed into the encephalon, they are found to be con- nected with masses of gray substance, which Stilling has named, in many instances, nerve nuclei.* ciassifi- The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve cation . . J . . pairs, according to the mode of classifying them. Those anato- as nine mists, who follow Willis and take the smaller number, include in pairs?1'e one nerve aH the trunks contained in the same aperture of the skull: as in the case of the eighth nerve, which consists of three trunks in the foramen jugulare.. But those who are disposed with Sommerring to enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, and all other trunks issuing from the encephalon in the like way, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notwithstanding that it may be combined with others in its foramen of exit. Designa- The nomenclature of the several nerves is three-fold: Thus, the tlon designation may be numerical, as first, second, third, and so forth: number, this mode of naming applies to all and is the one generally used. But a second name has been given to a few nerves from the parts to which they are supplied; as instances of this the terms hypo- name of glossal, pneumo-gastric, may be taken. And a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms auditory and olfac- tory express. In this way two names may be employed, almost in- differently, in referring to a nerve: — one being numerical, the other local or functional, as is exemplified below. The first or olfactory nerve (olfactory process) is very soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neurilemma; and it may be considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both gray substance and white fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a flat-looking band, wider at each end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the under aspect of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, and is * The statements of Stilling concerning the deep origin are here adopted, as his inquiries are the most complete, but many will probably require modification. part, or func- tion. Olfacto- ry nerve lies on anterior lobe.