DISSECTION OF THE MOUTH. 140 bounda- ries.. Lining of the mouth differs in parts, on roof, floor. cheek, and lips, Epithe- lium. Cheek; extent and struc- ture. and is formed by the hard and soft palate, and is limited anteriorly by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth; and beneath the tip of that body is the fragnum linguag, witli the sub- lingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar, tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips, and the posterior corresponds to the pillars of the soft palate. The mucous membrane of the mouth is much thicker on the hard than the soft parts bounding the cavity; it lines the interior of the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. Anteriorly it is contiguous with the tegument, and poste- riorly with the lining of the pharynx. On tracing its disposition, the membrane is seen to form a small fold — frsenulum, between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw. On the bony part of the roof it is thick and thrown into folds, and covers vessels, nerves, and glands ; but on the soft palate it is smooth and thinner. Along the middle of the palate is a ridge, which ends in front in a small papilla. In the floor of the mouth, the membrane forms the fragnum linguae beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into the openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts; whilst on each side of the fragnum it is raised into a ridge by the subjacent sublingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands in addition to the ordinary submucous tissue. Over the whole oral cavity, but especially on the lips, are found papillae for the purpose of touch. The epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly variety. The cheek extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached, above and below, to the alveolar process of the jaws on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy part of the bucci- nator muscle: on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and receives a lining of the mucous membrane.