504 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and ex tent. Divi- sions and con- nections. course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or alto- gether in the latter. Finally, it descends on the left side through the regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa, and enters the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It takes an arched course around the small in- testine, and is divided into six parts, viz. caecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. Csecum, The ccecum (caput caecum), or the commencement of the of colon, colon, is placed in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed Situation by the peritoneum stretched over it. In front usually are the convolutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdominal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only fatty and connective tissues inter- vening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intes- tine; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece — the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the peritoneum surrounds the caecum, and attaches it by a fold to the abdominal wall. The ascending colon reaches from the caecum to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it is placed in front of the kidney. The peritoneum fixes it immoveably to the wall of the abdomen; and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of the circumference, but it may be found to encircle the tube, and form a fold behind, as in the caecum. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The transverse colon passes obliquely upwards and to the left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen; verseco- in this course it is deeper at each end than in the middle, and, by being thus bent, forms the arch of the colon. In this extent it has above it the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach and the spleen; and below it the small intestine. In front is the great omentum; and behind is a fold of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdominal wall, and contains its vessels and is most nerves. The transverse colon is more moveable than any move- • able other part of the large intestine, its peritoneal fold allowing piece of* large in- it to be raised and placed on the margin of the ribs. Small testine. Ascend- ing co- lon. Parts around Connec- tions of the trans-