AXILLARY ARTERY. 259 sels and nerves of the limb, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. The axillary artery is the continuation onwards of the Axillary subclavian trunk through the axilla to the upper limb; and artU} ls the part of the vessel, to which this name is applied, extends from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the teres major muscle. In its course through the axillary space, its direction will depend upon the position of the limb to the trunk; for when the arm lies by the side of the body arched m the vessel is curved, its convexity being upwards ; and in axilla, proportion as the limb is removed to a right angle with the chest the artery becomes straight. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply placed, but it becomes superficial as it approaches the arm. Its connections with surrounding Has foi. lowing parts are numerous; and the description of these will be connec- methodised by dividing the artery into three parts — one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. a. Above the small pectoral muscle the artery is con- above tained in the axillary sheath of membrane; on its thoracic pectoral side is the axillary vein, and on its acromial side lies the brachial plexus, but the cords of the nerves are separated from it by a slight interval. In this part the cephalic vein crosses it, and it is covered by the clavicular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus mag- nus muscle, together with a small nerve, the external respi- ratory. b. Beneath the pectoralis the artery is surrounded by the beneath large nervous cords of the plexus, and is thus separated from muscle, the vein which is still to the inner side, and from the sur- rounding muscles. Superficial to the vessel is the pectoralis minor, with part of the pectoralis major; but there is not any muscle immediately in contact with it behind, for the artery is now placed at the top of the axillary space, parti- cularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. c. Beyond the pectoralis minor the artery is concealed and be- in part by the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, y°nd n' but thence to its termination, it is covered only by the inte- guments and the fascia. Beneath it will be the lower part