CAVITY OF LEFT AURICLE. 361 pulmonary veins ; and the narrowed part opens inferiorly into the left ventricle. On the left side, and at the upper part, is the aperture of On an- terior the pouch of the auricula, which is narrower than that on wall is ■r # . auricula the right side. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around the entrance, are the fleshy fibres or the musculi pectinati, which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. On the part of the wall corresponding to the septum auri- oj^ep- cularum, is a superficial fossa of a semilunar form, the re- ^™nr*nt mains of the oval aperture through that partition ; this is ™en bounded below by a projecting ridge, concave upwards, which is the edge of the structure that closed the opening in the fetus. This impression in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, because the aperture of communication between the two, in the fetus, was an oblique canal through the septum. The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmo- Open. . • r> *n&s at e nary veins, two on each side, together with the opening ot four pui- communication with the left ventricle. The mouths of the veins!17 two pulmonary veins are close to one another; those from the right lung open into the extreme right of the auricle near the septum, and those from the left lung enter the opposite part of the cavity, near the auricula. These veins are not provided with valves. The aperture into the ventricle will One into be afterwards seen to have a large and complicated valve, as cie. on the right side, to guard it. In the adult, the blood enters this cavity from the lungs Current by the pulmonary veins, and passes to the left ventricle by in adult ; the large inferior opening between the two. In the fetus, in fetus, however, the lungs are impervious to the air and the circu- lating fluid; and the left side of the heart receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture (foramen ovale) in the septum. Dissection.— The left ventricle may be opened by an Howto incision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, ventr!-ft near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, and are cle’ not to be extended so far upwards as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap, the interior of the cavity will be seen. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE is longer, and more Form Of