234 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. A fissure is pre- sent below, which is called valley, and con- tains ver- miform process. Consti- tuents of vermi- form process. Uvula, nodule, furrowed band, velum, pyramid, and com- mis- sures. The under surface is convex, being received into the fossae of the skull, and is divided into hemispheres by a median hollow (vallecula). The central sulcus, or the vallecula, receives the medulla oblongata, and is wider at the middle than at either the anterior or the posterior part. In the bottom of the sulcus is a mass named inferior vermiform process, which corre- sponds with the central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper surface: the two together consti- tute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Constituents of vermiform process. — Entering into the constitution of the inferior vermiform process are the follow- ing eminences, which may be easily separated from one another with the handle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula, which is named from its resem- blance to the same part in the throat ; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminoB. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle; and on its side is a ridge of gray matter, the furrowed band, which is notched on the surface and unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected with the nodule is a thin white layer on each side, — the medullary velum; but this and the fur- rowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 23.5.). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid, which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse laminae. Still farther back are certain transverse pieces extending between the posterior lobes of the hemi- spheres, of which they were considered by Beil to be the commissures. Seven lobes in each hemi- sphere, and three pedun- cles. Two lobes on upper surface, Lobes of the Hemisphere. — Each hemisphere is sub- divided into lobes on both the upper and the under aspect; and issuing from its anterior part is a large stalk-like process, which is subdivided into three pieces, and connects the cere- bellum with other parts, viz. an upper offset to the cere- brum, a middle one to the pons, and an inferior one to the medulla oblongata. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval between them is not well marked. The anterior or square