366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Vessels of the heart. The pul- monary artery is a short trunk, and di- vides into two for the lungs. ConneC' tions. Right oranch is longest. Left branch, Space at the bi- furca- tion. Condi- tion of the ar- tery in the fetus. Great Vessels of the Heart.— The arteries that take origin from the heart are the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coro- nary, are the superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmo- nary veins. The pulmonary artery is a short thick trunk that con- veys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle, the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the aorta; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches from its origin, divides into two branches of nearly equal size for the lungs. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a small ligamentous cord, the remnant of the arterial duct, which passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductus arteriosi. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the peri- cardium ; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta, to- gether with the left auricle. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricula. The right branch is longer than the left. In its course to the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava supe- rior, and rests on the bronchus or the division of the air tube: and as it passes outwards, it is above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe, which enter the pulmonic substance. The left branch is rather smaller than the right; it is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fissure of the root of the lung, where it divides into two branches corresponding to the number of the pulmonic lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery pass outwards, they cross the divisions of the air tube, and enclose with these a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. — In the fetus, the part of the pul- monary artery which is now ligamentous, was the continua- tion of the trunk of the vessel, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period the vessel above referred to receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arte- riosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the