523 BRANCHES OF THE CCELIAC AXIS. the opening in the diaphragm, and after supplying that tube, anastomose on it with branches from the thoracic aorta. b. The gastric branches are given to both sides of the stomach as the artery lies along it, and those on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. 2. The splenic artery is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in the adult. It is a tortuous artery, and runs almost horizontally to the left, along the upper border of the pan- creas, to the spleen. Near this body it divides into its terminal branches (splenic), which are about six in number (from four to ten), and enter the substance of the spleen by the concave surface towards the stomach. In its course the vessel is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches.— Numerous small branches are supplied to the gland as the artery lies along it: and one of these, art. pancreatica magna, arises near the left end of the gland, and runs to the right, with the duct, in the substance of the viscus. b. The branches for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near the spleen. Some of these, vasa brevia, turn upwards to the left end of the stomach, between or be- neath the gastro-splenic omentum, and ramify in the coats of that organ. Another branch, art. gastro-epiploica sinis- tra, which is larger than the others, turns to the right along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the right gastro- epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distri- butes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, as well as others between the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omen- tum. 3. The hepatic artery is the largest, in the fetus, of the three branches into which the coeliac axis divides ; but in the adult it is intermediate in size between the other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course to the liver, the vessel is first bent to the right towards the small end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superior pyloric and gastro-epiploic). It then ascends between the layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and the vena portae, and divides the oeso phagus and to the sto- mach. Splenic artery supplies the spleen, the pan- creas by large and small twigs. and the stomach by vasa brevia; and left gastro- epiploic. Hepatic artery; . courses to the liver. in which it ends,