44 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Trace superfi- cial nerves. Take away some fat. In the orbit is eyeball, with seven muscles, several cranial nerves, their distri- bution ; and some vessels. Lachry- mal gland is at the outer part of orbit. Its ducts oblique muscle is recognised by the fourth nerve entering it: the levator palpebrse and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed for- wards to their exit from the orbit, and backwards with the fourth through the sphenoidal fissure to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, should this still remain; and some care and trouble will be necessary to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commencement. The muscles and vessels, refered to above, are to be cleaned, but it is not requisite to take all the fat from the orbit in this stage of the dissection. Contents of the orbit.—Besides the eyeball and the lachry- mal gland, there is a great quantity of granular fat in the orbit. Connected with the eye are six muscles — four straight and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in this small space are numerous, viz. the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth nerve, together with the small orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; and their general distribution is as follows :—the second nerve enters the eyeball, the third is furnished to all the muscles but two, the fourth enters the superior oblique (one of the two ex- cepted), and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are likewise contained in the orbit. The lachrymal gland secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something like an almond ; and from its anterior part a thin piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. In structure the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands;