751 SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. can be displaced backwards ; and if the posterior is divided, bones in A ^ line whilst the other remains entire, the same bone can be brought in front of the articular surface of the tibia. The inter articular or semilunar cartilages are two fibro- semi- cartilaginous plates, which partly cover the articular surface ca'm- of the tibia : they are provided with two accessory bands ; tw?.s are one is between them at the fore part; the other, oblique, as- cends to the inner condyle of the femur. They are thickest at the outer margin, where they are united by fibres to the capsule ; and are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth to the fossas for the reception of the condyles of the femur. Inserted into the tibia at their ex- tremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachments to the bone, like the crucial ligaments, and become cartilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is reflected over them. a. The internal cartilage is ovoid in form, and is a seg- internal ment of a larger circle than the external. In front it is at- d/cufar. tached by a pointed part to an impression close in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia, and in a line with the anterior margin of the head of the bone. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. b. The external cartilage is nearly circular in form, and Exter- is connected to the bone within the points of attachment of nearly # circular its fellow. Its anterior part is fixed to the bottom of the in form, depression in front of the spine of the tibia, and close to that point of bone ; and its posterior extremity is inserted into the middle of the spine, between the two osseous points. From the posterior part of this disc a ligamentous fasciculus hasa ascends to the inner condyle of the femur, to be inserted nga- °f before or behind the posterior crucial ligament. This fibro- ment cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The transverse ligament is a narrow band of fibres be- Trans- , verse li- tween the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint, gament. Sometimes it is scarcely perceptible. Articular surface of the bones. — The lower end of the Articu- femur presents on each side a large convex condyle, and ofthe* femur,