376 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Right vagus above the root of the lung, and on the back of the oesopha- gus be- low root. Left nerve above the root of the lung, and on the front of the oesopha- gus. Branch- es are. recur- rent la- ryngeal in the thorax; cardiac branches in the thorax; lower cardiac branch of the neck; The right nerve is posterior to the left in its position. As the nerve appears in the thorax, it lies between the sub- clavian artery and the right innominate vein, and sends backwards a recurrent branch round the former. At first it is directed obliquely backwards, over the side of the trachea, to the interval between that tube and the oesophagus; and thus supported, the nerve reaches the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it forms the posterior pulmonary plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continued to the oesophagus, and unite into one near the diaphragm: the trunk thus formed, lies behind the gullet, and passes along it to the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve enters the thorax behind the left innominate vein, and to the outer side of the left common carotid artery. Lying between the left subclavian and common carotid arteries, the nerve courses over the arch of the aorta, then beneath the root of the lung, and forms there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or two branches pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with the corresponding branches of the right nerve in a plexus on that tube. Finally, the divisions of the nerve are collected into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the oesophagus to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax are the following: — 1. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve is the first branch in the thorax. Arising on the right side on a level with the sub- clavian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of the aorta, the nerve bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely con- nected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. 2. Cardiac branches (thoracic). — Besides the cardiac branches furnished by the vagus in the neck, there are other offsets in front of the trachea to communicate with the cardiac plexus. These branches come from the trunk and the recurrent branch of the nerve on the right side, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each nerve (p. 117.) may be now seen. The branch of the right vagus lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac nerve of the sympathetic from the neck; but the branch of the left vagus