695 GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. The vessels, nerves, and muscles to be made out in this region, are noticed below in the enumeration of the parts beneath the gluteus. Lastly, the origin of the muscle is to be removed; and the sacral nerves, being dissected out of it, are to be fol- lowed to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they are united, and concealed by some aponeurotic fibres. Parts beneath the gluteus. — At its origin the gluteus maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the hip bone, sacrum, and coccyx; above, the muscle covers also the ischial tuberosity, the origin of the hamstring muscles, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus. Between the muscle and each prominence of bone (tuberosity and trochanter) is a large, loose synovial membrane ; and between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the mus- cle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts: — First is a portion of the gluteus medius ; and below it is the pyriformis, with the superficial branch of the gluteal artery between them. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels, and the sciatic nerves (large and small), which descend to the back of the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity; with these are the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, with a fleshy fasciculus (gemellus) above and below it. Next follow the thin quad- ratus femoris muscle, and the upper part of the adductor magnus ; at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus, and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, is one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery. Sacral nerves. — The external branches of the posterior divisions of the first three sacral nerves, after passing out- wards beneath the multifidus spinae (p. 427.), are joined by loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this inter- y y 4 Dissect out sacral nerves. Parts covered by glu- teus at its ori- gin and in- sertion. and by the in- terven- ing part of the muscle. The ex- ternal branches of sacral nerves are united beneath gluteus.