MUSCLES OP THE ANUS. 447 Muscles. — Connected with the lower end of the rectum Muscles are three muscles, two sphincters (external and internal) and tum. the levator ani. The external sphincter (sphincter ani externus) is a Exter- flat, thin, orbicular muscle, which is pointed in front and sphinc- ter sur— behind, and surrounds the lower part of the rectum. As in rounds other orbicular muscles, the fibres form ellipses around a central aperture. The muscle arises posteriorly from the origin, tip of the coccyx by a fibrous band, and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone. The fibres pass forwards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture, and having united in front of it, are inserted into the superficial inser- fascia and the central point of the perinagum. The sphincter Connec_ is close beneath the skin, and partly conceals the levator ani. tlons- The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa, and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. The internal sphincter (sphincter ani internus) is internal situate around the extremity of the intestine, internal to ter is the preceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing biSle the mucous membrane. The fibres of this muscle are pale, the end non-striated, and of a finer texture than those of the other gut. sphincter: they encircle the lower part of the rectum in the bsbPgSrt0°f form of a band, and are quite separate from the surrounding “teg- voluntary muscular fibres. The muscle is only a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intes- tine, which is about half an inch in depth. The levator ani muscle can be seen now only in part, inser- " tion of and the external sphincter should be detached from the levator • i i i ani coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from the inner aspect of the innominate bone, and is inserted below along the middle line, from the t0 coc- ° . cyx,to coccyx to the central point of the perinaeum. The most posterior fibres are connected to the side of the coccyx; and of it; between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle t0 rec- tum, fibres are blended with the side of the intestine (rectum).and to ' / centre of* Whilst the anterior are joined with the fibres of the oppo- peri- L A nseum. site muscle, in front of the rectum, in the central point of the perinaeum. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side. Arteries.— The inferior haemorrhoidal is the only named Arteries