429 CHAPTER VI. * DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBKANES. The spinal cord gives origin to the spinal nerves, and is lodged in the canal formed by the bodies and the arches of the vertebras. It is invested by prolongations of the mem- branes of the brain, which form sheaths around it, and is supported by them in its large canal. Dissection. — To obtain the cord and its enveloping mem- branes, it will be necessary to open the spinal canal; but as a preparatory step all the muscle is to be taken from the arches and spines of the vertebras. The canal may be opened by sawing through the neural arches, on each side, close to the articular processes ; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, but not higher in the neck than the fourth cervical vertebra. As it is difficult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to divide the arches of the vertebrae. When the loose bits of bone have been taken away, the tube of the dura mater will be seen to be covered by some veins and fat, and by a loose connective tissue sometimes containing fluid, especially at the lower part. The fat is to be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel, and the lateral prolongations through the intervertebral foramina are to be defined. Membranes of the Cord.—Three membranes, like those of the brain, envelop the cord, viz. an external tube of dura mater, an internal sheath of pia mater, and an intervening arachnoid or serous covering. The dura mater forms a strong tube, and is prolonged from that lining the interior of the skull. Surrounding loosely the cord and the nerves, it extends along the spinal canal, and forms a sheath as far as the top of the sacrum; but beyond that point it is impervious, and is continued by a slender cord to the back of the coccyx. The capacity of Cord is con- tained in spinal canal, invested by mem- branes. Dissec- tion to get cord and mem- branes. Three mem- branes of the cord. Dura mater sur- rounds cord loosely, N