DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 180 anterior and pos- terior trunks. posterior tubercles on the tips of the conjoined transverse processes (diapophyses and parapophyses). Between the muscles, except in the first' two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cervical nerve ; and beneath the pos- terior muscle is the other primary branch of the same nerve. Pecuiia- In the upper intertransverse space the posterior muscle is often wanting; and, in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Cervical Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal.—The thekfo- cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the inter- give vertebral foramina, with two exceptions, and bifurcate into an anterior and a posterior trunk. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the intertransverse muscles, and joins in plexuses in the neck (p. 76.). The posterior primary branch turns to the back beneath the posterior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes (diapophyses) ; it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first two. — The first two nerves leave the spinal canal above the neural arches of the first two ver- tebrae, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior trunks. The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital nerve has been examined (p. 120.). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebrae, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the inter- transverse muscle of the first space, to join the cervical plexus. posterior The posterior primary branches of the first two nerves trunks. are described in the dissection of the back. The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the neck (p. 73.); and its termination will be described with the vessels of the brain. Entering the foramen between the transverse processes of the sixth cervical vertebra (usually), the artery ascends vertically through the corresponding fora- mina of the other vertebrae; and having passed through the aperture of the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of that bone, and enters the skull through the First two nerves differ in both anterior and Verte- bral ar- tery in the fo- ramina of cervi- cal ver- tebra.