191 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. lications anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), that projects into the posterior part of the cerebrum. c. The posterior cerebral artery takes on each side a Posterior ± ^ cerebral backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but artery; separated from it by the third nerve. The vessel is then inclined to the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, at the inner side, and divides into many branches. Some of these supply the under part of the posterior lobe, whilst others turn up- wards on both the outer and inner aspects of the back of the hemisphere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Its branches are the following : — Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and its offsets enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). Soon afterwards the vessel is joined by a small straight branch (posterior communicating) from the internal carotid commu- artery. Lastly, it furnishes a small choroid artery to the fold of and ^cho- pia mater that projects into the cerebrum: this small branch winds roid‘ round the crus cerebri, and is transmitted between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the part of vertebral arteries, and of the trunk (basilar) that continues supplied them onwards, it appears that about half the encephalon — febraf" viz. the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the artenec’ posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through the branches of the subclavian arteries. The internal carotid artery terminates in the great internal brain by supplying branches to the remaining two thirds, or to the anterior and middle lobes. Having passed through the space of the cavernous sinus (p. 22.), the vessel emerges on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and divides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into anterior ends in cerebral, middle cerebral, and posterior communicating arteries! arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid artery lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branches. — In the skull the carotid artery supplies the Branch- ophthalmic offset, before it ceases in the following terminal es‘ branches to the cerebrum.