DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 230 Three sets of fibres in cere- brum. Fibres of crus cerebri * to the hemi- sphere. Dissec- tion of them in the corpu. striatum and op-’ tic tha- lamus. Fibres of pe- duncle diverge Structure of the Cerebrum.—In each cerebral hemi- sphere three principal sets of constituent fibres are recog- nised, viz. diverging, and both transverse and longitudinal: the former are in part continuous with those of the spinal cord, and are supposed to form parts of the cerebrum ; while the two latter join distant bodies, and are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their office. A. Peduncular or diverging fibres.—In the crus cerebri or the root of the cerebral hemisphere, two bundles of longi- tudinal fibres are collected; these are separated, in part, by gray matter, and are derived mediately from the spinal cord (p. 211.). From this source the hemisphere may be said to spring. Dissection. — A complete systematic view of the diverging fibres cannot be given now, because the dissection necessary for that purpose would destroy parts that have not yet been seen. At this stage the purpose is to show chiefly the pas- sage of those fibres from the crus through the two cerebral ganglia. To trace the diverging fibres onwards, beyond the crus cerebri, through the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus of that body should be scraped away from above them; and this dissection should be made on the side on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Reil comes into view, viz. gray matter passing between the white fibres, and giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nu- cleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and then radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those fibres, a part of the upper surface of the optic thalamus may be taken away at the posterior end to denude an accessory bundle to the peduncular fibres, which comes beneath the corpora quadrigemina from the superior peduncle of the ce- rebellum. Their arrangement. — The diverging fibres radiate from the peduncle of the cerebrum to the surface of the hemi- sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus and corpus striatum), and they form