STRUCTURE OP THE KIDNEY. 557 and is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. This portion of the kidney is Physical denser than the cortex, its colour is darker, and its cut sur- ters} face has a grooved appearance. The conically-shaped mass composi- is constructed of uriniferal tubes, like the cortical covering ; but in it the tubes have become straight, and are converging to their termination on the papilla. If the mass is com- pressed, urine will exude from the tubes, through apertures in the apex. In the human foetus, and in some animals, the kidney is divided Rudi. into separate lobes ; and each lobe consists of a pyramidal mass, condi. with a cortical envelope. With the growth of the human kidney the1 °f the original divisions disappear, and the cortical covering of con- kldney* tiguous lobes is blended to produce the interlobular cortical part. But in the adult the uriniferous tubes and the vessels of each pyra- mid and its envelope, which correspond with one of the primary lobes, are distinct as in the organ in its lobular condition. Structure of the Kidney.— The substance of the secre-’ kidney consists of a mass of minute secretory tubes, inter- tubes are mixed with bloodvessels, lymphatics, nerves, and fine con- by a nective tissue. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. ™a™us The fibrous coat is a white firm case, which is connected Fibrous with the renal tissue by fine processes and vessels, but is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner mar- sends in offsets. gin of the kidney it sinks into the hollow or sinus, and sends processes on the entering vessels : at the same spot it is continuous with the fibrous coat of the excretory duct. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting How the tubes, and to make out the disposition of the bloodvessels, fote5 ‘b the dissector will require a microscope and good fine injec- studied' tions of the part. Arrangement. — The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uriniferi) Urini. are the ramified terminations of the excretory duct, which tubes;; pour out the urine. In the cortex of the kidney, where the charac- tubes present closed extremities (tubes of Ferrein), they are cortex innumerable, are very convoluted, and of different sizes, ney; though they average about -g^th °f an inch. In this part luted, sur-* they are closely surrounded by a plexus of bloodvessels, and rounded • • • by V6s- communicate freely with one another. A certain number of seis; the tubes converge towards each pyramid, and having be-inpyra-; come straight, are directed downwards, as a conical bundle, straight.