i (o THE mis. 3 d 3 k»7o of the choroid coat, close to the ciliary ligament. It is con- Attach- nected in front with the sclerotic coat, and the radiating fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the cornea ; its fibres are directed backwards and inwards, and end on the choroid coat. The nerves to the iris pierce its fibres. The iris is a vascular and muscular structure, whose iris is vascular vessels are continuous with those of the choroidal tissue. Its and position and connections may be observed in the different iar. dissections that have been prepared. It is suspended vertically in front of the opening in the situa- anterior part of the choroid coat, which it partly closes, and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the rays of light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured in different form. $ persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference the iris is connected with the pos- Atta h- terior elastic layer of the cornea and the ciliary ligament, ment' and by means of the last body with the sclerotic coat close to the cornea. The aperture in it is named the pupil of the situa- eye; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly IS” of tli0 ceil- circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from ^th trai to ^rd of an inch) by the contraction and relaxation of the ture? muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the optic nerve. The anterior surface is free in the aqueous Anterior A e A surface; humour, and is marked by lines converging towards the pupil. The posterior surface is also free, and is covered poste- with a thick layer of pigment, to which the the name uvea has been applied. Structure.—The stroma of the iris is composed chiefly of compo- fibres of connective tissue, arranged in bundles, which are "true- directed like rays towards the pupil. In it are involuntary tures’ muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment cells. Vessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular fibres.— The sphincter of the pupil is a narrow Muscu- band about ^th of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil on }fbrres. the posterior aspect. The dilator of the pupil is said to begin sphinc- ter at the outer border of the iris, and its fibres, collected into ddfila' bundles, join internally the sphincter. Enlargement of thepupilj pupil is supposed to be effected by shortening of the radiat- how ing fibres, and diminution, by contraction of the circularthey act; ring. The movements of the iris regulate the quantity of, light admitted into the eye. use.