DISSECTION OF THE UPrEIi LIMB. 264 lodges the lower border of the scapula and the teres major muscle. D\«ec- Dissection.— To lay bare the serratus muscle, which tionof J ’ theser- passes from the chest to the base of the scapula, the arm must be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus should then be cut through opposite or below the second rib, and the fat and the connective tissue should be cleaned from the surface of the muscle. serratus The serratus magnus muscle extends between the base muscle is attach- of the scapula and the thorax. It arises from the outer sur- <h1 to the A nbs and face and the lower border of the eight upper ribs, about two scapula, . . . . inches from their cartilages, by pointed processes, which are nine in number in consequence of the second rib having two. The fibres converge towards the base and the angles of the scapula, but from a difference in their direction, the fibres* musc^e appears to consist of three parts. The upper part is foSto attac^et^ internally to the first two ribs and to an aponeurotic parts arch between them; and externally, to an impression on the ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle part, which is very thin, extends from the next two ribs (third and fourth) to the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, which is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates with like processes of origin of the ex- ternal oblique muscle; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the rough surface of bone on the costal aspect of the Conner- lower angle of the scapula. The muscle is applied against the mus- the ribs and the intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves: in the ordinary position of the arm, the scapula and the sub- scapularis muscle are in contact with it. nissec- Dissection.— The intercostal muscles will be brought into tion # # ° onhe view by detaching the processes of origin of the serratus co*tai from the ribs, and taking away the loose tissue on the sur- face. Towards the front of the chest the thin aponeurosis, that is continued forwards from the external fleshy stratum to the sternum, is to be retained. Some of the lateral cuta- neous nerves should be preserved, inter. The intercostal muscles are named from their position COSt.il . , , . , muscles between the ribs. There are two layers in each space ; but