DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 546 Parts seen with micro- scope. Splenic sub- stance ; colour, and cells. Cells of spleen- pulp. Malpi- ghian bodies ; size; attach- ment ; consti- tuents. Splenic artery supplies corpus- cles of spleen. Vein begins by ca- pillaries. Microscopic appearances. — The characters of the sub- stance of the spleen and of the Malpighian bodies must be made out with the aid of the microscope. The splenic pulp is a soft semi-fluid red-brown mass, which fills the areolae of the interspersed white trabecular structure. Under the microscope this material is composed of very fine fibres and bloodvessels, with special cells, and small masses of blood undergoing transformation into pale nucleated cells (Kolliker). The special cells are united by a reddish-yellow fluid, and form the half of the pulpy substance: they are of different sizes, apparently as if in different stages of growth, the smallest being nucleus-like bodies, and the largest are pale one or two nucleated and granular cells. The Malpighian corpuscles are best seen in the human body after sudden death, or in children. They are small vesicular bodies, averaging -g^th of an inch in diameter, and are appended, mostly without pedicles, to the sheaths of the smallest branches of the arteries; they project into the pulp of the spleen, and are surrounded by it except at the attached side. Each is a closed sac, having a membranous case, with contents. The coat of the corpuscle is transparent, and is said to consist of the same tissue as the sheaths of the small arteries with which it is continuous (Kolliker). In the interior is a tenacious whitish albuminous mass, with different sized pale cells, being granular as well as nucleated, of the same nature as those in the spleen-pulp. Bloodvessels. — The branches of the splenic artery enter the spleen, and their ramifications are surrounded by the sheaths of tissue, even to the terminal twigs. The chief branches are said not to join together; and they accompany the veins till they have a size from x^th to y&th of an inch. Then they leave the veins, and, still surrounded by sheaths, end in the smallest branches; these pass by the Malpighian bodies, supplying fine twigs to them which ramify in their interior, and then end by means of tufts of offsets in the splenic pulp. The splenic vein begins in the capillaries occupying the splenic pulp in the inter trabecular spaces, as in other parts of the body, and without dilatations (Kolliker). The branches of veins are much larger than the arteries