45 LACHRYMAL NERVE. branch- and its ducts, from six to eight in number, open by as many open on apertures in a semicircular line on the inner surface of the eyelid, upper eyelid, near the outer canthus. The fourth nerve is the most internal of the three nerves Fourth nerve that enter the orbit above the muscles. After reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior oblique muscle, supplies superior which it enters at the orbital surface, contrary to the general oblique, mode of distribution of the nerves on the ocular surface of the muscles. The ophthalmic nerve of the fifth (p. 20.) as it ap- oPh- proaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side ne?velc the nasal branch, and then terminates by dividing into the fhree frontal and lachrymal branches; the former enters the orbit es‘ between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. 1. The frontal nerve is close to the outer side of the fourth Frontal as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along supplies the middle of the orbit, and bifurcates anteriorly into the lowing, supra-trochlear and supra-orbital branches. The supra-trochlear branch, which is of small swe, passes inwards towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, where it leaves thepui- the orbit to end in the eyelid and forehead (p. 7.). Before the oblique nerve turns round the margin of the frontal bone, it sends down- muscle’ wards a branch of communication to the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. Frequently there are two supra-trochlear ■ branches ; in such instances one arises near the back of the orbit. two: The supra-orbital branch is the continuation of the frontal nerve *nd u . . . . branch in direction and size, and leaves the orbit by the supra-orbital through notch. It then ascends on the forehead, and supplies the external notch, part of the head (p. 7.). Whilst in the notch, the nerve gives downwards palpebral filaments to the upper lid. 2. The lachrymal nerve, after entering the orbit in a ^hry' separate tube of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the nerve outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland, to the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral ligament, eyelid; and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland • and near sets°ff the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments to com- p0e^0s“" municate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. ™!aJxi1' Occasionally this nerve has a communicating filament with the fourth nerve.