31 THE PAROTID GLAND. ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygoma and the cartilage of the ear, but in front is continued over the face. After the fascia has been removed, the superficial connections of the gland will appear. The great auricular nerve will be also seen ascending to the lobe of the ear. The parotid is the largest of the salivary glands; it Parotid occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is gland named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined irregu- somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where shape 5 there is not any resisting structure, the gland projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub- maxillary gland, though separated from it by a process of the cervical fascia; a line from the angle of the jaw to the is lodged sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent1 of the thejaw11 parotid in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by andear5 the zygoma and the temporal bone. At the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends; but anteriorly the gland projects somewhat on the face, and has a small ac- accesso- cessory part, socia parotidis, prolonged from it over the masseter. Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct The — duct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis), which crosses the crosses masseter below the socia parotidis, and perforates the cheek face to obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. mouth. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and the branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face, and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and its a half, and its capacity is about equal to a crow-quill, but the ISdske. opening into the mouth is only large enough to allow a small probe to pass. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and has cutane--.