101 HYOGLOSSUS MUSCLE. the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the inner border of the hyo-glossus. On the under aspect of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatory nerve ; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo- glossus, the hypoglossal nerve. The hyo-glossus muscle is thin and somewhat square in shape. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of the os hyoides (basio-glossus), from all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus), and separately from the small cornu (chondro-glossus). The two first parts form a thin sheet, and enter the back part and side of the tongue * ; they will be after seen to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stylo-glossus. The parts in contact with one surface of the hyo-glossus have been already enumerated ; and those be- neath the muscle are portions of both the genio hyo-glossus, and the middle constrictor, together with the lingual vessels. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle; and beneath the posterior pass the lingual artery, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The stylo-glossus is a slender muscle, whose attachments are expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, the muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and crossing the pre- ceding turns to the under surface, and extends to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. The genio-hyoid muscle arises from the lower of the two lateral tubercles on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the middle of the hyoid bone. Covered by the mylo-hyoideus, this muscle rests on the genio- hyo-glossus. The inner border is close to its fellow of the opposite side, and the two are often united. The genio-hyo-glossus is the largest muscle of this region; it has a triangular form, the apex being at the jaw, Hyo- glossus named from attach- ment; m con- tact with many parts. Stylo- glossus comes to side of tongue. Genio- hyoideus along middle line of neck. Genio- hyo- glossus * The third part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root; but for further detail respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, re- ference is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15.