731 SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. cross one another: connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscular slip, and at its division into pieces are four slender muscles named lum- bricales. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, whilst Tendon : J of the entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the flexor of internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre of the sole, where it is joined by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into tendons for the outer four divides toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and tour, beneath a tendon from the flexor brevis. About the centre These enter of the metatarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor the . . r ° sheaths is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be of the inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx.* The tendon toes and ° A pierce of the flexor longus digitorum is sometimes increased in size the other tendons. by its junction with that of the long flexor of the great toe. The lumbricales are four small muscles between the Four tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from caies. two tendons, with the exception of the most internal; and Attach- this last is connected with the inner side of the tendon to toes and long the second toe. Each is inserted into the tibial side of the flexor, base of the metatarsal phalanx in the outer four toes ; and from the insertion an expansion is prolonged to the dorsum of the phalanx to join the aponeurotic covering on it. These muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. The accessorius muscle has two heads of origin : — one is Flexor accGS• tendinous, and is attached to the under or the outer surface sorius of the os calcis, and the ligamentum longum plantae; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner or concave sur- face of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, is joined which join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about flexor the centre of the foot, so as to form a kind of groove for it. The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it are the ex- ternal plantar vessels and nerve, and the flexor brevis digi- torum conceals it. * In the foot there are ligamentous bands to the flexor tendons as in the hand, and the one fixing the flexor perforans is provided also -with elastic tissue. See p. 314. ,