DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 430 and is slightlv connect- ed with bones around. It gives offsets on spinal nerves and one central inferior piece. Dissec- tion to remove cord and see next co- vering. . Arach- noid mem- brane has a the sheath is much greater than is necessary for the contents; and the size of the sheath is also larger in the neck and the loins than in the back. On the outer aspect the dura mater is smooth, when a comparison is made between it and that in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the osseous surfaces are some vessels and fat; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dura mater sends offsets along the spinal nerves issuing by the intervertebral foramina; inferiorly these several offsets be- come gradually longer, forming small tubes which enclose the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance within the spinal canal. In the midst of these tubes, into which the dura mater seems to be divided below, will be seen the slender before-mentioned impervious cord, that descends from the lower part of the tube of the dura mater to the end of the spinal canal, and blends with the periosteum covering the back of the coccyx. Dissection.—The sheath of the dura mater with the con- tained cord is next to be removed from the body. For this purpose the lateral processes in the intervertebral apertures are to be cut, and the central prolongation is to be detached from the coccyx. Next, the cord and its membranes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebras, and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the ligament of the vertebrae. When the cord is taken out, it is to be placed on a piece of board, or on a table, with the lateral offsets widely sepa- rated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle, on one or both aspects, as far as the small median cord before referred to; but the membrane is to be raised whilst it is being cut through, so that the loose arachnoid, that envelops the cord, may not be injured. Lastly, the dura mater is to be fastened back with pins. The arachnoid membrane is the thin serous covering of the cord which is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like the corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the nervous centre and lines the dura mater, and consists thus of a visceral and a parietal part *; but the visceral piece, * This reflection of the membrane over the dura mater is denied by