480 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Its ex- tent. Defi- cient in- feriorly. Lineze trans- versze are three or more. Situa- tion. Linea semi- lunaris is at edge of rec- tus. Pyrami- dalis muscle. Attach- ment to pubes and linea alba. Nerves in wall of ab- domen. Inter- costal nerves are be- tween oblique and joined in a similar manner with that behind, is the aponeu- rosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both above and below. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the intervention of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to incase the rectus, and passes altogether in front of it with the other aponeu- roses ; at the spot where the sheath is wanting inferiorly is a white, and sometimes well-defined margin (the fold of Douglas), when the outer edge of the muscle is raised. Where the sheath is deficient, the rectus is in contact with the fascia transversalis. The linece transverse? are the tendinous intersections that cross the surface of the rectus. There are usually three of these lines at the following spots: one is opposite the umbi- licus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the third mid- way between the other two. If there is a greater number, the additional one will be below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole breadth or depth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea semilunaris. — This line which was before alluded to with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, corresponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the eighth rib to the outer part of the pubic crest of the hip bone : it marks above the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The pyramidalis muscle is triangular in form, and is placed in front of the rectus near the pelvis. The muscle arises by its base from the front of the pubes, and is inserted by tendon into the linea alba, about midway be- tween the umbilicus and the pubes. This small muscle is often absent. Nerves.—Between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are the intercostal nerves ; and near the pelvis are the two branches of the lumbar plexus. Some arteries ac- company the intercostal nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 486.). a. The lower six intercostal nerves (p. 395.) enter the wall of the abdomen at the anterior part of the intercostal spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and then through this muscle to the surface along the front of