DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 190 Branch to the under part of cerebel- lum. Basilar artery. Extent and situa- tion. Branch- es : trans- verse to the pons. and in- ferior ce- rebellar. Superior cerebel- lar. d. The inferior cerebellar artery (posterior) is distributed to the under surface of the cerebellum. Taking origin from the end of the vertebral, or from the basilar artery, this branch winds backwards round the side of the medulla, be- tween the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and enters the median fissure of the cerebellum. Directed on- wards along the fissure, the artery reaches the upper surface of the small brain, and there anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. A branch of this vessel ramifies over the under surface of the cerebellum, and ends externally by anastomosing with the upper cerebellar artery. As the vessel lies by the side of the aperture of the fourth ventricle, it gives a small offset to the choroid plexus of that cavity. The basilar artery is the vessel resulting from the union of the two vertebral arteries. It reaches from the lower to the upper border of the pons, and ends at the last spot by dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the cere- brum. The vessel touches the basilar process of the occipital bone, from that circumstance receiving its name, and corre- sponds to the median groove of the pons. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nerve. Branches.—Besides the terminal branches, one to each side, mentioned above, the artery supplies transverse offsets to the pons and the under part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the cerebellum. a. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or six small twigs, that are named from their direction, and are dis- tributed to the substance of the pons. One of these gives an offset to the internal auditory meatus along the seventh nerve. Besembling most this set of branches is the follow- ing artery, the inferior cerebellar (anterior): this arises from the basilar trunk, and is directed outwards to the under surface of the cerebellum, at the anterior part, on which it is distributed. b. The superior cerebellar artery is derived from the basilar so near its termination that it is often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is the upper aspect of the cerebellum, to which is is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but parallel with the fourth nerve. On the upper surface of the cerebellum the artery spreads out in branches, and its rami-