97 INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. external in position to the gustatory; and is afterwards g0id placed on the internal pterygoid, near the dental foramen, muscles’ and on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve and sup- plies enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth teeth; to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a labial branch. Only one other muscular branch (mylo-hyoid) is supplied by the dental nerve. Its branches are : — a. The mylo-hyoid branch arises from the trunk of the nerve as also this is about to enter its foramen, and is continued along a groove tolnrio- on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw, to the cutaneous sur- bJ0lde" face of the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone and supply the molar Dental and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the to gdnd- nerve and artery may be laid open so as to expose these branches. ing c. The incisor branch continues the trunk of the nerve onwards and cut- to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor [eeth. teeth, beneath which it lies. d. The labial branch (mental ?) issues on the face beneath the Branch depressor of the angle of the mouth. At first it communicates iip,lower with the facial nerve, and gives branches to the muscle covering it, as well as to the orbicularis and the integuments. But the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards, beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw Dental with the nerve, has a similar course and distribution. Thus artery it supplies dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. has an The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, incisor beneath the canine and incisor teeth which it supplies, and anas- and tomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The labial branch, after it has left the bone, ramifies in the labial structures covering the lower jaw, and communicates with the branch’ branches of the facial artery. The gustatory or LINGUAL nerve is the remaining Gustato- trunk of the inferior maxillary, and is concealed at first, like ry nerve the others, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then courses inclined inwards over the internal pterygoid muscle, and tongue; under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The re- mainder of this nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region. H