74 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Verte- bral vein, and branch es. Internal mamma- ry artery in the neck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular branch. Trans- verse cervical branch. Offsets. Size and ending vary. common carotid artery, when the subclavian of the same side arises from the aorta. The course of the artery is not constant through the hole between the transverse processes of the sixth vertebra; it may enter any other as high as the second. The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein; it receives the deep cervical vein, and the branch that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. 2. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part of the subclavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle and subjacent muscle, and the subclavian vein, enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery is about to enter the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be given with the dissection of those parts. 3. Thyroid axis.— This is a short thick trunk, that arises from the front of the artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches: — one to the thyroid body, and two to the scapula that run outwards across the neck. On the left side of the body the thoracic duct lies in front of the thvroid axis. J a. The suprascapular branch courses outwards across the lower part of the posterior triangular space of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavian muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula, and entering the supraspinal fossa is distributed on the dcrsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are seen in the dissec- tion of the back. b. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the pre- ceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (See “Dissection of the Back.”) In its course outwards this artery crosses the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, and lies in the upper part of the space that contains the third part of the subclavian artery. Some small branches are supplied by it to the posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cervical artery supplies ordinarily the posterior scapular branch, there are many examples in which, though holding its usual position in the neck, it is too small in size to give origin to so large an offset. In such instances the diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle, whilst the posterior