DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 798 the den- near the margin of the spiral lamina, and has been named ticulate . 7 7. /mi -it'. struc- denticulate lamina. (Todd and Bowman.)* Mem- b. The membranous part reaches from the edge of the part™US lamina spiralis to the groove in the outer wall of the tube of up-ent the cochlea, and is continued upwards to the top of that tube piecf ’ beyond the terminal hook of the lamina spiralis. Near the giassy. kony part 0f the partition this structure has a glassy appear- ance, like the elastic layer of the cornea; but beyond that spot it is a gelatinous-looking tissue, to which the authors above quoted have given the name cochlearis muscle.f Two of Scales of the cochlea. — These are the two passages into the^ which the spiral tube of the cochlea is divided by its septum, lear tube They are placed the one above the other, and are named scala vestibuli and scala tympani; the former is nearest the that join apex of the cochlea. Above they communicate through the and end aperture named helicotrema. Below they end differently, rateiy; as the names express: one (scala vestibuli) opens into the front of the vestibule; the other (scala tympani) is shut out from the vestibular cavity, and is closed below by the mem- brane of the fenestra rotunda. On the whole they are nearly equal in size, but each has certain peculiarities: thus the vestibular scala is largest above and extends to the apex of the cochlea ; whilst the tympanic scala is largest near the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which is situate close to a ridge or crest near the beginning of the scala, and opens on the under aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth.—A thin fibrous membrane lines the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and iab>s the ^ie seal® °f the cochlea, and is likewise continued into the rinth; aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea.J On the outer wall differ in extent, and size at spots. Fibro- serous mem- brane * In the work before referred to, Physiological Anatomy, &c. + The muscular nature of this structure is denied by Professor Kol- liker. He considers it ligamentous. For an account of the researches of M. Corti on the membranous part of the cochlea, the student may refer to the notice of them given in Quain’s Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 64. J This membrane was considered hv Breschet to be originally part of the fibro-serous lining of the skull. It is supposed by him that the membrane has been gradually enclosed by bone, until the connection between it and the parent structure has been obliterated, except by