133 INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX. plate (the lower third), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and with the mucous membrane of the mouth and the side of the tongue. The fleshy fibres pass backwards, and inser- are inserted on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, as well as hind as into the raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact, others, externally, with this muscle are all the deep vessels and oust gu nerves of the neck ; and internally, it is lined by the apo- part neurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of the arched fibres which are directed backwards from the pterygoid plate, and above it the levator and tensor palati muscles are seen. The lower border is overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds to the origin of the buccinator muscle. Dissection. — Open the pharynx by an incision along its Dissec- middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks. A better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The mucous membrane is to be carefully removed from the end of the opening of the Eustachian tube by the side of the nostril, for the purpose of finding some pale muscular fibres, with the name salpingo-pharyngeus, that descend from it. Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle.— This little band is fixed Saipin- ' by tendon to the lower border of the cartilage of the ryngeus. J # 0 Attach- Eustachian tube near the orifice. The fleshy fibres that ments. succeed end below by joining those of the palato-pharyngeus. It is oftentimes absent. The interior of the pharynx is wider from side to side interior than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the rynxha hyoid bone; from this spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction. In it the following objects are to be objects noticed:—At the top are the posterior apertures of the noted, nasal cavity, which are separated by the septum nasi; and below them is the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of each aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube. Below the soft palate is the opening into the mouth — isthmus faucium ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, which is placed in a hollow between