CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. 295 U 4 forearm to end in the basilic and cephalic veins of the arm. Superficial arch. — This arch on the back of the hand is more or Arch on less perfect, and receives the posterior or superficial digital veins, hand; At the sides the arch terminates in the radial and ulnar veins. The radial vein begins in the outer part of the arch before men- radial; tioned, and in some small radicles from the back of the thumb. It is then continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border, as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein. The ulnar veins are anterior and posterior, and occupy the front ulnar; r * 1J * two sots, and the back of the limb. The anterior arises near the wrist, by anterior’ the junction of small roots from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow ; here it unites with the inner branch of the median, and forms the basilic vein. The posterior and pos- ... terior; ulnar vein is situate on the back of the limb. It commences on the hand by the union of a large branch, “ vena salvatella,” from the back of the little finger, with the offset of the venous arch ; it is then continued along the back of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and bends forwards to open into the anterior ulnar vein. The median vein commences on the front of the arm,' near the median, •wrist, by small branches which are derived from the palmar surface of the hand, and is directed along the centre of the fore- arm nearly to the elbow. Here the vein divides into external and internal branches (median basilic and median cephalic), which unite, as before seen (p. 278.) with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a communicating branch from a vein accompanying the artery beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. — The superficial nerves of the fore- super- • ficial arm are continued from those of the arm, viz. on the inner nerves of forearm part, from the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and on the outer part, from the two external cutaneous nerves derived from the musculo-spiral, and from the musculo-cutaneous. Occasionally there is a small offset of the ulnar nerve to the integument in this part of the limb. On the back of the and hack & . . . of hand hand is the termination ot the radial nerve, together with a are branch of the ulnar nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve was seen in a previous dissection internal (p. 280.) to be divided into two parts. The anterior branch neou's; extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and sup- plies the integument on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset