BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. 211 the skull, supposing it in position, but would be supported on the tentorium cerebelli. The fissure of Sylvius is directed outwards between the Fissure anterior and middle lobes, and branches externally into two vius parts, one of which passes before, and the other behind some small convolutions, to which the term island of Reil has been applied. At the inner extremity of the fissure is a narrowed point, corresponding to a subjacent band of white fibres (fasciculus uncinatus) that connects the two lobes. Surrounding the cleft is the convolution of the Sylvian is «ur. . . J o rounded fissure, which is much bent as it makes the circuit; it ig by a con- • • nit volution, joined internally by the convolutions in the fissure, and ex- ternally by convolutions on the outer surface of the hemi- sphere of the cerebrum. The island of Reil consists of five or six small, short con- and con- volutions, which lie in the Sylvian fissure, and are concealed other ■. convolu- by the anterior and middle lobes in the natural condition of tions. the parts. These convolutions are connected with the large convolution around the fissure. Peduncle of the cerebrum, (crus cerebri).—This is a large, Crus white, stalk-like body, which reaches from the upper border is fixed of the pons to the under part of the cerebral hemisphere of under . . . -n i • Part the same side near the inner margin. Radi is about three hemi- quarters of an inch long, and widens as it approaches the cerebrum. Crossing its outer surface is the optic tract; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interpeduncular space, which contains the locus perforatus, the corpora albi- cantia, and the tuber cinereum. Structure. — The peduncle may be said to be formed by a Formed continuation upwards of the longitudinal fibres of the pons, tudinaf which enclose here a mass of gray matter between them. Dissection. — For the purpose of demonstrating the struc- Dissec- . ture of the crus, say on the left side, the fibres continuous t10"’ with the anterior pyramid should be cut across in the pons, and should be raised and carried forwards into the crus as far as the optic tract. In this proceeding the mass of gray matter (locus niger) will appear, and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longitudinal fibres. a. The superficial fibres, which form the cranial or free its su. part of the crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal fibres'31 body. They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in