DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 276 merus. Connec- tions. Dissec- tion of supra- scapular vessels. Supra- scapular artery gives a supra- spinal branch, and ends in infra- spinatus. Vein. Supra- scapular nerve has mus- cular branches like ar- tery. and ar- ticular. Dorsal branch of-sub- scapular artery. humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion process; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerves. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Dissection. — The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the scapula will be traced by separating the supra and infraspinatus muscles from the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinal fossa; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between the vessels should be carefully cleaned. The suprascapular artery is derived from the subclavian trunk, and is one of the branches into which the thyroid axis subdivides (p. 74.). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the ligament at the superior costa, and enters beneath the supraspinatus muscle. In that position it fur- nishes a supraspinal branch for the supply of the muscle, the bone, and the shoulder joint; and it ends in the infra- spinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, anastomosing with the dorsal branch of the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery of the subclavian (p. 74.). The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve is a branch of the brachial plexus (p. 77.). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it enters the supraspinal fossa beneath the posterior proper ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the su- praspinatus ; and the nerve is then * continued beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder joint, and other offsets to the scapula. The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery (p. 261.) turns backwards below the inferior costa of the scapula, through the posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinal fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspinatus, and anastomoses with the ending of the suprascapular artery. This artery