BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. 59 from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth is altered much more by the position of the clavicle, according as the limb is raised or depressed; for the arm and shoulder may be carried upwards until the collar bone rises above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle, and entirely conceals the artery in its usual position. The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery may vary much, for it may be one inch and a half above the cla- vicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual level, just above the prominence of that bone. Fur- ther, its position to the anterior scalenus may be altered; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course; but the posterior scapular branch may take origin from it at different distances from the scalenus, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). In the or- dinary disposition of the vessels the subclavian vein is not seen, owing to its situation being lower down, beneath the clavicle; but it not unfrequently rises upwards as high as the artery, or it may even lie with the artery beneath the an- terior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain, and the branches connected with its lower end may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangular space is of larger extent than the other. Its boundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius, and it is separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along the sterno-mastoid muscle. Beneath the spinal nerves is the middle scalenus, and still farther behind are some muscles of the back before seen. The spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mastoid mus- cle, which it pierces, to the under-surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place between this cranial nerve and the spinal nerves in the triangular space. both na- tural and arti- ficial. Depar- ture from the ordinary state of the ves- sels. Part of triangu- lar space near the head contains nerves and lymph- atics ; also spi- nal ac- cessory nerve. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Nerves Behind the sterno-mastoid muscle appear some of the rami- cervical