63 CERVICAL FASCIA. established between these branches of the facial and the offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- mastoideus is stronger than it is behind that muscle, and has the following disposition. Near the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to that bone; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the . parotid gland. From the angle and ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged downwards, between the parotid and sub- maxillary glands, to join the styloid process; this piece is named stylo-maxillary ligament. Intermuscular partitions are sent between the muscles; and the layer beneath the sterno-mastoid is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these strata, viz. that beneath the sterno- thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. Dissection. — To define the anterior triangular space, take away the deep fascia of the neck, and clean the surface of the hyoid muscles that appear along the middle line, dissecting out at the same time the anterior jugular vein. Next, the parts that occupy the anterior triangle are to be brought into view by taking away the fat and fascia, but without displacing or injuring them. In removing the sheath from the cervical vessels, as these appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the same, the sympathetic nerve. The trunks into which the artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. Crossing the space, in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, are the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and lying below them is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoideus, is the spinal accessory nerve. On fhe Cervical fascia in \ front of sterno- mastoid forms stvlo- maxil- lary liga- ment and sheath of vessels. Dissec- tion of anterior triangle. Seek a small nerve. Trace arteries and nerves. Laryn-