VESSELS OF THE LUNG. 385 wall of the air cells, beneath the raucous lining. The vascular circle around one cell communicates with the contiguous ones. The pulmonary veins begin in the vascular network before men- andvein; tioned, and the twigs issuing from the several lobules are united in larger tubes, which course to the root of the lung. Although the small lobular branches of the arteries remain separate from one another, the corresponding veins anastomose together. b. The bronchial arteries enter the lung on the air tube, and and . ° . bron- supply offsets to those tubes and the contiguous bronchial glands, chiai to the large bloodvessels, and to the interlobular connective tissue of the lung. The bronchial vein begins by roots corresponding to and the branches of the artery ; except on the smallest divisions of the vein' air tubes, where the capillaries communicate with the pulmonary vessels—most probably the arteries. Nerves and lymphatics. — The lung receives nerves from the vagus Nerves, and the sympathetic, and the offsets follow the divisions of the air tube. Remak describes small ganglia on the sympathetic fila- ments. The lymphatics of the lung are both superficial and deep, Lym- and enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. phatics. PATtTS IN FRONT OF THE SPINE AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. In front of the spinal column are the several parts enu- merated as lying in the interpleural space of the posterior half of the mediastinum, viz. the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, and oesophagus. Dissection.—The small thoracic duct should be first found near the diaphragm, and on the right of the aorta: this slender vessel may be injected with tallow. Next, the con- nective tissue is to be cleared away from the different parts before mentioned, and the thoracic duct to be followed up- wards beneath the arch of the aorta and along the oesophagus, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. The azygos or intercostal veins, one on the right, and two on the left of the aorta, should be likewise dissected. After raising the pleura from the* inner surface of the thorax, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying along the side of the spinal column, over the heads of the ribs. Branches should be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves, and others should be traced inwards over the bodies of the vertebras to form the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. Dissec- tion of the parts above men- tioned, and of sympa- thetic.