I 392 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Receives lymph- atics. Right duct is in the neck. It re- ceives lymph- atics of the arm and of the thorax. Their struc- ture like blood- vessels. Thoracic cord of sympa- thetic has twelve ganglia, and is covered by pleu- ra. Branch- es to join the spinal nerves Branches.— In the thorax the duct receives the lym- phatics of the left half of the wall of the cavity, viz. from the sternal and intercostal glands; also, the lymphatics of the left lung, those of the left side of the heart, and those of the trachea and oesophagus. c. The right lymphatic duct, though not in the thorax, is mainly formed by the large branches received from the viscera in that cavity. It is a short trunk at the lower part of the neck, which is about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 76.). Its opening is guarded by valves. Branches. — Into this trunk the lymphatics of the right upper limb, and the right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, those of the right lung and the right side of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks that ascend beneath the innominate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Structure of the ducts. — The wall of these tubes resembles in structure that of the bloodvessels: — it has an external stratum of areolar tissue; an inner lining of thin nucleated epithelium ; and a middle coat formed chiefly of circular fibres like those in the bloodvessels^ Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve. — The thoracic part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve lies on each side of the spinal column, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number varies much : of these, the upper one is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the cor- responding vertebrae. In the chest the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura; and it is continuous above and below with the cord in the neck and the abdomen. Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate with the spinal nerves, and internal branches for the supply of the viscera. Connecting branches. — Two offsets pass outwards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (intercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic