107 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. and furnishes, moreover, one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. 5. Before the nerve ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Branch small palpebral branch to the lower eyelid; this is directed upwards ofeyelldj to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. 6. Infraorbital or facial branches.— These are larger than the infra- other offsets of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifications, branches Some incline inwards to the side of the nose, and the rest descend to the upper lip. These branches are crossed near the orbit by join ^ branches of the facial nerve, with which they communicate, the nerve, whole forming the infraorbital plexus (p. 42.). p{ydtheP’ a. The branches to the side of the nose supply the muscular and nose tegumentary structures. b. The branches to the upper lip are three or four in number, and up- ■*1 x m per lip. and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they supply as well the labial glands and the muscles. The infraorbital artery is one of the terminal branches infra- . J . * . orbital oi the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary artery, fossa, and accompanies the superior maxillary nerve. Taking the course of the nerve through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and ends in branches, which are distributed, like those of the nerve, to the portion between the eye and the mouth. In the face its branches anastomose with the facial ends in and buccal arteries. In the canal in the upper maxilla this artery furnishes branches has a to the orbit. toTrbn, Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same and one name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth. This gives riornte* branches to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anas- teeth* tomoses with the posterior dental artery. The vein, accompanying the artery, communicates in front infra- with the facial vein ; and behind, with a plexus of veins vein, corresponding with the branches of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa.