795 SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. hemispherica by a continuation of the crista before men- tioned on the inner wall. The semicircular canals are three osseous tubes, which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. Dissection. — These small canals will be easily brought into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or some cutting instrument. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the pos- terior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are of unequal lengths, but each forms more than half a circle: they communicate at each end with the vestibule, and the contiguous ends of two are blended to- gether so as to give but five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated extremity which is called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -^th of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction taken by the tubes, they have been named superior and posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal crosses the upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it forms a projection. Its extremities are more dis- tant than in the other tubes: its outer end is marked by the ampulla, whilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical tube is directed backwards from its junc- tion with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temporal bone; the upper end is united with the superior vertical canal in a common tube, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Cochlea. — This part of the osseous labyrinth has a po- sition anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a snail’s shell. Dissection.— To obtain a view of the cochlea in the dried bone, it will be needful to cut or file away gradually on the preparation before used for displaying the vestibule, the sur- Three canals; prepara- tion of them. Length ; termina- tion by five open- ings ; one end dilated; form and size. They are named superior vertical. posterior vertical. and ho- rizontal. Cochlea. Dissec- tion for it in dry