DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 700 over the in the superficial fascia over the lower part of the muscle. The buttock 1 r and to lower set supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh at t h 0 thigh ; the posterior aspect. One of these branches, which is larger than one of the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior the last 7 7 7 /■ • , . . set 'pudendal (p. 4o*2.) ; as it courses to the perinasum, it turns below pud^n- the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata only when it dal‘ has nearly reached the perinaeal space. Sometimes the inferior pudendal is a distinct branch of the plexus. Great The great sciatic is the largest nerve in the body, and is nerve; the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous outline of. and end- ing; course in the buttock. No branch in this part. Pudic nerve. Other branches of the plexus. Nerves to the hip; to su- perior gemel- lus. Nerve to gemel- lus and quadra- tus. branches beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the interlacement of the nerves of the sacral plexus. After leaving the pelvis, it is directed through the region of the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, where it divides into branches for the leg. In the part of its course now dissected, viz., to the lower border of the gluteus maximus, it lies in the hollow between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Oftentimes the nerve is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. Com- monly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. The pudic nerve winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone with its companion artery and the nerve to the ob- turator interims muscle, and is distributed with the vessel to the perinaeum and the genital organs (p. 459.). No branch is supplied by it to the buttock. The remaining muscular and articular branches are derived from the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some nerves to the hip joint perforate the back of the capsular ligament, and supply the articulation. A nerve to the superior gemellus is a very small twig, and arises separately from the lower part of the plexus. A nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus is a slender branch; it passes with a companion artery beneath the gemelli and the obturator interims, and ends in the two muscles from which it receives its designation. This nerve will be more fully seen in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments from it to the hip joint may be recog- nised.