601 CONNECTIONS OP THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. body of the penis. Near its junction with its fellow there is a slight swelling on the crus — the bulb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). The body of the penis, formed by the union of the corpora cavernosa, is grooved above and below along the middle line, and presents anteriorly a narrowed but truncated extremity that is covered by the glans penis; along its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa by the crura, the body of the penis is connected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the urethral canal, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part — the bulb, this structure extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of the penis, where it swells out into the conical glans penis. The bulb is in front of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and opposite the point of junction of the crura of the corpora cavernosa. It is directed backwards slightly below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by fibrous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The accelerator urinse muscle covers it. The enlargement pre- sents usually a central depression, with a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes. The glans penis is somewhat conical in form, and covers the truncated end of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border — the corona glandis; it is also sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation which contains the fnenum preputii. but each is sepa- rate behind. Form and attach- ment of penis. Corpus spongio- sum sur- rounds urethra, and swells j into the bulb. which is lobed, and the conical glans penis. Section III. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the lower end of con- tlie intestinal tube, and the bladder and the urethra, as in [he tents of the male ; but there are in addition the generative organs, pX^ viz. the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina.