FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 407 traced. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colli) accompanies the nerve. The spinal accessory nerve, one of the trunks of the eighth pair of the cranial nerves (p. 118.), having crossed the pos- terior triangle of the neck, enters beneath the trapezius, and forms a plexiform arrangement with branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve is dis- tributed to the muscle, and its filaments reach nearly to the lower border. * Dissection. — To see the parts that are covered by the trapezius, this muscle is to be divided longitudinally, internal to the position of the spinal accessory nerve, and the two parts are to be thrown inwards and outwards. * The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae muscles, which are fixed to the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fibres. The dissector of the neck should define the parts beneath the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and artery; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached in the neck, the ligamentum nuchae, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * Parts covered by the trapezius.—The trapezius conceals in the neck the splenius and a small part of the complexus, with the levator anguli scapulae ; and in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles — the rhomboidei, the erector spinae, and the latissimus dorsi. As it reaches the scapula it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The ligamentum nuchce is a narrow fibrous band, that extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the occipital protuberance. This structure serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck; and from the under part processes are sent down to be attached to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In man it is not formed of elastic tissue. * The latissimus dorsi is thin, and is the widest muscle in the back ; it is pointed and fleshy towards the humerus, but aponeurotic at its inner attachment or origin. It D D 4 Spinal acces- sory nerve in trape- zius. Dissec- tion to reflect trape- zius ; to clean scapular muscles; to dissect parts in the neck. Parts ■ covered by tra- pezius. Liga- mentum nucha?. Latissi- mus dorsi is named from its shape.