LAYER OF DEEP MUSCLES. 307 to this muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle is at- lias a thick fleshy belly, and ends in four tendons, which last Jha° are not separate above the annular ligament, and whoselanges' destination is the last phalanges of the fingers. The cuta- parts neous surface of the muscle is in contact with the ulnar “ou,ld nerve and vessels, and with the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris ; and the deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor pollicis longus and the an- terior interosseous vessels and nerve ; and the inner is con- nected by the aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. The flexor longus pollicis arises from the upper Long two thirds of the hollowed anterior surface of the radius, as Sfxor low as the pronator quadratus ; from the outer part of the interosseous membrane ; and by a round distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna, internal to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. On the tion cutaneous surface of the muscle is the flexor sublimis, Parts above * together with the radial vessels for a short distance inferiorly; and the muscle lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. neatifit. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. The PRONATOR QUADRATUS is a flat muscle, and occupies Pronator A quadra- the lower fourth of the front of the bones of the forearm.tus is on lower The muscle arises from the anterior and inner parts of the end of „ x bones of thumb. Origin. Inser- ulna, where it is somewhat the widest, and is inserted intoforearm; the fore part of the radius for about two inches. Theis dee? in posi- anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexortion- muscles of the fingers, and by the radial artery ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with their intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. The anterior interosseous artery (p. 304.) is continued Anterior on the front of the interosseous membrane, between or in osseous artery. the fibres of the deep fiexor muscles, till it reaches the aper- ture below that membrane. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the posterior surface of the carpus, where it ends by anasto- mosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries.