THE RECTUM. 595 Q q 2 the peritoneum upwards on the bladder, the student will find “j* it covering all the posterior surface; and the posterior part |J®dd of each lateral region, as far forwards as the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery, but at that vessel it is re- flected from the sides and summit of the bladder to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the 1f^’tng bladder is therefore uncovered by peritoneum; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes so as to Part allow of its being opened in front without injury to the vered- serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch is wide behind, where it corre- The ■* t pouch sponds with the interval between the iliac arteries, and is nar- between L t the rec- l’OW in front between the rectum and the bladder. Anteriorly tum and J bladder. it extends as far as, or even into the interval between the Extent vesiculae seminales; it ends usually about one inch and a anTdL? half from the tip of the coccyx, but sometimes it reaches the from the prostate gland. The distance of the pouch from the anus is commonly about four inches; but this will vary with the state of the bladder, for if this viscus is distended the pouch of the peritoneum will be raised with it, and removed therefore farther from the end of the intestine. False liqaments of the bladder.—Where the peritoneum Folds of * J r # t it, false is reflected from the bladder to the wall of the cavity, it bga. J ments gives rise to the false ligaments of that viscus. These are of the ® ® bladder, five in number : — two posterior, two lateral, and one supe- viz. — rior. The posterior ligament (one on each side) reaches from Jg^JJ08- the back of the pelvis to the bladder, and contains the obli- terated hypogastric artery, the ureter, and some vessels and nerves. Between these is the hollow of the recto-vesical pouch. The lateral ligament, also one on a side, is a wide piece two of peritoneum, which is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa, and the wall of the pelvis. Along its line of attachment to the bladder is the obliterated hypogastric artery. The superior ligament is reflected from the upper part of and one ^ a x x superior the bladder to the abdominal wall, along the same obliterated vessel. The rectum, or the lower part of the great intestine, ex- Extent tends from the articulation between the sacrum and the hip rectum,