CAVITY OF RIGHT AURICLE. 357 a a 3 the small aperture of the coronary sinus. Other small aper- tures are seen scattered over the surface: some lead only into depressions, but others are the mouths of the veins of the substance of the heart (venae cordis minimae), and are named foramina Thebesii. The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two APer- „ r # tures of cavae, of the coronary vein, and of the ventricle; but the cavae. openings of the cavae should be specially noted, because they are so placed that the current of blood issuing from one, in the fetus, does not mix much with that from the other. The opening of the superior cava is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is downwards and somewhat forwards. The inferior cava enters the lowest part of the auricle near the septum, and is directed inwards and back- wards to the fossa ovalis. All those openings, except that of the superior cava, have vawes some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin aPer- tures. fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian inferior valve, but in the adult this is only a remnant of a structure, islro- that is much larger in the fetus. This valve, in its perfect with* state, is semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to SlSn" the wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the valve‘ auricle. Its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards. In width, the valve surpasses the size of the vein, so that its extremities reach the surface of the auricle ; and the left end is connected with the annulus, or the rim of the fossa ovalis. The free margin of the valve is often reticular. The aper- One to ture of the coronary sinus in the lower part of the auricle is nary closed by a thin fold of the lining membrane — valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, Auri. culo- in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with valves, ventri ... .... . , . cular which prevent regurgitation into the auricular cavity. opening. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right course auricle towards the ventricle. In the fetus there are two ; in au- one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one aouit, another. The placental or pure blood entering by the in- JJeietus. ferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, through an opening (foramen ovale) in the septum ; whilst the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle.