DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 254 and latissi- inus, teres.and subsea* pularis behind. Parts at the inner and outer sides. Situa- tion of the apex and base. Contents of the space. Position and con- nections of the axillary vessels. whilst the pectoralis minor, which is a narrow muscle, cor- responds only with the middle part or third of that fold. In the posterior boundary, from above downwards, are the subscapularis, the teres major, and the latissimus dorsi mus- cles : this boundary reaches lower than the anterior, es- pecially near the humerus, and its lower margin, which is formed mostly by the latissimus dorsi, projects forwards beyond the level of the subscapularis. On the inner side of the arm-pit are the first four ribs, with their corresponding intercostal muscles, and the part of the serratus magnus that takes origin from those bones. On the outer side the space has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus, and by the bicep3 and coraco- brachialis muscles. The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the fore finger may be introduced into the space, for the purpose of ascertaining the depth, and the upper boundaries. The base or widest part of the conically-shaped interval is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis that reaches from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. — In the arm-pit are contained the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, with their branches; some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lym- phatic glands, and a larger quantity of loose connective tissue and fat. The position of all these, with reference to the boundaries of the space, is to be carefully studied. Position of the vascular and nervous trunks. — The large axillary vessels cross the outer portion of the space in passing from the neck to the upper limb. The part of the vessels that can now be seen, lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered only by the common superficial layers, viz. the skin, the fatty or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles. On their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle. On looking into the arm-pit from below, the axillary vein will be found to lie to the thoracic side of the artery, and to conceal it. After the vein has been drawn aside, the arterial trunk will be seen to lie amongst some of the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median