458 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Dissec- tion of the pu- dic ves- sels and nerve. Pudic artery courses along pubic arch and ends on penis. Branch- es not yet seen are: Artery of bulb between triangu- lar liga- ment. Its situ- ation varies. duct in the ordinary state of the parts does not admit a bristle. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. — The student may complete the examination of the perinaeum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, and their remaining branches. From the point of its divi- sion into two branches (dorsal branch of the penis, and branch of the corpus cavernosum) beneath the crus, the artery is to be followed backwards along the outer wall of the right ischio-rectal fossa. The pudic nerve will be ex- posed at the same time, and should any of the branches be already cut away, the corresponding ones may be sought on the opposite side. The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac; it enters the perinaeal space through the small sacro-ischiatic notch, and is distributed to the perinaeum and the genital organs. Entering the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, the artery extends forwards along the outer wall about one inch and a half above the ischial tuberosity, and is contained in an aponeurotic canal which attaches it to the fascia covering the obturator muscle: but at the base of the triangular ligament the vessel is much nearer the margin of the pubic arch. It then ascends between the layers of the triangular ligament, and along the pubic arch nearly to the subpubic ligament, where it perforates the superficial part of the tri- angular ligament, and divides into the artery of the body, and that of the dorsum of the penis. The branches of the vessel in the perinaeal space are nume- rous. The superficial offsets, viz. inferior haemorrhoidal, transverse perinaeal, and superficial perinaeal, have been ex- amined : the remaining, for the supply of the penis and the urethra, are subjoined : — The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing almost transversely inwards between the layers of the ligament, and about half an inch from its base, the artery reaches the bulb of the urethra, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper’s gland. The distance of this branch from the base of the ligament de- pends upon its origin at a point nearer the front or back of the perinaeal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it