DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 580 often absent. eminence and the brim of the pelvis. The tendon is con- nected with the fascia covering the iliacus muscle. Iliacus has the form of the iliac fossa. Origin ; inser- tion ; parts covering it on opposite sides. The iliacus muscle occupies the hollow (iliac fossa) on the inner aspect of the hip bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas muscle. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, from the base of the sacrum, and in front from the capsule of the hip joint. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur, and some reach separately that bone. Above Pou- part’s ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia; but in front of the right iliacus is the caecum, and in front of the left muscle is the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are To the the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip joint. The inIler • ... -IT side is inner margin is m contact with the psoas and the anterior psoas, crural nerve. The connections of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart’s ligament are given with the dissec- tion of the thigh. Quadra- The quadratus lumborum is a short thick muscle be- tus lum- borum tAveen the crest of the hip bone and the last rib. About two has two . L pansinches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral liga- whfch is ment, and from the iliac crest for the same extent as that imf pos. band, but behind it. The fibres ascend to be inserted into tenor; the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance; and by distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse pro- cesses of the four upper or all the lumbar vertebras. Occa- and in- si0nally there is an anterior stratum of fibres at the upper ner, or J . r r anterior, part., which is attached internally to the tips of the transverse processes of the three middle lumbar vertebrae, and exter- it is nally to the lower border of the last rib. This muscle is edina incased in a sheath derived from the fascia lumborum. sllCcltll Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, together with the last dorsal nerve. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spinae muscle. Fascia Fascia of the quadratus.—Covering the surface of the quadra- quadratus is a thin membrane, which is derived from the tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum, p. 409.), and passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the roots of the transverse processes; below to the ilio- forms lumbar ligament; and above to the last rib. This fascia