623 INTERIOR OF THE BLADDER. of the ureters blending with it. The projection of the uvula vesicae is due to this submucous stratum. The different muscular strata communicate freely, so that strata one cannot be separated from another without division of joined, the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the dis- gadder position of the muscular fibres is similar.* Fibrous coat.—This stratum is placed between the muscu- Fibrous lar and mucous layers, and is enumerated amongst the coats coat of the bladder; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hollow viscera, and in it the bloodvessels ramify. Dissection. — The bladder is now to be opened by an Open • the incision down the front; and the same cut is to be continued bladder, along the upper part of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous pos- Mucous CO£it teriorly with that lining the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular has folds layer in consequence of the intervention of the submucous stratum, and is thrown into numerous folds, in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular surface except behind the opening into the urethra. The membrane is soft spot"6 and smooth to the feel, and of a pale rose colour in the healthy state. Its surface is studded with small mucous Follicles, follicles, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. A Epithe- spheroidal epithelium covers the surface. Interior of the bladder. — Within the bladder the follow- interior ing parts are to be remarked, viz., the orifices of the ureters bladder, and urethra, with the triangular space. Orifices. — At the lower and anterior part of the bladder opening is the orifice of the urethra, surrounded by the prostate thru™" gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longi- tudinal folds, and the aperture is partly closed by a small prominence below, uvula vesicce, occasioned by a thickening with its of the submucous muscular layer. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate, and from its anterior part a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra. About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, open-' and rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow ings of * See a Paper before referred to in the Trans, of the Med. Chir. So- ciety, 1856.