40 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Dissec- tion of nerve beyond parotid, and of the nerve in the pa- rotid. Dissection. —The facial nerve is to be displayed on the right side of the face if there is time sufficient before the body is turned (see p. 1.). Some of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose the ramifications beyond the parotid gland, let the skin be raised from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches of the nerve are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches that go to the temple have been already partly dissected above the zygoma; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supra-orbital nerve has been seen. Other still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other nerves in the lids; and by means of this set, whilst it crosses the malar bone, a junction is formed with the sub- cutaneous malar nerve of the fifth. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, that are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infra- orbital, nasal, and infra-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size : one joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip and to the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve. In order to trace backwards the trunk of the nerve through the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland removed piece by piece. In this proceeding the small branches of communication of the great auricular nerve with offsets of the facial, and the branches that dip down from the facial to the auriculo-temporal nerve are to be sought. Lastly, the tip of the mastoid process may be cut off with a chisel; and after turning it backwards with the sterno-mastoid mus- cle adhering to it, the small branches of the facial nerve to the back of the ear, and to the digastric and stylo-hy- oid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull. The Nerve outside the Skull.—The nerve issues Branch