OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS MUSCLE. 3 fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) at its cranial aspect. The posterior auricular artery and nerve are in connection with this muscle. The occipito-frontalis muscle covers the arch of the occipi- • i . to-fron- skull, and consists oi an anterior and a posterior fleshy part, tails, with an intervening tendon. Dissection. — On the same side of the head (the left) the Occipi- occipito-frontalis is to be dissected. To bring this muscle tails into view, a cut may be made along the middle line of the seen: skull, from the root of the nose to a li Ale below the occipital protuberance ; and this may be connected in front with the transverse incision on the side of the head. The flap of skin, thus marked out, is to be raised from before and thrown backwards; whilst doing this the dissector will meet with first the anterior fleshy part of the muscle, next a white shining thin aponeurosis, and lastly the posterior fleshy belly towards the lateral aspect of the cranium. The care to student should bear in mind that the aponeurosis of the ken. muscle is easily taken away with the granular fat superficial to it; and should the under surface of the flap of the in- teguments that is being detached have a white instead of a yellow appearance, he may infer he is removing that apo- neurosis. The anterior or frontal part is a thin muscular expansion Frontal ..... . part over the os frontis, which is not connected to the subja- cent bone, but mixes below with some muscles of the face. Along the line of the eyebrow (its origin) the fibres are blended with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum and cor- rugator supercilii, whilst opposite the nose they join those of the pyramidalis nasi muscle. From this attachment the fibres are directed upwards to the aponeurosis, and end in it rather below the level of the coronal suture. The 'posterior or occipital part is stronger than the an- occipital terior; it arises from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and from the outer half or two-tliirds of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The fibres are about one inch and a half in length, and ascend to the aponeu- rosis. The tendon, or epicranial aponeurosis, extends over the and apo- ... . neurosis. upper part ot the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the same structure of the opposite half of