558 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. fewer in number and ves- sels ; have open mouths inferior- iy- Struc- ture of the wall of a tu- bule ; special mem- brane and epi- thelium. Corpus- cles in the tubules. to the apex of that body, where they open by somewhat dilated orifices. In the pyramid the tubes lie close together, and have but few vessels between them; they further dimi- nish in number, from base to apex, by repeated unions, and are enveloped by a uniting or parenchymatous structure. On a section of one of the pyramids, near the lower end, the number of tubes was estimated by Krause at a hundred in a square line. Structure and ending of the tubes. — The tubes consist of a thin special membrane; and they are lined by an epithe- lium of the spheroidal kind, which forms three-fourths of the thickness of the wall, except in the pyramid, where it is thinner, and the cells smaller and flatter. At the termi- nation of the tubes in free extremities each tube presents a dilated or saccular part, which contains a small vascular Malpighian body, and is perforated by the two vessels con- nected with that body.* Into this little sac the epithelial lining extends, and becomes very delicate and translucent. Dilatations for the lodgment of the Malpighian bodies are connected with the sides, as well as the ends of the tubes. The Malpighian corpuscles (glomeruli of Ruysch) are small, rounded or oblong vascular bodies, which are contained in the dilated sacs of the uriniferal tubes. Each little vas- size; cular tuft has commonly a diameter of th °f an inch, and compos, is formed by the capillary ramifications of two small vessels vessels' ° that perforate the end of the containing tube. One vessel (afferent) is a small twig of the renal artery, which forms the exterior of the tuft by its branchings; the other (efferent) occupies the centre of the tuft, and issuing from the tube ends in the plexus on a neighbouring uriniferal tube. This capillary body is free in the cavity of the tube that secretes the urine, but it is covered by some nucleated scales. Blood- vessels are large, and ar- teries are pecu- liar. Bloodvessels. — The artery and vein that are distributed to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the organ they nourish; and some small arterial branches have a peculiar disposition in the Malpighian bodies before they become capillary, and end in the veins. * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842, Part I., On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, by W. Bowman, F.R.S.