DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 7 56 ligament is continued between the head of the astragalus and the scaphoid bone. Astraga- b. The astraqalus with the scaphoid bone. — The laro-e las with * . . f ° scaphoid head of the astragalus is received into the hollow of the sca- bone. . . phoid bone, and is united to it only by a dorsal ligament; but the place of plantar and lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be presently noticed. Dorsal The dorsal or astragalo-scaphoid ligament is attached to ment. the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid bone ; its attachments will be better synovial seen when it is cut through. The synovial membrane of brane* the joint is the same as that for the articulation between the astragalus and the anterior part of the os calcis. Os caicis c. The os calcis with the scaphoid bone. —These bones and sea- . A phoid, by are not in contact, but ligamentous bands extend between them both below, and on the outer side of the head of the astragalus, which serve as inferior and lateral ligaments to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, and make more complete the socket for the reception of the fore part of the astragalus. and*01 The inferi°r ligament (calcaneo-scaphoid) will be defined in the sole of the foot by removing some fibro-cartilaginous substance from it; and its upper surface, together with the outer ligament, will be brought into view by sawing off the part of the astragalus that is in front of the interosseous ligament to the os calcis. It is attached by one extremity to the anterior part of the os calcis (sustentaculum tali), and by the other, to a groove on the inner and under surfaces of the scaphoid bone. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath the ligament in the sole of the foot in the upright posture of the body, and on it the head of the astragalus external rests. The external calcaneo-scaphoid is placed outside the ments head of the astragalus, and serves as a lateral ligament to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation ; it is about three quarters of an inch deep, except at the centre where it is narrowed. Behind, it is fixed to the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and the astragalus; and in front it is attached to the outer side of the os scaphoides. enter As these ligaments enter into the articulation of the astra- into as- # ° scaphoid Sa^us with the scaphoid bone, they are lined by the same articuia- synovial membrane. tion.