82 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. lary glands. Stylo- hyoide- us. Origin. Inser- tion. Sur- rounds digastric tendon. Ninth nerve in the ante- rior tri- angle. Its branches here are muscu- lar. Branch to lower hyoid muscles is joined with cer- vical nerves by inter- commu- nicating fibres. and deeper still the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. The stylo-hyoid muscle is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from the outer aspect of the styloid process, near the base or about the middle, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric: and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In many bodies the stylo-hyoid muscle is absent. The hypoglossal NERVE (ninth cranial) may now be examined, at least that part of it which is seen in the anterior triangle of the neck. Appearing at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, the nerve hooks round the occipital artery; it is then directed forwards below the digastric, and disap- pears in front beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle. As the nerve crosses the neck, it lies over the carotid vessels; and near the cornu of the os hyoides it crosses the lingual artery, so as to become highest of the two. Branches. —In this part of its course the nerve gives the descendens noni branch and a small muscular offset to the thyro-hyoideus. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) arises from the trunk of the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and descends on the front, or in the sheath of the vessel, to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of the spinal nerves offsets are supplied to the lower hyoid muscles, viz. omo- hyoid (both bellies), sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. Some- times another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descen- dens noni and the spinal nerves is formed by two or more cross filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity upwards; and an interchange of filaments between the two nerves has been described. External The external carotid artery springs from the bifur- vessei. cation of the common carotid at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and furnishes branches to the face, the neck, and the outer parts of the head. Extent. From the place of origin the vessel ascends to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process, and ends in the