20 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. gives three branch- es. Differ- ence in the branch. es. glion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semi-lunar elevation, whose convexity looks forwards. Some filaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery enter its inner side. Branches.— From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks: — The ophthalmic nerve is the first and highest, and is destined for the orbit and face. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, passes downwards through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. If the gan- glion be raised, the small root will be seen passing beyond it to enter the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. In consequence of this partial blending of the roots, those branches of the ganglion that are unconnected with the smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior maxil- lary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxil- lary, which is compounded of both, is a nerve of sensibility and motion, like a spinal nerve. It is not, however, the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve that has this double function, for the motor root is mixed almost exclusively with the part of the trunk which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, therefore, only that small part of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nerve. Oph- The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks nerveof that needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissec- enters°n tion. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and 1 * is continued through that space to the forehead. In form it is a flat band; and in its course to the orbit the nerve is con- tained in the wall of the cavernous sinus, where it lies be- suppiies neath the third and fourth nerves. In this situation it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament to that part of the dura mater which forms the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). Near the orbit it divides into three branches. (See p. 45.) The sixth nerve enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus in its course to the dura mater. Abdu- cens nerve is in cavern- ous si- nus.