FACIAL NERVE OUTSIDE THE SKULL. 41 from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aque- esout- • ••• side the duct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three fol- skuii. lowing small branches : — The posterior auricular branch turns upwards in front of Poste- the mastoid process, where it communicates with the great ucuiar' auricular, and with a branch to the ear from the pneumo- branch’ gastric (eighth) nerve, and ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8.). The branch to the digastric muscle generally arises in Branch common with the next. It is distributed by many offsets gastric, to the posterior belly of the muscle near the origin. Some- times one of these offsets passes through the fleshy fibres, and descends to join the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The branch to the stylo-hyoideus is a long slender nerve. Branch that is directed inwards to its muscle, which it enters about h°yoi-10’ the middle. This branch communicates with the sympa- GeUs' thetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off those branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks — temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK furnishes offsets to the The up- side of the head and face, whose ramifications extend as low trunk as the meatus auditorius. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, it sends downwards branches to join the auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxillary nerve, and in front of the ear it gives some filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of branches, temporal, hasthrea- malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the ending of the iSnch- temporo-facial nerve. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygoma Tempo- to the orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the branch- anterior part of the occipito-frontalis ; in which they aretoSdeof united with offsets of the supra-orbital nerve. The attrahens head' aurem muscle is supplied by this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The malar branches are directed to the outer angle of the Malar orbit, and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle and the esgTto eyelids. In the eyelids communications take place with the eycllds‘ palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve (p. 37.); and near the