87 MASSETER MUSCLE. returned to for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied a fluid to preserve it. Section VI. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and Contents beneath the ramus of the jaw, together with the articulation region, of the bone. In connection with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the ramus of the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection.— The masseter muscle, which is superficial to Dissec- thejaw, comes first from without inwards. To see it the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through, and turned backwards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to show the fibres, and to define the origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be in the mouth any of the material that made tense the fibres of the orbicularis, let it be removed. The masseter muscle conceals the ramus of the lower Masse- jaw, and is divided into two portions, superficial and deep, has by means of an aponeurosis, which projects at the upper parts* part into the muscular fibres. The superficial part arises from the anterior two-thirds of superfi. cialisdi- the zygomatic arch, and its fibres are directed downwards rected and backwards to be inserted into the angle, and into the wards, lower half of the ramus of the jaw on the outer aspect. The Deep deeper part takes origin by fleshy fibres from the remaining wards°r’ third, and from all the posterior surface of the arch; and its fibres, taking an opposite direction to those of the superficial part, are inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid pro- cess, and the ramus of the jaw above the attachment of the other portion of the muscle. The lower part of the masseter is subcutaneous, but the Muscle upper is partly concealed by the parotid gland (socia paro- subcuta tidis), and is crossed by Stenson’s duct, and by the transverse neous ’ facial vessels and the facial nerve. The anterior border pro- jects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat re- sembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle lies on