114 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Dissec- Below the foramen of exit from the skull, the eighth nerve the has been sufficiently denuded, by the dissection of the in- STthe ternal carotid, to examine its branches in the neck, with the neck • exception of the inferior laryngeal nerve. But the connec- tions between the eighth, ninth, sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves should be traced out near the skull. Taking the pneumo-gastric nerve, it will be found to swell into a large oval body (lower ganglion), which is closely united with the hypoglossal, and is connected by branches with the other nerves. The hypoglossal nerve communicates also with the sympathetic and the spinal nerves. Lastly the student should trace the recurrent branch of the vagus from the lower part of the neck to the larynx. Eighth nerve consists^ of the three follow- ing trunks: Glosso- pharyn- geal' nerve; has two ganglia in fora- men lacerum, Its upper and lower gang- lion. The eighth cranial nerve (Willis) consists of three distinct trunks, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, which leave the cranium by the foramen jugulare (p. 21.). Outside the skull these nerves take dif- ferent directions according to their destination ; thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwards to the tongue and pharynx; the spinal accessory passes backwards to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles; and the pneumo- gastric nerve descends to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is the smallest of the three trunks, and in the jugular foramen is placed somewhat in front of the other two; it lies in a groove in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit, the nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being the jugular, and the lower one the petrous ganglion. Ganglia. — The jugular ganglion (gang, superius) is of very small size, and is situate at the upper part of the osseous groove that contains the nerve. It is placed at the outer aspect of the glosso-pharyngeal trunk, and includes only some fibrils of the nerve. The petrosal ganglion (gang, inferius), is much larger than the preceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. This ganglion is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone, and from it arise the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with the other nerves.