DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 556 Contents of the fissure : their I position. Open the kidney, and clean vessels. Renal sub- stance divided into cor- tical and pyrami- dal. Extent of cor- tical sub- stance ; colour; consist- ence ; compo- sition. Pyra- mids ; number, form, and di- rection end in papilla?. marked by a longitudinal fissure, hilum. In the interior of the kidney is a hollow, named simis, into which the hilum leads, and in which the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. In the fissure of the kidney the several vessels are thus placed with respect to one another: — The divisions of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches of the artery lie between the other two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify, and connective tissue and fat surround the whole. Dissection. — To examine the interior it will be necessary to cut through the kidney from the inner to the outer border, and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels, and the divisions of the excretory duct that enter the hilum. The hollow, or sinus, that contains the bloodvessels, now comes into view. The interior of the kidney appears on a section to consist of two different materials, viz. of an external granular or cortical part: and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre, and are con- nected with the divisions of the excretory duct. But it will subsequently appear that each of these parts is constructed of the same elements, though somewhat differently arranged. The cortical substance, or the external part, forms about three-fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolon- gations between the same nearly to their extremities. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. This layer is formed of a congeries of convo- luted uriniferal tubes, surrounded by vascular plexuses; and, in a well-injected specimen, red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered here and there through its texture. The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi, medullary substance.) are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge to the sinus of the kidney. Each mass is conical in form : it has the base turned towards the circumference of the organ, where it is surrounded by the cortical substance ; and the apex, which is free from cortical covering, directed to the hollow at the inner part of the kidney. At this last spot it ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla,