396 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Excep- tions in first two. First nerve enters brachial plexus. Has not, usually, cutane- ous branch. Second nerve. Form of upper surface of dia- phragm. Parts in contact with it. Aper- tures in it. The dis- section of the back is now made. tions of the upper limb (p. 250.) and the wall of the ab- domen. There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the general arrangement above specified. The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the upper rib, and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest, it supplies a small branch to the first intercostal space ; this extends forwards furnishing muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. But there is not any lateral cutaneous branch from this nerve, except in those cases in which the next nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is re- markable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 250.). In front it ends like the others. Upper surface of the diaphragm. — The anatomy of the diaphragmatic partition between the thorax and the abdomen will be specially described with the deep muscles of the latter cavity. The arch of the muscle towards the thorax has been before referred to (p. 342.) : the centre of the arch is tendinous, but the sides are fleshy. In contact with the upper surface are the lungs, one on each side, and the pericardium in the middle. In the muscle are the fol- lowing apertures : —one for the oesophagus and the pneumo- gastric nerves, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azygos. The phrenic vessels and nerves enter the upper surface, external to the pericardium; and the splanchnic nerves are trans- mitted to the abdomen through the posterior part, whilst the sympathetic passes beneath it. Directions.—The dissector of the thorax now waits while the dissection of the back is made. Afterwards he is to examine the ligaments of the ribs, and those of the spine : a notice of these will be found in the following section.