MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 27 The inner part, whose fibres are pale in colour and fine inner or in texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus that reaches circuldr> outwards from the margin of the lip to the arch of the coro- nary artery. The fibres of this portion of the muscle are unattached to bone, and some pass from lip to lip round the corner of the mouth. The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, outer or and has an attachment to the subjacent bone, besides its con- iarfgu nection with the adjacent muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the middle line, by one slip (naso- labial) to the back of the septum of the nose, and by another to the outer surface of the alveolar margin of the upper jaw opposite the canine and incisor teeth, external to the depressor of the wing of the nose. And in the lower lip it is fixed on each side into the inferior jawbone, on the outer aspect, opposite the canine tooth, or external to the levator labii inferioris muscle. To see these attachments the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane carefully raised. The inner margin of the muscle is free, and bounds the Connec- aperture of the mouth ; whilst the outer edge blends with blends the different muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the other • • • • muscles angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary artery, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS extends vertically from Elevator the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It [>ipUpper arises from the upper maxillary and malar bones, above the infra-orbital foramen, and blends with the orbicularis oris, passes between the middle line and the angle of the mouth. Near orbit to the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis pal- pebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its Connec- inner side it joins the common elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygo- matic muscles. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. The levator anguli oris has well-marked fibres, and is Elevator partly concealed by the preceding muscle. Arising from angfe6 the canine fossa, beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the mixes with de-