467 SUPERFICIAL FASCIA IN THE GROIN. H H 2 of the thigh, and with that of the rest of the abdomen ; and if it is traced to the limb, it is found to be separated from Poupart’s ligament beneath, by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and the except . in the scrotum, where it loses its adipose tissue ; and after invest- penis x , and scro- ing the testicle, the layer is prolonged to the superficial tum. fascia of the perinseum. b. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia (aponeurosis deeper of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous thin and 7 A 7 > mem- than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the branous;. external oblique by fibrous bands, especially towards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part of the fascia, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum: in this last part it becomes very Special thin, and, having passed through the scrotum, reaches the tersand perinseum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts ti«n, as before specified (p. 450.). Towards the top of the limb it extends only a very short distance, and ends a little below and Poupart’s ligament by joining the fascia lata across the front fascia of the thigh; as it passes over the ligament it is closely joined to that band by a thin membrane. Should urine be effused from rupture of the urethra, it Attach- merits will be directed through the scrotum, by reason of the attach- deter- ments of the superficial fascia in the perineum, and then course ill -ill of ef- upwards along the spermatic cords to the abdomen. From fused the disposition of the deep layer across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, whilst its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separ- Fascia in able into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly male6* the same as in the male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other, in its course to the perinaeum. In the female the round liga- ment of the uterus is lost in the superficial fascia of the groin. Cutaneous Nerves. — The nerves in the superficial cuta- fascia are derived chiefly from the trunks of the lower five nerves or six intercostal nerves ; — the lateral cutaneous branches along the side of the belly being offsets from those nerves, are de- whilst the anterior cutaneous branches along the front are from the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two cutaneous off- sources.