SAPHENOUS OPENING IN THE FASCIA LATA. 663 the lower end of the sacrum and the coccyx ; internally with the pubes and the pubic arch; and in front with Poupart’s ligament, between the pubes and the iliac crest. At the Differ- x ... ence at lower part of the thigh, behind the knee joint, it passes lower uninterruptedly to the leg ; but in front of the articulation it is blended with an expansion from the extensor muscles, and is continued over the patella, though separated from the bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. Directions. — The flaps of skin that were removed from Cover r the the front of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and 1'ascia ° # except nerves, are now to be replaced, and the saphenous opening above, is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata receives its ap- sjjphe- pellation from transmitting the saphenous vein. This aper- opening; ture is oval in form, and is situate rather to the inner side of tion, ’ . form, the middle line of the thigh ; it measures about half an inch and size, in width and one inch and a half in length. Its upper ex- tremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart’s ligament ; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that struc- ture about one inch and a half, and presents a well defined margin. The inner side of the opening is posterior to the level of the femoral vessels; it is deficient above in a prominent edge, for the fascia constructing it is stretched over a flat subjacent muscle (pectineus), but it is marked below by a firm and sharp border. The outer boundary is much stronger, and has, when detached, a semilunar border, whose concavity is turned downwards and inwards: this is named from its shape, falciform border or margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the deep layer of the superficial fascia. If the outer edge be traced upwards, it will be found to arch to the inner side of the femoral vein, and to blend with the base of Gimbernat’s ligament (part of the insertion of Pou- part’s ligament): the upper end of this border, where it is in- ternal to the vessels, has been known as the femoral ligament. The rigidity of the margin of the saphenous opening is much influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the finger be placed beneath the upper part of the falciform border, u u 4 Inner margin is not sharp ; outer is firm and semi- lunar, and arches to join Gimber- nat’s li- gament. Tense- ness of the margins depends