158 DISSECTION OF T^E TONGUE. hyo- glossal mem- brane and inferior lingua- lis. Fibrous struc- tures in tongue; its septum. Fibro- carti- lage. Hyo- glossal mem- brane. Sub- mucous aponeu- rosis. Muscles in each half. After separating these muscles, except in front, and cutting across their intercommunicating fibres, the edge of the sep- tum will appear ; and by tracing then the hinder fibres of the two muscles towards the os hyoides, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at; but the membrane will be more completely denuded by cutting through the anterior fibres of the left hyo-glossus. At the front of the tongue the genio-hyo-glossus will be afterwards followed out. Outside this triangular muscle in the middle line, is the longitudinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which may be cleaned on the left side, though it will subsequently be better seen on the right half. Fibrous tissue. — Along the middle line of the tongue is a thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum ; at the root is another fibrous structure, named the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the organ, for the greater part, is a submucous layer of the same tissue. a. Septum.— This fibrous structure forms a vertical par- tition between the two halves of the tongue, and extends from the base to the apex. It is stronger posteriorly than anteriorly, and is connected behind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen, subsequently, on a ver- tical section. In some instances a small fibro-cartilage about a quarter of an inch deep and of the same length exists in the septum. b. The hyo-glosscil membrane is a thin, but strong fibrous lamina, that attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or an- terior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo- glossi are collected, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the os hyoides. c. The submucous fibrous or aponeurotic stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in this position. Into it the muscular fibres are inserted, that end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles. — Each half of the tongue is made up of ex- trinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former are distinguished