DISSECTION OF TIIE FOOT. 734 Poste- rior per- forating. Digital branches to three outer toes and half the next. Anterior perforat- ing off! sets. Distri. bution. Ending of the dorsal artery of the loot; its di- gital branch, on the digits. External plantar nerve ends in the deep muscles. Dissec- tion. side small muscular branches arise. From the under part are given off three small arteries, the posterior perforating; these pass to the dorsum of the foot through the outer three intermetatarsal spaces, and anastomose with the interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery. The digital branches are four in number, and supply both sides of the outer three toes, and half of the next. The one to the outer side of the little toe is single; the others lie in the outer three metatarsal spaces, and bifurcate in front to supply the contiguous sides of two toes. Where they divide, they send small communicating branches — anterior perfo- rating, to the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. On the toes. — On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that in the hand : — they extend to the last phalanx, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the ball of the toe; and near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole at the pos- terior part of the first (inner) intermetatarsal space, and supplies digital offsets to both sides of the great toe and to half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. Besides these, it furnishes a communicating branch to join the plantar arch. The digital branch (art. magna pollicis) extends to the front of the first interosseous space, and divides into col- lateral branches for the great toe and the next. Near the front of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards previously, beneath the flexor muscles, the digital branch for the inner side of the great toe. These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches. The deep branch of the external plantar nerve passes with the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor pollicis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei, one or both in the external space excepted; to the transversalis pedis; and to the external two lumbrical muscles. Dissection. — It will be needful to remove the transver-