FEMORAL ARTERY. 675 vastus internus muscle that sends an offset to the knee joint, will come into view. The plexus of nerves on the inner side of the thigh may now be more completely dissected. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises ; this is to be pursued in the fibres of the vastus internus to the knee, and a branch of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve. The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels exists where these are covered by the sartorius. It is formed of strong fibres, that are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the adductor muscles. Inferiorly the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its artery escape. Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh.—In the middle third the femoral artery is more deeply placed than in the upper third of the thigh. It is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fasciae ; and it lies in a hollow, bounded on the one side by the vastus internus and on the other by the adductor longus and adductor magnus, by which it is conducted to the opening in the last muscle. On the outer side of the artery and close to it, is the femoral vein; to the outer side also, is the internal saphenous nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Branches. — Only one named branch, anastomotic, springs from this part of the artery, the other offsets belonging to the muscles. The anastomotic branch (arter. anastomotica magna) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and splits at once into two parts, superficial and deep. a. The superficial offset continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and, piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integument, b. The deep or anterior branch is concealed in the fibres of the vastus inter- nus, and descends in them, in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee joint, where x x 2 and vessels. Aponeu- rosis over the femoral artery : ends be- low by a defined border. Deep part of the fe- moral artery. Connec- tions. Position of vein and sa- phenous nerve. Branch- es. Anasto- motic, which divides into a superfi- cial and a deep branch.