166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. is be- neath thyroid carti- lage. Thyro- aryta?- noideus Some fibres as- cend to tip, others go to base of arytae- noid carti- lage. Connec- tions. Depres- sor of epiglot- tis double origin. Inser- tion. Parts inside larynx. lage, as well as into the contiguous part of the cartilage on the anterior or outer aspect. This muscle is concealed by the crico-thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle. The thyro-aryt^enoideus muscle extends backwards in the interior of the larynx from the thyroid to the arytaenoid cartilage; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the depth, and from the crico-thyroid ligament. The fibres are directed backwards, with different inclinations;—the external ascend somewhat, and are inserted into the upper part of the arytaenoid carti- lage on the anterior and outer aspect; the internal and lower fibres are transverse, and form a thick bundle, which is inserted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, as well as into the outer surface; and some fibres are attached to the vocal cord. By its outer aspect the muscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. The depressor of the epiglottis (reflector epiglottidis, thyro-arytaeno-epiglottideus) is the thin muscular layer, which is contained in the fold of mucous membrane bounding laterally the upper opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise, posteriorly, from the front and upper part of the arytaenoid cartilage, some being continuous with the oblique fibres of the arytaenoid muscle; and a fasciculus (thyro-epiglottideus) is attached, anteriorly, to the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. From this origin the fibres turn upwards with very different directions, and are inserted into the border of the epiglottis. The strength of this muscle varies much in different bodies. Some of the lower fibres of this muscle, that cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton* as a separate muscle, and named compressor sacculi laryngis. Parts inside the Larynx. — The laryngeal cartilages are so arranged as to enclose a space, and defend the parts more immediately concerned in. the production of the voice, viz. the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. * See No. 5. of Guy’s Hospital Reports.