NERVES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 481 the abdomen. About midway between the spine and the trans- linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 468.); and whilst offsets, between the abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches, as well as offsets of communication with one ano- ther. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, because of the shortness of the inferior intercostal spaces. The last dorsal nerve is placed below the twelfth rib, and Last therefore not in an intercostal space, but otherwise it has nerve, connections and a distribution like the preceding. As it ex- tends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the ilio-hypogastric nerve: its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles. b. Two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz. ilio-hypogas- Branch- trie and ilio-inguinal, are contained for a certain distance lumbar ° plexus. between the muscles of the wall of the abdomen, as they course forwards to the surface of the body. The ilio-hypogastric nerve perforates the back of the iiio-hy- transversalis muscle, near the iliac crest, and gives off the trie lies iliac or lateral cutaneous branch. The nerve then turns iliac crest. forwards above the hip bone, and is connected with its com- panion (ilio-inguinal), near the front of that bone. Per- Fur. forating then the fleshy part of the internal oblique, and the cuta- aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba, the branch, nerve becomes cutaneous as before seen (p. 468.). The iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles, close to the crest of the bone, to reach the gluteal region. The ilio-inguinal nerve perforates the transversalis near uioin- the front of the iliac crest, where it is connected with the issues preceding. The nerve afterwards • pierces the internal ring. ° oblique, to which it supplies branches, and coursing over that muscle, reaches the surface of the thigh through the ex- ternal abdominal ring (p. 468.). This nerve may be so small as to end by joining the ilio-hypo- Maybe gastric branch. In such cases the ilio-hypogastric furnishes an small offset that takes the usual place of, and corresponds in distribution with the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection. — For the purpose of seeing the transversalis Dissec- fascia, it will be necessary to raise, on the right side, the trans°* lower part of the transversalis muscle by two incisions; — faYtia.IS