316 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. is the the annular ligament, at the lowest part, and from the os magnum. The inner head has a wide origin from the os trapezoides and os magnum, from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, and from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The heads are soon blended in one mass ; and this is inserted by two parts into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, — the inner piece being united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each lateral piece at its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on this muscle, and afterwards occupies the interval between the processes of insertion ; and the deep palmar arch comes from beneath the inner head. The adductor pollicis is pointed at the thumb, and wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the anterior two thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, on the pai bone, anterior aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the short flexor, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb. The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and their lumbrical muscles ; and the deep deep in surface lies over (in this position) the abductor indicis in the hand. . the first interosseous space, and the second and third meta- carpal bones and the intervening muscles. Short Muscles of the Little Finger. — There are commonly two muscles in the ball of the little finger, — an abductor and an adductor. Sometimes there is a short flexor muscle between the other two. The abductor minimi digiti is the most internal of the short muscles. It arises from the pisiform bone and the * tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the ternai?X* ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger ; an offset is sent from it to the extensor tendon on the back of the phalanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Flexor The flexor breyis minimi digiti appears to be only a oftcTnVb- part of the abductor. Placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle, it takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular ligament; is on the ^ inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies Sfof on the adductor; and near its origin it is separated from the and is inserted by two heads. It is deep in the hand. Adduc- tor crosses from third joins short flexor, and is Two or three muscles to little finger. Ab- ductor