29 FACIAL VESSELS. The buccinator is a flat and wide muscle, that occupies Buccina- the interval between the jaws, and bounds in this direction cie. the cavity of the mouth. The muscle arises from the outer origin, surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillas, as far forward in each as the first molar tooth; and in the interval between the jaws it is attached to a band of fascia — the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From inser- this origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of comers the mouth, where they mix with the other muscles and mouth, with both parts of the orbicularis; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the Parts in contact different muscles that converge to the angle of the mouth ; with it. and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle opposite the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia that is continued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds to the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The vessels of the face consist of the facial and trans- Arteries verse facial arteries with their accompanying veins. The face.6 arteries are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery emerges from the neck, and appears on Facial the lower jaw, anterior to the masseter muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial, though course, lying in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At and con first the artery is concealed by the platysma whilst crossing nechons the jaw, but this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during life; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to its outer side. Branches. — From the outer side of the vessel unnamed Plan of