678 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Cut the rectus. and separate the ex- tensor muscles. Vastus externus is thin at the origin; but is 3 thicker below, at its in- sertion. Parts in contact with the surfaces. Vastus internus and cru. reus. One mass on the front of the femur. Its ori- gin ; tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent muscles. Dissection. — To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus near its lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath it. The muscular mass on the front of the femur is to be divided into two along the situation of some descending vessels and nerves. The muscle external to those vessels is the vastus externus, and the larger mass, internal to them, is composed of the vastus internus and crureus : the last two muscles are in- separably united, but if the student wishes to make two dis- tinct parts, he may carry the scalpel through the fibres in a line with the inner border of the patella. The vastus externus is one of the parts of the strong extensor muscle of the leg, and its attachment to the femur is very narrow in comparison with its size and thickness. It has a lengthened origin externally, which is, for the most part, from a quarter to half an inch thick. Thus, beginning above, it arises from the root of the neck of the femur ; from the fore part and the outer surface of the root of the great trochanter ; from the line connecting the trochanter with the linea aspera; from the outer margin of the linea aspera ; from two-thirds of the line extending downwards to the outer condyle; and, lastly, from the external intermuscular septum. Interiorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis ; and this blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus internus to form a common tendon. The muscle is pointed at the upper part, but enlarged below, where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic at the upper part, and is covered by the rectus, tensor vaginas femoris, and gluteus muscles; but the deep surface rests on the vastus internus and crureus, and on branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The vastus internus and crureus are inseparably united, and will be here described as one muscle. The fleshy mass arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the femur, except at the ends, and its limits may be thus indicated: — It reaches upwards as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line; downwards, to about two inches from the articular end of the femur ; outwards, to the vastus externus; an d