131 THE PHARYNX. the lower one, near the larynx, will be found the recurrent nerve; whilst, intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the pterygo-maxillary ligament, it will be necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull (petrous part of the temporal bone), will be found two small muscles of the palate : — one, — tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and the pterygoid muscle; and the other, — levator palati, is rather farther back, and of larger size. The pharynx is that part of the alimentary tube which Pharynx . . L J is behind is situate behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. Through mouth the upper part of this passage, besides the food, the air is nose, transmitted in respiration. Its extent is from the base of Extent, the skull to the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus. In form it is somewhat conical, with the base or dilated part upwards, and the apex or narrower part downwards. In length it measures about four inches and a length.’ half. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it isan in- communicates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite bag flete closed behind. On each side of the pharynx are the trunks is be- • tween of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein and the biood- accompanying eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Be- hind it is the spinal column, covered by the deep muscles, viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. In front the pharynx is attached to the larynx, the hyoid Compo- bone, and the tongue, and to the bony framework of the nasal cavity; but behind it is unattached, and is formed of thin, fleshy and membranous strata. In the posterior wall are three thin muscles, which are so arranged that the lower overlays the middle, and the middle the upper muscle, like the disposition of scales ; and at the upper part the bag is farther completed by an aponeurotic expansion which fixes it to the base of the skull. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of Aponeu- the pharynx, where the muscular fibres are deficient, to con- pharynx: nect the muscular part to the base of the skull, and to com- K 2 vessels and in front of spine.