POPLITEAL VEIN. 707 branch accompanies the short saphenous nerve above the muscles of the leg. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal Branch, trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above joint are five j the condyles of the femur ; they are directed almost trans- versely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the twosu- bone to the front of the joint. penor. The external one perforates the intermuscular septum, and external divides in the substance of the vastus externus: some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda); others descend to the joint; and one offset forms an arch across the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery, oftentimes very small, winds beneath the and in- tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in branches in the ternal vastus internus, which supply it and the knee joint, and commu- nicate with the anastomotic artery. The inferior articular branches lie beneath the gastro- Two cnemius, but are not on the same level on the two sides of the limb, for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch supplies the outer side of the knee joint, also ex- • • tcriicil and anastomoses with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery: it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from the lower internal branch. The internal artery turns upwards to the joint at the anterior and in- border of the internal lateral ligament, and after taking its share ternal» in the free anastomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the arti- culation and the head of the tibia. The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through and one '—* central the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous artery, structures and the synovial membrane of the interior. The popliteal vein originates in the union of the venae Popliteal comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has vein' the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is Position internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the artery, gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it is to the outer side, and close to the artery. It is joined by branches corre- Branch- sponding with those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein. z z 2 es.