DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 526 Common bile duct; length and course. Termi- nation. General disposi- tion in the ab- domen. Two large centres, solar and hy- pogas- triq. Part to be seen in the abdo- men. How to lay bare solar plexus. inch and a half long. At its termination it receives the duct of the gall bladder, and by the union of the two the common bile duct is formed. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), which is formed as above said, is about three inches Ions;: it descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse portion of the duodenum, then between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, and opens into this last part of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is joined com- monly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately. Whilst in the small omentum, the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve. — In the abdomen the sympathetic nerve consists, as in the thorax, of a gangliated cord on each side of the vertebral column; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses are found in the abdomen. One of these is the solar or epigastric plexus, which is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, or the hypogas- tric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the pelvic viscera. The offsets or the secondary plexuses of these centres accompany the bloodvessels to their destina- tion. The visceral part of the sympathetic nerve that remains to be seen, consists of the great epigastric centre, viz. the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia, with their offsets. Dissection. — To denude the great prevertebral centre above mentioned, the following dissection is to be made : — After the air has been let out of the stomach and the duo- denum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gas- tro-epiplo'ic artery are to be cut through behind the pylo- rus ; and the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, and taking away some fatty tissue, the vena cava appears: the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal