SUPERFICIAL LAYER OF MUSCLES. 717 extend to the middle, sometimes the lower third of the leg, and communicate with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. — The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may be either cut or turned aside. The special or deep fascia on the posterior aspect of the leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and superficial layers. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the knee; below, it joins the internal annular ligament. Externally it is continued uninterruptedly from the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. — The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the heel, and to be taken from the sur- face of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner head that has been cut, the cleaning the fibres of the muscle will be facilitated. Superficial Layer of Muscles.—In the calf of the leg there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, which extend the ankle: the first two are large, and give rise to the prominence on the surface, but the last is incon- siderable in size and is chiefly tendinous. The gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle. United below in the common tendon, it has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the posterior aspect of the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus, and by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle. The outer head is fixed by tendon chiefly to a pit on the outer surface of the corresponding condyle, above the attachment of the popliteus muscle, and also to the upper and back part of the same condyle. These pieces are united along the middle line by a narrow tendinous slip, and terminate inferiorly with the soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia; the other is in contact with the soleus and the plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the Take' away the fat. Deep fascia. Conti- nuation and attach- ments. j Take away the fascia. Muscles in super- ficial layer. Gastro- cnemius arises by two heads from the femur. ends be- low in tendo Achillis. Parts covered by it.