PNEUMO-GASTRIC AND SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVES. 113 i have been hardened by spirit, and the bone softened by acid, he may return to the examination of the parts that are now passed over. * In the foramen lacerum. — Supposing the dissection of Dissec. the internal carotid to be made as it is described at page 109., open10 let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the iofamen. skull, and the internal carotid, if it is necessary. Let him then remove, bit by bit, with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone that bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the crest of bone between the foramen and the aperture of the carotid canal. Between the ring of bone and the coat of the jugular vein, is the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * First trace the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory Follow nerves through the canal, by opening the fibrous sheath that gastric surrounds them. On the pneumo-gastric is a small ganglion, Sac-’ from which filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller and their portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending e™nch" branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; the auricular branch, before referred to, also takes origin from this ganglion. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should be defined: the latter is to be shown joining the ganglion of the vagus, and then applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A communication also exists between the two parts of the spinal accessory. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the after, foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This giosso- nerve presents two ganglia, as it passes from the skull: one seal (jugular), that is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane that contains it; the other, much larger (petrous), is placed at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, and its seek a filament of communication with the sympathetic in the es. neck; also Jacobson’s nerve, that enters an aperture in, or on one side of the crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. Sometimes there will exist a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve.