STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 777 On the outer surface are some fine shreds, fragments of a Outer surface structure (Jacob’s membrane) to be noticed presently, which isfloccu- float in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed ; and in a fresh eye, on which the coats have been removed from behind, a continuous layer of this membrane may be detached with care. On looking to the inside through the on the • inner vitreous body, the surface will be found covered with folds, surface J are seen but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support; and at the spot where the optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of p°rus opticus, the retina. In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, and TLth of an inch outside the entrance of the optic nerve, is a slightly elliptical yellow point T^th of an inch in diameter, which is named the yellow spot (limbus limbus • luteus luteus of Sommerring). In the centre of that spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in fovea consequence of the thinnesss of the wall allowing the dark trails, i pigment outside to be seen. Structure. — In the retina are three layers or strata of Layers different materials, together with bloodvessels: viz., an ietina. inner, composed of nerve elements; an outer (Jacob’s mem- brane), formed of peculiar bodies ; and an intermediate or granular layer. Passing vertically through the retina are other fine threads — fibres of Muller. a. The layer of nerve substance is made up of the same One of nerve elements as the gray matter of the encephalon, viz. of a sub molecular matrix containing different-sized nerve cells, with nerve fibres instead of nerve tubes; these constituents have the following arrangement:—The tubules of the optic nerve, has two having become solid in texture, and gray in colour from the strata’ absence of the white substance of Schwann, radiate from the an inner end of the optic trunk, and communicate together to con- ed nerve struct a thin stratum at the inner aspect of the nervous * layer; this delicate lamina diminishes in strength as it is followed forwards. Outside the nerve fibres is a stratum of and an the molecular material with large pale roundish nucleated granule# and stellate nerve cells: this begins around the entrance of nerve the optic nerve, and becomes thinner, like the fibrous layer,cells'* as it extends forwards. In the nervous layer is a plexus of bloodvessels, which is Blood. vessels derived from the central vessels of the retina contained in the in this layer.