750 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Two crucial liga- ments. Anterior is ob- lique ; its at- tach, ments; posterior is verti- ca1 Their use in slight flexion and ex- tension. In ex- treme flexion and ex- tension. In rota- tion. In keep, ing the The crucial ligaments are two strong fibrous processes, which intervene between the ends of the tibia and femur, and chiefly maintain those bones in contact. They cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, from which circumstance they have received their name. One is an- terior to the other at the attachment to the tibia. a. The anterior ligament is oblique in its direction, and is smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached to the inner lip of the hollow in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface; and superiorly it is inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, on the inner surface, and slightly into the interval between the con- dyles. b. The posterior ligament i3 almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the back of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone ; and by the upper extremity it is inserted into the fore part of the hollow between the condyles of the femur, and into the contiguous surface of the inner condyle. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, after the other ligaments have been cut through, should be studied. When the joint is only slightly bent, the posterior liga- ment is stretched; and when it is straightened again the anterior band is made tense. As the ligaments act in the manner above stated in keeping one articular surface on another, both will be called into play in extreme flexion and extension. For in great flexion the anterior will be stretched with the posterior, because there is an attempt to separate the articular surfaces backwards at the same time. So in great extension, the posterior comes into action after the anterior ligament, to prevent the femur being carried for- wards. In rotation inwards of the tibia the ligaments are crossed tightly, and the movement is arrested by the anterior fasci- culus ; but in rotation outwards of that bone the ligaments untwist, becoming almost parallel, so as to allow the bone to be turned back foremost. As long as both ligaments are whole the femur cannot be dislodsred from the tibia. If the anterior be cut the femur