435 ROOTS OF THE NERVES. F f 2 Direction and length. — As the apertures of transmission oblique . . . . 1 p „ in their from the spinal canal are not opposite the place ot origin ot course, the nerves, the roots must be directed more or less obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper Most so cervical nerves the roots are horizontal, but in the lumbar oriy^' and sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the end of the medulla spinalis. This appearance of the long and form Cciudci fibrils around the end of the cord has much resemblance to equina, the extremity of a horse’s tail, and bears appropriately the term cauda equina. The length of the roots increases proportionally as the Length . - *11 . . increases obliquity, so that in the lower cervical nerves it amounts to the depth of one vertebra ; in the lower dorsal it corresponds from with the depth of two vertebrae; and in the lumbar and down, sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes a vertebra longer, since the cord does not reach beyond the first lum- bar vertebra. Place of union of the roots. — Commonly the roots unite Union J J J . of the as before stated in the intervertebral foramina; and the roots, trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into its ante- Jertebrli rior and posterior primary branches. But deviations from foramen> this arrangement are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column, in the following nerves: — The roots of the first two cervical nerves join in each except in first instance on the neural arch of the corresponding vertebra; twocer- ° vical, and the anterior and posterior branches diverge from the trunk in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place and the sacral within the canal; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the and coc- spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its nerves, trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Ganglia and their situation. — Each posterior root is pro- Number videdwith a ganglion: but sometimes the first or suboccipi- gnfan tal nerve is without a posterior root and a ganglion. The ganglia are reddish in colour, and appear oval in shape, form whilst they are surrounded by the dura mater; and their size is proportioned to that of the root. By means of the con. dissection that has been made, the ganglion may be seen to iomCt" be bifid at the inner part, where it is joined by the fibrils of