491 EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE ING-UINAL HERNIA. abdomen. The external hernia leaves likewise the abdomen at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation of the fascia from the margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring is the outlet of the inguinal canal, and through it tlie cord, or the inguinal hernia, reaches the surface of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubes; and from the margin a prolongation is sent on the parts passing through it (see p. 473.). Course and coverings of tlie hernia. — A piece of intestine leaving the abdomen with the cord, and continuing with this through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will obtain the same coverings as the cord, viz. one from every structure in the lateral part of the wall of the abdo- men, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order : — As the intestine is first thrust outwards, it carries before it the peritoneum and the sub- peritoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis (infundibuliform fascia) that surrounds the cord. Still in- creasing in size the piece of gut is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia or covering applied to it. The intestine is afterwards directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that opening receives the investment of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends to the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the superficial fascia and the skin. So that in a hernia which has passed the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without in- wards are the following: the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or sac. These different laminae become much thickened in a hernia that has existed for some time. Should a piece of intestine re- main in the inguinal canal the layers that invest it will depend upon the spot to which it has extended. Seat of stricture. — The protruded intestine may be con- stricted in the internal abdominal ring by the neck of the sac, in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle, or at the external abdominal ring : and the stricture Parts trans- mitted through it. Exter- nal ab- dominal ring. Situa- tion. The in- testine, follow- ing the course of the cord. has co- verings of the perito- neum and fat, fascia trans- versalis, cremas- ter, sperma- tic fas- cia, superfi- cial fas- cia, and skin, if it has left the abdomi- nal wall. Stricture where situate.