197 OKIGrt OP THE CRANIAL NERVES. and Sylvian aque- duct. Fifth nerve has two roots. Origin from pons. Deep origin.— LV entering the valve of Yieussens, the nerves of opposite sides cross. Each then divides into two parts: one (an- terior) enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius; the other (posterior), a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the top of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the prolonga- tion of the gray matter of the locus caeruleus. The fifth or trigeminal nerve is the largest cranial nerve, and consists of two parts, large and small. This nerve resembles a spinal nerve in possessing two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or motor, which are blended beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Yarolii, nearer the upper than the lower border. The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the other by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards, through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the peculiar manner stated in p. 20. Deep origin.— Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and are connected with nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle. The large root divides into two parts near the mass of gray matter called locus cseruleus (p. 240.). One of these bends down- wards to the restiform body. The other, which is smaller, arises from the locus caeruleus, and from the gray matter near it (upper trigeminal nucleus) which the lower part of the trochlear nerve enters; also from the gray substance in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, near the hypoglossal nucleus ; and from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fibres continued from the lateral tract of the medulla. The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper tri- geminal nucleus, which is in front of the prolongation upwards from the locus caeruleus, and anterior to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The sixth nerve, abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs 0rigin from the pyramidal body, close to the pons, and sometimes Jfers^h from the lower part of the pons. Deep origin.— The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through from the medulla oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- venfri- tricle, whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, cle* and on a level with the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of Fourth Ventricle (p. 241.). The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) appears at the Seventh nerve near floor of fourth ventri- cle; begin- ning of the large root, and of small.