516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Left colic branch to the descend- ing colon. Sigmoid branch to sig- moid flexure. Branch to rec- tum. Inferior mesen- teric vein. Veins of intestine without valves. Lymph- atic glands. Some plexuses of the sympa- thetic to the viscera. Dissec- tion of aortic plexus. nished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The left colic artery ascends in front of the left kidney, and divides into ascending and descending branches for the supply of the descending colon. By the ascending offset it anastomoses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The sigmoid artery is distributed to the sigmoid flexure. Passing almost transversely outwards, it divides into branches, which anastomose above with the preceding colic branch, and below with the hasmorrhoidal. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries destined for the supply of the intestine. The superior hcemorrhoidal artery enters between the layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower part of the great intestine : it will be described in the dis- section of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein begins in the part of the great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle, away from the artery, to open into the splenic vein beneath the pancreas. Occa- sionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. The mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be in- jected from the trunk to the branches like an artery. Lymphatic glands are found by the side of the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The lymphatics from those parts, after passing through the glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nerve. — The following plexuses of the sympathetic, which are derived from the solar plexus be- neath the stomach, are in connection with the vessels that are now dissected, viz. superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, inferior mesenteric, and hypogastric. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subse- quently referred to. Dissection.— On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have made out already the plexuses of nerves that are distributed to the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum : and he has now to trace, on the aorta itself, the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses. By taking the peritoneum from the aorta between the mesenteric vessels,