409 THE FASCIA LUMBORUM. humerils the latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary axuiwy of the axilla. Dissection.—After the latissimus dorsi has been reflected, Pissecr , the dissector of the abdomen should examine the disposi- (asci,a tion of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis rum; (fascia lumborum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. In the spot referred to are parts of the abdominal muscles £,fe™“ts; that have been left in the previous dissection. Firstly, a piece of the external oblique muscle may, or may not remain. After the removal of this muscle (supposing a part to be left), the internal oblique will be seen to be attached to a subjacent aponeurosis, and to the ribs and the iliac crest; its attachments above and below are to be cut through, and it is to be raised from the transversalis muscle, as far as it can be, towards the spine. Then the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves :—one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, close to the crest of the ilium. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from this fascia to the transverse processes. To see one prolongation, viz. the from u* one that is attached to the apices of the processes, the latissimus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy part) by an incision directed outwards from the middle line, on a level with the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra ; on raising the outer border of the muscle (erector spinae) which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing transversely this first prolongation, another muscle (quadratus lumborum) will be seen: and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumborum is the posterior aponeurosis of the Fascia transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the interval rum is between the last two ribs and the crest of the ilium. By its nans- versalis' cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique abdomi- nis * muscle, sometimes to the external oblique, and to the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior. The last dorsal and ilio-hypogastric nerves pierce the aponeurosis in their course from the abdomen. From