DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 702 parts above and be- neath it. and at lower border. Dissect circum- flex artery. Internal circum- flex artery ends in two branch- es. Obtura- tor ex-‘ tern us is insert- ed into the tro- chanter, Connec- tions. Sacro- sciatic liga- ments. Attach- ments of the large one. Form ; gives a prolon- gation. femur, above the attachment of the great adductor to the same line. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves and the gluteus ; and by the other surface it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex artery, and the small branches of both the nerve and artery that supply it. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal cir- cumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is common also to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Dissection. — The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may now be cut across, so that the obturator externus, the ending of the internal circumflex artery, and the small nerve and artery to the same muscles, may be dissected out. The internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery (p. 687.) divides finally into two parts. One ascends beneath the quadratus, in this position of the body, to the pit of the trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the bone. The other passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and commu- nicates likewise with the sciatic artery. The obturator externus has been dissected at its origin in the front of the thigh (p. 690.). In the part of its course now laid bare, the muscle winds backwards below the hip joint, and ascends from that position to be inserted into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur, where the upper border is in contact with the inferior gemellus. The sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the innominate bone to the sacrum and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or posterior ligament is attached internally to the posterior lower iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity; from its outer attachment it sends upwards a prolongation along the pubic arch. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of