ENDING OF AUDITORY NERVE. 802 Vestibu- lar branch divides into three; their ter- mina- tion. On the sacs they lose white sub- stance, and end in fibres inside. In the arched tubes they form a projec- tion, and end in loops therein. Professor Kolliker states that the nerves end on the vestibular surface of the membranous part of the septum, in the form of uni- polar ganglion cells, and that before they terminate they lose their dark outline. b. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the membranous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed : — one appertains to the utricle, and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior vertical and horizontal semi- circular canals; a second ends in the saccule; and the third belongs to the ampullary swelling on the tube of the posterior vertical semicircular canal. Termination of the vestibular nerves. — The ending of the nerve fibres on the sacs and on the ampullary enlargements is different. On the membranous sacs the nerve divides, and its fila- ments separate ; some filaments passing through the otolith and others outside it. Those which pass outside the calca- reous matter, spread out on the inner surface ; and meeting with the lining of nucleated cells, the tubules lose the white substance of Schwann, and probably end in a “ fibrous film,” like that of the inner stratum of the nervous layer of the retina (Todd and Bowman). The same authors state that the tubules surrounded by the otolith appear to termi- nate in free points, without losing their white substance. In the ampullary enlargement of the tubes of the semi- circular canals the nerve enters the concave side, where it forms a forked eminence (Steifensand), corresponding with the projection in the interior. The nerve tubules do not spread out as in the sacs, but are confined to the swelling, in which they end in a series of loops (Wagner). Some of the nerve fibres are said to terminate in free extremities as well as in loops.