DISSECTION OP THE PERINJEUM. 462 ing space are same in both sexes. Take first ischio- rectal fossa. Then examine anterior half of peri- neum. Superfi- cial fascia. Dissec- tion of the mus- cles. Sphinc- ter vaginas. Origin. Inser- tion. Erector clito. ridis. Trans- versal is. To ex- pose tri- angular are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis, corresponding to the perinaeum, is larger than that of the male. In this sex the perinaeum is not so deep. Dissection. — The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the perinaeum of both the male and the female. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made; and afterwards the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the pos- terior half of the perinaeal space are to be examined. (See description of the Male Perineum, p. 445.) Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perinaeal space, as in the male ; and the transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 449.). Superficial fascia. — The description of this structure in the male will serve for the like part in the female with these modifications ; that in this sex it is less perfect and of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora (the representative of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissection. — The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. The two other muscles that are exposed at the same time (transversalis perinaei and erector clitoridis) resemble those in the male. The sphincter vaginae is an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and corresponds to the ejaculator urinae in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perinaeum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards, some on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris. The erector clitoridis resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller. The transversalis is similar to the same muscle in the male. The one description will suffice for these parts in both sexes (p. 454.). Dissection.—To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from