128 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. muscles and vessels. (Eso- phagus occupies neck and thorax. Position in neck and con- nections. Muscles and nerves in an- terior triangle. Pterygo- and sub- maxilla- ry re- gions to be omit- ted. Dissec- tion of sympa- thetic. Covering it in front are the small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia: beneath the muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described at p. 176. The oesophagus, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. In length it measures about nine inches. This tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax, and occupies for the most part the middle line of the body. In the neck its position is behind the trachea, till near the thorax, where it projects to the left side beyond the air tube, and comes into connection with the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli muscle. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest, because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directions.— The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve; and afterwards, the trunk of the external carotid, with the fol- lowing branches,— superior thyroid, facial, occipital, pos- terior auricular, and superficial temporal. The description of the right side (p. 79.) may be used for these parts. The dissector is not to examine the pterygo-maxillary or submaxillary regions on this (the left) side of the neck, because such a proceeding would interfere with subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympa- thetic with their branches. Dissection.— For the dissection of the two lower ganglia of the sympathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to cut across the common carotid artery at the lower part of the neck, and the external and internal carotid where these are crossed by the digastric muscle. In removing the ves-