DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 738 Exter. The external saphenous vein begins on the outside of the nal sa- . 1 . phenous. little toe and the foot, as well as in the venous arch; it is then continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg Source of the cutane- ous nerves. Muscu- lo-cuta- neous supplies certain toes j divides into inner and outer branch. Anterior tibial, where found. External saphe- nous. (p. 716.). Cutaneous Nerves. — All the superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived from branches of the popliteal trunks, viz., from the musculo-cutaneous and ante- rior tibial nerves of the external popliteal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets to the sides of the leg from the internal and external saphenous do not require separate notice. The musculo-cutaneous nerve has a cutaneous termination, and its place of destination is the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perfora- ting the fascia in the lower third of the leg, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The digital branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx. a. The inner branch communicates with the internal saphenous nerve, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it joins also the anterior tibial nerve. b. The outer branch divides into three nerves, which lie over the outer three interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the supply of the contiguous sides of the four toes cor- responding with those spaces : it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer part of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve becomes cutaneous in the first inter- osseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve comes from the back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the out- side of the little toe. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe, and part or more of the next. Deep ' The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee the leg; joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed internally attach, and externally to the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa are prolonged from the deep surface, and one of these, which is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the front from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the bones, but inferiorly it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below