771 STRUCTURE OF THE CHOROID COAT. front, by the ciliary ligament. Posteriorly it is pierced by a round aperture for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly is the large opening within the ring of folds called ciliary processes. The outer surface is flocculent, and is covered by the remnants of a pigmentary areolar tissue (membrana fusca) between it and the sclerotic coat; on it may be seen small veins arranged in parallel arches as they open into larger trunks, and lying on its surface are the ciliary vessels and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, and is lined by a thin pigmentary epithelial layer (membrana pigmenti), though in the eye of the ox it shines through that layer with a metallic lustre. The ciliary processes, or the folds or plaits by which the choroidal coat terminates in front, are arranged around the lens, like the many petals of a flower, forming a circle (cor- pus ciliare). These processes, about 85 in number, lie side by side, and consist of larger and smaller folds, but the differently sized folds do not regularly alternate; at their inner extremities they are united by loops or transverse ridges. The folds are thin externally at the commencement, but increase in depth internally, becoming hemispherical in form, and project inwards around the lens. By their free ends they bound circumferentially the space (posterior cham- ber) behind the iris. Behind, the ciliary processes are closely connected with the membrane (suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous humour, and fit into hollows be- tween folds on the anterior aspect of that membrane. In front they correspond with the back of the iris, but are separated from it by pigment. Structure. — The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed principally of bloodvessels, whose branches are so arranged as to form an outer and an inner layer. Ramified pigment cells make up the rest of the coat. In the outer layer the larger branches of both arteries and veins are contained, and the veins form parallel curves (vasa vorticosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent trunks. In the interspaces of the vessels towards the outer surface there are ramified irregular pigment cells, which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colouring matter. The offsets of these unite together, and form the fibrous web of this tunic, but towards the inner surface, 3 d 2 Open- ings. Outer! surface rough ; inner smooth. Ciliary pro- cesses. Position. Two kinds, small, and large. Connec- tions with parts around. Parts entering into its struc- ture. A plexus of blood- vessels with large meshes and pigment cells exter- nally,