401 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE. on each side a pointed process to be attached to the pedicle of the neural arch, so that the margins are zigzag or dentate in those regions of the spine. Its fibres are superficial and deep as in the anterior ligament, and are more closely united with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. One surface of the ligament is in contact with the dura mater; and between the opposite surface and the vertebrae are the large veins issuing from those bones. Dissection. — To see the intervertebral substance, the an- terior and posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra should be detached from the intervening fibro- cartilage to obtain a horizontal view of this structure; and two other vertebrae should be sawn vertically to see the difference in the consistence, and the arrangement of the laminae. The intervertebral substance is placed between the con- tiguous surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. Taking the shape of the vertebrae it forms an almost circular disc between those bones; it is connected in front and behind, with the anterior and posterior common ligaments, and, on the sides, with the stellate ligaments of the heads of the ribs. These masses are thicker between the lumbar and cervical, than between the upper dorsal ver- tebrae ; and where the spinal column is arched forwards, as in the loins and neck, they are deepest at the anterior edge. By means of the dissections before made, the interverte- bral substance may be observed to consist of two distinct parts; an external, firm and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic. The outer laminar part forms more than half of the disc, and is composed of a series of pieces of fibro-cartilage, alter- nating with layers of fibrous tissue. All the strata are ar- ranged one within another, like the scales of an onion, and are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebras; but all have not a vertical position between the vertebrae, for the external pieces are bent, so that the convexity is towards the surface, and the internal are convex towards the centre of the disc. The laminae of the fibro-cartilage form com- plete rings less frequently than the layers composed of fibrous tissue. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres, and the fibres of one layer are directed across those of another like attach- ment and connec- tions. To see the in- terver- tebral sub- stance. Inter- vertebral sub- stance has the shape of the bones. and gives some curves to the spine. Consti- tuent parts y the outer formed of lami- na; ; how ar- ranged ; not ver- tical ; their fibres cross. D D