LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 53 along the floor of the orbit, and through a foramen in the malar bone to the face. After emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and communicates with the facial nerve. b. The temporal branch ascends on the outer wall of the orbit, and tem- • • • . , poral either beneath the periosteum, or in a groove in the bone, and branch- being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into es' the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone. The nerve is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the bone, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit. Its * distribution has been seen in the examination of the cutaneous nerves of the head (p. 8.). Lachrymal Apparatus.—The lachrymal gland and ducts, Appara- with the puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by the tears. which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (see p. 44.). Dissection.— Some bristles should be introduced into the Dissec- lachrymal canals through the puncta of the eyelids that still remain in their natural place. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the connective tissue from its surface, as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation from the tendo palpebrarum over the sac should likewise be prepared. The 'puncta lachrymalia are two small apertures, one for Aper- each lid, by which the tears enter the lachrymal canals, eyenas! Each is situate in the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lackrymalis. The lachrymal canals are two small tubes that reach Canals from the puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac; tears, their situation is marked by the bristles that have been in- serted in them. In their course inwards, the canals lie along the tendo-palpebrarum, one above and the otner beiow it, and they are somewhat arched with the concavity towards the tendon. Internally, they open near together into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal in the Diff er - upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the STtwo lower lid. lids- The lachrymal sac and duct extend from the inner part of Recep- tficle of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter the tears, cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac, and the lower constricted end the duct.