VESSELS OF THE BACK. 421 E e 3 lumbar nerves are five in number, and appear between the erector and multifidus spinas. In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they resemble the dorsal nerves. Cu- taneous offsets are furnished only by the external set of branches. * a. The external branches enter the fibres of the erector spinas, and supply it and the small intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector spinas, and become cuta- neous after perforating the aponeurosis of the latissimus. The outer branch of the last nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset which lies near the bones. * b. The internal branches are supplied to the multifidus spinas muscle. Near their origin they are difficult to find, in consequence of being contained in grooves close to the articular processes of the vertebras. * Vessels in the Back.—The vessels that are now dis- sected are the occipital and the deep cervical artery ; part of the vertebral artery ; and the posterior branches of the in- tercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries for the most part. In the neck. — The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the vertebral, and the deep cervical. The occipital artery may be seen coursing along the occi- pital bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed backwards beneath the sterno-mas- toideus, the splenius, and sometimes the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line of the body it perforates the trapezius and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6.). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the fol- lowing branch to the neck: — The cervical branch (r. princeps cervicalis) distributes twigs to the under part of the trapezius, and then passing beneath the complexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. \ are di- ? vided into two. External branches give cuta- neous from first three. Internal branches end in the mus- cles. The ves- sels are Part of the oc- cipital artery. which gives a cervical branch. The vertebral artery lies on the posterior arch of the first part of vertebra, behind the articulating process of that bone; and lebraier" appears in the interval between the straight and oblique artery* muscles, as it passes beneath the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone on its way to the skull. Small