233 THE CEREBELLUM. be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus at the circumference of the cerebellum, between the upper and under surfaces. Section V. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum, little brain, is flattened from above down- Form wards, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches in this last direction. This part of the position encephalon is situate in the posterior fossae of the base of beiium. the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cere- Divi- sions* brum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres, — the division being marked by a wide groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior part which receives the falx cerebelli. Upper Surface. — On the upper aspect the cerebellum No is raised in the centre, but is sloped towards the circum- onThe ference. There is not any median sulcus on this aspect, surface; and the halves are united by a central constricted part or halves isthmus, — the superior vermiform process. Separating this mediany surface from the under one, at the circumference, is thepart' horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards from the pons to the middle line of the cerebellum. The surface of the cerebellum is marked by plates or Lamina; laminae, instead of convolutions, which are notched on the their sides, and form segments of circles, with their convexity ment.°e" directed backwards, and with a concentric arrangement. On the upper aspect the laminae pass from the one hemi- sphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards of the most anterior in the superior vermiform process; but on the under aspect they join the sides of the different bodies, or commissures, in the median fissure. Between the laminae sulci are sulci or fissures, which are lined by the pia mater, and ordeep reach to different depths: the shallower of these separate the laminae; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach down- wards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interrupted by cross laminae. are