INFERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. 515 es. L L 2 artery. The intestinal twigs to the transverse colon are They supplied from these two divisions, but before entering the arches • bclorc gut they are united in arches like those to the small in- entering . intes- testine. tine. The superior mesenteric vein commences in that part of supe. the intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed, and its enteSc** radicles unite into one trunk. Thus formed, the vein accom- 'em' panies the artery beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portae. The mesenteric lymphatic glands are numerous between Mesen. the layers of the mesentery, and are lodged in the intervals glands between the branches of the vessels. Along the large in- testine are a few other lymphatic glands, meso-colic, which receive receive the lymphatics of the large intestine. The lactiferous tic" ofa J L ^ small or chyliferous vessels of the small intestine, and the lymph- and of atics of the part of the large intestine supplied by the su- of large perior mesenteric artery, pass through the mesenteric glands cine, to reach the thoracic duct. Dissection. — By drawing the small intestine over to the Dissec- J ° ' . tion of right side, the dissector will perceive the inferior mesenteric inferior; mesen- artery on the front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation teric. . of this vessel. The peritoneum should be removed with care from it, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intestine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be afterwards dissected. On the artery and its branches is the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves. The mesenteric vein is likeAvise to be followed upwards to its junction with the splenic, or with the supe- rior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of nerves which is to be left uninjured. The inferior mesenteric artery supplies branches to the inferior part of the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to main- tain the chain of anastomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. At first the vessel descends on the Place of , _ _ ... . . origin. aorta, and crosses the lett common iliac artery in its course course to the pelvis, where it ends in branches to the rectum (su- perior lisemorrhoidal). The following branches are fur- j^nch_ mesen- teric artery.