DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 648 Obtura- tor mem- brane closes an aperture in front. Union at the pubes. Anterior band. Superi- or band. Sub- pubic liga- ment. Carti- lage, how seen; disposi- tion in the sym physis; hollow ‘ it The obturator membrane closes the thyroid foramen, and is composed of fibres crossing in different directions. It is attached at the outer and upper part to the bony margin of the foramen, except above where the obturator vessels lie; and is connected towards the inner part to the pelvic aspect of the bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator artery and nerve perforate it. Pubic Articulation (symphysis pubis).— The oval pubic surfaces of the hip bones are united by cartilage, and by fibres in front of, and above the bones. They are also con- nected by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior pubic ligament is very strong and is formed of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, and cross one another, uniting with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen; but the deeper fibres are transverse, and pass between the surfaces of the bones. Some of the deeper fibres contain cartilage cells — Kolliker. There is not any posterior band ; but beneath the periosteum there are a few scattered fibro-cartilaginous fibres, as in front, in contact with the cartilage. The superior ligamentous bands are placed as their name expresses. The subpubic ligament (ligam. arcuatum) is a strong triangularly-shaped band below the symphysis, and occupies the upper part of the pubic arch. Its fibres curve down- wards, and are attached on each side to the bone. The apex of the ligament touches the articular cartilage, and the base is turned towards the membranous part of the urethra and the muscle around it. Cartilage. — This structure will be best seen by opening the articulation behind : a transverse section will also show the disposition of the anterior ligament of the articula- tion. The cartilage joins the bones in front, and is firmly fixed - to the ridged buny surfaces of the symphysis. It is larger above than below, and is generally as thick again before as behind; its size seems to depend on the shape of the bones, and not on difference in the sex. Towards the posterior part of the cartilaginous mass a