535 VALVULiE CONNIVENTES. 2. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, Muscu. a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The is form- fibres are pale in colour, and are not striated. a. The longitudinal fibres will be seen only by a careful Jongitu- removal of the peritoneum, for they are generally taken away with that membrane. They form a thin layer, which is most marked at the free border of the gut. b. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the and a others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat: layer, they do not appear to form complete rings around the tube of the intestine. 3. The fibrous coat has the same position with respect to Fibrous cost liko other parts as in the stomach, and the same use as the cor- that in ,. . stomach. responding layer m the viscus. Dissection. — On the removal of a part of the muscular Dissect stratum from the jejunum or the ileum, this submucous coat°.Ub layer will come into view. In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seek Glands some small compound glands,— those of Brunner, which are ner^run~ imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has been taken away. The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed, to and show the mucous coat; but the gut should be cut along the Sat ;US line of attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer’s glands on the opposite side. 4. Mucous coat.— The lining membrane of the small in- testine is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than thick_ at the ending of the tube, and is marked also by numerous ness* prominent folds (valvulse conniventes). The surface of the f ld membrane is soft, and is covered with small points (villi) like the pile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the and mucous coat are numerous glands ; and covering the whole Srface. is a columnar epithelium. The valvulce conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are perma- Fo]ds or nent folds of the mucous membrane, which are arranged cir- Irrange- cularly, one after another, along the intestine, and project ment’ into the alimentary mass. Crescentic in form, they extend length, round the intestine for half or two-thirds of its circle, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller size and folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the larger depth 5 M M 4