EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 83 internal maxillary and temporal branches, near the condyle of the jaw. In this course the artery lies at first to the inner side of the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes superficial to this vessel; and its direction is somewhat arched forwards, though the position would be marked suffi- ciently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is com- paratively superficial, and easily reached from the surface, being overlaid only by the sterno-mastoideus and the com- mon coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. the skin, the superficial and deep fasciae with the platysma, and the superficial nerves. But above the situation of a line ex- tended from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the carotid artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles with the hypoglossal nerve; and still higher it enters the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. The external carotid is also crossed by the facial and lingual branches of veins joining the internal jugular trunk. At first the artery is situate over the superior laryngeal nerve, and is unsupported by muscular fibre, though it rests against the pharynx; but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner side of the vessel at first is the pharynx, and still higher are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. In certain conditions a companion vein from the temporal and internal maxillary (p. 32.) will accompany the arterial trunk. The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and are classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, viz. superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries ; in the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricular branches; and the ascending set include the ascending pharyngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, the carotid gives other branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the parotid gland. The regular origin of the branches, as this will be described below, may be departed from by means of the closer aggre- gation of the branches on the trunk of the carotid. And further, the usual number may be diminished by two or more Course and di- rection. Parts su- perficial to it, beneath it, and on inner side. Its branch- es are anterior. poste- rior, and ascend- ing: change in origin and in number.