DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 794 Consti- tuents of the osseous part. Vesti- bule. Dissec- tion to see it. A. The osseous labyrinth consists of three parts, viz. the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea ; these communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally with the meatus internus that transmits the auditory nerve. The vestibule is the common central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, and is placed behind the cochlea but in front of the semicircular canals. Dissection.—This cavity may be seen on the dry bone that has been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare this wall and theffenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule : in this section one of the semicircular canals (horizontal) may be laid open just above the fenestra ovalis. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the end of the superior semicircular canal and the vestibular space will appear. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of other bones in different directions, according to the skill and the knowledge of the dissector. The vestibular space is somewhat oval in form, the extre- mities of the oval being placed forwards and backwards, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about ^th of an inch in different direc- tions, but it is narrowest from without inwards. The follow- ing objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture leading fore and into the cochlea ; and behind are five round openings of the the three semicircular canals. The outer wall corresponds with the tympanic cavity, and in it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista. In front of the ridge is a small circular depression, fovea hemispherical which pre- front of gents anteriorly some minute apertures for nerves, and cor- responds with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. Behind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two of the semicircular canals, is the opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule, which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Roof has On the roof is a slight transversely oval depression, fovea semi-elliptica, which is separated internally from the fovea Form; dimen- sions. Aper- tures be Outer wall has an aper- ture. Crest on inner wall; fossa in and an aque* duct behind.