DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 324 is close to the triceps. Dissec- tion of deep layer of muscles and in- teros- seous vessels and nerve. Five muscles in the deep layer, viz. Exten- sor me- tacarpi pollicis has a wide attach- ment. Inser- tion. side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third or more of the posterior surface of the ulna. The upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus are the supinator brevis muscle, and the recurrent interosseous vessels. Dissection. — For the display of the deep muscles of the back of the forearm, and the posterior interosseous artery and nerve, some of the superficial muscles, viz. the extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris must be detached from their origin, and turned aside: some small branches of the nerve and artery, which will be seen entering the muscles, may be divided. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender part of the nerve, that sinks beneath one muscle (extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb), about the middle of the fore- arm, should be carefully dissected. The separation of the muscles should be made, but that between the small muscles of the thumb, especially between the highest two, is not always very distinct. Deep layer of muscles. — In this layer there are five small muscles, viz. one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor muscles of the thumb and fore finger. The highest muscle, that partly surrounds the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis. Below this are the three extensors of the thumb in the following order — one of the metacarpal bone, one of the first, and one of the second pha- lanx. On the ulna the indicator muscle is placed. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis (abductor pollicis longus) is the largest and highest of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis, below which it lies. It arises from the posterior surface of the radius, for about three inches below the supi- nator brevis; from a special impression of the ulna for about the same distance, on the upper and inner part of the posterior surface; and from the intervening interosseous membrane. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the outer compartment in the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The muscle is