DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 706 course and con- nections, The part In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner in the . . 1 J space; side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the femur, and is then directed along the middle of the space over the knee joint. In this course it is overlaid at first by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle, but thence on- wards to the gastrocnemius it is covered only by the fat, the fascia lata, and the integuments. Beneath it is the lower part of the posterior surface of the femur, together with the Position posterior ligament of the knee joint. In contact with the of vein vessel, and somewhat on its outer side, lies the popliteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered by it; but, lower down, in the interval be- tween the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them in posi- tion, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which however, like the vein, lies over the artery between the heads of the gastrocnemius. Dissection. — To see the artery beneath the gastrocnemius the inner head of this muscle should be cut through, and raised from the subjacent parts. On removing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower arti- cular branches of the vessels and nerves are now brought into view; — the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein and a nerve. Whilst the artery is beneath the gastrocnemius it sinks deeply into the limb, and is crossed by a small muscle, the plantaris. It is placed on the popliteus muscle. Both the Position vein and the nerve (internal popliteal) change their position andc 11 to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie on its nerve' inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Branches are furnished by the artery to the surrounding muscles, and to the articulation; those that enter the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz. two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer; and a central or azygos branch. The muscular branches have not received separate names, with the exception of those to the gastrocnemius and soleus, which are called sural arteries. One superficial or cutaneous and of the nerve. Cut the head of the gas- trocne- mius. Connec- tions of the artery farther on. Branch- es. Muscu- lar branch- es and cutane- ous.