DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 16 Cavern- ous si- nus has nerves in outer wall; contains carotid artery and sixth nerve; and is joined by the fol- lowing sinuses, viz. Circular sinus, Trans- verse sinus, Superior petrosal, Inferior petrosal. in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe should be passed into the different sinuses that join the cavernous centre. B. The cavernous sinus, which has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The piece of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the orbital trunk of the fifth nerve. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shreds of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel; but these are shut out from the blood in the space by the thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit, some small cerebral veins, and twigs from the pterygoid veins outside the skull. It communicates with its fellow on the opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses, and its blood is transmitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and inferior petrosal channels. The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and reaches from the one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle line. Besides serving as the means of communication between those sinuses, it receives small veins from the pitui- tary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process of the occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and joins the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second transverse sinus is sometimes found nearer the fora- men magnum. The superior petrosal sinus lies in a groove in the upper margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinus. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another from the internal ear, are received into it. The inferior petrosal sinus extends between the same sinuses as the preceding, and lies in a groove along the line