617 ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. part of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the lower part of the pelvic plexus and is distributed to the substance of the prostate gland. At the front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses, for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex: — Ovarian plexus. — The principal nerves to the ovary are derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery to that body; but the uterine nerves supply also some filaments to it. Vaginal plexus. — The nerves to the vagina are of large size, and are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without direct ad- mixture with the spinal nerves. The nerves ascend along the side of the uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender filaments, without ganglia or communications as far as their termination in the substance of the viscus. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves that surround the arteries of the uterus are plexiform and ganglionic. — Beck. The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form a chain in front of the sacrum, and along the internal iliac artery. The effer- ent ducts of these bodies join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lymphatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, and the lymphatics of the viscera and the wall of the pelvis are collected. to the prostate gland and the penis. . Offsets in the female: to the ovary ; to the vagina ; and to the uterus no gan- glia. Nerves on ves- sels gangli- onic. Chain of glands in pelvis ; lympha- tics en- tering them. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE. Directions.— The bladder and the parts at its base, viz. the vesiculse seminales and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examination.* Dissection. — To study the form and structure of the Take • • Mi 1 out the viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the cavity viscera, of the pelvis. For this purpose the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous * The anatomy of the viscera of the female is contained in Section VI. p. 631.