724 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Cuta- neous of the foot. Internal annular liga- ment. Attach- ments. Pro- cesses of it sepa- rate the tendons, forming .sheaths; their po- sition ; lined by synovial mem- brane. Tibial vessels and nerve beneath the liga- ment. Position of the part. Raise the skin A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot pierces the internal an- nular ligament, and ends in the integument of the inner and under part of the heel; this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot. The internal annular ligament is placed between the heel and the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep flexor muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a pointed part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge from it, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; and the op- posite gives attachment to the abductor pollicis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons, which are formed by the fascia stretched over the subjacent osseous grooves. When the sheaths are opened, the innermost will be found to contain the tibialis posticus, which is lodged in a groove in the malleolus : immediately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum; and about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis, is the interval in which the flexor pollicis lies, contained in a groove in the astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Vessels beneath the ligament. — The posterior tibial vessels in passing beneath the ligament lie between the tendons of the flexor pollicis and flexor digitorum, but rather nearer the latter. The artery supplies here small offsets to the tarsus, and the ankle joint. Occasionally the artery divides beneath or even above the ligament. The nerve is nearer than the artery to the os calcis ; but it is sometimes bifurcated beneath the ligament, so that a nerve may lie on each side of the tibial vessels. Section V. THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. — The foot is to be placed over a block of some thickness with the sole towards the dissector, and the part is to be made tense by fastening down, and separating the toes. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer, by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the anterior part, and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the lateral digital vessels and