ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 199 are collected at first into bundles, but are finally gathered into one flat band. c. The spinal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, Sommer- spinal ring) consists of two parts — accessory to the vagus, and sory has spinal. Parts, The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine acces- filaments in a line with the roots of the vagus, as low as the s°ry’ first cervical nerve. Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneumo-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 118.) The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the spinal: sixth nerve, but only a small piece of it can be now seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral sur- face of the spinal cord near the fissure in this position, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. Along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum denticulatum and the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be sometimes connected ; and it finally enters the skull by the foramen magnum. All three of the nerves converge to a spot below the crus ail con- 0 verae in cerebelli, where they rest on a small lobe of the cerebellum theskuiL (flocculus). From that spot they are directed outwards to the foramen jugulare (p. 21.). Deep origin.—The fibrils of the nerves pierce the medulla; and Thedeep each nerve, except the spinal part of the last, takes origin, accord- ori°“'’ ing to Stilling *, from a special nucleus at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle. The nucleus of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and that of the vagus of gios- are in a line, one above another, outside the fasciculus teres. See ryngeai, the Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle, p. 240. of vagus; The accessory part of the spinal accessory enters a nucleus 0f two rather below that of the vagus, which corresponds with the posterior 1>arts horn of the gray substance of the cord. The spinal part of the of spinal nerve pierces at intervals the lateral column of the cord, and its sory!" roots are connected with a gray external projection near the base of the anterior cornu of the gray crescent of the cord. The ninth or hypoglossal nerve of Willis (twelfth Ninth nerve, Sommerring) is placed on the front of the medulla lierve‘ oblongata, and issues by a series of filaments from the sulcus between the pyramidal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. * Consult his treatise, Uebcr den Bau der Medulla oblonaai-i. » •/