I 640 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. uterus; the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum accompanies the part of the cord in the inguinal canal, and sometimes remains pervious how for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriated formed. ® r muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with ves- sels and connective tissue. It is said to have some trans- versely striated muscular fibres. OVAItlES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary : position; form and colour; dimen- sions and weight. Connec- tions. Ovary.— The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with the testes of the male; they are contained in the broad ligaments of the uterus, one in each, and at the posterior aspect. Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flat- tened from above down; it is of a whitish colour, with either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable, but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and a third in thickness ; its weight is nearly a quarter of an ounce. The ovary is connected with the broad ligament by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter it. Its outer end is rounded and is connected with one of the fimbriae at the mouth of the Fallopian tube ; but the inner extremity is narrowed, and is attached to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord, the ligament of the ovary, which is below the level of both the Fallopian tube and the round ligament. Structure.—The ovary consists of a fibrous vascular stroma of connective tissue, which contains small vesicles or ovisacs, named Graafian, and is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peritoneum surrounds the whole, except at the attached margin. a fibrous The special fibrous coat (tunica albuginea) is of some roundsr~ thickness and of a whitish colour, whence its name, and is stl0ma adherent to the contained stroma. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum) or some fibrous cicatrices may be seen in this covering. in the The ovisacs or the Graafian vesicles are small round are small transparent bodies, and are from eight to twenty in number vesicles. A ° J in women who have not borne children: they vary in size from a pin’s head to a pea, and are scattered through the Glandu- lar in struc- ture.