THE MEDIASTINUM. 345 the inner surface of the lung and the side of the peri- cardium. The mediastinum—The thoracic partition, or the me- Aiong • # # r 7 middle of diastinum, is formed by the approximation of the pleural chest the J A x sacs form bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two layers a parti- of membrane, — one being derived from each sac. But the their two strata do not approach equally closely throughout; for mentfe* about midway between the sternum and the spine they are widely separated from one another by the heart. In front of the heart and behind it, however, the contiguous strata of the mediastinum may be distinctly seen near one another; and to these portions the terms “anterior and posterior mediastina” are sometimes applied, but it should not be forgotten that they are only parts of one great mediastinum or septum reaching from the sternum to the spine. The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) ex- Part of x N ' septum tends from the pericardium to the back of the sternum, and is formed by the pleural bag of each side. Behind the heart second piece of the sternum the bags touch one another, but ^pacT above and below that spot they are separated by an interval, gfassur" This interpleural space in the anterior part of the medias- shape* tinum is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the hyoid and laryngeal muscles; and in the lower part is some connective tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. The part behind the heart (posterior mediastinum) inter- Part venes between the back of the pericardium with the roots of heart en. . closes a the lungs, and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are larger space. the opposite pleural sacs, which are separated here by a larger interpleural space than in the front of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the lung on the right side, the extent of the space will appear. In this space are contained Thecon- the different bodies on the front of the spine, which pass the through or out of the thoracic cavity, viz. the aorta, the vena 1 aLL" azygos and the thoracic duct, the oesophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. Dissection. — The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned clean the root from the side of the pericardium; and the root of the lung «t the