VEINS OF THE HEART. 373 B B 3 into one, but descend separately to the heart, where both have dis- they • • • i • i -ITT, i open se- tinct openings in the right auricle. When such a variety exists, the parately right vein takes the course of the upper cava; but the left vein heart. 6 descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, and opens into the right auricle. A cross branch is found connecting the two above the heart.* This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very This early period of the fetus ; and two vessels are also persistent in some in fetus, mammalia. The changes that take place in the veins during the growth of How . „ n , ° . ® . . two are the letus, so as to produce the arrangement common in the adult, changed concern mostly the trunk on the left side. The following concise mt° one‘ statement may serve as an outline of them. First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innomi- nate vein. And the left trunk below the cross branch then disappears at its middle, and undergoes transformations at each end : — At the upper end it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower end it remains pervious for a short Forms distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein si°nus.ary opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 354.), is a rem- Vestiges nant of the part of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart, adult. Mr. Marshall finds in the adult another vestige of the occluded vessel in the form of a fold of the serous membrane of the pericar- dium in front of the root of the left lung: this he names the vestigial fold of the pericardium. The inferior or ascending cava enters the right auricle as inferior soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches open into the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with that of the vessels of the abdomen. The 'pulmonary veins Sire two on each side; they issue from Four the fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle ; nary veins • their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 348. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath Right ° ® veins the aorta and the right auricle of the heart. The superior longest one receives its roots from the upper and middle pulmonic * An example of those two large vessels “ double vena cava,” opening into the heart in the adult, has been given to the College Museum by Dr. Sharpey. The student may consult an excellent paper by Mr. John Marshall, on the development of the veins of the neck.— Philosoph. Trans, for 1850.