DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. .328 Dorsal arteries of the thumb and fore finger. Sheaths o! the annular liga- ment are six. Position from without inwards. Bones grooved by the tendons. To see supina- tor bre- vis, interns seous nerve, and in- terossei muscles Direc- tions. digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and giving small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the me- tacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect. d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial edge of the metacarpal bone of that digit. The different compartments of the annular ligament may be now seen more completely by dividing the sheaths of the ligament over the different tendons passing beneath. There are six different spaces, which are lubricated by synovial membranes. The most external one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb; the next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist; and a very small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Still to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and there is a separate internal compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; but all the others, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is between the bones, lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above. Dissection. — If the supinator brevis be divided by a ver- tical incision, and raised from the radius, its attachment to the bone will be better seen. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangliform enlargement, may be more completely traced after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The dorsal surface of the posterior interossei muscles of the hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion into the side and dorsum of the phalanges may be observed. Appearing between the heads of origin of these muscles are the posterior perforating arteries. Section VTL LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions.—The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb may be examined at once if they are still moist,