694 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Origin above from pelvis; inserted below into the femur. Connec- tions of the sur- faces and bor- ders. Divide the gluteus maxi- mus. Clean parts beneath. partly aponeurotic : — thus it is attached superiorly to the innominate bone, viz. to the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the bone below the crest; inferiorly it is connected with the back of the last piece of the sacrum, with the side of the coccyx, and with the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and between the inner and outer osseous attachments it is fixed into the aponeurosis covering the multifidus spinas muscle. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards to their insertion: — the upper fibres (about two thirds) with a few of the lowest fibres end in the fascia lata of the outer part of the thigh; and the remainder are fixed into the femur in the lower part (three inches) of the line leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in situation and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common investing fascias of the limb, and the superficial nerves; the parts in contact with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlies the gluteus medius; and the lower border, which is longer and thicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates and bounds posteriorly the peri- nasal space. Beneath the lower border the hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerve are placed. Dissection. — The gluteus, maximus is to be cut across near the pelvis but external to the sacral nerves perforating it, and without injuring the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament, to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia beneath it, and by some vessels. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer part of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detached from the under surface, though the branches that enter the muscular surface must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nerves ; the several muscles of this region are then to be cleaned, and the fibres of each are to be made tense, at the time of its dissection, by rotating the femur. In removing the fat from the ischial tuberosity and from the great trochanter, the bursa on each prominence of bone should be observed.