214 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. ends in feriorly in two bands, and ex- tends la- teral) y into hemi- sphere. Its con- volution. Substan- tia per- forata antica. Position of brain to ex- amine upper part. Cere- brum is convex above, and di- vided into two. Each half- anterior commissure, where it presents a well-marked con- cave margin, to which the lamina cinerea is joined A white band, fillet or peduncle of the corpus callosum, is continued onwards, on each side, from the line of termination before alluded to, to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is applied, and to the prolonged central part the appellation beak (ros- trum) has been given. Laterally the corpus callosum reaches into the anterior lobe, and bounds the lateral ven- tricle in the same direction, so that an incision through it would open that cavity. In contact with this now denuded surface of the corpus callosum is the convolution named gyrus fornicatus, which may be seen to begin by a narrow part in front of the anterior perforated spot. Anterior perforated spot (substantia perforata antica) is a space near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is situate between the anterior and middle lobes of the cere- brum, and in front of the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, and crossing it, from within outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface ; it corresponds with the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain, and is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of the part.— Now the base of the cerebrum has been dissected, the brain should be turned over for the ex- amination of the upper part. After the brain has been turned something should be placed beneath the anterior lobes, in order that they may be raised to the same level as the posterior; and a rolled up cloth should encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum.— On the upper sur- face the cerebrum, taken as a whole, is oval in form, with the larger end backwards, and is convex in its outline, in accordance with the shape of the skull. The cerebral mass is only partly separated into two portions or hemispheres by a median longitudinal fissure ; for the corpus callosum extends from one hemisphere to another, and interrupts the depth of the fissure at the middle part, but before and behind that connecting piece its separation into two halves is complete. Each hemisphere is smaller in front than behind. Its