DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 512 folds of the liver. Suspen- sory li- gament. Shape. Attach- ments. Contains round liga- ment. How formed. Coro- nary ligament gives rise to left and right lateral liga- ments. between the liver and the wall of the abdominal cavity are named ligaments. There is a suspensory fold along the upper part, containing the obliterated umbilical vein ; and there is a coronary ligament along the posterior border. The suspensory or falciform ligament is placed between the upper convex surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. It is falciform in shape ; in the recumbent posi- tion of the body, it has the base turned forwards, and the apex backwards. The lower border is concave, and is at- tached to the liver; whilst the opposite border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall on the right side of the linea alba, and to the under part of the diaphragm. In its base or free part is contained the remnant of the umbilical vein, which is named the round ligament. This fold is pro- duced by the passage of the umbilical vein to the liver, above the sac of the peritoneum ; and with a little care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace the sac continuously upwards on each side of it into the suspensory ligament. The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the peritoneum, which connects the hinder part of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver; though at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly shaped piece ; to these larger pieces of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied. a. The left lateral portion or ligament is attached to the liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in front of the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm. b. The right lateral portion or ligament lies deeply in the hypochondriac region, in front of the vena cava inferior. Its two pieces of peritoneum are widely separated from one another, and between them the kidney touches the liver. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Examine Directions. — The vessels and nerves (mesenteric) that are seis tos distributed to the alimentary tube, except to the upper and intes- tine. the lower part, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been seen, the intestine can be taken out to give