DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 410 has two offsets behind, one to apex. the other to root of trans- verse pro- cesses ; which forrh sheaths for muscles. Second muscu- lar layer. Elevator of angle of sca- pula. Attach- ments and con- nections. Rhom- boid muscles are two. Small muscle. Attach- ments. the inner part of the aponeurosis two prolongations reach the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and enclose the quadratus lumborum. The more superficial of the two is the strongest; it passes beneath the erector spinae in this position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intervals between those pieces of bone. The deeper or anterior prolonga- tion passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum, to be fixed to the roots of the transverse pro- cesses, and to the bodies of the vertebrae. Thus the pro- longations of the fascia contain the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. In like manner the erector spinae lies in another sheath, which is formed by the vertebral aponeurosis and the tendons of the latissimus and serratus on the one side, and by the posterior of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. * Second Layer of Muscles.—This stratum contains the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhomboid muscles. Besides these, there will be found in the neck the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, with some vessels and nerves that turn backwards towards the scapula. * The levator anguli scapula arises by tendinous slips from the tips of the transverse processes (diapophyses) of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle, and are inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior angle. At its origin the muscle is beneath the sterno-mastoideus, and at its insertion, beneath the trapezius; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles (splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens). * Bhomboidei Muscles. — The thin muscular layer of the rhomboidei, that is attached to the base of the scapula, consists of two pieces, large and small, separated by a slight interval. * The rhomboideus minor is a small narrow band, that arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebras, and from the ligamentum nuchas; it is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine of that bone.