57 POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been sends a process removed near the clavicle, a deep process may be observed beneath to envelop the small omo-hyoid muscle, and to extend under the clavicle, where it is fixed to the back of that bone, and to the inner end of the first rib. Dissection.— By the removal of the cervical fascia and the Dissec- J % , tion of fat from the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius triangu- muscles, the posterior triangle of the neck will come into space, view. Crossing the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and thus dividing it into two, is the small omo-hyoid muscle. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifica- Nerves tions of the branches of the cervical plexus, together with omo-hy- the spinal accessory nerve; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno-mastoid muscle: the greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder, but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, whilst the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoideus are the subclavian artery and the brachial plexus, which have a deep position. In this part also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular vessels behind the clavicle; the transverse cervical vessels beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavian muscle, which in tri- angular lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and sPace- the omo-hyoideus. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space, having the form and position before noted, is Poste- rior tri- 1 about eight inches in length, and contains the cervical and angular brachial plexuses, the portion of the subclavian artery theneck. on which a ligature is usually placed, together with other smaller vessels and some offsets of the nerves. It is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid muscle, and behind by the Buumia- trapezius. Its base corresponds to the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In the area of the space are several muscles, which are to be recognised in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae, and middle and posterior scalenus; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the