427 PART OF WALL OF THE THORAX. fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the common division into inner and outer branches, like the other spinal nerves, but the last two are un- divided. f * The first three nerves are covered by the multifidus spinas, and divide regularly. The inner branches of these nerves end in the multifidus. The outer branches are larger in size, and have communicating offsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum: the outer branch of the first nerve is further connected with the corresponding part of the last lumbar ; and that of the third nerve joins in a similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this looping, the nerves pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and then become cutaneous.— (See Dissection of the But- tock.) * Last two nerves.— These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regular branching of the others: they are connected one with another, and with the coccygeal nerve, on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccyx. * The coccygeal nerve issues through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and may be recognised with care by the side of the coccyx. It is joined by the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior aspect of the coccyx. * Small sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves; they supply the muscular mass of the erector spinae, and the structures on the back of the sacrum. Ana- stomoses take place between these vessels and the branches on the sacrum from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. — The examination of the posterior part of the wall of the thorax may be made before the body is again turned. By the removal of the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi, opposite the ribs, the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The hinder part of the external intercostal muscle will be denuded at the same time. * The levatores costarum are twelve small fan-shaped f See a paper on the mode of branching of the spinal nerves, in the Lond. Med. Gazette of Feb. 10., 1843. are dif- ferently distri- buted. First three have inner and outer branch- es: the last give cu- taneous offsets. Last two are undi- vided. Coccy- geal nerve. Small sacral arteries. Dissec- tion of inter- costal struc- tures. Leva- tores