262 DISSECTION OF TILE UPPER LIMB. brachial terior branches of the first dorsal and the four lower cervical plexUb’ nerves; and for the completion of this plexus, a slip is tkmitua" added from the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. The interlacement of the nerves giving rise to the plexus, is placed partly in the neck, and partly in the axilla, and divides opposite the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 76.). The part below the clavicle has the same con- ami con- nections as the axillary artery -with the surrounding muscles, nections. J f and the nerves are arranged in it in the following manner: — The At first the plexus consists of two cords, which are placed form external to the artery, and are thus constituted; — that three . J cords nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical and first . around dorsal nerves ; and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh tery, cervical nerves. A little lower down a third or posterior cord is produced by the union of two fasciculi, which are derived, one from each of the others; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus consists of three large cords, one being to the outer side, one to the inner side, and one behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some de- viation from this mode of arrangement, and give The branches of the plexus below the clavicle are fur- severai nished to the muscles of the front of the chest; to some of es^viz- the muscles of the scapula, and the latissimus dorsi ; and to the arm. They arise from the several cords in the following from the outer, inner, and posterior cord. The fol- lowing are seen, viz. two an- terior thoracic, way: — The outer cord gives origin to one anterior thoracic branch, to the musculo-cutaneous trunk, and to the outer head of the median nerve. The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches, and ends in the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are now dissected to their termination; the remaining nerves will be seen in the arm. The anterior thoracic branches are two in number,— outer and inner with respect to the cords of the plexus. a. The outer nervo crosses inwards, over the axillary ar- outer