DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 106 In floor of orbit. Upper maxilla- ry nerve passes to face, through infra- orbital canal, where it ends.’ Its branches are to orbit; to the nose and palate; to the teeth and buc- cinator ; to ante- rior teeth.‘ illary fissure. The piece of bone forming part of both the skull and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. The nerve can be partly seen as it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa; but to bring it more completely into view, some of the sphenoid bone bounding the fossa must be taken away, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fat of the fossa the student is to seek the following offsets,—the orbital branch, branches to Meckel’s ganglion, and dental branches to the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the contents of the cavity must be away, and the bony canal in which it lies must be opened even to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infraorbital vessels are to be prepared with the nerve. The superior maxillary nerve commences in the Gas- serian ganglion (p. 19.), and leaves the cranium by the fora* men rotundum. The course of the nerve is then almost straight to the face, along the orbital plate of the superior maxilla. Outside the cranium the nerve is first placed across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and it afterwards enters the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the infra- orbital foramen, the nerve is concealed by the elevator of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip. It furnishes the following branches : 1. The orbital branch arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the orbit through the fissure of the same name; it divides into a malar and a temporal branch (see p. 52.). 2. The spheno-palatine branches descend from the nerve in the fossa, and supply the nose and palate : these are connected with Meckel’s ganglion, and will be dissected with it. 3. Two posterior dental branches leave the trunk of the nerve near the upper jaw. One is distributed to the gums and the buc- cinator muscle. The other enters a canal in the upper maxilla, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum; it joins the anterior dental branch soon after entering the bone, and again near the teeth. 4. The anterior dental branch quits the trunk of the nerve in the floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special canal in front of the antrum. It is distributed by two branches. One (the inner) gives filaments to the incisor and canine teeth,