DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 593 lateral. Nee);. by serous membrane. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the obliterated hypogastric vessel, and crossing it lower down is the vas deferens ; near the under part is the entrance of the ureter into the bladder. All the side of the bladder behind the obliterated vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The neck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder that joins the urethra. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. Position The position of the bladder in the pelvis is not the same vanes in adult as in early life. For in the child this viscus pro- a°e jects above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is contained within the space enclosed by the larger pelvic bones, and the base or fundus projects inferiorly. The ureter enters the posterior ligament of the bladder, after crossing the common or the external iliac artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypogastric vessel; it reaches forwards to enter the bladder near the lower part, and somewhat on the side, at the distance of about two inches from the prostate gland. The prostate gland surrounds the neck of the bladder, prostate; It is placed below the level of the symphysis pubis, as well form; as posterior to it, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape is that of a cone with the base turned backwards, and its size equals nearly a large horse chesnut. In the present position of the pelvis, a line through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards, though, in the erect state of the body, it would be almost horizontal. The upper surface is about three quarters of an inch be- low the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the an- terior ligaments of the bladder. On this aspect are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is con- tiguous to the rectum; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The apex touches the fascia of the pelvis that closes the upper part of the subpubic arch; and the base surrounds Ureter in pelvis. and en- trance into bladder. Position of the axis upper surface; under surface. Apex and base.