DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 4 Its con- nections. How to see tem- poral fascia. Tempo- ral fas- cia. Attach- ments, connec- tions. and lay ers. To see temporal muscle. Tempo- ral mus- cle. Origin. the head. On the side it gives origin to the auricular muscles, and a thin membrane is here prolonged from it over the fascia covering the temporal muscle. Posteriorly, the aponeurosis is attached to the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone between the fleshy parts of the muscles of opposite sides. The aponeurotic expansion is closely at- tached to the skin ; but it is connected to the pericranium only by a loose connective tissue devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull. Superficial to the occipito-frontalis are the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the scalp. In front, the muscles of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. Dissection. — After the removal of the superior auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epi- cranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attach- ment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which is much stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygoma. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already ex- amined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the margins of that process of bone. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Dissection. — The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the subjacent muscle and the skull, and to be thrown down. A soft connective tissue that lies beneath it, near the zygoma, is then to be taken away. The difference in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The temporal muscle is only in part laid bare. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower part. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, that is named the temporal fossa. From this origin