DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 204 a band from it, enters the pons as the olivary fasciculus, or the fillet. oh vary The olivary body, and its fillet. — When the olivary body has been sliced obliquely,- it will be seen to consist of a wavy yellowish line, surrounding a centre or nucleus of whitish matter; and this toothed appearance has been named corpus is an in- dentatum. The zigzag bounding line is the cut surface of sac open a thin capsule or bag, which has the dilated part towards the hthind. gnrface, and the narrowed part or neck open and directed a band backward. A band of fibres issues from the nucleus by the issues # J from it. aperture in the posterior part of the capsule, and uniting with the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid around the corpus olivare, forms the olivary fasciculus or the fillet; thus blended both ascend to the cerebrum. Dissec- Dissection. — For the purpose of seeing the arrangement lateral of the fibres of the lateral column and restiform body, the and res- ... . J tiform anterior pyramid is to be cut across on the left side, between pieces. . J . its decussation and the olivary body, and to be raised to- gether with this body towards the pons. Afterwards the remaining part of the pyramid is to be separated by dividing the fibres it receives from the decussation. Lateral The lateral tract of the medulla is continuous inferiorly fibre* of w*tj1 potion of the spinal cord between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, and is prolonged superiorly in greater part to the cerebrum, but it gives an offset to the cerebellum. Soon after entering the medulla oblongata, it is divided into three sets of fibres, external, internal, and middle. The external fibres are both superficial and deep, aremuch and, joining the restiform body, reach the cerebellum; the medulla, internal offset enters the pyramid of the opposite side; whilst the middle fibres, the continuation of the column, ascend and pass beneath the olivary body, and leaving the surface of the deeply. # # medulla at the pons, incline backwards and inwards to the floor of the fourth ventricle (where they form the eminentia teres), in their course to the cerebrum. Decussa. The decussation of the pyramids is formed by the crossing pyramids of the internal fibres of the lateral columns before they enter bThlte- the pyramid of the opposite side. This interweaving of the luLSSs. fibres occupies the anterior groove of the medulla oblongata, at the distance of three quarters of an inch from the pons,