15 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The superior longitudinal sinus has been already described superior (seep. 11.). The inferior longitudinal sinus resembles a small vein, inferior and is contained in the lower border of the falx cerebri at dinll!u” the posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and the larger brain, and ends in the straight sinus at the edge of the tentorium. The straight sinus lies along the middle of the tentorium straight . sinus. and seems to continue the preceding sinus to the common point of union. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of the large brain, and some small veins from the upper part of the small brain. The occipital sinus is a small space in the falx cerebelli, Ocdpi- which reaches to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood from the occipital fossae. This sinus may be double. The lateral sinus is the channel by which most of the Lateral blood passes from the skull. There is one on each side, right and left, which extends from the occipital protuberance to the foramen jugulare, where it ends in the internal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus corresponds to the Position winding groove in the interior of the skull, between the two points of bone before mentioned. Besides small veins Sinuses from the brain, it is joined by the superior petrosal sinus it!"1”8 opposite the upper border of the petrous portion of the tem- poral Done, and by the inferior petrosal at the foramen jugulare. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with the veins of the diploe of the skull. The right sinus is often larger than the left. The foramen jugulare is divided into three compartments situa- by bands of the dura mater; through the posterior interval foramen' the lateral sinus passes, through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus, and through the central one the eighth nerve. Dissection.—To examine the cavernous sinus, say on the Dissec- left side, let the dura mater opposite the body of the sphenoid bone be cut through from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve. Behind the last-named process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel jugulare.