BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. 611 e r 2 branches are derived from an artery, accessory pudic (Quain), sory ^ which takes origin mostly from the trunk of the pudic inside the comes pelvis, and courses forwards on the side of the bladder, and the internal upper part of the prostate gland, to leave the pelvis below the lllJU pubic arch. It furnishes branches to supply the place of those that are wanting. The branches of the internal iliac artery that are peculiar Branch- J r es in the to the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. female. 6. The uterine artery passes inwards between the layers uterine " J artery of the broad ligament, to the neck of the uterus. At that part the vessel changes its direction, and ascends along the side of the uterus to the fundus, where it anastomoses with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, ramifying in it,suPPlies and anastomose with those of the opposite side. This artery and its branches are remarkable for their tortuous condition. a. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supplied offsets 0 A A to va- to the vagina and the bladder ; and the special vaginal artery gina, may arise from it at that spot. b. Branches in the broad liqament. — One branch ac-andthe Y broad companies the round ligament into the inguinal canal and jjga t anastomoses with a branch of the epigastric. Another ex- tends on the Fallopian tube, and divides into long branches that reach the end. And a third offset, according to J. Weber, is distributed to the ovary. 7. The vaginal artery seldom arises separately from the Vaginal internal iliac : combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends to the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Other arteries in the pelvis. — The remaining arteries in Branch- the pelvis, which are not derived from the internal iliac, are aortathe the ovarian, superior haemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery has been described in part with the ovarian branches of the aorta, and has been traced to the pelvis (p.aner> 573.). After passing the brim of the pelvis it becomes tor- tuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : in the ligament there is a free anastomosis between the ovarian and uterine arteries. The superior hcemorrhoidal artery is the continuation of Superior . . . hjemor- the trunk ol the interior mesenteric behind the rectum, rhoidai. and divides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum.