246 TABLE OF THE SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES OF THE HEAD SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES, nerves. The sympathetic nerve has in the neck AND NECK. Spinal Nerves. 'Anterior branches The cervi- cal spinal •* nerves di- vide into 'Superficial ascending superficial descending 'The first four form the Cervical Plexus, 4 which gives off' . - deep inter- nal - deep exter- . nal - The last four and first dorsal form the Bra- chial Plexus, which gives off 'Branches above the clavicle - branches - below {Small occipital nerve • great auricular superficial cervicaL ( Supraacromial supraclavicular ( suprasternal. To the pneumo.gastric to the hypoglossal to the sympathetic to rectus major muscle to diaphragm .nerves to descendens noni. !To join the spinal accessory to the stemo-mastoideus to the trapezius to the levator anguli scapulae. "The rhomboid nerve to the phrenic nerve suprascapular nerve subclavian branch posterior thoracic or respira- tory .to the scaleni muscles. f Are dissected with the upper l limb. !Are distributed to the muscles of the back, and give off cutaneous Sympathetic Nerve. -1. Superior cervical ganglion has -Ascending branches, which unite in < plexuses Carotid plexus which gives - cavernous plexus, which gives branches ( Branch to tympanic plexus •! to the vidian (to the sixth and fifth cranial nerves. !To the third cranial nerve to the fourth cranial nerve to the fifth and lenticular ganglion to the carotid artery and branches. external branches i To join pneumo-gaUric - • and hypoglossal nerves i to the spinal nerves. internal branches ■{ Pharyngeal branches superficial cardiac nerve. -branches to vessels Middle i External branches cervical > ganglion - | internal - Inferior 1 ' Anterior branches cervical ■< external - ganglion - ( internal - Nervi mollea. To the spinal nerves. ( Middle cardiac nerve •! to supply thyroid body and ( join the external LaryngeaL To the subclavian artery. CTo the spinal nerves forming ( vertebral plexus. Inferior cardiac nerve.