DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 568 Vessels of the duct. I' Dissect blood. vessels and muscles, To see the dia- phragm. Dia- phragm. Situa- tion and form. Origin at the circum- ference. Inser- tion of fibres into a central tendon. Vessels of the vas deferens.— A special bloodvessel, the artery of the vas deferens, is furnished to the excretory duct from the upper vesical artery; and some veins from the epididymis enter the sper- matic veins. Section V. AORTA AND VENA CAVA, AND THE DEEP MUSCLES. Directions. — After the body is replaced in its former posi- tion on the back, the student should prepare first for exa- mination the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the remaining deep muscles of the abdo- men. Dissection.—For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be necessary to remove the peritoneum from the under sur- face of that muscle, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrae. Whilst cleaning the surface the student should be careful of the vessels and the nerves on or towards the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected out: — one curves over the psoas muscle ; and the other extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib. The diaphragm forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen ; it is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, beginning in front and passing backwards, the diaphragm is connected by fleshy fibres with the posterior part of the xiphoid cartilage, and with the inner aspect of the six lower ribs ; with two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the vertebrae, —one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle; and, lastly, it is connected with the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular part or pillar. From this extensive origin externally, the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central median tendon, but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted.