547 FORM OF THE L1YER. 'N N 2 which they accompany to the fissure of the spleen ; and in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Nerves and lymphatics. — The lymphatics are superficial and Lymph- deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum \ their arrangement in the spleen is unknown. The nerves come from Nerves, the solar plexus, and surround the artery and its branches ; accord- ing to Ecker they end in free dichotomous points by the sides of the arterial tufts. w the liver. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the office of ’ . „ the liver. body. Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection. — Preparatory to examining the liver, the ciean^' 1 vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. This seis on the proceeding will be facilitated by distending the vena portae under with cotton wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its duct. The several vessels and ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portae to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found connected anteriorly with the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the remains of the ductus venosus. The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence; colour, and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds sistence ; (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures weisht> from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back between six ments!^" and seven inches; and in thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measurement must change with the spot examined. In its shape the liver is somewhat square; and in form it Form differs at the surfaces, borders, and extremities ; it is also sions. marked by several lobes and fossae, and by fissures which contain vessels. The ligaments and the connections of the liver are described at p. 505. 511. Surfaces. — On the upper aspect the liver is convex : ex- upper tending from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which smooth ; divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is irregular, and suSe presents lobes, fissures, and fossae. In contact with this sur- la™8”’