DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 438 anterior median. posterior median, and lateral• fissure. Sup- posed other lateral fissure. The cord is divided into antero- lateral column and pos- terior column, with commis- sure. Dif- ferent sion into halves; and along the line of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another slit, the lateral fissure. The anterior median fissure is wider than the posterior, and penetrates about one third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. The medullary substance of the surface enters the fissure, lining it; and in the bottom of the cleft the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for bloodvessels. The posterior median fissure is not so wide, nor so well marked as the anterior, but it is best seen at the upper part of the neck, and in the lower enlargement. The vessels at the posterior aspect of the cord enter this fissure. The lateral fissure (posterior) is situate along the line of attachment of the fibrils of the posterior roots. It reaches inwards to the gray matter in the interior of the medulla. Some anatomists describe another lateral fissure (anterior) along the line of origin of the anterior roots, but there is not any cleft in that situation. Segments of the Cord.—Each half of the cord, viz. from the anterior to the posterior median fissure, is divided into two parts by the lateral sulcus : the piece in front of that slit and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero- lateral column, and the piece behind, the posterior column. A central or commissural piece unites the halves of the medulla. The antero-lateral column includes rather more than two thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attachment to the anterior roots. The posterior column is situate between the posterior roots of the nerves and the central fissure along the posterior aspect of the cord. Near the median fissure, is a slight groove or furrow, which marks off a slender piece, the pos- terior median column: this separation is best seen in the cervical part of the cord. The commissure of the cord is the central piece con- necting the halves of the medulla, and limiting the depth of the median fissures. Different division of the cord. — Each half of the cord is sometimes divided into three parts or columns — anterior,