COCHLEA AND ITS SEPTUM. 797 limited externally by a condensed stratum—the wall of the spiral tube; and is formed internally of a porous material. Its shape is conical, and its size diminishes rapidly towards is porous the last half turn of the spiral tube, where it is very thin but nical; not porous, and may be said to end, though it is commonly how ft described as being continued upwards from this spot to the ab°v®h:e tip of the cochlea. The upper extremity, corresponding with the last half turn, is bent, and enlarged after the manner of a funnel with the base uppermost, and presents a free mar- gin.* The axis is perforated by canals as far as the last half turn, which transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state; and the central one is larger than the others. Wind- Around ing around the axis is the thin osseous plate before referred spiral to, the lamina spiralis, which projects a certain distance into Sfbone. the spiral tube, and forms part of the septum. Septum of the spiral tube. — The partition dividing the septum tube of the cochlea into two passages, in the recent bone, uibe’6 consists of an osseous and a membranous portion. bony and a. The osseous part, which is formed by the lamina spi- osseous ralis, extends about half way across the tube. It begins in- part» feriorly in the vestibule, where it is wide, and is attached to the outer wall so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity; and diminishing in size in its progress, it ends in a free point, named the hamulus, opposite the margin of that the modiolus at the last half turn of the cochlea. Between above in the point in which the osseous lamina terminates and theapoint margin referred to, is a space which, in the recent state, is converted by membrane into a foramen (hiatus, helicotrema), over an and allows the intercommunication of the passages of the cochlear tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates which8*1 of bone, that enclose osseous canals for vessels and nerves, and are separated furthest at the modiolus. j01“; The side turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages differ- is freely pierced by apertures for nerves and vessels; whilst two6 °n the opposite is covered in the outer fifth of its extent by a on upper structure resembling cartilage, which ends in a toothed edge aspect 1S * Some Anatomists apply the term infundibulum to the appearance which this bent part of the modiolus (? top of the cochlear tube) presents when it is looked at from the second turn of the cochlea. Others under- stand by the term the funnel-shaped space enclosed in the terminal half bend of the tube of the cochlea.