790 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the and of cavity, to join inferiorly with the stapes. The stirrup bone stapes, has a horizontal position, with the crura directed forwards and backwards : its base is fixed over the fenestra ovalis, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. Tfhe Liqaments of the ossicles.— The small bones of the tvm- bones ° ^ . . . . J have two panic cavity are united into one chain by articular ligaments, sets of* liga- and are further kept in position by ligaments that fix them lucnts | to the surrounding wall. either to a. From one hone to another. — The ossicles are connected join one _ ... toano- together at the points where they touch by articulations cor- responding with the joints of larger bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a capsular ligament of fibrous tissue, whilst a synovial sac in joints, is present in each joint. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second between the extremity of the long pro- cess of the incus and the head of the stapes. In the recent bone the thin mucous membrane closes the shapesinterval between the crura of the stapes, and is attached to the groove on their inner aspect. or to fix b. Between the hones and the wall. — The bones are kept them to 1 the tym- jn situation by the reflection of the mucous membrane, and panic J wal1* by a special ligament from each. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band passes backwards from the incus, near the end of its short process, to the posterior part of the containing cavity. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by fibres that constitute an orbicular ligament. Three Muscles of the ossicles. — Three muscles which possess muscles ^ A to the transversely striated fibres are in connection with the chain ossicles. of bones ; two of these are attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. Tensor The tensor tympani (internal muscle of the malleus) is is in a contained in a special bony canal, which must be laid open canal, to see it completely : it is the largest and most distinct of which gives it the muscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of the °ngin’ containing tube. The muscle arises from the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon which, con-