THE AXILLA. 253 In this proceeding the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz. from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at either the upper or lower border of the muscle, according as the one or the other may be the most convenient on the opposite sides of the body. The fascia and the fat are then to be taken from the arm- and the arm-pit. pit, but the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands contained in the space, are to be left uninjured. The dissection will be best begun at the outer part, by removing the fascia from the large axillary vessels, where these are about to quit the space and enter the arm. Following upwards those bloodvessels, the student will arrive at the branches that are directed towards the chest, viz. the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves on the posterior boundary of the axilla. Some arterial twigs enter the axillary glands, and a few should be traced out. In taking away the fascia from the posterior boundary of the space, so as to follow the muscles to their insertion into the humerus, a small nerve (internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral) should be looked for near the great vessels. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are to be defined : Nerves, with moderate caution they cannot be injured. THE AXILLA. The axilla, or arm-pit, is the hollow between the arm and situa- the chest. It is somewhat conical in form, and its apex is form or directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space ispit.arm larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows : — Boundaries. — In front and behind the space is limited Bounda- rics* for the most part by the muscles passing from the trunk of the body to the upper limb ; and the folds of the axilla are constructed by the unattached parts of the fleshy strata. In the anterior boundary are the two pectoral muscles, but The these take unequal shares in its construction in consequence Suscfei of the difference in their shape and size: for the pectoralis 111 front’ major extends over the whole front of the space, reaching from the clavicle to the lower edge of the anterior fold;