46 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Dissec- tion. is high- est mus- cle in orbit. Upper rectus muscle. Origin. Inser- tion. to other parts. Upper oblique muscle loop. Inser- tion. 3. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dis- I section : it will be noticed afterwards at p. 47. Dissection.— Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, I and throw the ends forwards and backwards: by raising the posterior part of the nerve, the distinct origin of the nasal j branch from the ophthalmic trunk will be seen. The j lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. Elevator The levator palpebr^e superioris is the most superficial ; of upper eyelid muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit I in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens as it ex- tends forwards, and in front of the eyeball it turns dowrn- is at- wards, and is inserted by a wide tendon into the fore part of toursai the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in con- fab tact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the other, with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the centre, a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the under surface. The rectus superior is the upper of the four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. Near the front of the eye the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat behind the union Position of this with the cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the eye, and some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The superior oblique muscle is thin and narrow, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit, before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a enters a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop before referred to, is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the eyeball. The Connec- fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. Pulley The loop, or pullep, or trochlea, is a fibro-cartilaginous muscle. ring about two lines and a half in length, which is attached