379 CARDIAC NERVES. and the cardiac offsets of its recurrent branch. The offsets of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to the right side of the heart. From its lower end cardiac nerves pass downwards be- fore and behind the right branch of the pulmonary artery. Those in front of that vessel run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery nearly to the heart, where they send a few twigs behind the vessel, to join the plexus on the posterior coronary artery; and lastly, they appear between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, and end in the anterior coronary plexus (p. 355.). The other nerves, those that are behind the branch of the pulmonary artery, supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are also sent laterally on the branch of that artery to the nerves of the root of the lung. b. The left half of the plexus is close to the ligamentum arterio- sum, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic cord of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and in addition it has numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it around the left branch of the pulmonary artery to the trunk of that vessel, on which they are continued to the heart; and after supplying nerves to the left auricle, they terminate in the bundle of nerves of the posterior coronary plexus (p. 355.). A considerable offset is directed forwards to the superficial cardiac plexus by the side of the ligamentum arteriosum ; and some nerves reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch of the pulmonary artery to the lung. The cardiac branches of the gangliated cord of the sym- pathetic nerve in the neck (p. 122.), are now seen at their termination in the thorax. The nerves enter the chest on each side, over or beneath the subclavian artery, and join in the deep cardiac plexus, with one exception in the left superficial cardiac branch. On the right side. — Though usually three in number, there may be but two cardiac nerves on this side, for the highest nerve is sometimes blended with one of the other two. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the sub- clavian artery to the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. All three communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus at the root of the neck, or in the upper part of the thorax, as well as with one another. On the left side the superficial or highest cardiac nerve passes for the most part over the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus, but it may give a branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other large Branch- es are distri- buted to theheart in the anterior coronary plexus. A few go to root of lung. Left part; nerves enter- ing it. Offsets descend to left coronary plexus and to root of lung. Other cardiac nerves from the neck. All on the right side enter deep plexus. On left one enters super- ficial, others deep plexus.