BLOODVESSELS OF THE TESTICLE. 557 deferens becomes enlarged and tortuous ; but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. Connected with the vas deferens, in the angle of union Vas . aberrans between it and the epididymis, is found sometimes a small occa- m • sionaily narrow caecal appendage, the vas aberrans of Haller. This present; rr » ’ situa- body is convoluted, and projects upwards for two or three tion ana inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is much longer when it is unravelled, measuring sometimes fourteen inches, but it may not exceed an inch and a half in length. Its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. The vas aberrans may be found divided or doubled. Structure. — The excretory duct of the testis is formed Two chiefly by a thick, muscular coat; this is covered externally form the by areolar tissue, and lined internally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord; and on a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat amus-cu. is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres arranged in strata, so that both externally and internally is a longitu- dinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is a layer of circular fibres. The mucous membrane is and a _ J ... . . mucous. marked by longitudinal ridges in the straight part of the canal, and by irregular ones in the sacculated portion. A columnar epithelium covers the inner surface. The canal of the vas deferens is larger than that of the Vas ... aberrans epididymis, as before stated. The vas aberrans resembles like the i J p . duct. the vas deferens m structure. Bloodvessels and nerves of the testicle. — Th$ branches of the Artery. spermatic artery pierce the back of the testis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum, behind the rete testis. Leaving the mediastinum, the vessels are finely divided in the vascular mem- brane that lines the interior of the tunica albuginea. After being thus divided, offsets are continued on the fine septa between the lobes to the seminal tubules, on which they are distributed. The spermatic veins begin in the plexuses around the seminal tubes, and Veins, issue from the gland at the posterior part: they then ascend along the cord, forming a plexus, and end in one trunk ; that on the right side joins the vena cava, and that on the left, the renal vein (p. 577.). The lymphatics ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the Lymph- lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and nerves'^ accompany the arteries to the testis.