714 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. faces not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the of the ... . . , . . .. . . . T bones, lemur is a pit into which the round ligament is inserted. In the bottom of the acetabulum is a space free from cartilage, in which a reddish fatty mass is lodged: this is sometimes synovial called the synovial gland. Beneath the transverse ligament an artery and a nerve enter the joint to supply the fat. Section IV. THE EACK OF THE LEG. Examine tne sur- face. In the leg the tibia and fibula are su- perficial. Behind is calf of the leg, tendo Achil- lis, and tibial vessels. Before, anterior tibial vessels. Ankle j oint. Directions.—Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the prominences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings that lead to the position of the subjacent vessels. Prominences on the surface. — The bones of the leg can be traced beneath the skin from the knee to the ankle joint. On the inner side of the limb is the tibia, which is subcu- taneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp ridge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the inter- nal maleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difficulty, in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee ; and the lower end forms the pro- jection (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle joint. On the posterior aspect of the leg is the projection of the calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the edge of the tibia, but nearest the former, is the superficial part of the posterior tibial artery. In front, be- tween the tibia and fibula, are the extensor muscles of the foot and toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply ; the position of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the ankle joint, to the inner side of the head of the fibula. On the sides of the ankle joint are the prominent malleoli;