680 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. are the outer is the strong, est: the inner is indis- tinct. of the fibres on the outer surface of the synovial sac of the knee joint. . . joint. inter- Intermuscular septa. — The processes of the fascia lata muscu- ■* x lar septa that limit laterally the extensor muscles of the leg, are thus two: named, and are fixed to the linea aspera, and the lines lead- ing from it to the condyles of the femur. The external septum is the strongest, and reaches from the outer condyle of the femur to the insertion of the gluteus maximus. It is situate between the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps, to which it gives origin ; and is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external ar- ticular vessels. The inner partition is very thin along the side of the vastus internus; and, between the inner condyle and the linea aspera, its place is supplied by the strong ten- don of the adductor magnus. The internal articular vessels are transmitted through it to the front of the knee joint. Artery The external circumflex artery is the chief vessel for the muscles supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises front of from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artery, thigh. and is directed horizontally outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, to the under surface of the vastus externus, where it ends in branches. Offsets are given from this artery to the rectus and the sartorius ; and its terminal branches consist of an ascending, a transverse, and a de- scending set. a. The ascending branches are about three in number, and are directed beneath the tensor vaginae femoris to the back of the hip bone, where they anastomose with the gluteal artery. b. The transverse or middle set, the least numerous and the smallest in size, perforate the vastus externus, and ana- stomose on the back of the thigh with the sciatic and per- forating arteries. c. The descending branches are the largest, and are dis- tributed to the vasti muscles. One considerable offset enters the vastus externus, and reaching the knee, anastomoses on it with the external articular arteries. Its branches are — an as- cending set. a trans- verse, and a descend- ing set. Peculiarities in the origin of this artery are very frequent. Thus the vessel may arise as one trunk from the superficial instead of the and1 K deep femoral artery. It may be represented by two pieces, which Varie- ties in the trunk