108 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Parts in this sec- tion. Position. Dissec- tion of the sty- lt>-pha- ryngeus Glosso- pharyn- geal nerve. Stylo- pharyn- geus. Origin. Inser- tion. Is be- tween carotid arteries, Stylo- hyoid li- gament lies by 6ide of preced- ing. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. / In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Position. — The position of the part is to remain still the same, viz. the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection. — To see the remaining styloid muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle should be detached from their origin, and thrown down. At this stage, a filament of the facial nerve may be sometimes seen to perforate the digastric muscle, and join the glosso- pharyngeal nerve beneath. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those branches that have been already examined, as well as, if it is necessary, the veins accompanying the arteries. In cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve and its branches may be prepared. The side of the jaw is still to remain turned upwards, as in the dissec- tion of the submaxillary region. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle resembles the other sty- loid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from the root of the styloid process on the inner surface, and descend, between the superior and middle constrictors, to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the stylo-glossus, and between the carotid arteries ; and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve turns over the lower part of its fleshy belly. The stylo-liyoid ligament is a fibrous band, that extends from the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the os hyoides. Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and over the internal carotid artery, whilst the lower end is beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent.