DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 560 Some- times double. Ureter, dilated near the kidney, has calices, which embrace pyra- mids. Two coats in ureter, muscu- lar and mucous. The ca- lices also two coats. obliterated hypogastric artery. About the middle of the psoas this excretory tube is crossed by the spermatic ves- sels. Sometimes the ureter is found divided into two for a certain distance. Partin the kidney. — Near the kidney the ureter is dilated into a pouch, named pelvis, in the hilum ; and when traced upwards into the viscus, it is found to begin by a set of cup- shaped tubes, named calices, or infundibula, which vary in number from seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped part em- braces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives the urine that flows through the apertures in that projection ; and sometimes a calyx surrounds two or more papillae. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes; and these are finally blended in the excretory duct or the ureter. Structure. — The ureter consists of an external or muscu- lar, and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular covering is composed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longi- tudinal folds during the contracted state of the ureter, and is lined by an epithelium of the spheroidal form. The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a mus- cular and a mucous coat. Around the pyramid the enve- loping tunic of the kidney is continuous with the calyx ; and at the apex of that body, the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings in the papilla. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. Use un- This small body, whose use is unknown, has received its known. . . . . , name from its position in the abdomen. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excre- No duct, tory duct. situa- It is situate, one on each side, on the front of the upper extremity of the kidney; and without care it may be re- moved with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its form and colour is yellowish ; and its form resembles that of a cocked colour, J . ill! hat. The upper part is convex, but the base or lower part size and is hollowed, where it touches the kidney. Its size in the weight • • adult is about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less