667 THE CRURAL CANAL. Crural canal. — This term is applied to the innermost space in the interior of the crural sheath. Its extent is from a quarter to half an inch, for it reaches only from the base of Gimbernat’s ligament to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Anterior to the sheath at this part, and conse- quently to the space, are Poupart’s ligament and the upper end of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the outer side is the femoral vein. The aperture by which it communicates above with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. Through this canal or space the intestine in femoral hernia passes from the ab- domen. Some writers apply the term crural canal to the whole of the space included in the funnel-shaped sheath, and describe therefore the femoral vessels as being in the crural canal; but the appellation crural canal is here confined, as above stated, to the space in the sheath internal to the vessels. The crural or femoral ring is the upper opening of the crural canal towards the abdominal cavity.* It is on a level with the base of Gimbernat’s ligament, and is larger in the female than in the male. It is oval in shape ; and its greatest measurement is from side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch. The structures that surround the opening, outside the crural sheath, are nearly similar to those bounding the crural canal, viz. in front the crural arch with the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female; behind, the pubes covered by fascia lata; on the inside Gimbernat’s ligament; and on the outside the femoral vein within the sheath. The position of the several sides of the ring is stated at p. 498. Septum crurale. — The part of the subperitoneal layer of fat, which is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has been named crural septum (Cloquet) from its position between the thigh and the abdomen. The situation of the partition is now visible, but its characters are ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 497.). The in- ner of the three spaces is the cru- ral canal Extent and parts around it. Defini- tion of term crural canal here em- ployed. Crural ring. Situa- tion and form. Struc- tures around. Crural septum; position how formed. * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature employed be made more to resemble that used in describing inguinal hernia, by calling this the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture ?