SCIATIC NERVES. 711 z z 4 and its name is taken from the membraniform appearance of membra. nosus the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest impression on the back of the tuber ischii, above and external to the semitendinosus and biceps ; and it is inserted below into the hinder and inner part of the head of reaches x _ _ from the tibia. The muscle presents a thick fleshy belly inferiorly, ggvis to where it bounds the popliteal space. On it is the semiten- dinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper tendon ; Parts and beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the outer it. border is the great sciatic nerve, and below the place of division of that nerve, is the internal popliteal trunk. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocne- mius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the tendons in connection with the knee joint. The great sciatic nerve lies on the adductor magnus Great.' sciatic between the buttock and the popliteal space, and divides in to nerve in the the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, thigh though its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps. At its upper part it supplies supplies branches to the flexor muscles at the back of the thigh, and and adductor to the adductor magnus. muscles. Small sciatic nerve.—Between the gluteus maximus and Small sciatic the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia, but it in the becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the ex- th °h ’ ternal or posterior saphenous vein for a short distance. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh, and cutane- the largest of these is near the popliteal space. sets. Dissection.—To see the posterior surface of the adductor Detach magnus, and the branches of the perforating arteries, the strings." hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip bone and thrown down, and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive may be cut through if it is necessary. The parts referred to are to be cleaned. Adductor magnus muscle. — At its posterior aspect the p0ste- large adductor is altogether fleshy, even to the opening for faSeoT* the femoral artery; and the fibres from the pubic arch magnus!" appear to form a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the hip bone. In contact with this