DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 42 Infra- orbital branch- es are lost be- tween eye and niouth. Lower trunk also gives three sets of branch- es. Buccal branch- es to corner of mouth. Supra- maxil- lary be- tween mouth and chin Infra- maxil- lary to neck. outer part of the orbit, with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The infra-orbital branches are larger than the rest, and are furnished to the muscles and the integument between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication,— infra-orbital plexus, is found between these nerves and the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to join the nasal and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The cervicofacial is smaller than the other trunk, and supplies nerves to the lower part of the face and to the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, whilst in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches that are distributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards to the angle of the mouth, supplying the buccinator muscle, and they terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the base of the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and supply the muscles and the integument between the chin and mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of the facial join offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, in the same manner as the junction is made below the orbit; and the branches of the facial cross those of the fifth nerve in their course onwards to the middle line. The infra-maxillary branches are placed below the jaw, and are distributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these nerves will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 62.).