127 THYROID BODY AND TRACHEA. projects into the substance and divides this into masses. It has a granular texture. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or elongated vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a small pin, and others only -g-^th of an inch. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellow fluid, with nuclear-like bodies; in the wall of the vesicles is found a thin proper membrane with a nucleated epithelial lining. Capillary vessels and con- nective tissue unite the vesicles together into small irre- gular masses or lobules, of the size of the little finger nail. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. Bloodvessels.— The arteries to the thyroid body are two on each side — superior and inferior thyroid; and occasionally there is an additional branch — lowest thyroid, from the innominate artery. The branches of the external carotid (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect; while those from the subclavian (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the thyroid body. A very free communication is established between all the arteries; and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a fine network around the vesicles, and so pass into the capillary radicles of the veins. The veins are also large and numerous; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two have been traced to the internal jugular vein (p. 111.). The inferior thyroid veins, two in number, issue from the lower part of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, the two forming a plexus on that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles; each finally enters the innominate vein of its own side. Consists of vesi- cles,] yellow fluid. and nuclear bodies. Blood- vessels. Supe- rior, in- ferior, and low- est thy- roid ar- ; teries. Veins. Inferior form a plexus on the trachea. The trachea, or air tube, is continued from the larynx to Trachea the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, lies in ° . f neck and and extends commonly from the filth cervical to the third thorax, dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea Form, is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm carti- laginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. Its cavity remains pervious in health, under all conditions. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and cervical has the following relative position to the surrounding parts, amongst