DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 ofthein- tercostal nerves are in two rows. One along middle line. The other on side of chest. These have anterior and posterior branch- es. One or more of this set reach the arm. there are two sets:—one, the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arise from the trunks of the nerves about mid- way between the spine and the sternum; the other set, the anterior cutaneous neryes of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves, after piercing the pectoral muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments in the form of slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cervical plexus ; and the others supply the mammary gland and the integuments. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels are found with these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves come between the digitations of the serratus muscle, and divide immediately into an anterior and a posterior branch. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk ; and that of the second intercostal trunk wants commonly the anterior of the two offsets, into which the other lateral cutaneous nerves bifurcate. The anterior offsets bend forwards over the pectoral muscle, and end in the mammary gland and the integuments. The lowest also give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The posterior offsets are distributed to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula. The branch from the second intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and, per- forating the fascia of the axilla, supplies the integument of the arm (p. 280 ), from which circumstance it is named intercosto-humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal also gives filaments to the arm- pit and the inner part ofthe arm. office of The mamma, or the breast, is the gland for the secretion the • ° breast, of the milk, and is situate on the front of the chest, though somewhat towards the lateral aspect. Form The gland is hemispherical in form, and is placed over amiposi- great pectoral muscle, but it is rather most prominent with its at the inner and the lower part. Its dimensions and weight •ions, vary greatly. In a breast that is not enlarged by lactation, the mamma measures commonly about four inches across ; and extends longitudinally from the third to the sixth or