SUPRASPINATUS MUSCLE. 275 of the clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are acro- retained in contact by some scattered fibres, which form mion’ a kind of capsule for the joint. Some of the fibres are superior and in- stronger above and below, and are thus considered to consti- ferior tute a superior and an inferior ligament. An inter articular ’ fibro-cartilage is generally found between the bones only at carti- the upper part of the joint; but sometimes it forms a com- plete interarticular septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial membranes ; if it is imperfect, there and sy- is only one present in the joint. The joint should be opened sac. to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. The special ligaments of the scapula are two in number, Liga. anterior and posterior, and extend from one to another part Sapuiaf of the bone. The posterior ligament is a round fasciculus of fibres p0ste- stretching across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. nor an By one end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. The anterior ligament is triangular in form, and extends anterior, transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of • the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, and extends backwards to the attachment of the capsule of the shoulder joint. This ligament overhangs the shoulder joint; This is it consists usually of two thickened bands, anterior and pos- of two terior, with a thin intervening part. pieces. Dissection. — To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the Dissec- acromion process is to be sawn through, and removed with tlon' the outer end of the clavicle. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be observed, and then taken away. The supraspinatus muscle has the same form as the supra- hollow of the bone that it fills. It arises from all the surface mu the hollow of the supraspinal fossa of the scapula, except from the cer- 0fthaVt vical part; from the upper side of the spine of the bone \ndme; and from the fascia covering its surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, that crosses over the shoulder joint, and is insertedls m into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the JSohu-