183 LIGAMENTS OF THE FIRST TWO VERTEBRAL rotatory and nodding movements of the head. Between the between occipital bone and the second vertebra are three strong liga- bones, ments — a central one, and two lateral or check ligaments ; and, moreover, the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the body of the atlas by a strong transverse ligament. Dissection.— Supposing the arches of the cervical ver- Dissec- ; tebrse to be removed, except from the first three, the arches tlon' of these vertebras are to be sawn through internal to their articular processes. Afterwards the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and on raising, from below, the upper part of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, the central ligamen- tous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito- axoid) will come into view. a. Union of the occipital bone with the axis—1. The Between central ligament (occipito-axoidean) is a strong thick band, axis is a which is connected with the posterior ligament of the bodies central of the vertebrae, and is rather pyramidal in form, with the base uppermost. Above it is attached to the basilar process on the cranial aspect, and near the margin of the foramen magnum, extending as far on each side as the insertion of the check ligaments. From this spot it descends over the odontoid process, and, becoming narrower, is inserted into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between the transverse ligament of the atlas and the superficial fibres of this occipito-axoidean ligament which are continued to the second vertebra. Dissection. — After the removal of the occipito-axoidean Dissec- ligament, the following check ligaments will be partly seen, tl0n‘ together with the transverse ligament. A band of fibres is to be defined, that passes upwards and downwards from the transverse ligament; but the upper offset may be cut through for the purpose of seeing the check ligaments. 2. The lateral odontoid or check ligaments are two strong And two bundles of fibres, one on each side : each is attached by one check °l end to the rough side of the head of the odontoid process, ments. and by the other to a depression on the inner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band, and diverge from the centre