613 SPINAL SACRAL NERVES. B B 3 and divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the membranous part of the urethra and the prostate. The vesical veins commence in a plexus about the lower vesical, part of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and haemorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and ^eJme>' by the side of the uterus. This plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround the vagina with a large vas- vaginal . , veins. cular plexus. Parietal veins of the pelvis. — The other veins of the wall Parietal ^ z . veins. of the pelvis, viz. the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the common iliac vein. Dissection.— To dissect the nerves of the pelvis it will be Dissec- necessary to detach the urethra from the arch of the pubes, the J . r 7 nerves and to cut through on the right side the recto-vesical fascia of the ° ° pelvis, and the levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended let the air escape from it. By means of this dissection the sacral nerves will be sacral . , o . _ 1 and coc- seen as they issue from the sacral foramina; and the dis- cygeai, sector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, as well as some branches from the fourth to the viscera. A branch of nerve, superior gluteal, is to be shown arising from the lumbo-sacral cord, as this passes to the sacral plexus. The last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be found coming through the coccygeus muscle close to the coccyx ; these are to be dissected with care, and the student will best find them by tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to another, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina and sym- is a large plexus of the sympathetic, the pelvic plexus, which pM‘aic' sends offsets to the viscera along the arteries, This plexus is generally destroyed in this stage of the dissection ; but if it should remain the student may trace the offsets from it, and the communicating branches with the spinal nerves. Spinal sacral nerves.— The anterior primary branches sacral of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease sud- are five; denly in size from above downwards ; for whilst the first two