657 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS. one set (artery and vein) is directed inwards to the pubes, and named external pudic ; another, superficial epigastric, upwards over Poupart’s ligament; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the limb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some of the small lymphatic vessels may be traced from one inguinal gland to another. A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the inner side of the saphenous vein, and close to the pubes ; and one of the terminal branches of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. — The small cutaneous arteries at the top of the thigh are the highest branches of the femoral artery, and are furnished by that trunk as soon as it enters the thigh. They pierce the deep fascia of the limb (fascia lata), and are distributed in the integuments and the glands of the groin. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its companion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein ; but the description of these veins will be given in a subsequent page (659.). The external pudic artery (superior) crosses the spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integument of the penis and scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets of the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (inferior) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female these branches supply the labium pudendi. The superficial epigastric artery passes over' Poupart’s ligament to the lower part of the abdomen (p. 469.), and communicates with branches of the deep epigastric artery. The superficial circumflex iliac artery is the smallest of the three branches; and appearing on the outer border of the thigh near the iliac crest, is distributed in the integu- ment. The superficial inguinal glands are arranged in two lines ; one set lies across the thigh, near Poupart’s ligament, and the other along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or longitudinal collection the glands are larger than in the upper, and receive the lymphatic vessels from the u u the su- perficial vessels. lympha- tics, and nerves. The arteries from the femoral. Veins join the saphe- nous. One ex- ternal pudic artery; another beneath the fas- cia. Super- ficial epi- gastric. Super- ficial iliac. Inguinal glands ; two sets. which receive diiferent