209 THE CEREBRUM. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. The cerebrum, or the great brain, is the largest of the parts Situa- into which the encephalon is subdivided. It may be said to the cere- fill that part of the cavity of the skull, which is above a cir- cular line on a level with the eyebrows and the occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the skull, the cerebrum is Form convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower aspect. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by has two side, and are partly separated by a median or longitudinal gp£eS fissure ; but in the middle line the halves are united by joined by . . . z . . median certain interior parts (commissures), as well as by several parts, connecting structures at the under surface. Superiorly the surface of the hemisphere is entire, but inferiorly it is di- vided into lobes. Under Surface, or Base of the Cerebrum. — At its under under part the cerebrum is very irregular, in consequence of ofrce?e- its fitting into the inequalities of the base of the skull; and brum' on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not com- plete, as on the upper surface, for the median fissure exists only at the fore and hinder parts. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain : — On the under surface of each hemisphere, about one third Division from its front, is the fissure of Sylvius, which divides it into hemi- . cnhprp two. Of these the fore part constitutes the anterior lobe; and the hinder large part consists of middle and posterior lobes, but there is not any groove to mark the separation between them, the anterior border of the cerebellum being taken as the limit between the one and the other. In the middle line, in front of the pons, are the two large And white masses of the peduncles of the cerebrum (crura cere- along the bri), one belonging to each hemisphere; and between them i?ne.dle is a space perforated by vessels, which is named locus per- foratus posticus. Outside the peduncle is the optic tract, and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. Proceeding for- wards in the middle line, the student will find two white p