153 OTIC GANGLION. is marked by a gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangli- is mark. formis) to which several nerves are united. From this swelling which swelling the nerve is continued through the arched aqueduct, receives passing along the inner wall of the tympanum, and then twigs, behind that cavity to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve for the most other branch- part to connect it with other nerves; but one supplies the es. tongue, and another the stapediuo muscle. Connecting branches. — These branches communicate with Branch- ** # es join- the auditory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves; also with two ing trunks (superior and inferior maxillary) of the fifth nerve. * a. Union with the auditory nerve.— In the bottom of the meatus to audi- the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute nerve, filaments. * b. Connecting branches of the gangliform enlargement. — Thetosu- swelling of the facial nerve receives three small twigs. One in maxii- front is the large superficial petrosal nerve (vidian) ; another is the tympa- small superficial petrosal of the tympanic nerve; and the third is "ymp^1 the external superficial petrosal, which is derived from the sym- thetic> pathetic on the middle meningeal artery. c. Chorda tympani.— This long but slender branch of the facialt0 g»sta- , ii-i ... tory by nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising chorda about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the tymi)an1, nerve is directed forwards to the tympanum through a canal in the posterior boundary, and enters that cavity below the pyramid. In the cavity the nerve is directed forwards, across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani, to the Glasserian fissure, or an aperture on the inner side of it, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the gus- tatory nerve, and then continues along it to the submaxillary gan- glion and the tongue (p. 98.). The auditory nerve will be learned with the ear. It Audi- may now be seen to divide into two parts, one of which enters nerve, the cochlea, and the other the vestibule. Otic ganglion.—At this late period of the dissection, to be there is little to be seen of this ganglion, but the student aefres°h should remember that it is one of the things to be examined part' in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be arrived at from the inner side. Dissection.—Putting the part in the same position as for Dissec. the examination of Meckel’s ganglion, the dissector should tlon'