DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 10 Dura mater. Appear- ance of outer surface. Cut through the dura mater. Inner surface. Struc- ture, and pro' cesses. Falx. Form and at given (p. 12.) for the preservation of the brain, after its re- moval, till it can be dissected. The dura mater is the most external of the membranes investing the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, that serves as a periosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now it is separated from the bone, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; but these are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attachment of the dura mater to the bone is much the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the middle meningeal vessels, ascending towards the top of the head. Small granular fibrous bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen along the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable, and is increased with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands. Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the interior of the dura mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and be- hind where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised towards the top of the brain ; and on the right side the veins connecting it with the cere- bral hemisphere may be broken through. When the dura mater has been cut through, its inner surface is seen to present a smooth and polished aspect; and this appearance is due to an epithelial covering, similar to that lining serous membranes. This external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous tissue so disposed as to give rise to two distinct layers, viz., an external or periosteal, and an internal or special. At certain spots these layers are slightly sepa- rated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, that dips in the middle line between the he- mispheres of the cerebrum. Its form and extent will be evident if the right hemisphere is gently separated from it. It is narrow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, but widens posteriorly, and