185 STERNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. first rib, and by another between the ends of the two clavicles. Dissection. — For the examination of the ligaments in the Dissec- sterno-clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was laid aside for that purpose ; and should the liga- ments have become dry, they ought first to be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear after the removal of some connective and fibrous tissues. Capsular ligament.—This is a thin membranous expansion, capsular that incases the articular ends of the bones, and the fibro- ment. cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres, that exist in front and at the back, are de- scribed as separate ligaments. The interclavicular ligament extends above the sternum, inter- between the ends of the clavicles. The fibres do not cross in £,V1CU’ a straight line, but dip into the hollow between the clavicular bones, and are connected with the upper part of the sternum. The costo-clavicular ligament is a short strong band of and cos- • to- clavi- oblique fibres between the first rib and the clavicle. Infe- cuiarii-* riorly it is fixed to the upper surface of the cartilage of the gament' first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. The subclavius muscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the clavicle touches the rib, and is provided with an articular surface and a synovial membrane at that spot. The inter articular fibro-cartilage will come into view by Fibro- cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the cla- fage.' vide. It is flat, and almost circular in form, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper surface and margin the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle which is imbedded in it; and by the opposite surface and margin it is connected with the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it joins the capsule of the joint. Sometimes there is an aperture in the centre of the cartilage. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation, Two sy- one being on each side of the fibro-cartilage. The sac in mem- • br&ncs • contact with the sternum is looser than that touching the clavicle.