312 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. gitai cleft between the ring and little fingers, where it bifurcates nerves, 0 ° for little i°r the supply of their opposed sides. In the palm of the ancThaif band this last branch is connected with an offset from the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median O Median nerve in the hand supplies muscles and fingers. Branch to the muscles. Digital nerves are five, and supply thumb and two fingers and a half. First two, third, fourth, fifth. nerve. Palmar Part of the Median Nerve. — As soon as the median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, it becomes enlarged and somewhat flattened, and is divided into two nearly equal parts: from these divisions the digital nerves to the thumb, and to the remaining two fingers and a half are derived. The more external of the two portions furnishes likewise a small mus- cular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered in the hand by the palmar fascia; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. The branch to the muscles of the thumb supplies the outer half of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and oppo- nens pollicis muscles. The digital nerves are five in number. Three of them, which are distributed to the sides of the thumb and the radial side of the fore finger, are undivided, and are fur- nished by the external of the two parts into which the trunk of the median divides; the other two spring from the inner branch resulting from the division of that nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one being on each side, and the most external communicates with branches of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it is joined by a branch from the ulnar nerve. nation" fingers. — On the sides of the fingers the nerves onjhef are superficial to the arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, the fin- where they end in filaments over the ball on the front of the gers. J finger, and for the pulp beneath the nail. In their course