PROFUNDA ARTERY. 687 nerve of the thigh ; but is afterwards continued along the inner border and ex- of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates the inner the fascia to end in the integument: it has, in fact, a position and ts^e ot distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal knee* cutaneous nerve (p. 681.), whose place it takes.] The 'posterior or deep part of the obturator nerve pierces ^pof the fibres of the external obturator muscle, and is continued the beneath the adductor brevis to be distributed chiefly in the adductor magnus. Offsets are given from it to the contigu- ous muscles, and one to supply the knee joint. Branches. — Muscular branches enter the obturator ex- ends in adductor ternus as the nerve pierces it; others belong to the large, magnus, and sometimes also to the short adductor. A slender arti- cular branch enters the fibres of the adductor magnus and gives ° branch towards the lower part, and passes through them, near the to knee linea aspera, to reach the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee joint: its termination is seen in the dissection of the popliteal space. Dissection. — To prepare the profunda artery and its Dissect branches, supposing the veins and the fat removed, it will FuSda. be requisite to follow backwards the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches through the tendons of the adductors near the femur. The profunda (deep femoral) is the chief muscular artery Pro- ^ of the thigh, and arises from the femoral trunk about one artery, inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament (p. 671.). At its origin, origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent course, trunk. It is then directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur. In this course it runs parallel to the femoral artery, but deeper in position, and ends at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch and that pierces the adductor magnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh (near its origin) it rests Parts on the iliacus muscle, but on the inner side of the femur it is placed over the adductor brevis, and from that spot to its termination, between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles Branch- and the bone, and maintain free anastomoses with other muscles vessels supplied to the upper part of the thigh, as well as thigh6 with those of the leg. It is through these communications freely.