742 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. connec- tions with parts around. Position of veins and nerve. Branch- es. Recur- rent. Malle- olar inner and outer. Articu- lar. Dorsal artery; extent and course; connec- tions. In the upper part of the leg the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum; and in the lower two thirds between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius pollicis, but towards the lower end of the vessel, this last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to its inner side. The artery rests on the interosseous mem- brane in two thirds of its extent, and is overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at a great depth from the surface ; but it is in front of the tibia and the ankle joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial, for it here lies between only the tendons of the muscles. Vense comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches on the upper part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about the middle third of the leg, and continues with them, crossing once or twice. At the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side. Branches.—In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle joints other named branches take origin, and a cutaneous branch accompanies the musculo-cutaneous nerve. A recurrent branch leaves the trunk as soon as this appears above the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint,. On the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) arise near the ankle joint, and, as their name expresses, are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size and origin ; the external anastomoses with the anterior peroneal artery. Some small articular branches are supplied from the lower end of the artery to the ankle joint. The dorsal artery of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space ; at this interval it passes downwards between the heads of the interosseous muscle, to end in the sole as before described (p. 734.). The artery is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, viz. the astragalus and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones ; and is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, but