DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 278 which pierces the fascia higher up. Behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, is the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third at the same aspect, are the small nerves that have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz. the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. super- The superficial fascia forms a continuous investment for ficial fat. v.*7..,., . n 1 . the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it encloses the super- ficial vessels and lymphatics, and it may be divided into two layers. Thecu- Cutaneous Veins.— The position and the connections of veins are the superficial veins in front of the elbow are to be atten- tively noted by the dissector, because the operation of vene- section may be practised in them, median The median vein of the forearm divides into two branches, vein; 7 internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a divides deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to branch- the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar GS. veins to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. Position Branches.—The median cephalic vein is directed obliquely nections outwards, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and or me- A dian ce- the outer mass of muscles of the forearm. Beneath it is the phalic, trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and over it some small offsets from that nerve are directed. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is gene- rally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet, it does not generally yield much blood, in conse- quence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering and of compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The median dian ba- basilic vein is usually more horizontal in direction than the vein. preceding, and crosses the brachial artery as it tends to the inner side of the limb. It is larger than the corresponding vein of the outer side of the arm, and is firmly supported by the fascia beneath, only the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by fibres from the tendon of the biceps, inter- vening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of