549 FISSURES OF THE LIVER. part of the liver, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the square lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. This fissure or hilus is nearer the posterior than the anterior border of the liver, and con- tains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the viscus. At its left end, it is united at a right angle with the longitu- dinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure extends from the front to the back of the liver between the right and left lobes. In the part anterior to the transverse fissure (fissure for the umbi- lical vein) is the remnant of the umbilical vein, which is called round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis). In the part behind the transverse fissure (fissure for the ductus venosus) is a small obliterated cord that remains from the ductus venosus of the foetus. The fissure or groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the cava be opened, the large hepatic veins will be seen entering it. Fossce. — On the under surface of the right lobe are these depressions : one for the gall-bladder, to the right of the square lobe; another for the colon, near the anterior part; and a third for the kidney, near the posterior part. Vessels of the transverse fissure.— The vessels lying in the transverse fissure, viz. vena portae, hepatic artery, and duct, have the following disposition :— the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. Hepatic duct. — The duct that conveys away the bile, is formed by two branches; these issue from the liver, one from each lobe, and are soon blended in a common tube or hepatic duct. After a distance of one inch and a half, the hepatic duct is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct. The hepatic artery is divided into two, one for each lobe, and its branches are surrounded by nerves and lymphatics. The vena portce branches, like the artery, into two trunks for the same lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe : its left branch is the longest. Fcetal condition of the umbilical vein.— In the longitudinal n n 3 fissures, viz. portal, or trans- verse. longitu- dinal ; one for the vena cava. Fosste beneath. Vessels in the trans- verse fissure; situation and branch- ing. In the longitu