INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES. 179 two of the lower cervical vertebrse. In contact with the anterior surface of this muscle is the pharynx. The inner border is at some distance, inferiorly, from the muscle of the opposite side, but, superiorly, only the pointed ante- rior common ligament of the spine separates the two. The outer border is contiguous to the scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. The rectus capitis anticus major is external to the preceding muscle, and is largest at its upper end. Its origin is by pointed tendinous slips from the summits of the transverse processes (parapophyses) of four cervical vertebras (sixth, fifth, fourth, and third); and the fibres ascend to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. The anterior surface of the muscle is covered by the pharynx, and by the carotid artery and the numerous nerves near the base of the skull. This muscle partly conceals the following one. At its in- sertion the rectus is fleshy, and reaches from the middle line to the temporal bone. The rectus capitis anticus minor is a small flat muscle, that arises from the transverse process (parapophysis), and partly from the body of the atlas ; and ascending is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, between the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve lies between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Dissection. — The small intertransversales will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing to- wards the spine the anterior primary branch of one of the cervical nerves, the muscles will be readily found, for they are placed on the sides of the nerve. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the vertebral artery. The intertransverse muscles are slender fleshy slips that occupy the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are seven pairs — one for each space. The first pair is between the atlas and the axis, whilst the last is between the last cervical, and the first dorsal vertebra. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the Parts in contact with it. Rectus capitis major. Origin. Inser- tion. Connec- tions. Rectus capitis minor is be- neath preced- ing. Dissec- tion. Inter- trans- verse muscles. Number and attach- ments.