VAGUS AND SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 529 b. The splenic plexus surrounds the splenic artery, and is con- splenic, ducted by it to the substance of the spleen. It furnishes offsets, like the artery, to the pancreas, and other nerves to the stomach along the left gastro-epiplo'fc artery. This plexus is joined by twigs from the left semilunar ganglion, and by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portae, the hepatic and artery, and the bile duct to the transverse fissure of the liver, hepatic> where it enters the liver and ramifies on the vessels. Whilst ascending in the small omentum, the plexus is joined on the left side by offsets from the left vagus and phrenic nerves. — (Swan.) Secondary plexuses are furnished around the branches of the The last hepatic artery, which have the same name and distribution as the second6-8 vessels. The following are these plexuses : — ary* A pyloric plexus accompanies the pyloric artery to the upper pyloric, border of the stomach. There are two other plexuses —gastro- 2^°' epiploic (right) and pancreaiico-duodenal, corresponding with the £ahloic branches of the* artery : the former meets nerves from the splenic pancre- plexus, and the latter communicates with the superior mesenteric * plexus on the end of the duodenum. A custic plexus is distributed and. ... r cystic. to the gall bladder with its artery. The remaining offsets of the solar plexus, viz. superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already described (p. 516,517,518.); but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Endinq of the splanchnic nerves.—The larqe nerve per- Ending y J r a 1 of large forates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends alto- spianch- gether in the semilunar ganglion, but it may give filaments nerve, to the renal plexus and the suprarenal body. The small small, nerve comes through the same opening in the diaphragm as the preceding, and ends in the coeliac plexus; but it enters the renal plexus if the smallest splanchnic nerve is absent. The smallest nerve, after piercing the diaphragm, joins the and _ _ smallest. renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve*—In the abdomen the pneumo- Ending gastric nerves end mostly in the stomach. The left divides vagus into branches, which extend over the front and along the small curvature of the stomach ; these join the sympathetic, and give offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is and distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach near the n8ht’ upper border, and communicates with its fellow, and with the coeliac and splenic plexuses. M M