486 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vessels in abdo- minal wall. Inter- costal arteries Internal mamma- ry. structure is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath, and is arched down on the inner side of that tube to be fixed to the bone. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen.— On the side of the abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries, with the intercostal nerves ; in the sheath of the rectus are the epigastric and internal mammary vessels ; and around the crest of the hip bone is the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries issue from the spaces between the ribs and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles : they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and anastomose with the internal mammary, epigastric, and lumbar arteries. Lumbar. Lumbar artery. — The vessel that accompanies the last dorsal nerve is furnished by the first lumbar artery. The internal mammary artery. — The abdominal branch of this vessel (p. 266.) enters the wall of the abdomen beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib. Descending for a short distance in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel enters the substance of that muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epi- gastric artery. The musculo-phrenic part of the same artery passes out- wards along the margin of the thorax to the last intercostal space : it appears on the under surface of the diaphragm at the ninth rib, and gives offsets to that muscle and the lower intercostal spaces. The epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, about a quarter of an inch above Poupart’s ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus above the umbilicus, and divides temai into branches that enter the muscle, and anastomose with the mary in internal mammary. In this course the vessel is first bent rectus, inwards, and ascends beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus Connec- over the defined border at the posterior aspect. As it courses w°iiso? to the rectus, the artery passes beneath the cord and on the men.* inner side of the internal abdominal ring; and is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, where it forms the outer boundary of a triangular space Muscu- lo-phre- nic. Epigas trie ar- tery anasto- moses and female, which 1 examined carefully, I found the deep arch to be formed only by a thickening of the fascia transversalis.