THE WALL OF THE THORAX. 265 neither stratum occupies the whole length of a space, for one are two • • layers in (the external) ceases in front at the costal cartilages, and the each space* other (internal) extends backwards only to the angle of the ribs. Their number, and their depth and size are determined by the intercostal spaces. And the direction of the fibres differs in each stratum; for, whilst those of the external muscle pass very obliquely downwards and forwards, those of the internal layer have an opposite though less oblique direction, so that the fibres cross. The external muscle is fixed to the outer margin of the outer ribs of the corresponding space, and consists of fleshy and laytr tendinous fibres. Posteriorly the fibres begin at or near the is defi- ~ cient an- tubercle of the rib, and anteriorly they end short of the middle terioriy; line, but after a different manner in the upper and lower spaces. In the intervals corresponding to the true ribs, they differ- cease near the cartilages, and a thin aponeurosis is continued above onwards from the point of ending to the sternum. In the below, lower spaces, the muscles are continued between the carti- lages (Theile), and in the last two they reach the ends of the ribs. Dissection.— The internal intercostal muscle will be seen Dissec- by cutting through and removing the external layer in one of the spaces, as for instance the second, where it is widest; the muscle will be recognised by the difference in the di- rection of the fibres. Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib above, the intercostal nerve and artery will be found. A branch of the nerve to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscular layer; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forwards in one or more spaces to the sternum and the surface of the thorax. The hinder part of these muscles will be seen in the dissection of the back, and of the thorax. The internal intercostal muscle is attached to the inner border of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. It begins in front at the anterior part of the space, and ceases behind near the angle of the ribs. Behind, the muscles do not end at the same distance from the spine, for the upper and lower approach nearer than the middle set; and, in front, in the two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface tion of deeper muscle. of nerves and vessels. Inner layer of the muscles deficient poste- riorly ; joins internal oblique below.