DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 624 the ureters. Trigone of the bladder; how bound- ed; part cor- respond- ing ex- ternally. To ex- pose muscles of ure- ters. Muscular fibres of ureters. Arte- ries; veins; nerves. openings of the ureters. These excretory tubes for the urine perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of half an inch, and therefore the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended: they terminate on each side by a contracted slit-like opening in the centre of a prominence. Triangular surface. — Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra is a smooth triangularly-shaped part of the bladder, which is named trigone (trigonum vesicae). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters; or its boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one behind be- tween the ureters. This space corresponds with the interval at the base of the bladder, between the prostate in front and the vesiculse and vasa deferentia on the sides; and over it the mucous coat is closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds found in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. — The ending of the ureters will come into view on the removal of the mucous membrane from the lower third of the bladder: the fibres are best marked in a muscular bladder. Ending of the ureters.—As soon as the ureter pierces the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are thus disposed: — the more internal and strongest are directed transversely, and join with the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube, whilst the remainder are directed down over the triangular space and join the submucous layer.* Bloodvessels and nerves. — The source of the vesical arteries, and the termination of the veins are before detailed (p. 609. 613.). In the bladder the vessels are disposed in greatest number about its base and neck. Most of the nerves that are distributed to the bladder, though supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 616.), are derived directly from the spinal nerves. * Trans, of Med. Chir. Society, 1856. Sir C. Bell described these fibres as distinct muscles for the purpose of acting on the opening of the ureter. See the Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. iii. : “ Account of the Muscles of the Ureters.”