DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 To free it, direc- tion of the in- cision. Terras applied to the inguinal hernia from its position. Two va- rieties ; from the na- ture of the peri- toneal sacs. Internal hernia comes behind external ring. It passes through a trian- gular space, which is strength- ened in part by conjoin- ed ten- don. is usually placed at one or another of the’ rings, though most commonly at the inner. Whilst efforts are being made to force back the piece of protruded intestine, the direction of the canal and the situation of the internal abdominal ring should be borne in mind. Supposing the stricture to be in the neck of the sac. so as to render necessary the opening of the sac and the division of the strictured part from within, the incision should be made directly upwards. Designations. — This kind of hernia has other names sometimes applied to it by surgeons, according as it has passed certain points in the wall of the abdomen. If the protrusion remains in the inguinal canal, the term bubonocele is applied to the swelling; but if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation of scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to it. Varieties of the hernia. — There are two varieties of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the con- dition of the peritoneal covering. For, if the piece of the peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle from the abdo- men in the fetus, remains unobliterated, so that the intestine descends in it without protruding any fresh piece of the serous membrane, the hernia is called congenital: and should the prolongation of the peritoneum be only partly obliterated, say in the inguinal canal, so that the descending intestine, invested by a separate peritoneal covering, projects into or behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane, the hernia is named infantile. The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia passes through the wall of the abdomen internal to the epigastric artery, and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes and the external abdominal ring. Its situation and cover- ings, and the seat of stricture, will be better comprehended after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which the hernia passes. Anatomy. — At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a small triangular space between the epigastric artery on one side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and the inner half of Poupart’s ligament below. Over the inner two thirds of the area of the space the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis is stretched, as it descends to its insertion into the pectineal line ; but at the