REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 13 to harden the texture, and methylated spirit may be used the on account of its cheapness. To allow the spirit to reach r‘*u the interior of the ventricles, the upper part of each hemi- sphere is to be cut off nearly to the level of the corpus cal- losum ; and then each lateral ventricle is to! be opened by a longitudinal incision, about two inches long, near the inner margin of the divided hemisphere, and about mid- way from before back. Now placing the brain upside down on a piece of calico long enough to wrap over it, set it aside in the spirit, together with the top of one hemi- sphere. Its examination. — At the end of one day the dissector Exami- nation of should return to the examination of the other membranes it. and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from all the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves. Finally, the brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The its de- 1 scrip- description of the brain will be found after that of the head tion. and neck. Directions.—After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of Djrec- the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull, should be proceeded with. Let the head be raised to a convenient height, and the tentorium be fastened in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull, whilst studying the following parts. Dura mater.—At the base of the cranium the dura mater Dura is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the base of skull • top of the skull. Here it dips into the different inequalities on the osseous surfaces; it also sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericra- nium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the its pro- examination in front, the student will find the membrane tions sending a prolongation into the foramen cascum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure, a large process enters the orbit, and a covering is continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. After lining the sella and con- Turcica, the dura mater adheres closely to the basilar process to bone, of the occipital bone; and it may be traced into the spinal