DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 334 the heart: fibrous andmus cular. Fibrous bands form rings around auriculo- ventri cular open- ings. and around arterial open- ings. To these last the > igmoid valves, and mid- dle coat of the artery are fixed. Muscu- lar sub- stance of heart ] is dis- tinct in auricles and ven- tricles. fibres, and of certain fibrous rings which serve as fixed points for their attachment. These structures must be studied on a separate heart; or on that of the ox or sheep, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue de- stroyed by boiling, so that the fibres can be separated. The description of the structure of the heart may therefore be omitted till a fit preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo- ventricular and arterial orifices, and sends prolongations into the valves connected with those openings. a. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the muscular fibres both of the auricles and ventricles, as well as to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves. These bands are distinct from those encircling the arterial mouths, except at the right part of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and the arterial circles are blended. b. An arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and pulmonary), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment to the muscular fibres and the semilunar valves. Each is a circular band, with an uninterrupted margin towards the ventricle, and a toothed or wavy margin towards the artery. This last margin has three notches, which are filled by corresponding projections of the artery, and give attach- ment, internally, to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in the following manner: — The middle coat presents three projecting convex pieces, that are received into and con- nected with the notches of the fibrous ring, but most inti- mately with the points; and the union between the two is strengthened externally by the parts around the vessel, and internally by the endocardium. The muscular substance forms concentric bands of fibres, which are arranged mostly in a circular or spiral direction, and enclose the different cardiac cavities. In the wall of the auricles the fibres are quite distinct from those in the ven- tricles, though both sets are attached to the fibrous circles around the cardiac orifices, as to a common point of origin or insertion. Some of the fibres enter the bases of the auriculo-ventricular valves. The fibres belong to the class