309 PALMAR MUSCLE AND FASCIA. Cutaneous palmar nerves.— Two named cutaneous nerves ramify Two cu- in the palm of the hand. a. One of these is an offset of the median p^mar3 nerve (p. 306.), and crosses the annular ligament: it extends to nerves- about the middle of the palm, and is connected with the palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. A few filaments of this nerve are fur- One of wished to the ball of the thumb, b. The other palmar branch is ™ hereof derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 305.) ; it has been already traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and it may be now observed as far as its distribution in the palm. Some unnamed twigs are furnished to the integument from both Some the median and ulnar nerves in the hand. twigs. The palmaris brevis is a small subcutaneous muscle, Paimaris brevis is about an inch and a half wide, whose fibres are collected subcu- into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle and ends lies over the ulnar artery and nerve. After it has been "kin.e examined, it may be thrown inwards. The palmar fascia, or aponeurosis, consists of a central J*alljnar and two lateral parts; but the latter, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a separate notice. The central part is a strong, white, shining layer, which is its cen- pointed at the wrist; but is expanded towards the fingers, tra) part where it covers nearly the width of the hand. Posteriorly this portion of the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and an- teriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued ends in a forwards, one for each finger, and form part of the sheaths Seif °r of the tendons. At the point of separation of the processes ° * one from another some transverse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle and the digital artery and nerve that appear at this spot. From the four pieces into which the fascia divides, a few superficial longitudinal and the . •. ° skin. fibres are prolonged to the integument near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. — To follow one of the processes of the fascia Dissec- to its termination, the superficial fibres must be first removed, and it must be then divided longitudinally, by inserting the knife beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the processes. — The process of the fascia may Deep be seen to send downwards an offset on each side of the