224 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. how formed has a large end and jagged border. Dissec- tion. Struc- ture of hippo- campus. Great trans- verse fissure is be- neath fornix and cor- pus cal- losum, and reaches ‘ surface by a medullary layer which is continued to the cor- pus callosum. When it is cut across a gray stratum will be found beneath the white; and the eminence itself seems to be produced by the extension inwards of the sulcus at the pos- terior part of the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 216.). The hippocampus major is the curved projection in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Con- vex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its con- cavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the largest, and presents two or three indentations, which give it the appearance of the foot of a carnivorous animal, hence the designation pes hippocampi. Along the inner or concave margin is the small band or taenia that is prolonged from the fornix; and beneath that band is a thin layer of gray matter, with a notched border, which lias been named fascia dentata. Dissection. — To examine more fully the hippocampus, the parts of the corpus callosum and fornix, that remain in the middle line, should be divided, and the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere should be drawn backwards. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hip- pocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its struc- ture will be manifest. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a medullary investment, in which the tienia, or the band of the fornix ends. On the opposite aspect this body is hollowed, and contains gray matter from the surface of the brain. Along the free margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. — By drawing the separated hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus (the central parts of the cerebrum), and then replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position, and the boundaries of the great cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure is placed beneath the fornix, and extends downwards, on each side, from the middle line to the end of the descending cornu. It is bounded on the one side by the fornix and the hemisphere, and on the other by the pe- duncle of the cerebrum. Through this great slit the pia