322 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. is super- viz. from before backwards. ncial, nator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. surface to the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened over the others, and its edges have an opposite direction, Near its insertion the supi- Along its inner border, below the elbow, is the radial artery; and above the joint, it is in contact with the brachialis anticus. Beneath this muscle are found the extensors of the wrist, the radial nerve, and the radius. The extensor carpi radialis longior arises from the lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and asking^ from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum. as the preced- ing. and limits hollow in front of the elbow. Exten- sor carpi longus Inser- tion. Exten- sor carpi brevis is con- The muscle descends on the short radial extensor; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border is the radial nerve. The extensor carpi radialis brevior is attached to the orbicular ligament of the radius ; and to the outer condyle of tained in the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the three follow- the foie- . _ arm. mg muscles, viz. the common extensor ot the lingers, the extensor of the little finger, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist: it also takes origin from aponeuroses on its under and inner sides. The tendon of the muscle is closely con- nected with the preceding, and after passing with it through inser- the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into me- into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. tacarpal bone. Concealed by the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and on some of the muscles attached to it, that is to say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres. Along the inner side is the common extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb come out between the two. Both the radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at their insertion. common The extensor communis digitorum is single at its origin, extensor ...... c . ° muscle, hut is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from thegfore- the common tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and arra' the muscles around, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle. Escaping from the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all Has a common origin with three follow- ing.