238 DISSECTION OF TIIE BRAIN. sure 6f cerebel- lum. Inferior pedun- cle. Fibres ofmiddle pedun- cle, of upper. the same office as the corpus callosum does for the cerebrum, viz. to serve as a commissural or connecting piece. c. The inferior peduncle (processus ad medullam) passes downwards to the medulla oblongata, and forms part of the restiform body. Its fibres are connected chiefly with the laminae of the upper surface of the cerebellum. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Course of the fibres.— The fibres issuing in the peduncles from the cerebellar hemisphere connect this with its fellow, with the cerebrum, and with the spinal cord of the same side. The description already given of the middle peduncle, both here and with the pons, will suffice for its fibres. The fibres of the upper peduncle are continued into the crus cerebri, and thus form part of the diverging cerebral set of fibres; but before they reach their final destination there is a partial decussation with the fibres of the opposite peduncle, so that some from the right half of the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cerebrum, and vice versa. and The fibres of the lower peduncle enter the cord, and con- ° cr nect the cerebellum with all three portions of the half of the medulla oblongata of the same side; and so, indirectly, with all the corresponding half of the cord, except the small pos- terior median column : for fibres connect it with the anterior pyramid, with the lateral tract or column, and with the resti- form body. Corpus The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the tum. white fibres of the cerebellum, and resembles in structure suua- that jn the corpus olivare of the medulla oblonjrata. This tion and r e body measures three fourths of an inch from before back- wards, and is situate near the inner part of the white centre. It consists of a small capsule which, when cut across, appears as a thin, wavy, grayish-yellow line; this bag is open at the anterior part, and encloses a nucleus of whitish matter. Through its anterior aperture issues a band of fibres from the nucleus to join the superior peduncle. Disscc- Dissection.—One other section must be made to show the fourth ventricle and the structure of the vermiform process. Let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform process (the cerebellum still resting on its under surface), and then, on separating the halves of the cere-