DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 484 Cover- ings. In fe- male round li gament is in place of cord. Dissec- tion. Consti- tuents ( the cord. Sperma- tic ar- tery; veins. Artery and nerve of the co- verings of the cord. Nerves. Its several coverings are derived from the different strata in the wall of the abdomen, except from the transversalis muscle. Thus, in proceeding from within outwards, the student will find the following layers around the constituents of the cord: — first the subperitoneal fat, then the tube of the fascia transversalis, next the cremaster muscle — conti- nuous with the internal oblique, afterwards the intercolumnar fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round-ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, except it wants usually the cremaster. Dissection. — The constituents of the cord will be dis- played by turning aside the different surrounding layers, and removing the connective tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteric covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord.— In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and veins that convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis; nerves and lym- phatics of the testicle ; and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. The spermatic artery is a branch of the aorta. It enters the cord through the internal abdominal ring, and descends to the testis, in which it ends : it distributes branches to the vas deferens and the epididymis. In the female, a branch from the ovarian artery (spermatic ?) enters the round liga- ment. The spermatic veins leave the posterior part of the testicle, and receive branches from the epididymis : ascend- ing in the cord, in front of the vas deferens, they divide and anastomose, and form the spermatic plexus. The cremasteric covering of the cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the cremasteric branch of the epigastric (p. 487.), and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The genital branch of the genito- crural nerve enters the cord by the internal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Other filaments to the coverings of the cord come from the ilio-inguinal nerve. The nerves of the testicle are derived from the spermatic plexus of the sympathetic in the abdomen ; they accompany