FLOOR OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE. 223 matter of considerable thickness, which is surrounded by the white substance of the hemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its position is oblique with re- spect to the middle line of the brain, for the anterior partis near the septum of the ventricles, whilst the posterior part is external to the optic thalamus. By means of the incision that has been made into the corpus striatum, white fibres can be seen to be directed through it in such a way as to divide the mass of gray matter into two parts, — one being situate in the ventricle (intraventricular) above the white fibres, and the other outside the ventricular space, below those fibres (extraventricular). a. The intraventricular part (nucleus caudatus) of the striate body is pear-shaped, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed forwards, is large and rounded ; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum. b. The extraventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will be best seen, afterwards, by sections made from the outer side or from below. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent dissection will show. The tcenia semicircular is is a thin white band of longitu- dinal fibres, that lies between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. In front this band becomes broad, and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind, it is continued, along with the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white substance of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the toenia is a yellowish semi-transparent layer (lamina cornea), and beneath this some veins pass in their course to the veins of Galen. The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage of the dissection, and its examination may be omitted till after the third ventricle has been learnt. The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock’s spur as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is pointed at its posterior extremity, and is covered on the free position; is divided into two parts by white fibres. One part in the ventri- cle. the other outside that cavity. Tamia semicir- cularis ends in inferior cornu. Optic thalamus Hippo- campus in pos- terior cornu ;