637 THE UTERUS. visceral branches of the internal iliac. The veins, corresponding Veins with the arteries, form a plexus around the vagina, as well as in piexi- tlie external or genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves see page 617. Glands of Bartholine. — On the outer part of the vagina, T]wo1 near the aperture at the lower end, are two small yellowish anaio- i i • J . £ous to glandular bodies, one on each side, which correspond with Cow- Cowper’s glands in the male. Each is about the size of a small bean ; it is provided with a duct, that is directed forwards to open on the inner aspect of the nympha of its own side of the body. THE UTERUS. The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriped mus- uterus: cular fibres. Its office is to receive and retain for a fixed tion; period the developing ovum. This viscus, in the virgin state, is pear-shaped, or rather form; triangular in consequence of the body being flattened, and presents inferiorly a rounded narrow part or neck. Devia- tions from the standard shape will be found in this organ in how cllctll <*G(1 the infant state, where the neck is larger than the body; and in the aged female, in whom there is little separation between the same two parts. Commonly the uterus measures about three inches in Dimen- length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the specification here made of them. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum: upper the term fundus is applied to the part of the organ above the end' attachment of the Fallopian tube. The lower end is small and The rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication endTs between the uterus and the vagina, named os uteri (os tincce),sma11; whose margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and opening, posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted, and this diminished portion is called the neck of the uterus (cervix Neck; uteri); it is surrounded by the vagina, and is covered by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. It is about half an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the ex-