772 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. but very close in- ternally. Struc- ture of ciliary pro- cesses. Pigmen- tary layer formed of cells that con- tain the pigment. Occa- sionally pigment absent. Ciliary liga- ment. Situa- tion. Connec- tions with other parts. Fibres. Ciliary muscle. where the vessels form a close plexus, the pigment cells are wanting in it. In the inner layer the vessels form a net- work of capillaries with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is some- times described as a separate layer (tunica Ruyschiana). In the ciliary processes there is also a texture of ramified bloodvessels though with larger capillary meshes ; and the intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter to- wards the tips of the folds. The 'pigmentary membrane (choroidal epithelium). — On the inner surface of the choroid coat and ciliary processes is a pigmentary lining. This structure is easily detached ; it consists in great part of a single stratum of six-sided nu- cleated cells with granular contents, which are applied to each other by their edges. It has this constitution as far forwards as the ciliary processes, but in front of that line it is several layers deep, and the cells are rounded. In the eye of the ox the colouring matter is absent from the cells in the bottom of the eye, and allows some fibrous tissue of the cho- roid (tapetum) to shine through it; and in the albino the pigment is altogether deficient in the cells, so that the vessels give a red appearance to the interior of the eye. This dark layer absorbs the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball. Ciliary Ligament and Muscle.—In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary ligament (annulus albidus), with the muscle close behind it, may be seen in its natural position outside the part of the choroid coat that is reflected inwards to form the ciliary processes. Ciliary ligament. — This narrow circle (about ^th of an inch thick) is situate in the ball of the eye nearly opposite the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic tunic, and serves the purpose of uniting the other coats at the fore part of the eye. Externally it is closely connected with the sclerotic, but a small interval the sinus circularis iridis exists between the two. Its fibres are circular; they are stiff, and resemble those of elastic tissue in their properties. The ciliary muscle consists of unstriated fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about -^th of an inch wide, on the surface