281 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. to the scapula and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is continued to forms the forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone muscu- around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of septa, the humerus. Its attachments to those lines of the humerus give rise to the two intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions. — As the back of the arm will not be first dis- Direc- sected, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has be oh- k " r served. been examined. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, they should be tied together with string, as nearly as may be in their natural position, and then fastened to the coracoid process. Position. — The limb is still to lie on the back, but the Position upper part is to be raised by means of a small block beneath the scapula, and this bone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissection. — The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the Dissec- front of the arm by an incision along the centre, like that muscles through the integuments; and it is to be removed, on the sell veS~ outer side, as far as the line of the humerus leading to the outer condyle, but on the inner side, rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle, and care must be taken not to displace the brachial artery and the nerves that are with it. Muscles on the Front of the Arm. — The most promir Position nent muscle along the centre of the arm is the biceps ; and muscles the one along its inner side, reaching about half way down, arm.c is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus muscle is beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are con- nected to the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as to the line above the outer condyle. The biceps muscle forms the prominence observable on Biceps the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at short either end; and the upper part of the muscle consists of two head!°ns tendinous pieces or heads, of different lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head arises from the origin apex of the coracoid process in common with the coraco- scapula.6 brachialis muscle; and the long head is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder joint. Muscular fibres spring from