DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 614 those that are peculiar are fourth. which gives visceral and muscu- lar off- sets ; fifth is below aper- tures in sacrum. ends on coccyx. Coccy- geal nerve. Sacral plexus j situation and form. are large trunks, the last two are small and slender. Issuing by the apertures in the front of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted), the nerves receive short filaments of communi- cation from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves, and part of the fourth, enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. The peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerve, may be noticed before the plexus formed by the other nerves is learnt. The fourth nerve divides into two parts, as above stated : one communicates with the sacral plexus ; the other distri- butes the following branches to the viscera and the surround- ing muscles, and joins the fifth nerve. a. The visceral branches supply chiefly the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come from the third sacral nerve. b. The muscular branches are three in number. One rather long branch enters the levator ani on its visceral as- pect ; another supplies the coccygeus ; and the third reaches the perineum by piercing the coccygeus muscle. (See page 448.) The fifth nerve comes forwards from the lower end of the spinal canal through the coccygeus muscle. As soon as it appears in the pelvis it receives the communicating branch from the fourth nerve; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle near the tip of the coccyx, to end on the posterior surface of the bone. The coccygeal nerve (sixth sacral), after leaving the lower end of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve in the manner above stated. Sacral Plexus. — This plexus is a large flat band, in which are united the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral nerve. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, and beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery. From the spot where the nerves join, the plexus becomes gradually smaller to- wards the lower end; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyri- formis, terminates in branches for the lower limb.