DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 174 Arytffi- noid car- tilages. Situa- tion and form. Base. Apex. Three surfaces. Two carti- lages of Santo- rini. Two cu- neiform carti- lages. Epiglot- tis. Form and po- sition. Sur- faces. the arytsenoid cartilage; but in front of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excavation in each border. The arytcenoid cartilages are two in number, one on each side of the middle line, and are placed on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each cartilage is pyramidal in shape, and others for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed surface posteriorly for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated an- teriorly by means of a process which gives attachment to the vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and some- what inwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of San- torini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat; but the outer is wide and irregular: on this last surface there is a smaller projection that receives the inser- tion of some of the muscles. At the posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. — Attached to the apex of each arytaenoid cartilage is the small, conical fibro-cartilaginous body of Santorini (corniculum-capitulum Santorini), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytagno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages.— Two other small fibro-cartilagi- nous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the arytaeno-epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and circular in form, like a grain of rice; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytasnoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. The epiglottis is the largest of the pieces of yellow carti- lage. In form it resembles a leaf, with the stalk below, and the lamina or expanded part above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during deglutition it assumes a horizontal direction, so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it is connected by three folds of mucous membrane; and the posterior surface is hollowed from side to side, but