612 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Middle sacral, which has lateral offsets. Internal iliac vein : veins uniting in it; position to its artery. Its branches that are peculiar are pudic vein. dorsal vein of penis, | From the point of the division of the trunk these branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and finally end in about six branches, which enter the gut three inches from the end, and terminate in anastomotic loops opposite the inner sphincter: they anastomose with the other vessels, viz. the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries. The middle sacral artery, a small branch from the bifur- cation of the aorta, descends along the middle line of the body, over the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, and the coccyx, and terminates at the lower part of the spinal column, by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries. In its course the artery gives small branches laterally, opposite each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and supply the nerves, and the bones with their periosteum. Sometimes a small branch is fur- nished by it to the lower end of the rectum, which takes the place of the middle haemorrhoidal artery. The internal iliac vein receives the blood from the wall of the pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corre- sponding for the most part with those of the arteries. The vein is a short and thick trunk, which is situate at first on the inner side of the internal iliac artery ; but as it ascends to join with the external iliac it passes behind, and on the right side reaches even the outer aspect of its companion artery. Some of the branches that form the trunk of the internal iliac vein, viz. the gluteal, obturator, and sciatic, have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the following visceral branches, the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and haemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculi- arities. The pudic vein receives roots corresponding with the branches of the artery in the perinaeum, but not those cor- responding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. Its haemorrhoidal branch commences in a large plexus around the lower end of the rectum (plexus haemor- rhoidalis) with which the superior haemorrhoidal vein com- municates. The dorsal vein of the penis receives vessels from the body of the penis, viz. the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra,