DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 490 Bound- aries next surface. Next the abdomi- nal ca- vity. Flooring and roof of the canaL Canal in the fe- male. Internal abdomi- nal ring. Situa- tion. Upper and inner bound- ary. Form and margin. of the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and infe- riorly ends on the surface at the external abdominal ring. Towards the surface of the body the canal is bounded by the two oblique muscles though unequally : — thus in the outer third of its extent (half an inch) it is formed by both oblique muscles; but at the inner or lower two thirds (one inch) it is bounded in front only by the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Superficial to these muscular parts, or towards the surface, are the skin and fat. Next the cavity of the abdomen the wall of the canal is constructed by the fascia transversalis, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis in this wise: — the fascia reaches all the distance, like the external oblique; and the conjoined tendon, with the fascia transversalis behind it, extends an inch below along the posterior boundary. Deeper than the fascia are the subperitoneal fat and the pe- ritoneum, corresponding with the skin and superficial fascia on the outer surface. Occasionally the triangular ligament projects far enough outwards behind the external abdominal ring, to take part in the formation of the posterior Avail of the canal. Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by the union of the fascia transversalis with Pou- part’s ligament, and by the fibres of the ligament that turn back to the pectineal line ; whilst along the upper part its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles. In the female, the canal has the same length and bound- aries, though it is usually somewhat smaller. In that sex it lodges the round ligament. The internal abdominal ring is an aperture in the fascia transversalis, which is situate half Avay between the sym- physis pubis and the iliac crest, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. Arching above the aperture, and then descending on the inner side, is the lower border of the transversalis muscle ; this is fleshy at the outer, but ten- dinous at the inner half. On the inner side of the opening lies the epigastric artery. It is oval in form, the extrem- ities of the oval being directed upwards and downwards, and the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite side. This opening in the fascia trans- versalis is the inlet to the inguinal canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into the wall of the