DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 800 at one end,and contain a fluid. Smaller sac is be- fore the other, Do the two join ? Wall of the sac has three strata. Otoliths are grains o; lime. Blood- vessels of the mem- brane. Internal audi. tory artery has a branch to mem- branous sacs; two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy : they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the endolymphic fluid of that sac. At each am- pullary enlargement there is in the interior a transverse pro- jection into the cavity, and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. The saccule is a smaller and a rounder cyst than the utricle, and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemi- spherica. Like the larger sac, it has a translucent wall, in which is an otolith opposite the entrance of the nerve ; it is also filled by endolymph. It is doubtful whether the two sacs communicate. Structure of the sacs. — The wall of the membranous labyrinth is translucent and firm ; but it is more opaque where the vessels and nerves enter it. Three strata enter into the construction of the membrane, together with blood- vessels and nerves. The outer covering is loose and floccu- lent, and easily detached, and contains irregular pigment cells with ramifying bloodvessels. The middle stratum is clear and tough, and appears like cartilage, or, where it is thin, like the hyaloid membrane of the eyeball (Todd and Bowman). And the inner one is formed by a layer of polygonal nucleated cells, which are easily separated from one another. The small calcareous masses, or the otoliths, consist of minute rounded and elongated grains of carbonate of lime which are situate in the inner part of the wall of the utricle and saccule. Within the enlargement of each semicircular tube a calcareous material (otolith) is contained in the cells lining it. — (Todd and Bowman.) Bloodvessels. — The' membranes of the labyrinthic cavity receive their blood from an artery that’ enters the internal auditory meatus with the nerve. The veins are united into one, and end in the superior petrosal sinus. The internal auditory artery arises from the basilar trunk within the skull (p. 190.), and enters the internal meatus with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches — one for the vestibule, the other for the cochlea. a. The branch to the vestibule, after piercing the wall of the cavity, subdivides into small branches, which ramify over