723 POSTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through an aper- ture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is directed in front of the fibula to the dorsum and the outer part of the foot: on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. A communicating offset near the ankle joint joins in an arch, as before mentioned, with a similar branch of the posterior tibial; sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities in the arteries. — The posterior tibial artery may be smaller than usual, or absent; its place will then be supplied below in the foot by a large peroneal artery, which will be directed in- wards at the lower end of the tibia, and either join the small tibial vessel, or run alone to the sole of the foot. The peroneal artery may arise from the popliteal, or from the anterior tibial artery. And its anterior peroneal branch may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot as in those of the hand, by means of which the deficiency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The posterior tibial veins begin on the inner side of the foot by the union of the plantar veins : they ascend, one on each side of their artery, and unite with the anterior tibial trunks at the lower border of the popliteus, to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the offsets of the artery: branches con- nect them also with the saphenous veins. The posterior tibial nerve is a continuation of the internal popliteal, and reaches, like the artery, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular liga- ment or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its con- nections with surrounding parts are the same as those of the artery; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side of the posterior tibial artery above the origin of the peroneal offset, but on the outer side thence to the termination. Its lateral branches are chiefly muscular. Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either at separate points along the trunk, or together from the internal popliteal nerve. There is an offset for each muscle, except the popliteus, but the branch for the tibialis is the largest, and that for the flexor pollicis lies on the peroneal artery. 3 a 2 Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Commu- nicating. Size of tibial ' changes. Origin and end. ing of pero- neal vary. Substi- tutions. Pos- terior tibial veins. Poste- rior tibial nerve. Extent and con- nections. Position to the artery. Branch- es. Muscu- lar to the deep flexors.