79 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 3. Muscular branches are furnished to the recti muscles ; these arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the trunks of the other nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. 4. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the first two nerves to the sympathetic, and to the cranial nerves near the base of the skull: these will be afterwards described. B. External or Posterior Series.—1. Muscular branches are given from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapulae; and from the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. 2. Connecting branches with the spinal accessory nerve. — The communications between this cranial and the spinal nerves are nu- merous. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and, lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with those branches that are distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. Branch- es to recti. Branch- es to other nerves. Branch- es to muscles, Branch- es join- ing spi- nal ac- cessory. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the leading vessel for the Common supply of blood to the neck and head, and is remarkable in artery, not furnishing collateral branches. The origin of the vessel is different on opposite sides of the body, being on the right, at the lower part of the neck, and on the left side, in the thorax. The vessel of the right side commences opposite the origin, sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the inno- minate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into the two trunks before seen, viz., external and internal carotid. The course of the artery is Course, along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverg- ing from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx; and its position will be situa- marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to f °n a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia, with the internal jugular vein to the outside, and the pneumo- gastric nerve between the two, the carotid artery has the following connections with the surrounding parts:—As high rartsco- as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is vennglt* concealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma and fasciae, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid,