DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 562 Testes situated in the scrotum and en- veloped by a serous sac. To see the serous sac. Serous bag partly covers the tes- ticle, and lines scrotum. Its vis- ceral part. and pa- rietal. Testicle oval. Margins. Bodies on the testicle. THE TESTES. The testes are two glandular organs for the secretion of the semen, and are lodged in the scrotum. Each is suspended by the spermatic cord and its coverings (p. 483 ), but the left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac surrounds partly each organ. Dissection.—For the purpose of examining the serous covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make an aperture into it and inflate it. The surface of both the sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned, and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis is a serous bag, which is continuous with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen in the foetus, but becomes subsequently a distinct sac, in consequence of the obliteration of the tube that connected the two. It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes; for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by it, and yet not in the enclosed cavity. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and pro- jects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vagin. testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly where the vessels enter or leave it, and is inseparably united with the special fibrous coat of the viscus. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and passes between the testis and the arched body (epi- didymis) that lies on this aspect of the organ. The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the immediately contiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and position of the testis. — The testicle is oval in shape, wdth a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. The anterior margin is convex ; and the posterior, which is flatter, is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer part of the testis is the epididymis, or the convoluted part of the excretory duct