77 BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the middle scalenus; and the last cervical and first dorsal are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus; so that they are combined at first into three cords. Near the attach- ment of the middle scalenus to the rib, the seventh nerve throws itself into the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus: — the one formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; and the other, by the eighth cervical and the first dorsal nerve. These two trunks accompany the subclavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla, where they are more intimately blended. Branches. — The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in the muscles of the lower part of the neck, and in those of the chest and shoulder; whilst the other set consist of the terminal branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be referred to. Branches above the Clavicle.— 1. Branch to the phrenic nerve. This offset comes from the trunk of the fifth cervical nerve, and joins the phrenic on the anterior scalenus muscle. 2. The branch to the subclavius muscle is a very slender twig, that arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under- surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. 3. The branch for the rhomboid muscle springs from the fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, and perforates the fibres of that muscle ; it is afterwards directed beneath the levator anguli scapulae to its destination. Branches are usually given from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulae. 4. The posterior thoracic nerve (nerve of the serratus, external respiratory nerve of Bell) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and six nerves, near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on the axillary surface. 5. Branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles.—These are small twigs that are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided; they arise from the trunks of the nerves as soon as these leave the spinal canal. 6. The suprascapular nerve is larger than either of the others. tion of nerves in the plex- us in the neck. Branch- es. in the neck are: To phrenic nerve. Nerve of subcla- vius, Nerve of rhom- boideus. Nerve of serratus, Nerves of scale- ni and longus colli. Supra-