DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 540 Defini- tion of caecum: length and width ; The caecum, or the head of the colon (caput caecum coli), is the rounded part of the large intestine which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and, though gradually narrowing inferiorly, the caecum is the iieCumes widest Part °f the colon,—hence the name caput coli. and ap- pendix. At Vermi- form ap- pendix ; attach- ment ; dimen- sions : It is hollow. Dry the caecum, its inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and still lower there is a small worm-like projection—the vermiform appendix. Appendix vermiformis.— This little convoluted projection is attached to the lower and posterior part of the caecum, of which it was the direct continuation at one period in the growth of the embryo. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is con- nected to the inner part of the caecum by a fold of perito- neum. It is hollow, and has an aperture of communication with the intestine. In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dissection. —To study the interior of the caecum, and the and open valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen now it to S66 the under examination should be dried. After the caecum has valves* been dried the following cuts should be made into it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the ileum near its termination; another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine ; and lastly the end of the colon in- cluded in the ligature is to be cut off. Ileo-ccecal valve.— On looking into the intestine, the ileo- caecal valve will be seen at the entrance of the ileum into the caecum. It is composed of two pieces, each with a dif- ferent inclination, which project into the interior of the caecum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of communication between the two differently-sized parts of one iieo- the alimentary canal. The upper piece of the valve (ileo- colic, . . ...... colic) projects vertically into the large intestine, opposite the other the junction of the ileum with the colon: and the lower cfficai. piece (ileo-caecal), which is the larger of the two, has a hori- These zontal direction between the ileum and the caecum. At each edeat°th’e extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together, and the resulting folds extend transversely for and form SOme distance on the intestine, forming the freena or reti- Opening nacula of the valve. The size of the opening in the valve Situation of the valve; two pieces form it;