272 DISSECTION OF TIIE UPPER LIMB. anterior and poste- rior. One cir- cumflex nerve has cu- taneous, muscu- lar, and articular branch- es. Infra- spinatus muscle arises from fossa of that name ; Insert- ion. are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position on the neck of the humerus. The anterior branch is a small artery that courses trans- versely outwards, beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and anastomoses in front of the humerus with branches of the posterior circumflex. As it crosses the bicipital groove it sends upwards a branch to the articula- tion and the head of the humerus. • The posterior circumflex artery is larger in size, and arises opposite the border of the subscapular muscle. It winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromial thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the head of the humerus and the shoulder joint, and to anastomose with the anterior circumflex artery. It supplies branches like- wise to the teres minor, and the long head of the triceps. The circumflex nerve, at its origin (p. 262.), is placed beneath the axillary artery, and leaves the axilla by turning round the border of the subscapular muscle, with the artery of the same name. Behind the neck of the humerus the nerve divides into two parts, that supply the surrounding muscles, the integuments, and the shoulder joint: — One branch turns forwards beneath the deltoid nearly to the anterior border, and ends in the muscle, with the excep- tion of one or two cutaneous filaments that pierce the fibres. The other branch gives an offset to the teres minor muscle, which is remarkable in having a gangliform swelling on it, and then becomes cutaneous over the deltoid (p. 270.), after supplying the posterior part of this muscle. Before the cir- cumflex nerve bifurcates it gives an articular filament to the under part of the shoulder joint. The infraspinatus muscle occupies the infraspinal part of the scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus. The muscle arises from all the infraspinal fossa of the scapula, except at the neck of the bone, and at the inferior border and the lower angle where the teres muscles are attached ; it also arises from the lower side of the spinous process, and from the special fascia covering its surface. Its fibres con- verge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle impres- sion on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins with