INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 477 parts that are covered by the internal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. The CREMASTER MUSCLE is a fasciculus of fibres, which Cremas- lies along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, cie mus" and is so named from suspending the testicle. The muscle has attachments above, at the inner and outer sides, similar to those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and is attached to Poupart’s ligament below, and in part beneath Attach- the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres are con- external nected, and it may also ioin the transversalis; but inter- fleshy> ’ J J . . internal nally it is small and pointed, and is fixed, chiefly by tendon, tench- . n o 11 s y to the front of the pubes and the sheath of the rectus. Between those two points the fibres descend on the front forms and sides of the cord, forming loops with the convexity over the downwards ; and the lowest loops are connected with the tunica vaginalis testis. The muscular fibres are united by giving . ° . . . . ^ rise to connective tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front cremas- ® ° . teric of the cord, which is named fascia cremasterica. Occasion- fascia, ally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Dissection. — On the left side of the body the student is in left J . groin < not to make any further dissection of the abdominal wall; replace J parts. but the parts that have been reflected in the groin should be carefully replaced, until the examination of those parts in connection with hernia is returned to.1 On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by on right the reflection of the internal oblique and the cremaster, abdomen reflect The last muscle may be reflected from the cord by means of cremas- a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal oblique, it internal will be necessary to cut it through near the ribs, and near obhque" the crest of the hip bone, and then to connect those incisions behind : its depth will be indicated by a fatty layer between it and the transversalis. In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, the student must separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transversalis, with which they are often conjoined ; and must dissect out the trunks of the intercostal nerves and arteries, the last dorsal nerve, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) near the front of the crest of the hip-bone ; the offsets of the intercostals that enter the muscle must be cut.