CUTANEOUS NERVES. 9 The great occipital is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing from the posterior primary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets ; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, ending mostly in the integument, and one small auricular branch reaches the cranial aspect of the ear. As soon as this nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nerve ; and on the back of the head it communicates with the smaller occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cervical plexus lies mid- way between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is con- tinued upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, viz. the posterior auricular and great occipital. Usually this nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the ear at the cranial aspect, which supplies also the attollens aurem muscle. Dissection.—The skull is now to be opened, but before sawing the bone the dissector should detach on the right side the temporal muscle nearly down to the zygoma, with- out separating the fascia covering it; and all the remaining soft parts should be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the forehead, and as low as the protuberance at the occiput. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only through the outer osseous plate, and the inner plate is to be divided with a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached, and the dura mater will then come into view. Great occipital nerve gives an auricu- lar branch. Small occipital nerve has an auricu- lar branch. Dissec- tion to open the skull. Precau- tions in cutting through bone. Section II. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. % Directions.—It will be more advantageous for the student Course to proceed at once with the parts described in this Section followed, than to examine the brain at this stage. Directions are