DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 112 Valves. Ascend- ing pha- ryngeal artery ends near skull, in a branch to me- ninges, and an- other to pharynx and palate. Its vein. Direc- tions concern- ing eighth nerve. at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. Near its junction with the subclavian below are two valves.* Sometimes the term internal cephalic is applied to the vein between the skull and the hyoid bone; whilst that of internal jugular is given to the part below the bone, and the junction of the large branches at that spot. The ascending pharyngeal artery is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column, be- tween the internal carotid and the pharynx, the artery be- comes tortuous near the skull, and divides into branches for the pharynx and the cranium. In the neck the artery gives some small offsets to the surrounding parts, viz. the mus- cles on the vertebrae, the nerves, and the lymphatic glands; and other branches anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. The meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is distributed on the meninges of the middle fossa of the skull. The pharyngeal branch, which is larger than the preceding, turns inwards to the pharynx, and dividing into several twigs, supplies the muscular structure of the pharynx, the soft palate, and the Eustachian tube. The size of the palatine branch depends upon that of the. inferior palatine branch of the facial artery: it courses above the upper constrictor, and ends in branches that are distributed on the front and back of the soft palate, beneath the mucous membrane. The vein corresponding with the pharyngeal artery re- ceives branches from the cranium and the pharynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the eighth nerve. — By the time the student has arrived at this stage of the dissection, it will not be possible for him to trace the very minute filaments of the eighth nerve in the foramen jugulare of the skull. The student is therefore recommended to omit, for the present, all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the nerves * Anatomical and Physiological Observations by John Struthers, M.D. Edinburgh, 1854.