277 THE FRONT OF THE ARM. sends a branch along the dorsum of the scapula., between the teres muscles, towards the inferior angle of the bone, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position.— For the dissection of the anterior part of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the front upper- most. Dissection.— The skin is to be raised from the front of the arm and the front of the elbow joint. To allow of its reflection, make one incision along the centre of the biceps as far as two inches below the elbow; and at its termination, a second cut half round the forearm. The skin should now be stripped from the front and back of the limb, as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat or superficial fascia which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be de- nuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the ole- cranon a large bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins may be first sought in the fat. These vessels are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, and issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of the forearm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. External to this is a small vein (radial); and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the forearm. In the arm these veins are united into two *, one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner border of the biceps, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of that muscle. The cutaneous nerves may be next traced out. On the outer side of the arm, about its middle, are the external cutaneous branches (two in number) of the musculo-spiral; and in the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, is the cutaneous part of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cutaneous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm; and rather external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, Position and inci- sions in the skin. Seek superfi- cial veins. Trace cutane- ous nerves of outer side and inner side of the limb.