672 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Femoral vein: first in- side the artery, after- wards outside it. Femoral Vein. — The principal vein of the limb, whilst in the triangular space in the upper part of the thigh, has almost the same relative anatomy as the artery. Its position to the artery is not the same, however, throughout: for beneath Poupart’s ligament it is on the inner side of that trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but it soon winds beneath the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. In this space the vein receives the internal saphenous and the deep femoral branches. Pecu- liarities Peculiarities in the vessels.—Change in position.—Four examples of transference of the femoral trunk from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In those cases the artery passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accom- panied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The common deviations from the condition of the vessels in the triangular space, refer to a change in their position, or to the un- usual origin of the chief branch of the artery. Position of the vein. — The position of the vein with respect to the artery may be altered: for the venous trunk may be placed on the inner side through all the triangular space; or it may be slit be'dimay so as Presen^ a large vein on £ach side of the artery for a greater vided. or less extent, or one of the two veins may lie over the arterial tube. Origin of the profunda. — The profunda branch, though arising commonly from the femoral artery between one inch and two inches from Poupart’s ligament, may approach nearer to the liga- ment until it arrives opposite that band, or may even go beyond, ligament and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). inches But the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, below, (as *n one case^ Quain) it leaves the parent trunk at the dis- tance of four inches from the commencement; so that in applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigb, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart’s ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of an occasional large offset. Take the Dissection.— To proceed with the deep dissection, the trom the flaps of skin are to be thrown aside; and the fascia lata is to the be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side, nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee joint the student will find the fascia united with the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, so in the position of the vein, or the vein Origin of pro. funda varies from Pou- part’s