STRUCTURE *0F THE TONGUE. 157 apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the mark- surrounding fold are furnished with smaller secondary other papilla;. papillae. Minute simple papillae exist in the part of the tongue be- second- hind the caliciform kind; but they cannot be observed till pii*®- the epithelium is removed.*— (Todd and Bowman.) Structure of the papillee. — The simple papillae are con- stmc- structed like those of the skin, viz. of a projecting cone of papilla:. formative membrane, which is covered by epithelium, and of sim- filled with a loop of the capillaries, and a loop of a nerve. The three other compound forms of the papillae may be said of com- pound. to be formed by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary eminences spring from the common eleva- tion of limiting membrane ; and each has its separate invest- ment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus of capillary vessels in the interior of the papilla a looped offset is fur- nished to each smaller papillary projection; whilst the en- tering nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, whose mode of ending in each is unknown, though Professor Kolliker thinks he has seen it in the form of a loop, like that of the vessels. Structure. — The tongue consists of two symmetrical Parts ° # J found in halves, and separating them is a fibrous structure in the tongue, middle line. Each half is made up of a mass of muscular fibre with interspersed fat; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The whole tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane, and a special fibrous membrane attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. — By the time the student has arrived at this Tongue best seen stage, the muscular fibres may have lost their colour; but, with on fresh a fresh part, the facts here stated can be easily ascertained. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the Define tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its septum ’ dorsum, and, the remains of the mylo and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. * Similar papillae are said, by Mr. Salter, to occupy “ the whole of the under surface of the free portion of the tongue.*’ — Cyclop, of Ana- tomy, art. Tongue.