231 FIBRES OF THE CEREBRUM. a conically-shaped mass, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres that form the free or fasciculated part of the peduncle pass mostly through the middle of the striate body ; whilst those on the opposite aspect of the peduncle, which form its tegmentum, are transmitted chiefly through the under part of the optic thalamus, though some pass through both corpus striatum and optic thalamus. In those two ganglionic bodies the fibres are greatly increased in number; and in the optic thalamus, they receive accessory bundles from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (p. 237.), from the fillet of the olivary body, from the pair of the corpora quadrigemina on the same side, and from the corpora geni- culata. On escaping from the striate body and the thalamus the fibres radiate into the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemisphere the fibres are continued to the convolu- tions, but before reaching the circumference of the brain they decussate with the converging fibres of the corpus cal- losum. Their expansion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in front and behind, forming thus a layer which is concave on the under side. Their extent.—It must not be supposed that all the fibres of the peduncle reach the surface of the brain, nor that all those at the circumference are originally derived from the peduncle; for some of the fibres of the crus cerebri end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially the former; and others extend only from those ganglionic bodies to the surface of the hemisphere. Thus, in addition to the fibres that extend throughout, viz. from the crus to the sur- face, some connect the peduncle of the cerebrum with the ganglia, and others connect the ganglia with the convo- lutions on the exterior. Their source. — The fibres thus entering inferiorly the cerebrum through its peduncle, and continued thence to the periphery of the hemisphere, are derived from all three divisions of the medulla oblongata, viz. anterior pyramid, lateral column, and restiform body, and therefore directly from all the divisions of the spinal cord (p. 203.). The decussations between the fibres of opposite sides have been before referred to (p. 204, 212.). in corpus striatum and op- tic tha- lamus : their ac- cessory bands. In the' hemi- sphere they ex- tend to convolu- tions. Fibres not reaching through- out. Source from cord.