625 THE MALE URETHRA. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra. — The tube of the urethra extends from the Urethra: • extent neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an and • length • average length of about eight inches. In that extent the canal is supported by the prostate, by the spongy structure of the penis, and by muscular fibre, so that it does not ^pcial require so thick a continuous muscular coat as in many coat other excretory tubes. The size of the urethra varies at different spots, and the tube is divided, as before said (p. 599.), Division into a prostatic, a membranous, and a spongy part. parts. Dissection.— To open the urethra, let the incision through How to r . open the the upper part of the prostate be continued onwards to the urethra, extremity of the penis, so as to divide the corpus caverno- sum of that body rather on one side of the middle line, and to leave uncut the septum in it. The prostatic part is nearer the upper than the lower Prosta- aspect of the gland that surrounds it, and lies at first above the middle lobe of the prostate. It is about one inch and a Dimen- . , . sionsand quarter in length, and is altogether the widest and most ex- tensible division of the urethral canal. The form of this shape; part of the tube is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement, at diame- the neck of the bladder, is about a quarter of an inch ; at its ter' centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. On the floor of the passage, at the neck of the bladder, is On the the eminence of the uvula vesicas. In front of this is a crest, central longitudinal ridge of the mucous lining, about three quarters of an inch in length and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (veru mon- tanum, caput gallinaginis) ; it is formed like the uvula, by a bundle of the submucous muscular fibres. In the central in the CI*0Sl is 2L fold or crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior pouch, extremity, is a slight hollow named vesicula prostatica or sinus pocularis. The depression in the mucous fold, or the vesicula pro- Vesicu. statica, is a csecal appendage to the urethral canal, and is jectsinto directed backwards and downwards in the substance of state.™