THE RECTUM. 631 S S 4 THE RECTUM. The lower end of the large intestine, which is contained Rectum in the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth smooth, on the surface. Dissection. — The rectum is to be washed out, and then To pre- - _ pare the distended with air; and the peritoneum and the loose tat are gut to be removed from it. The rectum is about eight inches in length, and its Length; average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform till towards the lower extremity, where it dl™®n" is dilated, particularly in old people, but at the aperture of termination in the anus the gut is smaller than in any other part of its extent. The longitudinal bands of the colon are absent from this portion of the alimentary canal, and the fibres are spread over the surface. Structure. — The rectum, like the rest of the large in- Sa™e testine, contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a j.”slthoef mucous, and a submucous stratum. In it the muscular and the in. testine. the mucous layers have certain peculiarities that serve to distinguish this from other parts of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its Perito- arrangement is referred to in the description of the connec- tions of the pelvic viscera (p. 594.). The muscular coat consists of two planes of fibres, as in ,Muscu- the oesophagus, viz. a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular: these fibres belong to the pale or unstriated kind. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with those in the bands on the colon, but are here diffused to form a stratum around the gut. The circular fibres describe arches around the intestine, and cir- and become thicker and stronger towards the lower ex- fibres* tremity, where they are collected into the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The mucous coat is more moveable than that in the colon, Mucous and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus; it is also thicker and more vascular than that of the rest of *kidck the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted the vascular- mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, £°lds in