BRANCHES OF THE YENA CAYA INFERIOR. 577 Each receives the ilio-lumbar, and sometimes the lateral veins to sacral branch; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. Peculiarities.—Instead of the common iliac veins uniting at the Place spot mentioned, they may be continued upwards, one on each side the veins of the aorta, as high as the kidney, before the left crosses the ^ange^ spine to join the right, and give origin to the vena cava. In these cases the vein on the left side receives one renal vein, and the two common iliacs are connected by a small intervening branch at the spot where they are usually united. The VENA CAVA INFERIOR Collects, and conveys to the Lower , ^ # cava is heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking by dde origin, as before said, on the right side of the fifth lumbar aorta, vertebra, rather below the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its Extent connections with the surrounding parts have been already sections, described (p. 519.). In this course the cava receives parietal branches from the Branch. es from wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm, and visceral abdo- ° men, branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, except and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive appa- digestive ratus, viz. to the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pan- JJ£ara‘ creas, are united to form the vena portas (p. 525.); and the blood circulating in those veins reaches the cava only after it has circulated through the liver, and then through the indirect channel of the veins of the liver, — the venae cavae hepaticae. The lumbar veins enter the posterior part of the vena Lumbar cava, and correspond in number and course with the arteries after, of the same name : they will be dissected with those arteries. The spermatic vein enters the abdomen by the internal sperm- A < J atic vein abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 484.). At first the vein consists of two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon merge into one trunk, which ends on the left endsdif. side in the renal vein, opening into it at right angles ; and on on tefty the right side in the inferior cava, which it pierces obliquely right below the renal vein. As the vein ascends to its destina- tion, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the abdomen, and from the fat about the kidney. r p