260 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. and vein to it. Branch- es are ppl thi of the subscapularis muscle, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. To the outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves Position into which the plexus has been resolved: — Thus on the oi nerves . . . outer side is the median nerve, with the external cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side are the ulnar and sometimes the internal cutaneous, with the nerve of Wris- berg ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The axillary vein remains as above on the thoracic side of the artery. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the supplied wall of the thorax and to the shoulder. The thoracic thorax branches are four in number; two of these (superior and acromial thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor, one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle, and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are and the supplied to the shoulder, viz. one subscapular and two cir- der. * cumflex ; the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. Upper 1. The superior thoracic branch is the highest oflset of the artery, thoracic. an(j arjses opposite the first intercostal space; it is a small vessel, and ramifies on the side of the chest, where it anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. Aero- 2. The acromial thoracic branch is a short trunk on the front of rad'11 °* the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pectoralis is large, nijnor> anj opposite the interval between the large pectoral and and sup. deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed inwards to the two pectoral, and outwards to the deltoid muscle. The inner or thoracic set, besides supplying the thoracic muscles, give a few offsets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the inter- costal and other thoracic arteries. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid; but one small artery which is derived from Inferior them accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance; and oiftet,.Ujl another (inferioracromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and anas- tomoses on the acromion process with a branch of the supra- scapular artery of the neck. One or two small twigs ascend from the trunk of the artery to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. 3. The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, and its place is mostly supplied by offsets of the subscapular or long regular, thoracic arteries; it is distributed to the glands of the axillary pace. plies thorax amt shoul- der. Alar thoracic very ir-