IOO ARTICULATION OF ASTRAGALUS AND OS CALOIS. separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the ankle osseous surfaces entering into the joint. Articular surfaces.—On the tibia there are two articular Surfaces » of* the faces, one of which corresponds with the end of its shaft, and bones in the other with the malleolus; but on the fibula only the sur-thejoint face of the malleolus, which is turned to the astragalus, is tipped with cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular surface, which touches the end of the tibia ; and on the sides are similar articular impressions that are in contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the largest. The synovial membrane of the joint lines the capsule, and Synovial sends a process upwards for a short distance between the &ac' tibia and fibula. Articulations of the astragalus and os calcis. — Articu- These two chief bones of the tarsus are united to one another, the two # # chief as well as to the bones in front of them, by separate arti- bones, culations. v Dissection. —All the rest of the joints of the foot will be Dissec- demonstrated by removing from both the dorsum and the thejoints sole the parts that have been already examined, and then tarsus, cleaning the ligaments. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by remov- ing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them. a. The astragalus with the os calcis. — These bones are Astra- • • galus kept together by a strong interosseous ligament; and there with os « 00 c&lcis by is also a thin band on both the outer side and behind. The posterior liqament consists of a few fibres between posteri- -* * or, ex- the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the ternat, flexor pollicis ; and the external ligament is connected to the sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The inter- osseous ligament consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, interoj- wliich are attached above and below to the depressions on gament. the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. When the astragalus is subsequently removed articular sur- faces and synovial sacs will be seen between the bones. There are articular surfaces where the bones touch, viz. Articu. i . . lar sur- one behind the ligament, and one or two in front of it. faces ° . and sv- Two si/novial membranes exist between the bones, one for novial u , , mem- eacli articulation; and the one in front of the interosseous branes. 3c 2