544 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Theduct The duct of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung) extends the gland; entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower extent; than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where it presents a bifurcated extremity ; as it continues branch- onwards to the head of the gland, it receives many branches, es * and it finally ends by opening into the duodenum, either in termi- union with, or separate from the common bile duct (p. 536.). * Of the tributary branches the largest is derived from the size and head of the pancreas. The duct measures from y^th to tJreT yyth of an inch in diameter near the duodenum, and is formed of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the latter is lined by a cylindrical epithelium, and is provided with small compound glands in the duct and its largest branches. Pecuii- Occasionally there are two pancreatic ducts: or the branch arities j J . from the head of the pancreas may open separately into the duodenum, one inch or more from the chief duct. Vessels Vessels and nerves.—The arteries and veins have been described nerves, already : and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The nerves are furnished by the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consist- ence and colour of the spleen; use ; form; position; surfaces; borders; ends. Size The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple colour, sometimes approaching to gray : it has but slight consistence, so that the texture is friable, and easily broken under pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed vertically against the great end of the stomach, as before described (p. 506.). At the outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. On the inner aspect the surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge, nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into which the vessels plunge to ramify in the interior; whilst before and behind that ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the vessels enter is named the hilus of the spleen. The an- terior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. The size of the spleen varies much. In the adult it mea- sures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one or one inch and a half in thick-