CUTANEOUS VESSELS. I *7 The veins of the exterior of the head are so similar to the veins arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the scalp, veins corresponding to the branches of the internal carotid artery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins occupy- ing the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, like the where it receives the supra-orbital vein, the two giving rise to the artenes' angular vein of the face. Both the superficial temporal and pos- terior auricular veins open into the external jugular; and the occi- pital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nerves.—The several nerves are furnished Nerves of the from the terminal parts of both the cranial and spinal nerves, scalp are The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few offsets from the facial nerve. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves, from both their anterior and posterior primary branches, except close behind the ear, where there is an offset of the facial (seventh cranial) nerve. The supra-orbital nerve comes from the first trunk of the Supra- r _ orbital fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion nerve; artery; whilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nerve gives offsets to this and the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as others to the pericranium. Finally, the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify between the epicranial aponeurosis and the skin : — One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and its two reaches upwards as far as the parietal bone. The other branch £ugane‘ (outer) is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, gSranch' extends over the arch of the head to the os occipitis. Whilst the nerve is escaping from the supra-orbital notch it furnishes some palpebral filaments to the upper eyelid. In the orbicular muscle a communication is established between this and the facial nerve. At the inner angle of the orbit is the small supra-trochlear branch and su- of the same nerve. It turns upwards to the forehead close to the troch- bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the integument, branch. Branches are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some palpebral twigs descend to the eyelid.