329 LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW. but should any of them have become dry, these should be softened with a wet cloth whilst the others are being learnt. Dissection. — To make the necessary dissection of the Dissec.- ligaments of the elbow joint, the brachialis anticus must be ^ taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back j°int- of the joint; the muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. With a little cleaning, the four ligaments — anterior, posterior, and two lateral —will come into view. The interosseous membrane, between the bones of the forearm, will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both the anterior and posterior aspects. The Elbow Joint.— In this articulation the lower end Pon<;s forming of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as the to produce a hinge-like arrangement; and the upper end of j°int- the radius assists to form part of the joint. Where the Theiiga- A ° _ ments bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and ar® their articular ends are kept in place by the following liga- ments : — The external lateral liqament is a roundish fasciculus, Externa which is attached by one end to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the external margin of the ulna. The internal lateral liqament is triangular in shape : it is internal . . ^ 0 *- lateral is pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner wide, condyle of the humerus. The fibres diverge as they descend, and are inserted in this way: — The anterior which are the *^h0r strongest, are fixed to the inner edge of the coronoid pro- ments- cess; the posterior are attached to the inner side of the olecranon; whilst the middle fibres join a transverse liga- mentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the A notch on inner coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with this si_de.of A # # thejoint. ligament; and some vessels enter the joint by an aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its is thin- upper margin the ligament is inserted into the front of the humerus, and by its lower margin into the anterior part of