552 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. hepatic vein, and bile duct. Use of the ves- sels. Arrange, ment of vessels in the liver. Capsule of Glis- son, with vessels in trans- verse fissure : invest- ing sheath extends to the lobules. Vena portae occupies portal canals, and supplies vaginal form therein a network of capillaries near the circumference. The hepatic vein occupies the centre of the lobule, and its radicles communicate with the portal plexus; it issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles of the bile duct are supposed to form a plexus in the lobule; connected with these are the secretory hepatic or biliary cells that produce the bile. The roots of the bile duct leave the lobule at its circumference, and are joined in an inter- lobular plexus outside it, like the portal vessels. From the facts above stated respecting the arrangement of the vessels, it appears that the portal capillaries conduct the blood from which bile is secreted ; that the hepatic vein carries back the superfluous blood; and that the secreted bile is conveyed away by the branches of the biliary duct. Vessels of the Liver.—Two sets of vessels ramify in the liver: — One set, concerned in the secretion and the nutrition of the organ, enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces named portal canals, where it is enveloped by areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson. The other set, or the hepatic veins, is without a sheath, and runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver: it conveys to the vena cava the blood that has been circu- lated through the organ. The ramifications of these diffe- rent vessels are to be traced in the liver. The capsule of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, that envelopes the vessels entering the liver through the trans- verse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and in it they are minutely divided before their termination in the lobules. Processes of the sheath accompany the small in- terlobular vessels, and join the covering of the lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. The vena portae ramifies in the liver like an artery, and the blood is circulated through it in the same manner, viz. from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides into primary Tranches; these lie in the portal canals or spaces with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics. The same division is repeated again and again; and the resulting vessels give off minute lateral branches, some of which, vaginal, ramify in the loose sheath before their final dis- tribution to the hepatic substance, whilst others pass to the lobules without previous anastomosis. Finally, the last branches of the and in-