459 PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE. may be altogether below the base of the ligament, and cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa; but if it arises more anteriorly, as when it comes from an accessory pudic branch (see below), its position will be higher than the level of the bulb. From the size The im. of the vessel its place is important in the operation of lithotomy : this06 in the case first mentioned, it would be liable to be cut across, ["my!10' whilst in the last it would be altogether out of the way of the knife. The artery of the cavernous structure of the penis (art. corporis Artery •X . „ , . , . , „ f >. . ~ of body cavernosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first of penis, this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the cavernous structure of the penis, and ramifies in it. The dorsal artery of the penis is in direction and size the con- Artery . . „ . 1 .... . .. , of dor- | tinuation of the pudic; it runs upwards like the preceding between sum of the crus penis and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis pems‘ by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 471. It is much smaller in the female than in the male. Accessory pudic. — In some cases the pudic is not large Acces. enough to supply all the branches above described to the pudic * artery penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will be then contributed by an accessory artery, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source source, of this accessory artery is in the internal iliac. The pudic vein has the same connections, and the same Pudic vein. branches as the artery, with the exception that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join it. The pudic nerve is derived from the sacral plexus, and Pl,dic , A nerve is distributes offsets corresponding to the branches of the pudic wwr artery. Accompanying the bloodvessels, the nerve enters the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supplies there the inferior hsemorrhoidal (p. 448.), and a large perinaeal branch. Much diminished in size, it continues with and ends the artery without branching, pierces the triangular ligament penis. °n of the urethra near the pubes, and is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery; its termination is described at page 471. The fol- lowing are its offsets : — The perinceal branch is distributed to the perinmum: it first sup- Peri- plies the superficial perinaeal nerves, which have been already seen branch (p. 451.), and then extends forwards below the pudic artery, nearly to the base of the triangular ligament, where it ends in offsets to ends in the muscles, as well as to the bulb of the urethra. lowing*