71 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. f 4 outer border is perforated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. The scalenus posticus is inconsiderable in size, and ap- scalenus, pears part of the preceding. It is attached below by a slip, Atfi- about half an inch wide, to the upper border of the second ments‘ : rib, in front of the elevator of that bone ; and above, it is inserted with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cervical vertebras. The subclavian artery is a given part of the large vessel subcia- that supplies the upper limb with blood, to which this name artery; has been applied from its position beneath the clavicle. This extends vessel of the limb is derived from the branching of the inno- iimb!per minate artery behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni muscles. For the purpose of describing the numerous con- and is nections of the subclavian artery the vessel may be divided ?ntoded three into three parts : the first extending from the sterno-clavi- parts, cular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus; the second, beneath the scalenus; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First part.—Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery First lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from the level fernaUo of its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be is deep!8 found the common tegumentary coverings and the deep fascia, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a deep process of fascia from the inner border of the scalenus muscle. Crossing the artery near the scalenus Parts in are the large internal jugular, and the small vertebral vein; and internal to these veins is the pneumo-gastric nerve. Some branches of the sympathetic are likewise placed in front of the vessel. This part of the subclavian lies over the behind, longus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by connective tissue, by the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and by the sympathetic nerve. Below the artery, both in this and the next part, is below, the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel.