34 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. The lower cartilage sur- rounds aperture. One part outside; another inside nostril. Not inserted into bone. Acces- sory car- tilages. Appen- dages of the eye. Eye- brow. Eyelids. Upper the largest. The cartilage of the aperture forms nearly a ring around the nostril; for it is bent at an acute angle in front, and from this point a part extends backwards on both the outer and inner sides of that aperture. The part of the cartilage, that bounds the opening externally, does not reach down- wards to the margin of the nostril, but ceases on a level with the groove on the outer aspect of the wing of the nose; it is narrow and pointed behind, but swells out in front and forms with its fellow the prominence of the apex of the nose. The inner part projects backwards along the septum of the nose, nearly to the superior maxillary bone ; it assists in the formation of the partition between the nostrils, and lies below the level of the septum nasi. The cartilage of the aperture has not any attachment directly to bone; but it is united above to the lateral cartilage by fibrous tissue, and is connected below with the dense structure that forms the margin of the aperture of the nostril. At the tip of the nose the cartilages of opposite sides touch. Behind the outer half of the cartilage of the aperture, in the dense tissue that fixes it to the bone, are two or three small pieces of cartilage — cartilagines minores vel sesa- moidece, which seem to result from the breaking up of the hinder extremity of the cartilage of the aperture. The Appendages of the Eye consist of the eyebrow, the eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be seen now on the opposite side of the face; but the apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been com- pleted. The eyebrow (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye, which corresponds to the orbital arch of the frontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is also due to the subjacent orbicularis palpe- brarum. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, that are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids are two semilunar folds in front of the eye, which are freely moveable, and can be approached over the eyeball, or can be separated so as partly to lay this bare. The upper lid is the largest and the more moveable of the two, and descends below the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named Jissura