DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 420 the mus- ing branches radiate from the extremity of the nerve : — cl es. One enters the under surface of the complexus near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each Occa- sionally a cu- taneous offset. Poste- rior cer- vical plexus. Twelve dorsal nerves divide into inner and outer branch- es. of the small muscles that bound the space in which the nerve is contained, viz. the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique : the offset to the last muscle often joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally this nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput.f The suboccipital nerve and the internal branches of the next two cervical nerves are sometimes connected by offsets beneath the complexus; when such an intercommunication exists, it forms the “ posterior cervical plexus ” of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region.—The posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between the transverse processes. Each nerve soon divides into an internal and an external branch, which are distributed after the same plan as those in the neck. Cutaneous offsets are furnished from the one or the other set of branches, but Outer branches of upper six end in mus- cles. but those of lower six give cuta- neous offsets. Inner branches of upper six have cuta- neous offsets. Lower six not. Lumbar nerves not commonly from both branches of the same nerve. * a. The external branches increase in size from the first to the last, and are differently distributed above and below. The upper six or eight pass beneath the longissimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as to the interval between the longissimus and the ilio-costalis, and end by supplying these muscles and the levatores costarum. The lower six or four have a similar arrangement and distribution with respect to the muscles; but, after reaching the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, in a line with the angles of the ribs. * b. The internal branches decrease in size from above downwards. The upper six are directed inwards between the semispinalis dorsi and multifidus spinae muscles, and be- come cutaneous along the side of the spinous processes, by perforating the rhomboideus and trapezius muscles. Offsets are supplied to the muscles between which they are placed. The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus spinae muscle. * In the loins. — The posterior primary branches of the f See note to p. 139. of the first edition of this work.