252 DISSECTION OF TIIE UPPER LIMB. Nerves. and lobules lobes. Lacti- ferous ducts; open on end of nipple. Struc- ture. viz. lobules or glandules, which vary in size from a pin’s head to a small tare. By the union of the lobules the lobes are produced, of which there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes are about twenty in number, and are named from their office galactophorous ducts ; they converge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sacculi) of one-sixth to one- third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become straight, and are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another, and gradually narrowing in size, to open on its summit by apertures varying from the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Like other excre- tory ducts, the milk tubes consist of an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous coat; they are sheathed also by a scaly or pavement epithelium, and in the reservoirs the epithelial lining is said to be columnar. In the nipple the ducts are surrounded by elastic fibrous tissue, small Some of the lubricating glands beneath the skin of the tklnJ1' ° nipple and that of the areola are simple sebaceous glands, but others are larger aggregate glands that open in the tu- bercles before mentioned. Bloodvessels, nerves, and lymphatics. — The arteries of the breast are supplied by the axillary, internal mammary, and intercostal arteries, and enter both surfaces of the organ. The vessels on the cutaneous surface supply branches to the nipple, which pass from base to apex, being nearly parallel. The rei/w, after issuing from the substance of the breast, are thus disposed : — some form a plexus on the anterior aspect, and a circle around the areola, and end prin- cipally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; but others enter one or more of the intercostal veins, or ascend over the clavicle to join the veins of the neck. In the nipple the veins have an arrangement like that of the arteries. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, viz. Lymph- those of the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. The lymph- atics pass from cither the inner or the outer part of the gland: at the former side they accompany the branches of the internal mammary artery, and open into the anterior mediastinal glands: and on the latter, they reach the axillary glands. Diosoc- Dissection. — With the arm in the same position with pectoral respect to the trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat from the surface of the great pectoral muscle. Arteries of the gland and veins in nip- ple.