DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 434 is larger than an- terior : forms two bundles. that en- ter the gan- glion. Anterior root is without ganglion, has a sepa- rate opening in dura mater, and joins posterior root beyond ganglion. Charac- ters of roots. Some set of fibrils join. Poste- rior root largest. propor- tionally largest in neck. Roots increase above down, except dorsal ar.d sacral. terior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils. They are attached to the side of the cord between the pos- terior and lateral columns or pieces, in a straight line, which they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve, the fibrils of the root pass outwards, con- verging to an aperture in the dura mater opposite the inter- vertebral foramen; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bundles which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the intervertebral ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots arise from the side of the cord by filaments that are attached irregularly — not in a straight line, and approach inferiorly the centre of the front of the cord. Taking the same direction as the poste- rior root to the intervertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have a separate sheath of the dura mater: in their further course to the trunk of the nerve, they pass over the ganglion of the other root, without join- ing it, and finally the two roots are blended beyond the ganglion to form one trunk. Characters of the roots. — Besides the relative size be- tween the two roots, the following characters are to be noted: — Union of the fibrils. — The fibrils of the posterior root never join those of the anterior ; and the opposite. But the anterior root of one nerve may receive offsets from the cor- responding root of the nerve above, and the same may occur in the posterior roots. Relative size of the roots. — The posterior root is larger than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior is proportionally larger in the cervical than in any other set of the nerves ; in the dorsal nerves there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Size of the roots along the cord. — Both roots are larger where the nerves for the limbs arise, than at other parts of the cord, and greater in the nerves to the lower than in those to the upper limbs ; so that the nerve roots increase in size from above down, except at the lower extremity of the cord, and in the dorsal region where they are of much the same size from the second to the last.