323 EXTENSORS OF THE FINGERS. four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the last two phalanges of the fingers. On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following inser- . ° ° tion of disposition : — Opposite the first two phalangeal articula- the ten- tions each tendon sends down lateral bands to join the cap- into the sule of the joint; and on the dorsum of the first phalanx it langes. forms an expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles. At the anterior part of the first pha- lanx this tendinous expansion is divided into three parts: — the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite at the front of the same pha- lanx, and are inserted into the last. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist Conner- and little finger, and conceals the deep extensors. The the mus- tendon of the ring finger is united by an oblique band with each collateral tendon, so as to prevent the raising of that finger if the other fingers are closed. The extensor minimi digiti is the most slender muscle on Exten- the back of the forearm, and appears to be but a part of the httie common extensor. Its oriqin is in common with that 0f^ng“' the extensor communis, but it passes through a distinct orisiu sheath of the annular ligament; and its tendon, which is split into two directly afterwards, ends by joining the com- and ter. mon expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. tion. The extensor carpi ulnaris muscle arises from the Exten- common tendon and from the aponeurosis of the forearm; Snail!’1 it is also firmly fixed by the fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its tendon becomes free from fleshy fibres near the origin, annular ligament, and passes through a separate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal inser- bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of Is the the muscles of the deep layer, with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little finger. muscle. The anconeus is a small triangular muscle near the Anco- . . pi p neus has elbow joint, which arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and posterior to the a dis- common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer and in. „ sertion;