136 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. Dissec- tion of the mus- cles. Levator and tensor on right half. On left, palato- pharyn- geus, azygos uvula?. and palato- glosss. Aponeu- rosis of palate. Nine muscles. Elevator muscle arises outside pharynx. Dissection.— Some of the muscles of the palate are readily displayed, but others require great care in their dissection. On the right side, the two principal muscles of the soft palate — the elevator and tensor, are to be seen. These have been partly dissected on the outside of the pharynx, but to follow them to their termination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal pterygoid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane and the muscular fibres covering its lower part; and the tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid plate. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be defined. On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with care from the posterior surface of the palate, to obtain a view of the superficial submucous fibres : for immediately beneath the mucous covering are some transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle; and beneath these, in the middle line, are the longitudinal fibres of the azygos uvulas. The student should next remove the mucous membrane from the muscular fibres constituting the arches of the palate, and should follow them upwards and downwards: in order to see those of the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres will not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate.— Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The muscles of the soft palate are four on each side, — an elevator and tensor ; together with the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors. In addition there is a small central azygos muscle. The levator palati is a thick, roundish muscle, and is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the inner and under part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres descending, enter the