DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 172 Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissec- Dissection. — All the muscles and the mucous membrane tion. are to be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the piece of membrane that joins the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another, should be left with care. In the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small fibro-cartilaginous body (cuneiform car- tilage) should be sought: an oblique projection indicates its position. Hyoid The hyoid hone (os hyoides) is situate between the larynx Form, and the root of the tongue. Resembling the letter U, placed horizontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two side pieces or cornua. Body of The body is flattened, and measures most in the vertical the bone. J direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the upper border the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side (large and small). The large cornu continues the bone backwards, and is joined to the body by a surface covered with cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwards and down- wards ; and the size decreases from before backwards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu, or appendix, is directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament. It is seldom wholly ossified. Cartilages of the Larynx. — There are four large Srge cartilages in the larynx, which are concerned in the produc- tion of the voice, viz. the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two ami arytaenoid. In addition there are some fibro-cartilaginous smnfi structures called yellow cartilage, viz. the epiglottis, a capi- iagcs". tulum to each arytaenoid cartilage, and on each side a small Side pieces, large and small. There