DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 628 Cavern- ous ma- terial; trie struc- tures of which it consists. A case that sends in process- es. Fibres form strata : inner forms septum. One septal piece. which is imper- fect ; how formed; and nu- merous bands and cords to form a network, to be made up of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue incased in fibrous coverings — one constituting the corpora cavernosa, the other the corpus spongiosum urethrae. Corpora cavernosa. — Each corpus cavernosum is con- structed of a firm tunic, which encloses a cavernous or tra- becular structure, and contains a plexus of vessels in the intervals of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis between the corpora cavernosa. The fibrous case of the corpus cavernosum is a white, strong, elastic covering, from half a line to a line in thick- ness. Along the middle line of the penis a septal process is sent inwards from it; and numerous other finer bands or trabeculae of the spongy structure are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres that are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum is formed of longitudinal fibres arranged as involuntary muscular tissue, with close meshes. The inner stratum con- sists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform arrangement; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis.* Both strata are inseparably united by communicating bundles, as in the intestine. The septal process extends along the body of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. At the point of junction of the crura of the penis, this partition separates the enclosed cavity of the organ into two parts ; but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, whence the name septum pectiniforme. Through the intervals in the septum the vascular tissue of one corpus cavernosum communicates with that of the other. It is formed, as above said, by the circular fibres of the cavernous bodies. The cavernous or trabecular structure is a network of fine cords, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. The processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference of the fibrous case; and the areolar spaces are larger in the centre and at the fore part of the contained * Paper in the Med. Chir. Transact.