75 SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian artery. c. The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid inferior axis. Directed inwards to the thyroid body, the artery passes be- branch* neath the common carotid artery and the accompanying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the recurrent nerve. In this course the vessel is tortuous. At the lower part of the thyroid body it divides into branches that enter the Under surface, whilst others communicate with the superior thyroid, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming a very free anastomosis between these vessels. Near the larynx a laryn- gives ia- geal branch is distributed to the back of that tube, and other off- offfcet,31 sets are furnished to the trachea. The ascending cervical artery is a branch of the thyroid near its and as- commencement; it is directed upwards between the scalenus and cervical rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles branch' and to the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. d. Lowest thyroid.—In connection with the thyroid body a third Acces- thyroid artery may be occasionally present, which has been named branch art. thyroidea ima. This offset usually comes from the trunk of - the innominate artery, but it may spring from the right common th>'r0ld- carotid, or from the arch of the aorta. Whatever its origin, the small vessel ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and either takes the place of an absent inferior thyroid artery, or assists a smaller vessel than usual in supplying that body. The veins corresponding to the branches of the thyroid veins axis have the following destination: —those with the supra- sponding scapular and transverse cervical arteries open in the external ries. jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein begins in a plexus connected with the thyroid body, and descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to end in the innominate vein. 4. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior superior part of the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck taiaVte- of the first rib to the thorax. Its distribution to the first nick, two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical Deep artery (art. profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal artery31 branch of an intercostal artery (Quain), it passes backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, and ends beneath the complexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck.