THE URETHRA. 599 the vesiculse seminales with the vasa deferentia, and limits anteriorly the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the it is A J % % contain- recto-vesical fascia (p. 592.), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) ed in a surrounds it: through the middle of the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis. The size of the prostate alters ^zcere“aey much with increasing age, and in old people it may acquire a considerable magnitude. The vesicular seminales are two small sacculated bodies, seminal ■vesicles; each about two inches long, between the under part of the bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and their has the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, tions. whilst the smaller is surrounded by the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesiculse are close together; but farther backwards they diverge from one another, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum a triangular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesiculse are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia. The vas deferens or the excretory duct of the testis, in vas de- its course to the urethra, enters the abdomen by the in- ferens 5 ternal abdominal ring, and is then directed inwards along the side and under part of the bladder to the base of the course. prostate, where it forms the common ejaculatory duct by unites joining with the duct from the vesicula seminalis. The Jjjj position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been vesicula. noticed ; on the bladder it may be seen to cross the obli- terated hypogastric artery, and to pass internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is sacculated. The urethra is the excretory passage for the urine and The semen, and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. Its length varies from seven and a half to eight inches and length ; a half, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards and it is upwards, through the triangular ligament of the perinasum, accord- to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with the con- [Ef con- cavity to the pubes. Thence to its termination the urethra the°n of is applied to the penis; and whilst this body remains pendent pems; it forms a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if the penis is raised, the canal makes but one curve through- q q 4