DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 6 Supra- orbital artery. Frontal artery. Superfi- cial tem- poral has anterior and poste- rior part. Occipi- tal ar- tery. Poste- rior au- ricular. former; whilst several, viz. the temporal, occipital, and pos- terior auricular arteries belong to the latter. The supra-orbital artery leaves the orbit through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some of its branches are superficial to the occipito-frontalis, and ascend towards the top of the head, whilst others remain beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The f rontal branch is close to the inner angle of the orbit, and is much smaller than the preceding. It soon ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The superficial temporal artery is one of the terminal branches of the external carotid. After ascending over the zygoma for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branch runs forward with a serpentine course to the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial off- sets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery. This is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery. The posterior branch is larger than the other, and arches back- wards above the ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its offsets are similar to those of the anterior branch, and it communicates moreover with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. Occipital Artery.— The terminal part of this artery, after perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-frontalis muscle. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the following artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. The posterior auricular artery appears in front of the mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mas- toid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (auri- cular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and the back of the pinna of the ear; and an offset from it pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface.