787 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. carotid canal, only a thin scale of bone intervening : in it are the apertures of two canals that lie on the outer side of the passage for the carotid artery:—the upper one contains the tensor tympani muscle, and the lower one is the Eusta- chian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, which is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and is named processus cochleariformis. Some parts that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tympanic membrane, require a separate notice. The membrana tympani is a thin partition between the meatus auditorius and the cavity of the tympanum. It is oval in form, taking the shape of the meatus, and is attached by its circumference to a groove at the inner end of the auditory passage; but in the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous ring, the tympanic bone. The membrane is placed very obliquely with respect to the meatus, so that it meets the floor of that space at an angle of 45 degrees, and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditory canal the surface is concave ; but in the tympanum it is con- vex, and has attached to its upper half the handle of one of the tympanic ossicles (malleus). Structure.— This membrane is formed of three strata or structures, an external, internal, and middle. Two of these are obtained from common coverings of the body : thus, the outer one is part of the integument lining the meatus ; and the inner layer is derived from the mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle stratum is formed of fibrous and elastic tissues, and is fixed to the groove in the bone as before said: from the centre, where it is connected with the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circum- ference ; and near the margin is a band of strong circular fibres. The Eustachian tube is the channel through which the tympanic cavity communicates 'with the fauces. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed downwards and inwards to the pharynx ; like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and is narrowed at the middle. Its opening in the tympanum and its situation with respect to the canal for the tensor 3 e 2 canals for ten- sor tym- pani and Eusta- chian tube, with bone between. Mem- brana tympani; state in the adult and the fetus. Situa- tion ; sur aces. It is formed of a cu- ticular, epithe- lial, and fibrous stratum. Eusta- chian tube has an osse- ous part; situa- tion.