DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 240 fascicu- of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a 1 us teres * * spindle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres. This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked interiorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more pro- minent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the attach- ment of the crus cerebelli. It is formed by the fibres of the medulla oblongata derived from the lateral tract and the restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight groove, which (in some bodies well marked) will point out the position of two fossae (fovea anterior et posterior). The posterior fossa is below near the beginning of the groove, anterior; and the anterior is opposite the crus cerebelli. At the top of the anterior fossa is a collection of very dark “ gray sub- stance ” which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum covering it, and is named locus cceruleus*, and a bluish streak (taenia violacea) is continued upwards from it, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the pons, are some white streaks, that vary much in their arrange- foveae, poste- rior, locus c®ru- leus; white striae. ment, and sometimes are not to be recognised: they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the crus cerebelli and the auditory nerve (p. 205.); but one may oftentimes be seen to enter the locus caeruleus. Emu Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other Eervf ° eminences in the floor of the ventricle, that have been re- ' J lu ferred to by Stilling as indicating the position of the nuclei of origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the ventricle — the part called cala- mus scriptorius, are three somewhat triangular eminences on each side for the eighth and ninth nerves : — One of these, viz. that for the ninth nerve, is close to the middle line, and corresponds to the lower pointed part of the fascic. teres. The other two are outside that fasciculus, and are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked of vagus, groove; the lower of the two is the nucleus of the vagus. In lower half; of ninth, * The term locus cmrulcus seems to be applied to the spot, for the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.