STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE. 67 other, and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. The STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE forms the superficial Sterno- prominence of the side of the neck, and divides the lateral muscle surface of the neck into two triangular spaces. The muscle is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and is attached below by two heads of origin, which are separated by an elongated interval. The inner head is fixed by a narrowed has its . . origin at tendon to the anterior part of the first piece of the sternum, sternum, and the outer head has a wide attachment to the sternal clavicle, third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are di- rected upwards, the internal passing backwards and the external almost vertically, and are blended about the middle of the neck in a roundish muscle. Near the head the muscle ends in a tendon, which is then inserted into the base of the and in- lii* • sertion mastoid process at the outer aspect, and by a thin aponeurosis at skull, into a rough surface behind that process, as well as into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The borders of the muscle correspond to the triangular Guide t© spaces of the neck, and the anterior one is the guide to the artery' position of the common carotid artery. On its cutaneous Position surface the sterno-mastoid is covered by the common inte- par°tsher guments and platysma, by the external jugular vein and superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle part), and by the deep fascia. If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts : — the clavicular origin lies over the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula; and near the skull, on the digastric and splenius muscles, with the occi- pital artery, and a part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. The extent of the attachment to the clavicle varies, and in some bodies it may reach even to the trape- zius. • The omo-hyoid muscle crosses beneath the sterno-mas- omo- toideus, and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a snail muTcie round intermediate tendon. The origin of the muscle from the Tea-4