STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG. 383 it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. — The coat derived from Serous the pleura is thin and transparent, and forms an entire cap- sule for the lung, except at the root, where the vessels enter. The subserous layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, and not subse- only covers the surface, but extends inwards, establishing cover- the division of the mass into lobules: where it separates the ulcS‘ lobules it is named interlobular connective tissue, and is there free from fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. — When a bronchus is Divi- sions followed into the pulmonary structure, it is found to divide of the generally in a binary order, and to diminish in size at each in the lung. subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule, the tube has a diameter of to of an inch. When this last degree of diminution is arrived at, till they the tubes give origin to the air cells. ceils. The larger bronchial branches have the same constituent Differ- ° ence in parts as the trachea, only these are somewhat differently large and arranged ; and they are round in the lung, instead of being tubes in hemispherical as in the trachea. The smallest branches, and ture the air cells, want some of the common structures; and those S" from which the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with con- tinuous walls. Changes in the elements of the bronchi. — The modifi- Consfi- cations which the elementary pieces of the air tube undergo the air in the bronchial divisions and in the air cells are the follow- tilehlng. ing: — Thqpieces of cartilage, which are regularly arranged in a line in the trachea, become broken up in the bronchial tubes, and scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Becoming thinner and smaller as the subdivision of the air Pieces of tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from Hge!" the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues ofFibrous ” and elas- the bronchial tubes are continued even to the air cells; but tic tis- sue. in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are diffused, and the two textures, much diminished in strength, are blended together to form the parietal struc- ture. The muscular fibres, that exist only at the back of Mus- the trachea, are diffused over the inner surface of the bron- fibres, chi, where they have an annular arrangement, and extend