DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 784 Cartila. ginous part is defi- cient above. Osseous part outer end; inner end. Condi- tion in the fetus. Lining mem- brane is derived from the skin. Cerumi. nous glands. Vessels. Nerves. Internal wards; and it is narrowest at the bent part. The outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the ex- ternal ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. a. The cartilaginous is the largest part: it is about half an inch in length, and is formed by that portion of the pinna of the outer ear which is attached to the margin of the meatus; but at the upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed by fibrous tissue. Two or three fissures (fissures of Santorini) are found in the piece of cartilage. b. The osseous part is about three quarters of an inch long in the adult, and is rather constricted about the middle, near which it may be bent as before said. Its outer extremity is dilated, and the posterior projects further than the anterior wall; the greater part of the margin is rough, and gives attachment to the cartilage of the pinna. The inner end is less dilated, and is marked, except at the upper part, by a groove in the dry bone for the insertion of the membrane of the tympanum ; it is so sloped that the anterior wall juts beyond the posterior by about two lines. In the fetus the osseous part is absent. After birth it grows out of the osseous ring (tympanic bone) which sup- ports the membrana tympani, and joins the rest of the tem- poral bone. Lining of the meatus. — A prolongation of the integument lines the auditory passage, and is continued over the mem- brane of the tympanum in the form of a thin pellicle. Around the entrance of the meatus are some fine hairs. In the subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the meatus are some ceruminous glands, resembling in form and arrangement the sweat glands of the skin, which secrete the ear wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices; these are most abundant in that portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. Vessels and nerves. — The meatus receives its arteries from the posterior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the temporal branches of the external carotid trunk. Its nerves are derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p. 96.) B. The internal constituents of the auditory apparatus are