176 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. roid car- tilages are an an- terior ligament and a lateral joint. Between cricoid and ary- tasnoid is a cap- sule and sac. Between arytae- noid and capitu- lum. Between thyroid and ary- tamoid. Two li- gaments of epi- glottis. thyroid ligament; and on the side, by a capsular ligament around the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The anterior crico-thyroid ligament or membrane is yellow in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At its centre it is thick and strong, and is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the cartilages from which it is named ; but on the sides the ligament is thin, and leaving the lower border of the thyroid cartilage is continued upwards into the chorda vocalis. Some small apertures exist in this membrane for the passage of small arteries into the larynx. The ligament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle. The lateral crico-thyroid, or capsular ligament, surrounds the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. Articulation between the cricoid and arytcenoid cartilages. — This articulation allows of most movement, and the sur- faces of the cartilages, which are in contact, are retained by a capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its articular surface; and one part — posterior ligament, is strongest on the inner and posterior aspects. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. A kind of capsule, with a synovial sac, unites the apex of the arytaenoid cartilage with the hollowed base of the capitulum of Santorini. Sometimes these cartilages are blended together. The ligaments joining the thyroid with the arytcenoid cartilages (thyro-arytsenoid) have been already examined as the vocal cords in the interior of the larynx (p. 169.). Ligaments of the epiglottis. — A band — thyro-epiglot- tidean, connects the lower part of the epiglottis to the pos- terior surface of the thyroid cartilage, close to the excava- tion in the upper border of the latter. Some fibrous and elastic tissue—hyo-epiglottidean ligament, likewise connects the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. consti- Structure of the Trachea. — The air tube consists tracheal chiefly of a series of pieces of cartilage (segments of rings), which are connected together by fibrous tissue. The in-