90 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. the zygomatic fossa, viz. from the great wing of the sphenoid Attach- bone below the crest, from the outer aspect of the external ments. . , pterygoid plate, and from the tuberosity of the palate, and of the superior maxillary bone. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure forming at first a separate bundle, and are inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the interarticular Contigu- fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the muscle is con- parts. cealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw, and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep surface it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament. The parts in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enume- a second rated in the dissection of the region. Sometimes the slip of the muscle, attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure and the root of the external pterygoid plate, is de- scribed as a separate head with an insertion chiefly into the interarticular cartilage. Inser- tion. internal The internal pterygoid muscle is nearly parallel to the £1 ramus of the jaw, and its fibres are longer than those of the thera- preceding muscle. Arising from the pterygoid fossa, but thejaw; chiefly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, the fibres descend to be inserted into the angle and inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, as high as the inferior vessels dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and nerves gustatory nerves, the dental artery, and the internal lateral around. ]jgamen^ The deep surface is in connection below with the superior constrictor, and at its origin with the tensor palati muscle. Directions. — Before proceeding farther in the dissection, the student may learn now the anatomy of the articulation of the lower jaw. joint of Temporo-maxillary Articulation.—In this joint the lower > ° jaw* condyle of the jaw is received into the anterior part of the hollow of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. The bones are retained in contact mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw; but the following ligaments are concerned in uniting them. External The external lateral is a short, ligamentous band, which