DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 Superfi- cial fascia, how formed; thick- ness varies ; it is divided into two strata by vessels. To raise the su- perficial stratum. Subcu- taneous layer of the fascia is not united with Pou- part’s liga- ment. Dissec- tion. and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcuta- neous fat. The superficial fascia forms a general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. As a part of the common covering of the body, it will be found con- tinuous with that of the neighbouring regions, so that it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or labium, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in different bodies, according to the quantity of fat deposited in it; and at the upper part of the thigh it is divided into two strata (super- ficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and inguinal glands. The superficial of the two layers is now apparent after the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. — To reflect the superficial stratum of the fascia, incisions similar to those in the skin are to be em- ployed ; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun at the lower part, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. The handle of the scalpel may be advantageously employed in raising the fascia along the middle line of the limb; but, where vessels and glands are not found, viz. along the outer and inner borders of the thigh, the separation of the super- ficial fascia into two layers cannot be easily made. The subcutaneous layer of this fascia decreases in thick- ness near Poupart’s ligament, becoming more fibrous at the same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and mem- branous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart’s ligament, so that it is unconnected to that band as it passes upwards to the abdomen, and is readily moved on it either upwards or downwards. Dissection. — The inguinal glands and the superficial vessels are to be next laid bare by the removal of the sur- rounding fat, but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, very thin layer of the superficial fascia which is beneath them, and chiefly to the inner side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be found in the dissection: To see