222 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Under surface marked by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. This aperture joins lateral ven- tricles. In floor of lateral ventricle are striate body in front. Dissec- tion for struc-, ture. rests on tlie optic thalamus, and along it lies the choroid plexus. If the fornix be cut across near its front, the foramen of Monro will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen. When the posterior part is raised, the fornix will be found to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interpositum; and at its base (on the under aspect) between the two offsets, or the taeniae hippocampi, is a triangular surface, which is marked by transverse and sometimes by longitudinal lines: the surface which is so defined has been called by some (incorrectly) the lyra. The fornix may also be described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and, after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as a distinct piece to the surface of the hippo- campus. The foramen of Monro is the aperture beneath the ante- rior part of the fornix, in which the plexus choroides lies. Through it the lateral ventricles communicate with one another and with the third ventricle. Floor of the lateral Ventricle. — The student may leave untouched, for the present, the membrane on which the fornix rests, and proceed to examine, on the left side, the different bodies that have been enumerated as constitut- ing; the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corpus striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum), is the large gray body in the anterior part of the lateral ven- tricle. It has received its name from the striated appear- ance that it presents on a section being made through it; and it corresponds, externally, to the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius. Dissection. — To see the structure of the corpus striatum, the student should make a cut in it from before backwards, until certain white fibres, crossing it obliquely from within outwards, are reached. The knife should then be carried through this layer of white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the first, is arrived at. The striate body now appears to be a conical mass of gray Its form