333 LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST. is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three bones of the of first x , > row of first carpal row constitute a convex eminence, which is re- carpal L t t bones. ceived into the hollow before mentioned, and the different surfaces of both touch in this way ; — the scaphoid bone cor- responds to the external mark of the radius, the semilunar bone to the square impression, and the cuneiform bone is in contact with the triangular fibro-cartilage. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to Synovial SdC. simple joints. This joint sometimes communicates with the lower radio-ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Lower Radio-ulnar Articulation. — In this articula- Lower ends of tion the convexity of the end of the ulna is received into a radius J % and ulna concavity on the radius ; — an arrangement just the opposite joined by to that which exists between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro- cartilage ; but a kind of capsule, consisting of scattered capsule fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage is placed transversely be- trian- gular neath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and fibro. apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which iage. separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of Attach- ments the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and to the depression at the root of that process. Its mar- and con- A A nections. gins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into the construction of different joints, viz. those of the wrist and lower radio-ulnar articulation. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very synovial loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and bmne. ascends between the radius and the ulna: it is separated from that of the wrist joint by the triangular fibro-car- tilage. Dissection. — The articulation of the carpal bones will be Dissec- prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and carpal cleaning carefully the surface of the connecting ligamen- tous bands between the several bones. To the pisiform bone there are distinct ligaments. At the same time, the ligamentous bands uniting the meta- and me-