DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 514 duo- denal. Branch- es to small intes- tine. Number and ar- range- ment in arches. Distri- bution on the gut. Arteries of large gut. Ileo-colic branch ends on caecum. Right colic branch supplies ascend- ing colon. Middle colic branch passes to trans. verse colon. size, and after giving twigs to the pancreas, extends from left to right along the concavity of the duodenum, and ana- stomoses with the other duodenal branches. The intestinal branches to the jejunum and the ileum, are about twelve in number, and pass from the left side of the artery, between the layers of the mesentery, to their desti- nation. About two inches from their origin, or sooner, the branches bifurcate, and the resulting branches unite with similar offsets from the collateral arteries so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of those arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite in the same way. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution of the arteries, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last set of arches, twigs are sent to the intestine ; these pass on both aspects of the tube, and anastomose round it, supplying its structure. The branches to the large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries. a. The ileo-colic artery arises from the right side of the mesenteric trunk; it descends to the ceecum, and divides into branches that encircle the head of the colon, as in the tube of the small intestine. A descending offset is dis- tributed to the lower part of the ileum, and to the cascum and the vermiform appendix; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and ana- stomoses with the right colic artery. b. The right colic artery is commonly an offset of the pre- ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Its course is to the right or ascending colon ; near this it divides into an ascending and a descending piece, and ana- stomoses with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and the middle colic on the other. This artery gives ramifications to the ascending colon. c. The middle colic branch arises from the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery, opposite the transverse meso- colon. Entering between the layers of that fold of the peri- toneum, the vessel divides into two large diverging branches : — the right branch anastomoses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a branch (left colic) of the inferior mesenteric