286 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. as before said (p. 283.), and is found on the inner side a has not little above the elbow. It does not give any branch in the hTtheh arm> but t^iere may a fasciculus connecting it with the arm. musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. uinar The ulnar nerve is derived from the inner cord of the Stsdif68 brachial plexus, and in its progress to the inner side of the tion. hand, it courses along the inner part of the arm, and enters * the forearm at the inner side of the elbow joint. At first the nerve lies close to the inner side of the axillary, and then to the same side of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis: but in the remainder of the arm it leaves the vessel, and directed inwards through the inner intermuscular septum, it descends, almost surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps, to the interval between is with, the olecranon and the inner condyle. There is not any branch branch given from this nerve till it reaches the elbow joint, as'the but a branch from the musculo-spiral to the triceps muscle elbow. accompanies it in the lower part of its course, internal The internal cutaneous is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- neous arm, to which it is prolonged like the others. Part of the beneath nerve has been before seen, and only that small portion fascia, which is beneath the fascia of the limb, remains to be studied in the arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first internal, and then becomes superficial to the humeral artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia (p. 280.). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integuments of the arm, which pierces the fascia higher than the trunk of the nerve. Nerve of The small internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg *) Wris- berg is distributed in the part of the arm now dissected. It arises with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axil- lary vein, it is directed inwards, either beneath or through the vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve, beneath Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm, as far as the • . A fascia, the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the inte- gument (p. 280.). * An account of this nerve is given by Klint. See a paper in Ludwig’s Scriptores Nevrologici Minores, tom. iii. “ De Nervis Brachii.”