DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 52 Origin. Course. Inser- tion. Connec- tions. Seek tensor tarsi. Tensor tarsi muscle. Inser- tion. Trace offset of superior maxil- lary nerve. Orbital branch of supe- rior maxil- lary nerve ; its malar of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone, between the margin of the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus, and between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be in- serted into the sclerotic coat, between the last muscle and the superior rectus. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives the branch of the third nerve. The tendon of insertion is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Dissection. — To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the palpebral ligament attaching the eyelids to the margin of the orbit must be cut through, where this has not been done; but the lids must be left connected at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By look- ing to the posterior aspect of the tendinous band attaching the tarsal cartilages, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The tensor tarsi muscle arises from the ridge on the os unguis, and slightly from the bone behind the ridge. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the ligamentum palpebrarum, which divides like that structure into a slip for each eyelid. In each eyelid the slip lies on the lachrymal canal, and blends with the other muscular fibres at the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Dissection. — A small nerve, the orbital branch of the su- perior maxillary trunk, lies in the outer angle of the floor of the orbit, and will come into view by the removal of the eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it: and a filament of the lachrymal nerve is to be followed to its junction with the former. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the tem- poral branch through to the surface of the head. The orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the orbit by the fissure of the same name. At the back of the orbit the nerve divides into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head. a. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malse) is directed forwards