585 GANGLIATED CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. the upper part of that vessel: its place of origin varies rai ar. much. tery- The obturator nerve appertains to the adductor muscles of Obtura- the thigh. Derived from the third and fourth nerves in the nerve in ® . . ^e ab- plexus, it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner or pelvic domen; border; escaped from beneath that muscle the nerve crosses the pelvic cavity below the external iliac, but above the ob- turator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture in to reach the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the thigh; obturator gives origin to the following branch : — The accessory obturator nerve arises near the beginning its ac- cessory of the trunk of the obturator, or from the third and fourth branch nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the surface of the hip bone to the thigh, where it ends by join- j^Pplies ing the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. GANGLIATED CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The lumbar Sympa- thetic part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen cord in the sb- is placed on the side of the spinal column, and is continuous domen upwards beneath the inner arch of the diaphragm with the thoracic part, and downwards with the pelvic part of the same cord. It lies along the inner border of the psoas muscle, joins nearer the front of the vertebrae than the like part in the thorax; thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava. Each cord presents four or five oblong ganglia has^four opposite the bodies of the vertebrae ; and from these, con- ganglia; necting branches to the spinal nerves, and branches of dis- tribution are supplied. a. Connectinq branches. — From each ganglion two smalltheir, . ° ° branches branches are directed backwards, along the centre of the to either ° the body of the vertebra, with the lumbar artery ; these unite spinal with a spinal nerve near the intervertebral foramen, or they are often divided between two spinal nerves. The connect- ing branches are longest in the lumbar region, in consequence of the cord being carried forwards by the psoas muscle to the fore part of the vertebrae. b. Branches for distribution. — Most of the internal or the ^ t plexuses branches throw themselves into the aortic and hypogastric for the J 1 ° supply of the viscera. enter the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve. — The anterior primary branch of the plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments