DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 5 33 Com- pound glands, or Brun- ner’s ; compo- sition. Aper-; tures of their ducts. The epi- thelium is co- lumnar-! How to see the areolar tissue. Arteries; veins; absorb- ents. tine. Around the vesicles is a circle of apertures of the crypts before described. The mucous membrane over them is a little hollowed, and may in some instances be furnished with villi. Between the vesicles the lining membrane of the bowel has the same appearance as in other parts. Glands of Brunner.—Directions have been already given how to display these glands (p. 535.). They are small com- pound glands, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the mouth, which exist only in the duodenum. Near the pylorus these bodies are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp seed. When examined more minutely, the glands are found to consist of lobules, with appertaining little excretory tubes; and each ends on the surface of the mucous membrane by a duct, whose aperture is slightly larger than the mouths of the con- tiguous crypts of Lieberkiihn. In the small secretory cells of the gland the epithelium is laminar. Epithelium. — The epithelial lining of the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine is of the columnar or cylindrical kind. For the villi it forms a very distinct covering of elongated or prismatic pieces; it sinks also into the crypts of Lieberkiihn, and gives them a lining. Dissection. — To show the connective tissue between the coats of the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out, is to be inflated forcibly; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made here and there through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine, where the peritoneal covering is wanting, and then spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands and the patches of Peyer the mucous coat is more closely connected with the neighbouring structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The intestine may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. — The branches of arteries ramify in the submucous layer, and end in small twigs that form a network in the mucous membrane to supply the valves, the villi, and the glands. Opposite the patches of Peyer’s glands the intestine is most vascular; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, and supply offsets to them. The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial longitudinal set