749 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE JOINT. ' brane raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an incision on each side from the front to the back above the patella. When the anterior part of the capsule with the pa- tella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the end of the femur to the front of the joint below the patella. On each side of the knee-pan is a similar fold (alar ligament), containing some fat. The limb is afterwards to be taken from this position, and part of the posterior ligament is to be removed, to lay bare the crucial ligaments at the back of the joint; but the limb is to be replaced in the former position before the structures are learnt. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and is continued to the articular ends of the bones. Besides covering the capsule, it invests the interarticular cartilages, and sends a pouch between the tendon of the popliteus and the external cartilage and the head of the tibia: it is likewise reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. On the front of the femur the sac of the membrane extends two inches above the articular surface. In the cen- tre of the joint is a fold (mucous ligament) which contains a small vessel and some fatty tissue, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. On each side of the patella is another fold (alar ligament), occasioned by the fat at this spot, which is continuous with the former below the patella. Dissection. — The ligamentous structures within the cap- sule will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still in the same position, by detaching the patella and its ligament, and clearing away the fat behind it; but in this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band that connects an- teriorly the interarticular cartilages. The remains of the capsule and the synovial membrane are finally to be cleared away from both the crucial ligaments and the interarticular cartilages. Ligaments within the capsule.—The remaining ligamentous structures, although within the capsule, are external to the sac of the synovial membrane which is reflected over them: they consist of the crucial ligaments in the middle line : and of two flat plates of fibro-cartilage, the interarticular or semilunar, on the head of the tibia. knee joint. and dis- sect cru- cial liga- ments. Synovial mem- brane extends above ar- ticular surfaces; is thrown into folds named mucous and alar liga- ments. Dissect internal liga- ments. Other li- gaments within the cap- sule.