542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and cir- cular. Fibrous coat as in small gut. This coat is with- out folds and villi. Struc- ture very like that of small gut. Tubes or crypts more numer- ous and longer than, those of Lieber- kiihn. Simple glands most in the caecum; size bands. When the bands are divided the intestine unfolds and becomes elongated, — the sacculi and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. b. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are most marked in the folds or ridges that project into the intestine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form also the band of the internal sphincter muscle. 3. The fibrous coat resembles that of the small intestine in every particular. It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. 4. The mucous coat, which will be seen on opening the intestine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour. It is not thrown into special folds, except in the rectum, for the ridges in the interior of the gut are formed by all the coats. The surface is free from villi; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished from that of the small intestine. This difference of the surface in the two portions of the tube is well seen in the ileo-caecal valve; where the upper surface which looks to the small intestine is covered with villi even to the edge of the open- ing, whilst the lower surface which is covered by the lining membrane of the caecum is free from those eminences. Microscopic appearances. — In a fresh piece of intestine, the mucous membrane will be seen, under the microscope, to possess small tubes or crypts, some larger solitary follicles, and an epithelial covering. The tubules or crypts occupy the whole length of the large gut, and resemble those of the small intestine, but are more numerous and closer together. Their orifices on the surface are circular, and are more uniformly diffused than the apertures of the crypts in the small gut. A vertical section of the membrane will show the tubes to extend ver- tically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be of greater length than the crypts of Lieberkiihn in the jejunum and ileum: they measure from ^th to ^th of an inch in length, and -g^th to rJ^th of an inch across. The solitary follicles are found all through the large intes- tine, scattered here and there; but they are in greatest num- ber in the ctecum, and in the vermiform appendix. They are whitish rounded bodies from ^th to -j^th of an inch in diameter, and are situate in the submucous layer amongst