478 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Parts covered by inter- nal ob- lique. Trans- versalis muscle. Origin from chest, loins, and pelvis. Fibres end in aponeu- rosis. Lowest arch down to pubes. The aponeu- rosis passes beneath rectus to linea alba, ex- cept in- teriorly. Fibres to trans versalis fascia. At pel- vis joins that of internal oblique in con- joined tendon. Parts covered by the oblique. — The internal oblique con- ceals the transversalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart’s ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascia transversalis. The rectus muscle is concealed by its aponeurosis, and partly incased by it. The transversalis muscle forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen. Like the former muscle, it is attached on all sides except where the spermatic cord lies, and takes origin from the pelvis, the chest, and the lumbar vertebrae : it has both an anterior and a posterior aponeurosis. At the pelvis it rises along the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the chest it takes origin from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of the cartilages of the following four: and it is connected also with the lumbar vertebrae between the chest and the pelvis, by means of the posterior aponeurosis of the fascia lumborum. Most of the fibres are directed trans- versely to the aponeurosis in front; but the loAver arch downwards above the spot at which the cord leaves the abdomen, and end in the aponeurosis internal to that aper- ture. Its aponeurosis is widest inferiorly, as in the most external muscle. It is continued to the linea alba beneath the rectus, except midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, where it passes in front of that muscle to reach the middle line. Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as that of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, for it is fixed to the front of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneath the insertion of the oblique muscle. At the insertion into the pubes, some of the fibres are spent on the transversalis fascia, and are connected with a thick- ened band of that fascia beneath Poupart’s ligament, which is called the deep crural arch. Conjoined tendon. — The aponeuroses of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles are united more or less near their attachment to the bone, and thus give origin to the conjoined tendon ; but it may be observed that the tendon of the oblique muscle seldom extends more than half an inch along the pectineal line, whilst that of the transversalis