COMMON LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRAS. 181 foramen magnum, after passing beneath the ligament joining the atlas and the occipital bone. In its course through the Position foramina, the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of nerves, the cervical nerves, except those of the first and second,— the former of which crosses on its inner, and the latter on its outer side. The vessel is accompanied by a vein, and a a vein plexus of nerves of the same name. In its course the artery nerves 1 . J are with furnishes small twigs to the surrounding muscles, and to the it. spinal canal and the contained cord. The vertebral vein commences by small radicles in the oc- verte- ciput, and in the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture of the atlas, where it sometimes receives a vein through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying the artery, the vein traverses the ends in i . ° J _ subcla- apertures between the transverse processes, and ends in the vian. subclavian vein. In its course it receives branches from Branch- CS# the internal and external spinal veins; its other branches are described at p. 74. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior Plexus cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The plexus surrounds nerves, the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRA: AND CLAVICLE. Directions.— On the remaining part of the spine, the liga- Direc- # tions. merits that connect the cervical vertebrae one to another and to the occipital bone are to be examined. Dissection. — Separate the cervical from the dorsal ver- Dissec- tebrae by disarticulation. Then remove altogether the ll°n- muscles, vessels, nerves, and loose connective tissue and fat from the vertebrae. B;y sawing through the occipital bone, \ so as to leave only an osseous ring bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The common ligaments attaching together the cervical common 11 ga- vertebrae are similar to those uniting the vertebrae in other ments of a verte- parts of the spine, viz. an anterior and a posterior strong bra. ligament; bands between the laminae and spines; capsular