THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. 413 slips to the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius. * The serratus posticus inferior occupies the lumbar Larger region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its apo- at lower neurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the fhora°x. latissimus dorsi and the fascia lumborum, and is connected to the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and the first three lumbar vertebras. The fleshy fibres ascend to be in- Connec- serted by offsets into the four last ribs in front of their tlonb‘ angles, each successive process extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spinas, and with it the vertebral aponeurosis is united. * The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, which Verte- is spread over the fourth layer of muscles, confining the aponeu- erector spinae in the hollow by the side of the spinous pro- ’ cesses. Inferiorly it is thickened by the tendons of the ments- latissimus and lower serratus, but above it is continued beneath the splenius, without joining the upper serratus, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. It is attached internally to the spinous processes ; externally to the pos- terior third of the iliac crest, blending with the tendon of the latissimus, to the fascia lumborum, and to the ribs and a thin fascia over the intercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and spinous attachments, it blends with the underlying tendon of the erector spinae and multifidus. * Dissection.— The superior serratus is to be cut through, Dissec- and the subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away, and then the splenius muscle will be denuded. The splenius muscle consists of cervical and cranial parts, Splenius which are named respectively splenius colli and splenius parts!™ capitis. The two are united at their origin. The splenius colli arises from the spines of the three or four one to upper dorsal vertebrae above the sixth. Ascending in thetheneck* neck, the muscle is inserted by tendinous processes into the tips of the transverse processes (diapophyses) of the three upper cervical vertebrae, behind the attachment of the ele- vator of the angle of the scapula. The splenius capitis arises from the spines of the last One to cervical and first two dorsal vertebrae, and from the liga- e ea * mentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebra. The