726 DISSECTION OF TIIE FOOT. Where the processes separate from and the lum- Arched: these bones to another. over ves* each other, the digital vessels and nerves bricales muscles become superficial, and transverse fibres arch over the intervals between them. The lateral parts of the fascia are thinner than the central piece. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but Inner part of the fascia; outer part. Expose the septa. Two inter- ' muscu- lar septa; inner and outer. little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it is increased in thickness, and presents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. —To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the centre of the foot, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that muscle. The intermuscular septa pass down on the sides of the flexor brevis digitorum, and thus isolate the central muscle in the superficial layer of the sole of the foot. The inner one lies between the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and is perforated by the internal plantar nerve, and by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The outer one, between the short flexor and the abductor minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and artery for the outer side of the little toe. A piece of fascia reaches across the foot from the one septum to the other, beneath the short flexor. The transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, and •gament contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the foot. It is a band of fibres which is attached at the ex- tremities to the great and little toes, and is connected with each of the others, as it passes over. Beneath it are the digital nerves and vessels. The sheaths of the flexor tendons are similar to those of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strengthened by a band opposite the centre of both the meta- tarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubricated by a syno- vial membrane, and contains tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection. — In the sole of the foot the muscles are Trans verse of the toes. Sheaths of flexor tendons. Dissect