170 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. laryngeal orifice: in this spot it is very loose, and the sub- mucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane closely lines the cavity, sinks into the ventricle, and is prolonged into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyro-arytaenoid ligaments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. Epithe- A columnar ciliated epithelium covers all the surface below the superior vocal cords, and is continued anteriorly fearentf* *n a(^u^ the r°°t of the epiglottis (Kolliker). In the nature, part of the larynx above the line mentioned, the epithelium is of the laminar kind. Glands. Numerous muciparous glands are connected with the mu- cous membrane of the larynx ; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epi- glottis. In the edge of the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytaenoid), and a small fibro-cartilaginous body. None exist over the vocal cords. Dissec- Dissection. — The course of the laryngeal nerves in the nerves, neck has been already traced, and their termination in the larynx may be dissected on the untouched side. For this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage ; and care should be taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the junction between the two. The trachea and larynx should next be fastened down with pins, and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. After- wards the superior laryngeal is to be followed to the mucous membrane of the interior of the larynx, and to that of the pharynx. Two communications are to be found between these nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accom- panies each nerve, and is to be dissected at the same time. Nerves Nerves. — The nerves that supply branches to the larynx, vagus?m are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve (p. 117.); the former is distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter to the muscles. Recur. a. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter nerve the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous mem-