14 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. Tento- rium ce rebelli; its at- tach- ments and the sinuses in it. Falx ce- rebelli contains occipital sinuses. Sinuses of the skull. Occipi- tal cen- tre re- ceives canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly connected. The tentorium cerebelli is the piece of the dura mater that is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the cerebellum and the posterior part of the cerebrum. Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed laterally for the recep- tion of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres; its under surface corresponds to the little brain and the falx cerebelli. The anterior margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or attached part is connected to the following bones: — occipital (its transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus, whilst in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinuses. The falx cerebelli has the same position below the tento- rium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the like process of the cerebrum, and will be seen by detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is attached to the middle of the occipital bone, below the trans- verse ridge, and projects between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base is directed to the tentorium, and the apex ends below, at the foramen magnum, to each side of which it gives a small slip. In it are contained the occipital sinuses. • The sinuses are venous spaces between the layers of the dura mater, into which the blood is received. All the sinuses open either into a large space named torcular Herophili, op- posite the occipital protuberance, or into the two cavernous sinuses by the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone. A. The torcular Herophili is placed in the tentorium, opposite the centre of the occipital bone. It is of an irregular shape, and numerous sinuses open into it; viz. the superior longitudinal above, and the occipital below; the straight and inferior longitudinal in front, and the lateral sinus on each side.