342 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. On a cross section. Parts bound- ing it on sides, in front, behind. The base, its level, formed by dia- phragm. Its sur- face and height. Apex re iches into neck. above and the base downwards; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the longs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a hori- zontal section its shape would appear somewhat cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished behind by the prominent spinal column, and is projected backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. — The enclosing parts consist of the bones of the trunk, with certain accessory muscles, both laterally and above and below, as in the following enumeration. On the sides the ribs with their intercostal muscles form the wall; whilst in front is the sternum, and behind is the spine, together with the muscles that are respectively con- tiguous to the middle line. The base is constructed at the circumference by the last dorsal vertebra behind, by the end of the sternum before, and by the ribs on the side; and within the bony scaffolding the fleshy diaphragm fills the space. The base is wider transversely than from front to back, and is on the whole convex towards the chest, though a closer inspection will show an undulating surface, and a different level at different points. Thus in the centre it is lower than at the sides, and is on a level witli the xiphoid cartilage. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth rib near the sternum; and on the left, only to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib.* From these lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave a narrow interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached part will correspond to an oblique line over the side of the chest from the xiphoid cartilage to the eleventh rib; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left. The apex is continued higher than the osseous part of the wall, and reaches into the root of the neck. And the high- est point is not in the centre of the space, for there the * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may reach in great respiratory efforts duriug fife will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm.