302 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Varia- tions in the ori- gin. and course of the radial. Connect' ing branch- es. Dissec- tion. Super- ficial liexor of fingers. Origin. branch from the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed at the lower border of the pronator quadratus muscle, offsets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial artery.—The origin of the radial artery may be carried upwards in the arm, from the usual place even to the axilla; and the unusual beginning of this vessel in the humeral is much more frequent than that of either of the other arteries of the forearm, bearing to their variation in this particular the pro- portion in a given number of cases of about three to four. In one instance (Quain), it was noticed between two and three inches below the elbow joint, and in that case a vas aberrans connected it with the axillary artery. When the radial artery has a high origin, its course in the arm is close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle; and in passing the bend of the elbow it may be occasionally subcutaneous, viz. above the deep fascia, and be liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm it may be likewise subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. The aberrant arteries, “ vasa aberrant!a,” or the long slender branches of the axillary or brachial trunks, open commonly into the radial artery. In some cases of high origin of the radial, there is a connecting branch, at the bend of the elbow, between that irregular vessel and the trunk in the place of the brachial artery. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscle of the superficial layer (flexor sublimis digitorum), the origin of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen to enter the under surface of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS vel PERFORATUS is the largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and is named from its position to another flexor in the deep layer of muscles. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus, from the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermus- cular septa, in common with the preceding muscles; and it takes origin in addition from the bones of the forearm, viz. from the inner part of the coronoid process of the ulna; and from the oblique line extending from the tubercle of the radius; as well as from the anterior border of that bone as far as two inches below the insertion of the pronator