INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 95 beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; an anterior, small, and or muscular part; and a large, posterior, or sensory part. part.°ry A. The smaller part receives nearly all the fibres of the Muscu- 13 r motor root of the nerve, and ends in branches to the muscles piece of the jaw, viz. temporal, masseteric, and pterygoid; and to one muscle of the cheek, the buccinator. Should the internal supplies 7 > four maxillary artery obstruct the view of the branches, it may branches be taken away. 1. The deep temporal branches are furnished to the under surface temporal of the temporal muscle. Like the arteries, they are two in number, muscle ; anterior and posterior. From their origin these nerves course two in upwards along the outer surface of the skull, and pass beneath the number’ external pterygoid muscle. The posterior branch is the smallest, and is often derived from posterior the masseteric nerve ; it is near the back of the temporal fossa. and The anterior branch supplies the greater part of the muscle, and anterior, communicates sometimes with the buccal nerve. 2. The masseteric branch takes at first a backward course above Masse- the external pterygoid muscle, and then a horizontal one, behind ter' the temporal muscle and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle. In the masseter the nerve can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articulation of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. 3. The pterygoid branches are supplied to the muscles of that Branch- name. The branch or branches to the external pterygoid enter ptJry. the under surface, but the nerve to the internal pterygoid is placed facies on the pharyngeal aspect of this muscle close to the skull: this last, which cannot now be seen, will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section 14.). 4. The buccal branch is longer than the others, and perforates Buccina- the inner attachment of the external pterygoid; afterwards it is tor* directed inwards, beneath the coronoid process and the temporal muscle, to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in two ter- minal branches. As the nerve perforates the pterygoid muscle This filaments are given to the fleshy substance; and after it has passed endTfn through the fibres, it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle, t^°g which frequently joins the anterior deep temporal nerve. Some offsets are likewise distributed to the upper part of the buccinator muscle and to the lining mucous membrane. The upper branch resulting from the division reaches the upper upper part of the buccinator muscle, and communicates with the facial and nerve around the facial vein. The lower branch is in direction the continuation of the nerve, lower.