425 FIFTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. * In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary, and exist only between the first, or the first two pairs of the ver- tebrae; and between the pair above the lowest dorsal, as well as between this and the first lumbar vertebra. * In the lumbar region, as in the cervical, there is a pair in each interspinous space. Here they are thin flat muscles, which reach all the length of the spines. * The intertransverse muscles lie between the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae ; but only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the neck they are double, like the interspinal muscles of the same vertebrae (p. 179.). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, and are found only between the lower processes: their number varies from three to six. Between the upper pro- cesses tendinous bands take their place. * In the lumbar region the anterior set form four thin and fleshy muscular planes between the bony processes. The posterior set are rounded fasciculi, which are attached to the accessory processes at the roots of the transverse: they have been named inter accessor ii. * Dissection.—The multifidus spinae muscle, which fills the hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now dissected. Over the sacrum it will be necessary to remove from it, after examination, the thick aponeurosis that covers it and the erector spinas. In the neck, and in the dorsal region the muscle will appear on detaching the semispinalis from the spines, and turning it aside. * The multifidus spinas muscle extends from the sacrum to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis than in the neck. It takes its origin inferiorly from the aponeurosis covering the surface; from the back of the sacrum between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture; from the inner surface of the posterior superior iliac spine of the innominate bone, and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. Along the side of the spine, the muscle arises differently in the several regions: — Thus in the loins it arises by large fasciculi from the accessory and the articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae; in the dorsal region, from the trans- verse processes of the corresponding vertebrae; and in the in the loins. Inter- trans- verse muscles in the neck. in dorsal region. in loins. Dissec- tion of multi- fidus spinse. Multi- fidus spinas has an exten- sive origin.