DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 232 com- B. The transverse commissural fibres connect the hemi- trans- spheres of the cerebrum across the middle line. These verse fibres, fibres give rise to the great commissure or the corpus cal- losum (p. 218.), and to the anterior and posterior com- missures (p. 227.). All these bodies have been already examined. Com- C. Longitudinal fibres. — Other connecting fibres pass longitu- from before backwards, uniting together parts of the same fibres hemisphere, and having mostly a circular arrangement, are The fibres of this system are collected chiefly in the follow- in fornix ing different bands, viz. the fornix, the taenia semicircularis, acces-* and the peduncles of the pineal body. Other longitudinal sory parts ; and on, and under corpus callo- sum. Optic thala- mus differs above and below. fibres may also be enumerated on the upper and under sur- faces of the corpus callosum, along the middle line; together with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : all these last are connected with the anterior perforated spot of the base of the brain. Structure of the optic thalamus. — On making sections of the optic thalamus on the side on which it is entire (the left), this body will be found to consist of layers of gray and white substance, at the upper and inner parts; and of the medullary fibres (tegmentum) of the peduncle of the cere- brum, at the lower and outer parts, section Corpus striatum.—By slicing through the corona radiata of corpus , , , . striatum on the right side, so as to bring into view the extraventri- outside. cular part (nucleus lenticularis) of the corpus striatum, the extent and form of that mass, and the situation of the ante- rior commissure, will be apparent. Crus cerebri. — By a vertical section through the right peduncle of the cerebrum, the disposition and the thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres, and the situation of the locus niger between them, may be perceived. Dissection. — The cerebellum is to be detached from the remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife through the optic thalamus, so that the cerebellum with the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain united together. When the cerebellum, united with the other parts men- tioned above, has been detached from the cerebrum, all the another!1 pia mater is to be carefully removed from the fissure on its under surface; and the different bodies in that fissure are to Section of crus cerebri. Proceed- ing to prepare cere- bellum. Parts to be sepa- rated from one