539 FORM OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. (lymphatics), and of a deep transverse set (lacteals), which end in larger vessels in the mesentery. Beneath the patches of Peyer’s glands the lymphatics form distinct plexuses. Structure of the bile duct. — The bile duct consists of a Two „ coats in strong fibrous coat, with some muscular fibres, and ot an the bile internal or mucous coat. Opening on the surface of the mucous membrane are two sets of glands; one set consists glands, of small single cells collected together, and the other glands have branched tubes. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal Extent between the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its gufh;e divisions, and the connection of these by peritoneum to the abdominal wall have been described (p. 503. 510.). In length length; this part of the alimentary canal measures about five or six feet, — one fifth of the extent of the whole intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement size; in the cascum, and gradually decreases from that part, as far as the rectum, where there is, however, a dilatation near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is found com- to be distinguished by the following characters :—it is of with* . . .. .... small greater capacity, being in some parts as large again, and is gut, more fixed in its position. The large intestine is also free ldrger’ from convolutions, except in the left iliac fossa, where it d*ted» forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylin- coiled* drical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three saccu- longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many with rows of dilatations or small sacs. Attached to the surface, at bands‘ intervals, especially along the transverse colon, are processes of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices epiploicee. In Append- the rectum, or the lower part of the large intestine, the age*h surface is smooth, and the bands have disappeared. rectum. Dissection. — For the purpose of examining the' large Take intestine the student should select and blow up the ceecum, Kie with part of the ileum entering it; he should prepare also in |Jtes- a similar way a piece of the transverse colon, and a piece oftine' the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The fatty and connective tissues are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated.