543 THE PANCREAS. the tubules. These follicular glands are simple sacs with a and dilated cavity and a narrow neck opening into the intestine, being in form something like a small rounded fruit with a stalk. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, as it is in the Epithe- * . lium. small intestine, and enters the tubules. Vessels. — The distribution of the vessels in the wall of Vefels and the large intestine is the same as in the smaller bowel. The "erve® ° absorbent vessels, after leaving the intestine, join the lymph- atic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a narrow flattened gland about seven inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dog’s tongue. It is larger at the right than at the left end; and is divided into a head, tail, and body. The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the duodenum ; whilst the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and touches the spleen. The body of the gland is narrowest a little to the right of the vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. Its connections with surrounding parts are described at p. 521. Dissection. — Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface, and the excretory duct contained in its substance be traced posteriorly from right to left. The duct will be recognised by its white colour. Structure. — The pancreas is a compound gland, and is provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule, but it is surrounded by connective tissue, which pro- jects into the interior, and connects together the lobules. The fluid secreted by it assists in the digestion of the ali- ment. The glandular structure is soft and loose in texture, and is of a reddish, or grayish white colour. It consists of lobules, which are united into larger masses by connective tissue, vessels, and ducts. In analysing a lobule it will be found to consist ultimately, as in the parotid, of the branch- ings of the excretory duct, which end in closed vesicular extremities, and are surrounded by a plexus of vessels. Form and length; divi- sions. Situation and form of the head, of the tail, and of the body. Trace out the duct. It is a com- pound gland, without a distinct capsule. Texture and colour; consti- tution like the salivary glands.