ARRANGEMENT OF THE VISCERA. 501 Regions.— The larger upper part of the abdominal cavity is divided artificially into regions by lines extended between certain points of the parietes. If two circular lines are carried round the body, so that one shall be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, and the other on a level with the most prominent point of the crest of the hip bone, the ab- dominal cavity will be divided into three parts or zones, upper, * middle, and lower. Each of these zones will be further subdivided into three by two lines, one on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre of Poupart’s ligament. This vertical line will mark off on each side a piece from each of the three circles, which is named respec- tively, from above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac (right and left); whilst the central part of each is desig- nated from above down, epigastric, umbilical, and hypo- gastric. In addition, the central and lower part of the hypo- gastric subdivision is named pubic region, whilst its lateral portion is known as the inguinal region. Contents and their 'position.— The alimentary tube and its accessory parts, the liver, pancreas, and spleen, occupy the upper division of the cavity of the abdomen. The kidney is also situate in the same part of the abdominal space. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine; and each of these portions is further subdivided as it will afterwards appear. The several viscera have the following general position: — The small intestine is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of the cavity ; whilst the great intestine arches around it. Both are fixed in position by folds of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; and below it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the large intestine on each side is the kidney with its excretory tube. Superficial view of the contents. — On first opening the abdomen the following viscera appear: — On the right side is the liver, which is partly concealed by the ribs. On the left side a part of the stomach is visible ; but this viscus lies chiefly beneath the ribs, and is somewhat overlaid by the liver. Descending from the stomach is a fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and con- k k 3 Abdomi- nal ca- vity is marked out into regions. Lateral and central. Parts in cavity. General division of ali- mentary tube and posi- tion. Position of suc- cessive parts: of kid- ney. Parts of viscera seen without displace- ment.