69D DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. terior and posterior surface; upper and lower borders j and its inser- tion. Opening for the vessels; bounda- ries. Psoas and ili- acus in the thigh. Inser- tion into femur. Parts around. Obtura- tor ex- ternus; origin, the obturator nerve and the profunda artery. The posterior surface is in connection with the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the internal circumflex artery ; and along the lower or inner border are the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous on the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus internus, but on the inside by the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from that of the long adductor. The psoas and iliacus arise separately in the abdomen (p. 578.), but are united in the thigh. The conjoined crural portion of these muscles comes beneath Poupart’s ligament, and descends to be inserted by a tendon into the small tro- chanter of the femur, as well as by fleshy fibres into a special triangular surface of the bone in front of and below that eminence. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve; whilst the fleshy mass covers the capsule of the hip joint and an intervening bursa. The pectineus and the internal circumflex artery are contiguous to the inner border; and the sartorius and vastus internus, to the outer edge of the muscles. The obturator externus is of a conical form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the anterior two thirds; and from the bone bounding internally the thyroid foramen, the attachment being an inch wide opposite the symphysis pubis, but lower down only half that width. From that spot the fibres are