290 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Dissec- Dissection.— To follow now the superior profunda vessels vessels and the musculo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps nerve, should be cut across over them, and any fatty tissue that may obscure their position should be removed. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery, that descend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided in its whole length, and along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The trunks of the vessel and nerve are to be afterwards followed beneath the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus, superior The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery profunda . rJ J artery (p. 283.) is the chief vessel for the supply of the triceps muscle. Accompanying the musculo-spiral nerve, it turns lies; be- to the back of the humerus in the interval between the hind the hume- inner and outer heads of the triceps. In this position the artery supplies large muscular branches, and is then con- tinued onwards beneath the external head of the triceps to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal twigs: — one of these courses on the nerve to the front of the elbow joint, anastomosing with the recurrent radial artery: whilst others continue to the elbow along the intermuscular septum, and join the interosseous recurrent artery, supplies Branches.—The muscular offsets of the vessel descend to anaeps’ the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicating a with the other branches of the brachial artery, viz. inferior joint!1*1 profunda and anastomotic (p. 284.), as well as with the re- current branches of the arteries of the forearm. One offset deserves especial notice; it accompanies a distinct branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle in the interval between the olecranon and the outer condyle of the humerus. Mus- The musculo-spiral nerve arises from the posterior cord spiral of the brachial plexus, of which it is the largest trunk, and wS is continued along the back, and the outer part of the limb humerus to the hand. In the arm the nerve is first placed behind, and close to the axillary and brachial arteries; but it soon leaves the last vessel, and winds with the profunda artery from the inner to the outer part of the arm, beneath the to outer triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the limb it is con- the arm. tinued between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle of the humerus, in front of