274 DISSECTION OF TIIE UPPER LIMB. the bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and head of below by the teres muscles. This space is divided into two triceps, by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part. and pos- terior. Dissec- tion of liga- ments of the cla- vicle Anterior which is of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve pass to the outer side of the limb; and through the posterior smaller triangular part, the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns to be dis- tributed. Dissection. — In order that the acromion process may be sawn through to expose the supraspinatus muscle, the liga- ments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injured by such a proceeding, should be next dissected. These liga- ments will be recognised by removing the connective tissue at the spots specified. One ligament (coraco-clavicular) passes from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be seen by taking away puia**" ^ie fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passes transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process ; and lastly a small fasciculus (posterior proper ligament) is placed over the notch in the superior costa. Union of LlGAMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA. The the cla- f | ...... vide and clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct joint with scapula. the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) Coraco- clavicu- lar, has a conical and a square piece. Joint with (he between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two parts, each having a different direction and designation. The posterior piece, called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process, and by its base to the tubercle and the under surface of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part, trapezoid ligament, is external to the conoid piece: it is connected interiorly to the inner border of the coracoid process, and superiorly to the line on the under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two parts of the liga- ment are united posteriorly, but are separated by au interval in front Acromio-clax'icular articulation. — The articular surfaces