659 SUPERFICIAL VEINS. u u 2 to rather below the tubercle of the tibia; at its extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The flaps of the skin may be now reflected inwards and out- wards. The saphenous vein is first to be traced out as far as the and fol- low sa- skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it, the phenous student should be careful of branches of the internal cuta- neous nerve that lie along it. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh are to be Cuta- neous sought in the fat in the following positions: — On the outer nerves of margin is the external cutaneous nerve ; in the centre are thigh, the branches of the middle cutaneous nerve ; whilst at the inner margin lie the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve,—one small offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about the middle, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves and on side of are to be looked for: — One is a branch of the great saphe- the knee, nous, which is directed to the front of the patella; another is the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, which lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower part of the surface now dissected; and the third is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, that is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves. Superficial Veins. — All the veins on the anterior and super- ficicil inner aspects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this veins, trunk is named saphenous from the readiness with which it may be detected on the surface. The internal saphenous vein is the cutaneous vessel of internal saphe- the inner side and front of the lower limb, and extends from nous vein in the foot to the upper part of the thigh, where it joins the thigh femoral vein. In the part of its course now dissected, the vessel lies somewhat behind the knee joint inferiorly; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart’s ligament it pierces pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, !a.tato and enters, as before said, the deep vein of the limb. Super- femoral, ficial branches join it both externally and internally; and Veins -r-. it ii • t joining near Poupart s ligament the three veins, corresponding with it