DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 8 Tempo- ral nerves ; from superior maxil- lary; from in- ferior maxil- lary ; and from facial nerve. Poste- rior au- ricular nerve has occipital branch, and auri- cular. Great auricu- lar nerve. The superficial temporal nerves are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. a. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender ttvig, which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger’s breadth above the zygoma. When become cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. b. The auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (third trunk of the fifth) is near the ear, and accom- panies the temporal artery to the top of the head. As soon as the nerve emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches:—the more posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attraliens aurem muscle and the integument above the ear; the other branch ascends vertically to the top of the head, and is distributed over the epicranial and temporal aponeuroses. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the anterior part of the ear, above the auditory meatus. c. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed upwards over the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. They will be described with the dis- section of the trunk of the facial nerve. The posterior auricular nerve lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes super- ficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express: — The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure, and furnishes offsets to the integuments. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pinna. The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus.