218 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Situa- tion and form. Upper surface has trans- verse and longitu- dinal tibres. Anterior part bends down. Dissec- tion. Is thick- est at each end. / Under part. Use. Dissec- tion. ventricle) in each hemisphere ; but between the halves of the brain, where it occupies the longitudinal fissure, this body is of less extent. Here it is about four inches in length, and somewhat arched from before backwards; it is also narrower in front than behind, and extends nearer to the anterior than the posterior part of the cerebrum. On the upper surface the fibres are directed from the hemispheres to the middle line, — the middle ones being transverse, but those from the anterior and posterior parts oblique. Along the centre is a mark or raphe, and close to it are two or more longitudinal white lines (nerves of Lancisi). Still further out may be seen other longitu- dinal lines (covered band, p. 215.) beneath the convolution resting on the lateral part of the corpus callosum. The longitudinal fibres in the middle line are continued down- wards in front, and joining a prolongation from the covered band or fillet on the side, are continued to the anterior per- forated spot. In front the corpus callosum is bent to the base of the brain, as before seen (p. 213.) ; and behind, it ends in a thick roll which is connected with the subjacent fornix. Dissection.—In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, and to bring into view the parts in contact with its under surface, the cut already made through that body into the ventricle is to be extended forwards and backwards on the left side, as far as the limits of the cavity. Whilst cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may ob- serve that a thin membraniform structure lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected in a given space; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected with the under surface is the septum lucidum or partition between the ventricles, and still posterior to that is the fornix. This body is the chief commissural part of the halves of the brain, and reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection.—The lateral ventricle is to be dissected in the opposite hemisphere; and to prepare it for examination, as much of the corpus callosum and of the white substance