VESSELS AND NERVES. 801 the exterior of the membranous labyrinth, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a network of capillaries on the exterior as well as in the substance of the special layer, and this is most developed about the termination of the nerves. b. The branch to the cochlea subdivides into twigs that enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets from these are directed outwards through holes in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near the margin of that osseous zone, but in greatest number on that surface to- wards the tympanic scala. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the membrane lining the scalce, and to the structure called cochlearis muscle. A capillary vessel (? venous) is placed longitudinally in the membranous part of the septum scalarum, and communicates here and there with the arterial loops before mentioned. The vein. — One branch of vein is derived from the cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth: the two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the superior petrosal sinus in the base of the skull. Nerve of the Labyrinth Only one special nerve, auditory, is distributed to the labyrinth (p. 198.). Entering the internal auditory meatus, the nerve divides into two branches, like the artery, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In the trunk and in both branches there are nerve cells contained: in the nerve to the labyrinth they form a reddish swelling, which was named intumescentia ganglioformis by Scarpa. a. The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modio- lus into twigs that enter the apertures in that body. These small divisions of the nerve are directed outwards with the vessels in the canals in the lamina spiralis, but nearest the tympanic scala, where they form a plexiform arrangement, with lengthened interspaces and ganglion cells. At the edge of the bane the nerve tubules cease to divide, and reach a short distance into the membranous part of the septum scalarum, where they are arranged in conical sets parallel with one another; but their mode of ending is not satisfac- torily made out. The nerve fibres do not lose the white substance of Schwann at their termination, but retain it in the minutest tubules (Bowman). 3 F termina- tion ; and an- other to the cochlea. Mode of termina- tion. Vein to petrosal sinus. Audi- tory nerve divides into two. A coch- lear branch, whose fila- ments end in the sep- tum. retain- ing white sub- stance.