201 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. rior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla. The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median Division ° . into fissure in front and behind. The fissures are in a line with haivesby . n -i fissures. those along the cord, and their extent is influenced by the cross fibres before alluded to on the surface; for whilst the anterior one ceases at the pons in a dilated part (foramen caecum), the posterior is prolonged behind the pons, and into the groove in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Each half of the medulla is constituted of the three segments Compo- of the spinal cord, which are continued into it; a-nd indi. each cations of these are still to be seen on the surface, though the names are altered, and the fibres differently arranged. Thus at the middle line in front is the anterior pyramid corresponding with the anterior column ; at the middle line behind the restiform body, continuous with the posterior column; and between these are the fibres of the lateral tract, with an oval projecting body (corpus olivare) on their exterior. a. The anterior pyramid is the most internal eminence, Anterior and receives its name from its form and position. Situate on fsymost the side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary in erua' body, from which it is separated by a slight groove. In- feriorly the pyramid is continuous with the anterior column of the cord, and internally it is connected with some decus- sating fibres from the opposite side across the anterior and is . x x . joined median fissure (decussation of the pyramids). Enlarging j^naI" as it ascends, this body enters the pons, but, before disap- fibres, pearing beneath the transverse fibres, it is somewhat con- stricted and rounded. b. Lateral tract and olivarif body.— The lateral tract Lateral. ^ J tract (funiculus lateralis), continuous with the part of the cord between the attachment of the roots of the nerves (lateral column), fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body ; but its width at the surface is not the same throughout. Opposite the lower part of the medulla oblongata, it is equal in size to each of the other constituent varies in bodies before and behind it; but near the pons its width size‘ is diminished, so that it occupies on the surface only the hollow between the outer side of the corpus olivare, and the restiform body. Its direction also is not vertical, for it is not straight.