352 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. The heart is double, each half having an au- ricle and ven- tricle. Grooves marking position of auricles and ven- tricles ; and par- tition between these: right most in front. Number and situ- ation of the auricles. Veins join their cavities. Right. Left. The ven- tricles Component parts.— The heart is a double organ, and is made up of two similar halves, right and left. In each half are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle; these pommunicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. The right half receives black blood by the systemic veins, and sends the same to the lungs by means of the pulmonary artery; but the left half is sup- plied with red blood from the lungs by the pulmonary veins, and distributes this over the body through the aorta. On the surface of the heart are certain grooves, indicatory of this composition. Thus passing circularly round the heart, nearer the base than the apex, is a groove which cuts off, as it were, the thin auricular, from the fleshy ventricular part. The auricular portion is placed at the base of the organ, and is subdivided into two halves (right and left) by a median partition. In like manner the ventricular portion is parted into right and left ventricles by a septum. The situation of the median partition between the ventricles is recognised by a longitudinal sulcus on the surface: this sulcus does not occupy the mid space either on the anterior or the posterior aspect, but is nearer the left border of the heart, in front, and the right border behind; so that most of the anterior surface is formed by the right, and the greater part of the posterior surface by the left ventricle. The auricles are two (right and left), as before said, and are placed so deeply at the base of the heart, behind the aorta and the pulmonary artery, that only the tip of the right one comes forwards to the sternum. They receive their appella- tion from the resemblance that the tips or appendices, that project forwards on the sides of the arteries, bear to the dog’s ears. The auricles are much thinner than the ven- tricles, and are recipients of blood from large veins. Of the two, the right is rather the larger and the more anterior ; it is joined by the upper and the lower cava, and by veins from the substance of the heart. The left auricle receives the two pulmonary veins of each side. The ventricles constitute the fleshy part of the heart, and respondence of the different portions of the heart to points of the wall of the thorax, he may refer to the Papers by Dr. Sibson, in voL xii. of the Trans, of the Provincial Med. and Surg. Association.