423 FIFTH LATER OF MUSCLES. e e 4 vena profunda cervieis, that communicates with the occipital are deep • • cervical and other deep veins in this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck; and then passes forwards betwee 1 the transverse processes, with its companion artery, to join the vertebral vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and occipital, sometimes communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond dorsal in their branching and distribution to the arteries they bar, accompany, and end in the intercostal veins. In contact with the spinous processes and plates of the vertebrae is a and deep deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anastomose freely veins‘ together, and enter the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. * Dissection.—Most of the remaining fifth layer of muscles Dissec- of the back is uncovered by the previous dissection. Thus, the last between the first two vertebrae: and the occipital bone lie the muscles, small straight and oblique muscles: in the cervical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle will be seen, with the small interspinal muscles internal to it; and occupying a corresponding position in the loins is the multifidus spinas. The small intertransverse muscles in the lumbar region will be found by cutting through the erector spinas.; * Fifth Layer. — In this layer are the following small Muscles muscles; — the recti and obliqui, the semispinales, inter-fifth A x layer. spinales, multifidus spinae, and intertransversales. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR is the largest of Rectus the three muscles between the occipital bone and the first major"} two vertebrae. It arises from the side of the spine of the between second vertebra, and is inserted into the outer part of the occipital inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, bou"" as well as into the surface below it: its upper attachment is beneath the superior oblique muscle. This muscle is directed outwards very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space which contains the suboccipital nerve. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR is internal to the Rectus preceding, and is much smaller than it. Arising from the Sr neural arch of the aclas, the muscle ascends to be inserted, Passes close to the middle line, into the inferior curved ridge of the at,as to, ° occipital occipital bone, and between this and the foramen magnum. bone* This small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus major: it covers the ligament between the atlas and