MENINGEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. IT of junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone; it is joined by a small vein from the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum (medium) at the base of the cranium. The sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Arteries of dura mater are: — Anterior menin- geal. Middle menin- geal, from internal maxil- lary ; Meningeal Arteries.—The arteries supplying the dura mater and the cranium are found in the three fossae of the base of the skull, and may be named from their situation, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are two very small branches which come from the ethmoidal arteries (p. 50.): they enter the skull by apertures between the frontal and ethmoid bones, and are distributed to the dura mater near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number : two, that are named large and small, are derived from the in- ternal maxillary trunk; and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery enters the skull by the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the cranium, and ends in ramifications that spread over the side of the head, some of these reaching to the top, and others towards the occiput. Two veins run with this artery. Branches.— As soon as the artery enters the cranial cavity, it furnishes branches to the dura mater and osseous structure, and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small offset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and extends through the aqueduct of the same name till it meets the stylo-mastoid artery. One or two branches enter the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one small outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen gelT?' ovale to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. The other meningeal branch from the ascending pharyn- from geal artery, appears in the middle fossa of the skull, after ing pha- passing through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). ryngeaI' gives branches to dura mater and ear.