DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 30 the branch- es. Inferior labial. Two co- ronary form an arch in the lip. Branch to nose. Lateral nasal branch. Angular branch. Facial vein is away from artery; is joined by some branch- es. Trans- verse facial artery. Lay bare the pa- rotid. brandies are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anastomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches : — 1. The inferior labial branch runs inwards beneath the depressor anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. 2. Coronary branches.— There is one for each lip (superior and inferior), which arise together or separately from the facial, and are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to the septum of the nose,— artery of the septum. 3. The lateral nasal branch arises opposite the ala of the nose, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, to be distributed on the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. 4. The angular branch is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch of the ophthalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose by a small vein named angular (p. 7.). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and separating from the artery courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches.— At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral) and the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch that comes from the pterygoid region (anterior in- ternal maxillary) ; and thence to its termination by veins corre- sponding to the branches of the artery both in the face and neck. The transverse facial is a branch of the temporal artery, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. — The parotid gland may next be displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin from its surface towards the