143 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. the ethmoid bone for the passage of the olfactory nerves, and in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it Floor, are found the palate and superior maxillary bones — their palate processes. Near the front is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner boundary (septum nasi) is partly osseous and inner partly cartilaginous, and will be seen when the lining dary membrane has been removed. The osseous part is con- partly osseous structed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal and nasal, with which this last bone articulates above. The irregular partly cartila- space in front in the prepared skull is filled by the triangular ginous. cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the ante- rior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, the cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillae, and projects even between the cartilages of each nostril. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. The outer boundary has the greatest extent and the most Outer irregular surface. Six bones enter into the formation of dary, this wall, and they come in the following order, when enu- merated from before backwards:—the nasal and superior maxillary; the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, with the small os unguis; and posteriorly the ascending part of the formed palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bones"y bone: of these, the nasal, ungual, and ethmoidal reach only about half way from roof to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth. Altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to construct part of this boundary. On this wall are three convoluted osseous pieces, named is irre. spongy or turbinate bones, which project into the cavity:— surface" the two upper are processes of the ethmoid, but the lower one is the inferior spongy bone. Between each turbinate presents bone and the wall of the nose, is a longitudinal hollow or meatus; and into these hollows, the nasal duct, and the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces overhung by the spongy ^ea- bones; and as the bones are limited to a certain part oftuses'