305 ULNAR AND MEDIAN NERVES. stances. Commonly, in the instances of high origin, the ulnar tery may artery is superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow Vdiy' (only one exception, Mr. Quain), but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm, though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the super- ficial veins. The ulnar nerve enters the forearm between the attach- uinar • i ii nerve in ments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and thethefoie- inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the forearm, and is then continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather posterior to the artery. In this part of the its x J branches limb it furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches are as below : — a. Articular nerves.— In the interval between the olecranon and to elbow the inner condyle, the ulnar nerve gives slender filaments to the articulation against which it lies. b. Muscular branches.— It furnishes offsets near the elbow joint to two to two muscles of the forearm, viz. flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor offore- profundus. One branch enters the upper part of the flexor carpi arm’ ulnaris, and the other supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand.— About the middle cutane- of the forearm a small cutaneous branch (palmar) arises from the branch nerve, and continues on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around it, of hand, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand. Sometimes a cutaneous offset from it perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches cuta- neous above the end of the ulna, and passes obliquely backwards beneath nerve of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle: it finally perforates the aponeu- hand, rosis of the limb, and is lost on the back of the hand and fingers (p. 296.). The median nerve leaves the hollow of the elbow between Median nerve the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the middle line of the limb in its course to the hand. It is placed lies be- • • tween beneath the flexor subiimis as low as two inches from the the two annular ligament, but it then becomes superficial along the muscles, outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve dips beneath the annular ligament to enter the palm of the hand, where it is distributed. This is the nerve for the supply of the muscles on the front of the forearm, for it furnishes cutaneous offsets only to the hand. x