267 THE WALL OP THE THORAX. intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The following branches take Branch- 08 origin in the thorax: — a. A small branch (comes nervi phrenici) arises as soon as the to artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm along the nerve,0 phrenic nerve. b. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the re- rnedias- mains of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, inter- one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- and nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating branches, one or two for each space, pierce the perfora- internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on branch- the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves. The e * lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the Mus- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the wall of phrenic the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm. It supplies anterior branch* branches to the lower intercostal spaces, and its termination will be seen in the dissection of the abdominal wall. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one veins, trunk, which opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves supply the wall of the thorax, and inter- rr J . 7 costal are seen now in the anterior part of their extent. They are nerves; the anterior trunks of the dorsal nerves, and are placed at first between the layers of the intercostal muscles. About course, midway between the spine and the sternum, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax: diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is continued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal in- tercostal muscle, as far as the side of the sternum, where it tevmina- ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The intercostal nerves supply branches to the intercostal muscles, and to the triangularis sterni. The aortic intercostal arteries furnish branches to the inter- costal thoracic wall; they lie with the nerves between the strata of arteries intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib the W1 1 bounding the intercostal space. About the mid point (from amives’ before back) of the space the artery bifurcates :—one branch info two. follows the line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib ; both anastomose anteriorly with the intercostal tion, and branch- es.