DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 630 cavern- ous. The fibrous case. Imper- fect septum Spongy ^ Corpus spongiosum urethrce.— This constituent part of of the the penis surrounds the urethra, and forms behind the bulb penib5 and in front the glans penis (p. 601.). The urethra is not enveloped equally on all sides by this tissue, for, at the bulb, only a thin stratum is above the canal. Posteriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb, around the urethra. its Structure. — The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is ture like similar to that of the corpus cavernosum : thus it consists of a fibrous tunic, enclosing a trabecular structure and a plexi- form arrangement of the bloodvessels. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A piece projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube of the urethra: this is best marked for a short dis- tance in front of the bulb, and assists in dividing that body into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size, than those of the corpora cavernosa. Blood- Bloodvessels. — The terminal arrangement of the blood- likewise vessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is erectile ... . a x o almost identical with that in the corpora cavernosa; but the helicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the glans penis, where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side; they are the artery of the bulb, and offsets from the dorsal artery, and enter the spongy structure — the first behind, and the latter in front at the glans where they most abound. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb, at the upper aspect. Termi- Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the nation o ^orsaj vein 0f the penis, and some communicate with 'ems' those of the cavernous body; others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. and he- licine. Source of arte- ries. Nerves. Nerves and lymphatics. — The nerves of the penis are large and are furnished by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves (p. 460 —617.) : on the bulb of the urethra and the glans penis, they end Lymph- in Pacinian bodies. — Fick. The superficial lymphatics join the t ic*. inguinal glands; the deep accompany the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the glands in the pelvis.