THE LARYNX. 163 \ of the caliciform papillae, where they project into the mus- cular substance. Some ducts open on the surface, and others into the hollows around the large, papillae, or even into the foramen cascum. Opposite the papillae vallatse, at the ayhe margin of the tongue, is another small collection of sub- mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, on each side and be- of the fraenum, is a collection of the same kind of glands, tip. from which several ducts issue. Nerves.—There are three nerves distributed in each Nerves half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypoglossal, and the glosso-pharyngeal. The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular substance, and to the two smallest sets of papillae, conical and fungi- form ; it joins also the hypoglossal nerve. The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender filaments that are furnished to the mus- cular substance of the tongue. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides into two branches near the border of the tongue:—One turns to the dorsum, and ends in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum. The other passes beneath the side of the tongue, and divides into filaments that enter the muscular substance; it supplies the papillm caliciformes, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Vessels. — The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual artery of each side; these, together with the veins, have been examined (p. 102.). After supplying the muscular substance the vessels enter the papillae, and end in loops as before said. from th ree sources. gusta- tory, hypo- glossal, and glos- so-pha- ryngeal. Arteries and veins. Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The larynx is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in outline which the voice is produced. This organ of the voice is rynx" constructed of several cartilages, which are united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. — The tongue may be now removed from the pissec- larynx by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The parts that are to be described would be much better seen on a fresh larynx. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is situa- , M 2