415 FOURTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. separation between this muscle and the multifidus spinas on its inner side. Between the longissimus and the multifidus spinae are the internal branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, and those of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The dissector of the neck should trace upwards a fleshy prolongation of the longissimus beyond the ribs: this is blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus ; but it is afterwards divided like the splenius into a cranial part (tra- chelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). * Fourth Layer.— In this layer are included the spinalis dorsi; the erector spinae, with its divisions and its accessory muscles to the neck; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are in connection with this layer of muscles. * The spinalis dorsi is found only by the sides of the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, and is united with the lon- gissimus dorsi. Inferiorly it arises by tendinous processes from the spines of the last two dorsal and the first two lumbar vertebrae, and from the contiguous tendon of the lon- gissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend forming arches, whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by ten- dinous processes to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, as low as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. * The erector spina: is the muscular mass on the side of the spine in the lumbar region. It is single and pointed below; and its cutaneous surface is covered near the sacrum by a wide and strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spinae. The muscle arises below from about the posterior fifth of the crest of the innominate bone, at the inner aspect, and many fibres take origin from the superficial tendon : in the lumbar region the fibres are also connected deeply by fleshy and tendinous processes to the whole length of each transverse process, to the tubercle (process, acces- sorius) at the root of the same, and to the layer of the fascia lumborum external to those processes. Opposite the last rib it divides into sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. The attachment on the inner aspect of the innominate bone cor- responds in greater part to the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer side. * The sacro-lumbalis or ilio-costalis is the smallest of the two pieces resulting from the division of the erector Vessels and nerves. Offsets to the neck. Fourth layer of muscles consists of Spinalis dorsi. only along the dor-’ sal ver- tebra;. Erector spinae is single at its origin. Attach- ments. Divides at the last rib into two. Sacro- lumbalis