698 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Inser- tion into the femur j ^es in sacro- sciatic notch j Position to other parts. Dissect out the vessels and the nerves. The vessels come from the iliac. Sciatic artery; course and ending. Branches to joint and muscles. great sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a tendon, and is inserted into the upper border of the great trochanter, in front of the gluteus medius, where it is com- monly united with the tendon of the obturator internus. As the muscle passes through the sacro-sciatic notch it di- vides that space into two parts: the upper of these gives passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, and the lower to the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius, and its lower edge to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and rests on the hip joint. Dissection. — The pyriformis may be cut across, and raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to trace upwards the sciatic and pudic vessels, and the corresponding nerves to the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small offsets to the gemellus superior and the hip joint are to be sought at the lower part of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but it will be followed to its termination afterwards, since it passes beneath those muscles. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. — The vessels on the back of the pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal iliac, like the gluteal artery (p. 610.). The sciatic artery supplies the buttock. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends over the gemelli and obturator muscles, in the interval between the tuber iscliii and the trochanter, as far as the quadratus femoris; here the artery ends in branches for the supply of the surrounding parts, and anastomoses with the internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery. In this course it furnishes muscular offsets to the great gluteus and the rotator muscles, and some articular branches to the hip joint; some cutaneous offsets bend round the margin of the gluteus (p. 448.). It supplies also the following named branches : — Coccy- a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pelvis, perforates the branch, great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum. to the*1 The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici)