DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 188 are closed by connective tissue, so as to form a continuous membrane. From the under surface of the pia mater pro- ceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels Vessels and nerves. — The arachnoid membrane has but few nerves, vessels, whilst the pia mater is almost entirely composed of vessels and nerves. The arachnoid is considered to be nerveless; but the pia mater is largely supplied by offsets of the sympathetic, that accompany the bloodvessels at the base of the brain (p. 22.). Bochdalek has also described offsets to it from some cranial nerves. Dissec- tion of the ves- sels. Outline of cranial mass. Upper part of spinal cord. Pons Varolii and its crura. Dissection.—- To follow out the arteries, let the brain re- main upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from the vessels that are seen on the surface. First, the two arteries that lie in the median fissure of the great brain may be defined; next, the artery that passes outwards transversely between the two lobes of that brain; and, lastly, a vessel that bends backwards along the inner part of the great brain (cerebrum). One artery may be seen ramifying on the upper (in the present position) surface of the little brain, and another is to be followed to the opposite surface. Subdivisions of the encephalon.— Before entering into the detail of the anatomy of the arteries, the chief sub- divisions of the encephalon may be shortly mentioned. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, and pons and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions: — The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord, lies in the groove between the halves of the small brain, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To each half some of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii is situate in front of the medulla ob- longata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separation into two halves. In front of it are two large processes (crura cerebri) that pass to the great brain; on each side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli); and behind it is the enlarged upper part of the cord. The cerebellum, or the small brain, is divided into two Cerebel- lum.