730 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. and ar- ticular offsets. External nerve to one toe and a half; has su- perficial Branch- es. Two digital divided at the spot mentioned, supplies cutaneous offsets to the contiguous sides of two toes, and to the cutis beneath the nail; and articular filaments are distributed to the joints, as in the fingers. The external plantar nerve furnishes the remaining digital nerves, viz. to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next, and ends in the deep muscles of the sole of the foot. This nerve corresponds in its arrangement with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides at the outer margin of pamdeep ^ie ^exor brevis digitorum into a superficial and a deep portion: — the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be afterwards dissected. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi disriti and the flexor accessorius. O The digital branches of the external plantar nerve are but branches two, and resemble those of the ulnar nerve in the hand. from su- perficial One is undivided ; it is distributed to the outer side of the part. ... little toe, and gives branches to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces: this nerve com- municates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the toes.— On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same distribution as those from the other plantar trunk. Dissection.— To complete the preparation of the second layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor pollicis should muscles, be detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be turned inwards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plan- tar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat and loose tissue and the fascia are to be taken away from near the toes. Tendons Second layer of MUSCLES. — In this layer are the ten- and mus- J ciesof dons 0f the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz. the layer'41 ^exor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which One is undi. vided. Distri- bution like others. Lay bare second