DISSECTION OF TUB UPPER LIMB. 266 Dissec- tion of internal mam- mary vessels. Triangu- laris sterni is in the thorax and at- tached to the ribs. Connec- tions. Internal mam- mary is a branch of sub- clavian ; courses through thorax to abdo- men. is covered by the external muscle and by the intercostal vessels and nerve ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Dissection. — To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilage of each true rib, except the first and seventh, is to be taken away on the right side of the body*; but the two ribs men- tioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dis- sectors of the abdomen and the head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, as well as the intercostal nerves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be made apparent, after the removal of the cartilages, by cleaning the loose tissue and fat from it. The triangularis sterni is a thin muscle, which is placed inside the cavity of the thorax, and beneath the costal car- tilages. It arises internally from the side of the xiphoid cartilage, from the side of the sternum as high as the third cartilage, and from the three or four lower sternal costal car- tilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most oblique, and are inserted by fleshy fasciculi into all the true ribs except the last two and the first, at the junction of the bone and cartilage, and into the aponeurosis in the inter- costal spaces. The muscle is covered by the rib3 and the internal intercostal muscles, and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura; its lower fibres are continuous with those of the transver- salis abdominis. The internal mammary artery is a branch of the sub- clavian (p. 74.), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventli ribs ; hero it gives externally a large muscular branch (mus- culo-phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath of the rectus muscle of the wall of the abdo- men. In this course in the chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the * On the left side the vessels and the muscle will have been destroyed by the injection of the body.