647 LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. t t 4 ments are examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife. Two sacro-sciatic liqaments pass from the lateral part of Sacro. .... , . sciatic the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial spme and tuberosity ol iiga-^ the hip bone, across the space at the back of the pelvis be- are two; tween the posterior border of that bone and the sacrum. By their position they convert into two apertures or foramina (sacro-sciatic), the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : these openings, and the parts they give passage to, are described in the dissection of the buttock. The liga- ments are named large and small. The large ligament reaches from the side of the sacrum large; and coccyx to the ischial tuberosity ; but it may have been cut in the dissection of the gluteal region, with which it is examined. The small ligament is attached internally by a wide part small; to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding ligament. The fibres are directed outwards to the ischial spine of the hip bone, and attach, are inserted into it by a narrowed part. Its pelvic surface is covered by the coccygeus muscle, and its opposite surface and con- by the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above this ligament, between it and the bone, is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, and below it is the small foramen of the same name. Ligaments of the Innominate Bones.— The innomi- special nate bones are united in front, at the pubic symphysis, by an 'Sts of tl"lG IsIg* interposed cartilage and special ligaments; and behind, each rai bones is connected with the transverse process of the last lumbar pelvis, vertebra by a special band (ilio-lumbar). In the centre of the bone is a membranous structure closing the thyroid aperture. The ilio-lumbar ligament is triangular in form and is iiio. divided into fasciculi. Internally it is attached to the tip 0flumbar the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra; externally fixes the the fibres spread out, and are inserted into the iliac crest, h?nd.be" opposite the posterior part of the iliac fossa on the inner aspect. To the upper border of this ligament the fascia lumborum is attached: its posterior surface is covered by the quadratus lumborum, and its anterior by the iliacus muscle.