INTRASPINAL VESSELS. 441 posterior column: whilst others, penetrating deeper, are connected with the lateral column, and enter the gray part of the commissure of the cord. By means of the transverse fibres in the commissure the posterior root may be possibly connected, like the anterior root, with the opposite half of the cord. Neither in the anterior nor in the posterior roots could Professor Kolliker discover any junction of the nerve cells with the nerve fibres, whilst these were in the gray sub- stance. Intraspinal Vessels.— The arteries in the interior of the spinal canal supply the cord and its membranes, and the bodies of the vertebras. The veins form a remarkable plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless the veins have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries are derived from the vessels along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz. from the vertebral and ascending cervical, from the intercostal, and from the lumbar and lateral sacral; and are distributed after the following plan: — As each artery enters the spinal canal by the interver- tebral foramen, it divides into two branches, upper and lower : these branches are directed, one upwards and the other downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebrae but outside the edge of the posterior common ligament, and join in anastomotic loops with offsets of the intraspinal artery above and below. These loops extend from one intervertebral foramen to another, and furnish branches to the periosteum, and the bodies of the vertebrae on their posterior surface, as well as anastomotic twigs to connect the arches across the vertebrae. Besides forming O loops, the intraspinal vessels produce a central longitudinal artery, like that on the front of the spinal cord : this vessel lies on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae^ and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal veins consist of two anterior longitudinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrae ; of veins from the bodies of the vertebrae; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches of the vertebrae. a. The anterior longitudinal veins are close to the bodies of the same side. Perhaps of oppo- site. Do nerve cell, and fibres join ? Vessels of the spinal canal. Source of the intra- spinal arteries. Distri- bution to the ver- tebras and the cord. Veins within the spinal canal are large. Anterior