488 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. bouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio- lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. Circum- The companion vein with this artery is formed by the flex vein. L J J junction of two collateral branches, like the epigastric, and crosses the external iliac artery, nearly an inch above Poupart’s ligament, to reach the iliac vein on the inner side. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Inguinal! hernia. The dis- section on the left groin. Reflect oblique. Clean subja- cent parts. The lower part of the wall of the abdomen, which has been reserved on the left side of the body, should be now dissected for the anatomy of inguinal hernia. Dissection. — The skin, the superficial fascia, and the apo- neurosis of the external oblique having been already reflected in the previous examination of the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by reflecting the internal oblique muscle. To raise upwards the muscle, its lower fleshy origin from Poupart’s ligament must be detached. For this purpose let one incision be made across the fleshy part of the internal oblique, from the iliac crest towards the linea alba; and after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of connective and fatty tissues beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their origin from Poupart’s ligament. By de- taching the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to raise it from the subjacent transversalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen : the separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac artery marks their intermuscular space. The cremaster muscle is then to be divided along the cord, and to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched border, and trace with care the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, to show its exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the