DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 534 receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood lymph- into the portal system. Two layers of lymphatics, superficial and deep, are found in the stomach. The nerves are derived from the atics, and nerves. pneumo-gastric and sympathetic, as before said, p.529. Charac- ters. Length and fix- edness. Width and thick- ness. Ducts entering it. Length. Division arbi- trary. Differ- ences at the ends. Wall has same strata as the sto- mach. Serous coat like that of the stomach. except in the duode- num. S31 ALL INTESTINE. The three parts into which the small intestine is divided, viz. duodenum, jejunum, and ileum, have the following differences in their characters : — The duodenum measures about as much as the breadth of twelve fingers, viz. about ten inches, and is more fixed than the rest of the intestinal tube. It is wider in capacity than either the jejunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the common bile duct and the pancre- atic duct pour their contents. The jejunum and the ileum together are about twenty feet long, and are connected to the mesentery by one border. There is not any perceptible difference between the termi- nation of the one and the commencement of the other, but two-fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and three-fifths to the ileum. At their ends, however, a marked difference may be observed; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower part of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structure. — In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous; and these have the same position from within outwards. The different structures are to be examined on pieces taken from the duodenum, from the upper part of the jejunum, from the lower end of the ileum, and from the middle of the small intestine. After the pieces of intestine have been cut off, they are to be dis- tended with air. 1. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To the greater part of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) it furnishes a covering, except at the attached part where the vessels enter: at this spot a space exists, resembling that at the borders of the stomach, where the peritoneum is reflected off to form the mesentery. The peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly ; this pecu- liarity has been described at p. 511.