476 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Parts co- vered by external oblique. Internal oblique muscle. Origin from pelvis. Inser- tion into the ribs and linea alba. except lowest fibres. Aponeu- rosis of the mus- cle. Divides to incase rectus. Attach- ments to chest, and in- teriorly. Parts in con- tact with oblique. Parts covered by external oblique.—Beneath the external, is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the inter- costal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the outer muscle conceals the cord, and the branches of nerves from the lumbar plexus contained in the abdominal wall. The aponeurosis of the external oblique is placed in front of the sheath of the rectus. The internal oblique muscle is fleshy below and apo- neurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding muscle; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across the direction of those of the external oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Poupart’s ligament, along the anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone, and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their destination : — The posterior fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted into the cartilages of the lower three ribs, and join the internal intercostal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The anterior or lower fibres arch down- wards and inwards (from Poupart’s ligament) over the sper- matic cord, and end in the aponeurosis near the pubes. The intervening fibres pass obliquely to the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis of the muscle covers the fore part of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest, and blends with its fellow along the middle line. Over the greater part of the front of the abdomen the aponeurosis incases the rectus ; but midway between the umbilicus and the pubes it is undivided, and lies in front of that muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the thorax after the following manner: the stratum that is superficial to the rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique; and the stratum beneath the muscle joins the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs and the ensiform cartilage. Infe- O O riorly its fibres become more distinct and separate, as in the external oblique, and are inserted into the front of the pubes, and into the pectineal line for half an inch, behind the at- tachment of Poupart’s ligament. Connections. — The internal is covered by the external oblique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart’s ligament and the pubes where it arches over the cord, and has the cremaster muscle contiguous to it. The