786 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Fenettra ovalis. fenestra rotunda. In outer bound- ary, mem- brana tympani and Glasse- rian fissure. Circum- ference ; roof; floor. At back, opening of mas- toid cells; pyra- mid; aque- duct of Fallo- pius. In front vexity placed upwards, and is named fenestra ovalis: to- wards tlie vestibular cavity (part of the labyrinth) it has a sharp, prominent margin ; and over it, in the recent state, the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture, named fenestra rotunda, is rather irregular or triangular in shape, and leads into the cochlea: it is situate within a funnel-shaped hollow, somewhat oval in form on the surface. In the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane, the secondary membrane of the tympanum. The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the mem- brana tympani, and by a small part of the surrounding bone. Above the membrane and in front of it, is the Glasserian or glenoid fissure, which is occupied, in the fresh condition of the body, by the long process of one of the small bones (mal- leus), and by a small muscle (laxator tympani). Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which passes through an aperture internal to or in the Glasserian fissure. The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and in some parts it is rough and uneven on the surface. In pass- ing around the cavity, the student may observe the following points in its anatomy. The roof is wide and flattened, and consists of a thin osseous plate which separates the cranial and tympanic cavities. The floor is narrow, and curved over the sub- jacent jugular fossa; it presents in the dry bone more or less of an areolar or spongy texture, as well as some small apertures that open into that fossa. At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large and other smaller apertures leading into the mastoid cells. Below this aperture, but near the inner wall and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontory, is a small conical projection, named the 'pyramid: this is perforated by an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle. A minute canal connects the hollow in this projection with the aqueduct of Fallopius. Attaching generally the pyramid to the above-mentioned part of the promontory, is a small round spiculum of bone. In a line with the pyramid, and arching upwards from it above the fenestra ovalis, is a ridge of bone marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The front of the tympanic cavity corresponds with the