EXTENSORS OF THE THUMB. 325 at first concealed by the common extensor of the fingers ; The but it becomes cutaneous between the last muscle and the atUfirstls extensors of the wrist, about two inches above the end of deep,but the radius. Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds after- backwards beneath its tendon. The ulnar attachment is super- fjcia] higher than the radial, and begins close below the insertion of the anconeus: between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis, the posterior interosseous artery appears. The EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODII POLLICIS is the Smallest Exten- muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon is closely connected first pha- with that of the preceding extensor. Its origin,, about one thumb inch in depth, is from the radius and the interosseous mem- has a brane, close below the attachment of the preceding muscle, origin. Its fibres end in a tendon, which passes through the same with pre- space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the meta- ctding' carpal bone, and is inserted into the metacarpal end of the inser- first phalanx of the thumb. With respect to surrounding the parts, this muscle has the same connections as the previous one. The EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODn POLLICIS varies in the Exten- extent of its bony attachment. It arises from the ulna for second about three inches in a line with, and below the extensor of liesaione the metacarpal bone ; and from the interosseous membrane annular below for one inch; but oftentimes it may be connected ment. with the middle three fifths of the ulna. Its tendon of in- sertion, after passing through a sheath in the annular liga- ment distinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is covered by the same muscles inser- as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes super- tlon’ ficial nearer the lower end of the radius. Below the annular is lower ligament its tendon crosses the radial artery, and the tendons pieced-0 of the extensors of the wrist. mg two. The extensor indicis (indicator muscle) arises from the indi- cator ulna for three or four inches, usually below the middle, and muscle, internal to the preceding, though the attachment may be carried upwards beyond the centre of the bone. Near the Origin, annular ligament the tendon becomes free from muscular it is ap- fibres, and passing through the ligament with the common common extensor of the fingers, is applied to the external tendon of sor,en"