DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 646 a poste- rior liga- ment, and a fibro* carti- lage. Union of the pieces of the coccyx. Union between the sa- crum and hip bone. To dis- sect the liga- ments. Anterior and pos- terior li- gaments; one more distinct than the rest, with ar- ticular carti- lage. fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro- cartilage. The 'posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the lower margin of the orifice of the sacral canal, but narrows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that between the vertebrae, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Whilst the several pieces of the coccyx remain separate, they are connected together by anterior and posterior bands, and by intervening thin Jibro-cartilages. But in the male adult the bones are generally joined by ossific matter. Sacro-iliac Articulation. — The irregular surfaces by which the sacrum and the innominate bone touch, are united by cartilage, and maintained in contact by anterior and pos- terior sacro-iliac ligaments. Interiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro- sciatic ligaments. Dissection. — To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains; but the anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some connective tissue. The great sacro-sciatic ligament is dissected with the lower limb, and the small ligament will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres, which are attached to the sacrum and the hip bone near their articular surfaces. The posterior ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles. These ligaments pass from the rough inner surface at the posterior extremity of the innominate bone to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from the others, and more superficial, is named the oblique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior superior iliac spinous process, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articular cartilage. — Between the irregular surfaces of the bones in this articulation (sacro-iliac symphysis) is a thin uneven layer of cartilage. In it there is sometimes a hollow with irregular surfaces like that in the cartilage of the sym- physis pubis. On separating the bones, after the other liga-