DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 590 Differ- ent terms applied to the fascia. Recto- vesical layer after. How to remove the in- nomi- nate bone. over the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the vessels, by which it is perforated. It may be here remarked that the term “ pelvic ” is not always applied, as in the previous description, to the fascia in its whole extent from the brim to the outlet of the pelvis, but that the name “obturator” is given to the half of it below the recto-vesical piece. Those who make this dis- tinction describe the pelvic fascia as dividing into obturator and recto-vesical layers at the level of the line mentioned. The recto-vesical fascia may be now seen in a measure; but it will be better displayed after the innominate bone has been taken away for the purpose of giving a side view of the pelvis. Dissection. — To obtain a side view of the pelvis it will be necessary to separate one innominate bone, say the left. The pelvic fascia is first to be detached from the bone and the obturator muscle, but without destroying before and behind the attachments of the white band of the fascia. The inno- minate bone is then to be sawn through in front rather ex- ternal to the symphysis; and the lateral articulation with the sacrum is likewise to be sawn through. After the in- nominate bone has been somewhat separated from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spine with the pelvic fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone forceps, and then the rest of the bone may be removed by cutting through the pyriformis muscle, the vessels and nerves passing through the sacro- sciatic notch, and any other structure that may retain the bone. Prepara- A small block is afterwards to be placed beneath the tion of 1 . . the pelvis ; the bladder is to be moderately distended with air ; parts. r . .... J , . and some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina of the female, as well as a small piece into the pouch of the peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent, the recto-vesical fascia and the ischial spine should be raised with hooks, whilst the surfaces of the levator ani and coccygeus muscles are cleaned. Outlet Parts closing the outlet of the pelvis. — In addition to the is dosed recto-vesical fascia, the following parts fill the large outlet of the dried pelvis. Beginning behind, the student will first pri-. meet with the pyriformis, passing through the great sacro-