DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 203 from an- terior pyramid, from la- teral and posterior part of spinal cord. from olivary body. Septum of pons. Antero- posterior fibres. Trans- verse. (peduncular, Stilling), that begin in the upper two thirds of the pons and join them on the outer side. It is said by some, that the transverse fibres of the pons become longitudinal, and thus increase the number. a. The fibres of the anterior pyramid pass through the pons between the two sets of transverse fibres, but not as one mass, for they are divided into a number of small bundles in their progress. Much increased in number, the fibres enter the crus cerebri at the upper border of the pons, and give rise to that fasciculated surface of the peduncle, which is now uppermost. b. The ascending fibres of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord are altogether deeper than the commissural fibres of the pons, and are mixed up with gray matter; they are also more numerous than the preceding set. These fibres pro- ject close to the middle line, in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, and form the eminence of the fasciculus teres ; from that spot they are continued upwards to the crus cerebri, where they enter its deeper or cerebral part. In the pons a band from the olivary fasciculus is added to these fibres. c. The olivary fasciculus (fillet, p. 204.) divides into two slips in the pons. One passes backwards to the upper (in this position deeper) part of the crus cerebri, and ends in and beneath the corpora quadrigemina (p. 229.). The other is continued to the cerebrum with the fibres of the lateral column. Septum. —In the pons, as in the medulla oblongata, there is a septum between the halves, but only at the posterior part, for anteriorly the transverse or commissural fibres of opposite sides are continuous. It consists like that of the medulla oblongata of antero-posterior and transverse fibres. The antero-posterior fibres are derived partly from the floor of the fourth ventricle; and partly from the transverse of the pons, which bend oackwards for a certain distance before they cross to the opposite side. The transverse fibres of the pons, opposite the septum, are very slender, and are seen only on transverse sections of a hardened pons; they come from the floor of the fourth ventricle, pierce the longitudinal fibres, and are then continued across the middle line, between the antero-posterior, as in the medulla oblongata.