165 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. from the middle line ; also, for a short distance (a line), into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno- thyroid muscle. The CRICO-ARYTJENOIDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE lies On the Crico- posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. Its origin is from noideus' the depression on the side of the vertical ridge at the pos- terior aspect of that cartilage. From this origin the fibres is on are directed outwards, and converge to be inserted, by fleshy cricoid and tendinous fibres, into a projection at the outer part of lage. the base of the arytaenoid cartilage. The aryt^enoideus is a single muscle in the middle line, Aryt*- and is placed in the concavity on the posterior aspect of the arytaenoid cartilages. Two sets of fibres with different directions, viz. superficial and deep, are present in the muscle. The deep fibres are transverse; they are inserted into the deep or trans- outer border and the posterior surface of the cartilages, and verse fibres, super- dose the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the jj£j?|u0er parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other. A few of the oblique fibres of the muscle are usually continued round the carti- lage to join the thyro-arytaenoid muscle, or to blend with the fibres in the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscles, uissec- which are somewhat concealed by the thyroid cartilage, it internal • muscles. will be necessary to remove the right half of the thyroid, by cutting through it near the middle line, after its small cornu has been detached from the cricoid cartilage. By the removal of a little connective tissue, the dissector will de- fine inferiorly the lateral crico-arytaenoid muscle; above it, the thyro-arytaenoideus muscle; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytaenoid cartilage. The CRICO-ARYTJENOIDEUS LATERALIS is a Small lengthened Lateral cri CO- band, which arises from the lateral part of the upper border aryta- of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted, with the thyro-arytaenoid muscle, into a pro- jection on the outer side of the base of the arytaenoid card-