739 FASCIA OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. the ankle joint are some strong transverse fibres, marking tram- the position of the two parts of the anterior annular liga- fibres at ment; and below the end of the fibula is another band, the ankle, external annular ligament. Dissection.— The fascia is to be removed from the leg Take away the ' and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the fascia, annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia is to be left. On separating the fascia from the subjacent mus- cles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their clean nerve, and the short extensor of the toes are to be dissected ; and, in the leg, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed into their intermuscular space and then cleaned. The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position : the former serving to bind the fleshy part to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The upper part is attached laterally to the bones of the leg, and possesses a separate sheath for the tibialis anticus. The lower part is in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally into the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament; and, internally, by a thin and widened piece into the plantar fascia and the inner malleolus. In this part of the ligament there are three sheaths: the inner one is for the tibialis anticus; the next for the extensor pollicis; and the outer one for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus. Sepa- rate synovial membranes lubricate the sheaths. The external annular ligament is attached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to the outer surface of the os calcis; it contains the tendons of the peronei muscles in one sheath, which is lined by a synovial mem- brane. The muscles on the front of the leg are three in number; they are flexors of the ankle and extensors of the toes. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus; 3 r 2 nerves and ves- sels. Anterior annular liga- ment ; its upper and lower part. Sheaths differ in each. Exter- nal an- nular li- gament. Muscles on the front of the leg and foot.