DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 116 Vagus nerve in fora- men ju- gulare. and in the neck, courses to the thorax. One ganglion in fo- ramen. another below. Branch- es to unite with others; spinal accesso- ry, sym- pathetic, glosso- pharyn- geal ; lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15.). The pneumo-gastric nerve (vagus nerve) is the largest of the three trunks of the eighth cranial nerve (Willis), and occupies the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal acces- sory in the jugular foramen. In the foramen it has a dis- tinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nerve has escaped from the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a large ganglion (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies between the carotid artery and the jugular vein, and communicates with the several nerves at this part. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends, almost vertically, between the internal jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries, and enters that cavity, on the right side, by crossing over the subclavian artery. Ganglia.—The ganglion of the root (gang, superius) is of a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. The small branches of the vagus in the foramen jugulare come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (gang, inferius) is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length. It communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympa- thetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are surrounded by the ganglionic substance, but those derived from the spinal accessory nerve pass by the ganglion without being inclosed in it. The same arrangement may be made of the branches of the pneumo-gastric in the neck, as was adopted for the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, viz. into those uniting it with other nerves, and those that are distributed to the parts around. Connecting Branches.— Branches of communication arise from both the ganglion of the root and that of the trunk of the nerve. * a. From the ganglion of the root.— One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the spinal accessory nerve, and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck enters the ganglion. Occa- sionally there is an offset to join the lower (petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its chief branch is the following.