DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 600 its divi- sions. Pro- static. Mem- branous ; connec- tions. Spongy. Dissec- tion. / Con- stituents and situation of the penis. Corpora caver- nosa form body of penis, out. The canal is divided into three parts, prostatic, mem- branous, and spongy. The prostatic part is contained in the prostate gland, and receives its name from that circumstance. Its length and connections are the same as those of the gland (p. 598.). The membranous part is nearly an inch long, and inter- venes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the perinaeal triangular ligament. It is somewhat curved up- wards, and the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, so that the under part appears to measure less than the upper. Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethras ; close below it are Cowper’s glands, and beneath or behind it is the rectum. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is sup- ported by the triangular ligament. The spongy part is so named from its being surrounded by a cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to the body of the penis assisting to form this, and terminates an- teriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about five inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is surrounded by the ejaculator urinse muscle. Dissection.— All the tegumentary covering of the penis may be removed, to see the component parts of that body : and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The penis is a cylindrical body, which is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and depends from it in front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies named corpora cavernosa, which form the principal part of the organ ; and below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) that surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. A tegumentary investment covers the whole, and is supplied with vessels and nerves; these are noticed at p. 470. The corpora cavernosa form the bulk of the penis, and are two dense, fibrous, almost cylindrical tubes, which are filled with a vascular texture. Each is fixed posteriorly to the upper part of the pubic arch for about an inch by a thick pointed process, the crus penis; and after a distance of an inch and a half it is blended with its fellow in the