182 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. These liga- ments describ- ed else- where. Special liga- ments between first two vertebras and oc- cipital bone, posterior and anterior atlo-ax- oid; and an- terior and pos- terior occipito- atloid. Liga- ments in- ternally ligaments and synovial membranes for the articulating pro- cesses ; and an interarticular ligament between the bodies of the bones. Directions.—These ligaments are first to be learnt: their preparation and description will be found with the dissection of the ligaments of the spine, at the end of the thorax. But in opening the spinal canal, to see the ligaments inside it, the arches of the three highest vertebras should for the pre- sent be left untouched. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebrae to each other and to the occipital bone: some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous membranes, that connect the bodies and arches of the first two vertebrae in front and behind, and join the atlas with the occipital bone at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular surfaces of all the bones, but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. a. Union of the atlas with the axis.—1. The posterior liga- ment (atlo-axoid) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by the one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the corresponding arch of the axis. Below the superficial layer are some deeper and stronger fibres. The second nerve pierces it. 2. The anterior ligament unites the bodies of the first two vertebrae in the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their arches. It is thickest in the middle. h. Union of the atlas with the occipital bone. — 1. The anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum, to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. 2. The posterior ligament is fixed to the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and to the neural arch of the atlas. It is thin; and at its attachment to the bone below, the vertebral artery and the posterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve pass beneath it. The ligaments inside the spinal canal are peculiar in form, and assist to retain the skull in position during the