7 66 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. vision. Number of coats tral parts Dissec tion. organ of the optic nerve (retina). Within the nervous expansion are central transparent parts to bring the rays of light to a focus on it; and in front of these is a moveable curtain (iris) to regulate the perfection of the image in the interior. To de- fend such delicate structures, certain denser strata or coats are arranged around them ; and to absorb the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball, one of them is provided with dark pigment. The coats of the eyeball, forming three strata, are arranged one within another, and are named sclerotic, choroid, and and cen. 4retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise three, viz. the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection.—To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dissected, the student may destroy one eyeball for that purpose by cutting through it circularly: he will then be able to recognise generally the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, and their strength and appearance ; and will be better able to follow the directions that are after- wards given. Fibrous coat of the eyeball.—The outer casing of the eye consists of an opaque hinder part called sclerotic, and of an anterior transparent part or cornea. The sclerotic coat (cornea opaca) is the firm, whitish, and opaque part of the external stratum of the eyeball, which supports the more delicate structures within. Dissection. — To examine the inner and outer surfaces of this coat, and of the cornea, it will be necessary to cut cir- cularly through the sclerotic or outer coat, with a blunt- pointed scissors, a quarter of an inch from the cornea; and then to separate the cornea from the front of the eyeball, by breaking through a structure that fixes it slightly; in rais- ing the cornea, the student may observe the aqueous fluid escape from the containing chamber. The other structures may be then removed from the interior of the sclerotic covering; and the central parts of the ball may be set aside for subsequent use. The sclerotic tunic of the eye is bell-shaped, and extends from the entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the cornea, forming about five sixths of the ball. At its poste- rior part and a little to the inner side of the centre (one Fibrous coat. Sclerotic part. Dissec- tion to see the interior. Form and ex- tent. Aper- tures behind.