374 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Left. Their number varies. Join cava. Nerves of the thorax. To trace the nerves, particu- larly vagus. Phrenic nerve is derived from the cervical p lex us. and passes through thorax to the dia- phragm. lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. Peculiarities in number. — The number of the pulmonary veins may be altered by the union of those of the left side into one; or by the want of union on the right side, from which three trunks result, corresponding to the three lobes of the lung. But other pe- culiarities may be found as to number, for six or seven veins, taking both sides together, have been met with; and a bronchial vein has been found opening into one of the left veins. In the ending. — The veins of the right side have been observed to open in an adult into the vena cava. NERVES OF THE THORAX. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera of the thorax. Some other nerves (intercostal) which are contained in the wall of the thorax, will be afterwards dissected. In the cavity of the thorax is the phrenic nerve, but this only courses through it to the diaphragm. Dissection.— The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for its examination ; but the student should trace the vagus nerve through the cavity of the thorax. The vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out: some filaments of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, that come forwards to the plexus, must be looked for. In front of the root, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments, especially on the left side. From the root of the lung the vagus is to be pursued along the oesophagus, by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The phrenic nerve (internal respiratory) is a muscular branch from the cervical plexus to the diaphragm (p. 78.). In its course through the thorax, it lies along the side of the pericardium, and at a little distance from the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the dia- phragm each is divided into branches that perforate the fleshy fibres, and are distributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their con- nections above the root of the lung.