PONS VAROLII. 207 the middle line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons enters into the fourth ventricle, forming part of the floor of that space. The upper border is longest and most curved, and arches over the cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the prolongations of the medulla oblongata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. Structure. — In the pons are alternating strata of trans- verse and longitudinal fibres: the transverse set are continu- ous with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, and are interspersed with much gray matter: the longitudinal are prolonged from the constituent bodies of the medulla oblongata. Dissection. — The transverse fibres of the pons may be divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the left side, and turned outwards, so as to denude the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid. In like manner a second mass of transverse fibres, which lie below those of the pyramid (first longitu- dinal set) may be cut through outside the pyramidal; and the deep fibres of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord (second longitudinal set) will appear. Amongst this last set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should attempt to trace up- wards from that body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched. The transverse fibres of the annular protuberance are collected chiefly into two strata — a superficial and deep, which are united in the middle line: they serve as commis- sural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, that will be described with the septum. The superficial set are mostly horizontal, but some from the lower part of the crus ascend obliquely over the others to reach the upper margin of the pons. The deep layer is thickest, and contains much gray matter between its fibres. The longitudinal fibres consist of three sets, viz. one from the anterior pyramidal body ; another from the lateral and posterior columns of the cord; and a third from the corpus olivare. These are not simply continued through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of special fibres and borders. It is formed by longi tudinai and trans- verse | fibres. Dissec- tion to expose the fibres. The trans- verse fibres form a superfi- cial and a deep layer. Three sets of longitu dinal fibres.