104 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. Branch es. Ninth nerve, between the chin and hy- oid bone is lost in middle of tongue. Its branches supply muscles and the tongue. Whar- ton’s duct opens by frsnum linguae. Struc- ture. Sublin- gual gland the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branches.— From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and from the anterior part other filaments are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth and to the Whartonian duct. The hypo-glossal or ninth nerve, after crossing the side of the neck and the anterior triangle (p. 82.), enters between the small muscles of the submaxillary region. Here the nerve lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, being concealed by the mylo-hyoideus: but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued along the middle line of the tongue to the apex. The position of the ninth nerve is in the centre of the tongue, whilst the gustatory lies near the margin : the ninth supplies branches to the muscular structure, and the gustatory ends chiefly in the papilke. Branches. — On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes branches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the mylo-hyoid and the digastric, viz., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, some offsets as- cend on the hyo-glossus to communicate with the gustatory nerve. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long filaments with the branches of the ranine artery, that supply the structure of the tongue, and communicate with the gustatory nerve. The duct of the sabmaxillary gland, or Wharton’s duct, issues from the deep part of the glandular mass that turns round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side of the frmnum linguae in the centre of an eminence. The duct consists of three coats, — an external thin and fibrous, a middle or muscular, and an internal or mucous; and its opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along it. This is the only salivary duct, according to Professor Kolliker, that possesses a stratum of muscular fibre. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends, in some instances, even to the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland is somewhat of the shape of an almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one