621 THE URINARY BLADDER. coats, and the same in kind as the vas deferens (p. 567.). *P^ial Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, the vesiculae and vasa deferentia are covered by a muscular layer of ? cover- J ^ ing of transverse and longitudinal involuntary fibres. The trails - j™scu- verse are the more superficial (the base of the bladder being fibres; upwards), are strongest near the prostate, and act most on the vasa deferentia. The longitudinal fibres, placed chiefly on the sides of the vesiculae, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra. The mucous and a mucous membrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of the tube,coat- and presents an areolar or honeycomb appearance: it is lined by a laminar epithelium. In the sacculated part of the vas deferens the mucous lining resembles in a slight degree that in the vesicula. Common seminal ducts.—These tubes (right and left) ^™‘snal are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula how , J J < formed seminalis with the vas deferens of the same side, and convey the semen to the urethra. They begin opposite the base of Extent, the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through an aperture in the circular prostatic fibres, and along the course, sides of a hollow (vesicula prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and length, their course is convergent to their termination, where they and are close together in the floor of the urethra (p. 625.). tion. Structure. — The wall of the common duct is thinner struc- than that of the vas deferens, but it possesses similarture coats. It is surrounded by longitudinal involuntary mus- cular fibres, which blend with the submucous stratum of the urethra. THE BLADDER. After the bladder has been separated from the surrounding Bladder parts, its form, and the extent of its different regions can be the more conveniently observed. body* Whilst the bladder is in the body, it is conical in shape, Form, and rather flattened from before backwards ; but it is now more circular than when in its natural position, and has lost that arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, Dimen- it measures about five inches in length, and about three inches across. — Hiischke. Its capacity is greatly influenced