DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 84 Branch- es now seen are Superior thyroid, has off- sets to taking origin in common ; or the number may be increased by some of the secondary offsets being transferred to the parent trunk. All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal, lingual, and internal maxillary, may now be examined ; but those three will be afterwards described with the regions they occupy. The superior thyroid artery arises near the cornu of the os hyoides, and runs downwards on the inner side of the common carotid artery, passing beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, to the thyroid body, to which it is distributed on the anterior aspect. This branch is superficial in the anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor as well as to the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches:— the hyoid bone, sterno- mastoid muscle. to la- rynx, to crico- thyroid mem- brane. Accom- panying vein. Facial artery. supplies branches in the neck to the palate, a. The hyoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs in- wards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the parts attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. b. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communicates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery arises above the lingual, and is directed upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is afterwards received on the submaxillary gland, on which it makes a remarkable sigmoid turn. Its disposition in the face has been examined (p. 29.). The cervical part of the artery gives branches to the pharynx, and to the structures below the jaw, viz. : — a. The inferior palatine branch ascends to the pharynx beneath the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles; furnishing a branch to the tonsil, it is distributed to the