740 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Tib:alis aiiticu*; origin, inser- tion. Parts beneath the muscle, and on the sides. Extensor pollicis attached to tibula, and great toe : crosses the vessels. Extensor lotlgUS arises Irom fibula; that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum; whilst a small muscle, apparently the lower part of the last, with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is called pero- neus tertius. The one between the tibialis and extensor, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot is only one muscle, the extensor brevis digitorum. The tibialis ANTICUS reaches the tarsus: it is thick and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity and the upper two thirds of the tibia, from the contiguous part of the interos- seous ligament, and from the fascia of the leg and the inter- muscular septum between it and the next muscle. After passing through the innermost compartments in the annular ligaments, the tendon is inserted into the under surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and sends forwards a process to the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is sub- aponeurotic. It lies at first external to the tibia, resting on the interosseous membrane, but it is then placed successively over the end of the tibia, the ankle joint, and the inner line of the tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and partly conceals the anterior tibial vessels as low as the foot. The extensor profrius pollicis is deeply placed at its origin between the former muscle and the extensor longus digitorum, but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the middle three fifths of the anterior narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous ligament for the same distance. The tendon comes to the surface through a sheath in the lower part of the annular ligament, and then continues over the inner part of the tarsus to be inserted into the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels are to the inner side of the muscle as low as the sheath in the liga- ment, but afterwards to the outer side of the tendon, so that they are crossed by it beneath the ligament. The extensor longus digitorum, like the tibial muscle, is fleshy in the leg and tendinous on the foot. Its origin is from the external tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and three fourths of the inner surface of the fibula in front of the interosseous membrane ; from a small part (about an