MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. 673 as to form lateral accessory ligamentous bands. The limb is to be retained in the same position as in the dissection of the other parts. In raising the inner piece of the membrane the narrow Follow Ollt ScllT* muscle (sartorius) that appears should be followed to its tonus insertion into the tibia, and care should be taken of the small nerves along its inner border, viz.: the two branches of the internal cutaneous above; the great saphenous and and pre- serve its branch below; and a plexus between the saphenous, nerves in contact internal cutaneous, and obturator, at the middle of the with it. thigh. The dissector is to avoid displacing the muscle whilst he is removing its sheath of fascia, or should fix it with stitches. Internal to the sartorius are some strong muscles (ad- Dissect ° v the ad- ductors) that are inclined outwards: these are to be laid ductors, bare ; and the student is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned, beneath the more superficial muscle (adductor longus), near where this touches the sartorius. On the outer side of the sartorius are the large extensor and muscles of the leg. For the dissection of these the knee is theex- . tensor to be bent to make tense their fibres: and an expansion, muscles, below, from the tendon to the fascia lata and the knee joint is to be looked to. One little muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh, tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corresponding with its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the thigh: behind this slip, the investing membrane is to be divided by one or two transverse cuts, and to be followed backwards to its attachment to the lines on the femur. Deep parts on the front of the thigh.— The muscles Muscles on the front of the thigh are the sartorius, and the extensor front of th 0 of the leg. Many muscles are combined in the extensor, thigh, viz. the rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. At the top of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. A portion of the femoral vessel, viz. the lower half, lies vessels, amongst the muscles and supplies them with branches. One large nerve, the anterior crural, furnishes offsets to Nerves. X X