746 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. brevis, along the side of the os calcis to the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, by which it enters the sole insertion of the foot. Its position in the foot, and its insertion into bones of the tarsal and the metatarsal bones, are described in page 736. In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fascia, Position and lies on the peroneus brevis. Beneath the annular liga- iegthe ment it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, with the peroneus brevis, and surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus muscles are fixed to the fibula laterally with respect to it, one being on each side. Perone.. The peroneus brevis reaches the outer side of the foot, us brevis 7 is attach and js connected with the metatarsal bone of the little toe. ed to tibuia. it is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior to it in position. The muscle arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the lower two thirds, extending upwards internal to the other peroneus ; and from the in- termuscular septa. Its tendon passes with that of the pero- \ neus longus beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon enters a distinct fibrous sheath, and bone which conducts it along the tarsus to its insertion into the nttie6 base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the toe’ muscle projects in front of the peroneus longus. On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above connec- the tendon of the former muscle; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions.—The student may now examine the remaining articulations of the limb, and may take first the knee joint, unless this has become dry; in that case the ankle joint and the ligaments of the foot may be dissected whilst the other is being moistened. Dissection.— For the dissection of the ligaments of each articulation, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons Exa- mine first the knee joint. ; Dissec- tion to see