372 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. superior cava ; which is formed by inno- minate veins; ends in heart. Its branch es. Inno- minate veins are right and left. How formed. Right an inch and a half long; left. twice as long and oblique in direc- tion. Their branch- es. Some' times The superior or descending cava is formed by the union of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head, neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is on the right side of the sternum, opposite the interval between the cartilages of the first two ribs. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium, per- forates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer aspect the vein is covered by the pleura of the right side, and the phrenic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the ri^ht lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined by the large azygos vein of the thorax: higher than that spot it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are united inferiorly in the trunk of the descending cava: they are two in number, right and left; and each is formed, behind the inner end of the clavicle, by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the same side of the neck. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their connections with the surrounding parts. The right vein is about one inch and a half long, and de- scends vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein is twice as long as the right, and is directed obliquely downwards above the level of the arch of the aorta, to join with its fellow in the superior cava. Between its origin and termination the vein crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerves that descend over the arch. The branches of these veins are nearly alike on the two sides. Each receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyroid, and the superior intercostal of its own side; and the left vein is joined in addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Peculiarities. — Sometimes the innominate veins are not united