HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 119 The spinal part is much larger, is round and cord-like, and is connected with the smaller piece, whilst it is passing through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the nerve takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the neck to the trapezius muscle. At first it is somewhat con- cealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel, to take the course above indicated. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 59.). This nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mas- toideus and the trapezius. The hypoglossal nerve (ninth of Willis), after pass- ing from the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply beneath the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein. It then comes forwards between the vein and the artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus, to which it is intimately united. The nerve next descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space. From this spot the nerve is directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. The branches of this nerve are furnished to the muscles on the fore part of the neck, and to the muscular substance of the tongue ; but there are also some branches joining it with other nerves near the skull, to be now considered. Connecting branches. — Near the skull the hypoglossal is con- nected by branches with the vagus nerve, the two being almost in- separably united. Rather lower down the nerve has connecting offsets with the sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. The branches for distribution to parts around are included in the description of the dissections of the neck, submaxillary region, and tongue. Dissection. — The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between the transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is now to be more completely cleaned. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which joins in the loop of the atlas, is to be found. The rectus capitis lateralis is a small thin muscle, which is the representative of an intertransverse muscle. It arises from the anterior root (parapophysis), and the tip Spinal part in foramen. In the neck. crosses to trape- zius. Supplies muscles. Ninth nerve crosses inwards to tongue. Branch- es join it with the va- gus, sympa- thetic, and spi- nal ; and supplies muscles. Dissec- tion of rectus lateralis. Rectus lateralis is hrst inter- trans-