DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 518 Inferior mesen- teric plexus. Nerves join like the vessels. Se- condary plexuses. Union of the nerves on the intes- tinal tube. Hypo- gastric plexus. Situa- tion. In it aortic plexus ends; and from it offsets are sent to pelvic viscera. Parts around aorta and cava. Dissec- tion to see them. The inferior mesenteric plexus surrounds the trunk and branches of the artery of the same name, and is supplied to the same part of the intestinal tube as the artery is dis- tributed to. This plexus is furnished from the left part of the aortic plexus; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding offsets of the sym- pathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching of the nerves, and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked. The following secondary plexuses are named from the arteries they accompany, and are distributed like them to the intestine, viz. the left colic, the sigmoid, and the superior hemorrhoidal plexus. On the intestinal tube the nerves of one plexus join those of another. Thus the superior mesenteric joins by one end the nerves to the duodenum, and by the other the nerves to the large intestine from the inferior mesenteric plexus. And the inferior mesenteric plexus communicates below with branches to the rectum from the pelvic centre. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate in front of the upper part of the sacrum and beneath the peritoneum. It is developed more on each side than in the centre ; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any ganglionic masses on them. By its upper part the plexus receives on each side the termination of the aortic plexus ; and it is joined by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral ganglia. Inferiorly the plexus ends in two parts, right and left, the last being the largest, which are continued forwards with the branches of the internal iliac artery to the pelvic plexuses and the viscera. Connections of the Aorta and Vena Caya.—The con- nections of the abdominal aorta and of the vena cava may be next looked to, before the viscera are removed from the body. Dissection.— The part of the abdominal aorta below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery has been laid bare by the previous dissection. To see it higher up, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiplo'ic artery, and after raising