196 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Its com- missure. Situa- tion and struc- ture. Arrange- ment of fibres. Origin from cere- brum. Origin of third nerve is deep in crus cerebri. Origin of fourth nerve from cerebel- lum, whether it receives filaments from one or both of those bodies is uncertain. The commissure (chiasma) of the optic nerves is somewhat of a square shape, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum ; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the commissure there is a partial crossing of the fibres of the nerves after this manner : — the outer fibres of each tract, few in number, are continued straight to the eyeball of the same side; but the greater part of the others decussate, — those of the right nerve being continued to the left, and vice versa, so as to enter the eye of the opposite side. At the front and back of the commissure are some transverse fibres: — the posterior are continued through the optic tracts back to the brain, without entering the eyes ; and the anterior are prolonged to the eyeballs, through the part of the nerve in front of the commissure, but have not any con- nection with the brain. The origin of the nerve will be afterwards seen to come from two of the corpora quadrigemina (nates and testis of one side), and from the optic thalamus and the corpora geni- culata. The third nerve, muscular nerve of the eyeball, is round and firm, and is attached to the inner surface of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Yarolii. Deep origin.— The fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing through the locus niger, and enter a mass of gray substance in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius.* The fourth or trochlear nerve cannot be followed backwards, at present, to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and springs from the valve of Yieussens over the fourth ventricle. The nerve appears between the cere- brum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, and is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process. * The origin of this nerve, and of the others as far as the eighth, is taken from the following work of Stilling, Untersuchungen uber den Bau des Hirnknotens.