DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 788 and ter- mina- tion. Cartila-. ginous part. Use of the tube. Mem- brane in fenestra rotunda. Con- struction of three layers. Ossicles of the tympa- num are three. Malleus has head, neck, handle, tympani muscle have been alluded to ; its course in the tem- poral bone is along the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, external to the aperture that contains the carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated and somewhat oval opening with the longest measurement in a vertical direction, and with an irregular margin which gives attach- ment to the special cartilage completing the canal. The cartilaginous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx. (See p. 134.) Through this tube the mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it, by reason of its inclination down- wards, the mucus passes from that cavity. The secondary membrane of the tympanum is placed within the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the tympanum, viz. an external or mucous, derived from the lining of the tympanum; an internal or serous, continuous with that clothing the cochlea; and a cen- tral layer of fibrous tissue with, according to Pappenheim, some elastic tissue at the circumference. Ossicles of the Tympanum. — These are three in num- ber, and are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; the next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stirrup. For the examination of these little bones the student should be pro- vided with some separate dry specimens, besides the ossicles that are in position in the cavity. The malleus is the longest bone and is twisted and bent: it is large at one end (head) and small and pointed at the other (handle), and has besides two processes, with a nar- rowed part or neck. The head or capitulum is free in the cavity, is oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression for articulation with the next bone. The neck is the slightly twisted part between the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before back- wards, except at the extremity, where it is compressed from