DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 300 Flexor carpi ulnaris, Origin. Inser- tion tendinous parts. Its origin is connected, like that of the preceding muscle, with the common tendon, the fascia, and lies over the intermuscular septa. Its long thin tendon is continued lifen’t a^ong the centre of the forearm, and over the annular liga- and ends ment, to end in the palmar fascia. The palmaris is situate of palm, between the flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. The flexor carpi ulnaris has an aponeurotic attach- ment to the inner condyle of the humerus; to the inner side of the olecranon ; and to the ridge of the ulna, between the internal and posterior surfaces, for three fourths of its length. Most of the fibres are continued vertically downwards, but others obliquely forwards to a tendon which occupies the anterior part of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisi- into pisi- form bone, whilst an offset is sent to the annular ligament, bone, and the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia; and its tendon may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery, since it can be readily Adjacent felt through the skin. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor digitorum sublimis muscles, but below the middle of the forearm the ulnar artery and nerve are placed along it. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been di- vided, and the subjacent parts cleaned, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor pro- fundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels in part. Between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. The radial artery is one of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and its destination is the palm of the hand. It is first placed along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius ; it then winds backwards below the extremity of that bone ; and it enters finally the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this circuitous course the artery will be found in three different regions ; viz. the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. — In this part of the limb the position of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line drawn from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. This Course and ex- tent of the ra- dial ar. tery. Situ- ation in the fore- arm.