ARCH OF THE AORTA. 367 origin from the arch of the last great vessel of the head and neck. As the lungs do not give passage to the circulating use. fluid before birth, the impure blood of the pulmonary artery passes into the aorta below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified; but after birth, when the func- tion of the lungs is established, the current of blood is di- rected along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of through the arterial duct: then this last channel becomes gradually smaller, and is quite obliterated before the eighth or the tenth day. The aorta is the great systemic vessel that conveys the This blood from the heart to the different parts of the body. The vessel 1 t ^ extends vessel first arches backwards to reach the spinal column, on which it afterwards extends through the chest and the abdo- through ch GSt men. In the thorax, the vessel is divided into two parts — and ab- arch of the aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta. Arch of the aorta. — The aorta has its origin in the left Its first ^ . . n ° part is ventricle, close below the junction of the cartilage of the arched, third rib of the left side with the sternum. From that point Theex- A tent it ascends, curving backwards over the windpipe and the gullet, to reach the left side of the spinal column. And it loses its designation of “ arch ” at the lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and its concavity to the root of the left lung; and from it the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take their origin. For and di- the purpose of reducing to order the numerous connections of the of this portion of the aorta, the arch is divided into three parts — ascending, transverse, and descending. The first or ascending part is about two inches in length, First or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, and very part‘ close to the sternum: it reaches as high as the upper border length of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is iecUons". contained nearly altogether in the pericardium. At first the pulmonary artery is superficial to the aorta; but as these vessels take different directions, the latter is soon un- covered, and remains so to its termination. Behind it are the right branches of the pulmonary vessels. On the right side is the descending cava, and on the left, the pulmonary artery. Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite each