377 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Pulmon- ary branch- es. Small anterior. Large poste- rior form a plexus. crosses over the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. 3. Pulmonary branches. — There are two sets of branches for the lung, one to the anterior and the other to the posterior aspect of the root. a. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and of small size, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery. These nerves are best seen on the left side. b. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most numerous, and are obtained by the splitting of the trunk of the nerve after it has become flattened. Forming a plexiform arrange- ment (posterior pulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung, these nerves are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the interior of the lung on the divisions of the air tube. 4. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet all along the OEso- thorax, but in greatest abundance in the lower half. Below the branches root of the lung the branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves sur- round the oesophagus with a network, which has been named plexus gulce. Sympathetic Nerve. — In tlie thorax the sympathetic nerve consists, as in the abdomen, of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the spinal nerves : and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart and the lungs. The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissection, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. The cardiac plexus lies at the base of the heart, around the great bloodvessels. A part of this network, the super- ficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 355.). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, will be found beneath the arch of the aorta by means of the dissec- tion given below. Directions. — The cardiac plexus has been interfered with by the previous examination of the heart, but, by following the directions now given, the student will obtain a know- ledge of the disposition of the nerves, and will be able to make a complete dissection of them when the opportunity offers. Dissection. — The arch of the aorta is to be cut across To find form a plexus. Part of the sym- pathetic in tho- rax con- sists of a gangli- ated cord, and a central cardiac plexus. Dissec- tion of the plexus. ,