582 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. entering glands. Begin- ning of the tho- racic duct. on right of aorta, at second lumbar ver- tebra. Large azygos vein ; entrance into thorax. Small azygos vein. Dissec- tion of the lum- bar plexus on left side, and wall of the abdomen, and those of the genital organs and testicle are received. Receptaculum chyli.— The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen, by the union of three or four large lymphatic ves- sels. Its commencement is marked by a considerable dila- tation, which is named receptaculum chyli, and is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the second lumbar vertebra. The duct then enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. Beginning of the azygos veins. — The right vein (vena azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is continuous with a lumbar vein, or, it may be, with the vena cava or the renal vein. However formed, the vein enters the thorax with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies ; but it may pierce the crus of the diaphragm, as it leaves the abdomen. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left side of the spine, joining here one of the lumbar veins or the renal vein, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 388. Section VI. LUMBAR SPINAL NERVES AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The spinal nerves of the loins resemble those in the lower part of the neck, in being united in a plexus, and supplying a limb and the parts of the trunk contiguous to it. Dissection. — The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be seen on the left side, and to bring them into view, the dissector should scrape away the left psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be looked for at first at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerv e.