LIGAMENTS OF RADIUS AND ULNA. 331 a raised margin. In the bent state of the joint the depres- the sion of the radius is fitted on the eminence of the humerus, and the bone is thus supported during rotation of the limb. Union of the Radius and Ulna. — The radius is con- Radius is joined nected with the ulna, at both the upper and lower ends, by to ulna, means of distinct ligaments and a synovial membrane; and the shafts of the bones are further united by an interosseous ligament. Upper radio-ulnar articulation. — In this ioint the head At the of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the end by ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band: — The annular or orbicular ligament is a strong fasciculus orbicu- of fibres, about a quarter of an inch wide, which is placed mentc around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border is connected around T, , , .. ... . . . _ the head with the ligaments ol the elbow joint; but the lower is free? of the and is applied around the neck of the radius. The radius moves freely in the socket formed by the ligament and the cavity of the ulna. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining and Sy- the elbow joint; it projects inferiorly between the neck of mem-1 the radius and the lower margin of the annular ligament. Shafts of the bones. — The aponeurotic stratum connect- union ing together the bones in nearly their whole length consists shafts, of the two following parts : — The interosseous membrane is a thin fibrous layer, which Radius . . . . J is joined is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, in the and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the by inter- front and back of the forearm. Superiorly the membrane mem- J . brane. is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior interosseous vessels pass backwards. Some This is small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels; and above, the largest of these is about two inches from the lower end, through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wrisi. The membrane gives attachment to the deep muscles. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. The round ligament is a slender band above the inter- By round