DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 674 Sarto, rius; origin; course over the thigh ; inser- tion. Connec- tions of the first or ob- lique part; of the middle part; and of the lower part. Divide the sar- torius. and dis- sect nerves the muscles on the front of the thigh, and is to be learnt with them. The sartorius is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg: it arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensors on the one side, and the adductors on the other. It has a tendinous origin from the anterior upper iliac spinous process, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. Its fibres constitute a thin, riband-like muscle, which ends in a tendon below the knee, and is inserted, into the inner surface of the tibia, opposite to the tubercle as well as an inch below it, and about three quarters of an inch from the crest of the bone. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of the triangular space that contains the femoral artery; it rests on the iliacus, rectus, and adductor longus muscles, as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle part is vertical: it lies at first in a hollow be- tween the vastus internus and the adductor muscles, this connection continuing as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that point, where it bounds the pop- liteal space at the inner side, the sartorius lies between the vastus and great adductor and the inner hamstring mus- cles. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous part lies on the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial bursa: from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion which joins, over the knee, that from the extensors; and from its lower border, another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears with an artery; and piercing it, is the branch of the same nerve. Dissection. — The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral artery. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; when this is divided the internal saphenous nerve, and a nerve to the