DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 638 body; sides. Open the uterus. Its thick, ness. In the interior is a tri- angular space in the body, which is narrow- ed be- low, and a spindle- shaped space in the neck. In the neck are ridges or the arbor vitse. Uterus is a mus- cular organ. tremity. The body, or the intervening part of the uterus, is more convex posteriorly than anteriorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except about half an inch in front at the lower part, where it is connected to the bladder. To each side, which is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of the peritoneum are attached, viz. the Fallopian tube at the top, the round ligament rather below and before it, and the ovary and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection.—To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to be made along the anterior wall, from the fundus to the os uteri; and then enough of the tissue is to be taken away on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity. The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the middle of the body, and at the centre of the fundus ; but from those spots the wall becomes thinner towards the attachment of the Fallopian tubes. Interior of the uterus.—Within the uterus is a small space, which is artificially divided into two—one of the body, another of the neck of the organ. The space occupying the body of the viscus is triangular in form, and is larger than the other. The base is at the fundus of the uterus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged towards the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed down- wards, and joins the cavity in the cervix by a narrowed cir- cular part, isthmus (os uteri internum). The space within the neck terminates inferiorly at the os uteri; and above at the space within the body, as before said, but this last opening may be smaller than the one into the vagina. It is larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and is somewhat flattened, like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitu- dinal ridge, and other ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely from these on each side : this appearance has been named arbor vitce uterinus. In the intervals between the rugse are some mucous follicles, which sometimes become filled and distended with fluid, and gave rise to the ovula of Naboth. Structure.—The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with dense connective and elastic tissues, and large bloodvessels. On