72 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Branch. es. Second part be- neath scalenus, Parts in front. behind, above. One branch. Third part is super- ficial. Parts co- vering it ; beneath above and be- low. Peculia- rities of origin of the trunk ; course and level. Three branches arise from the subclavian in this part of its extent. Second part. — Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less deep than it is when internal to that muscle, and at this spot it rises highest above the clavicle. This second part, like the first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia; then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mas- toideus ; and lastly by the anterior scalenus with the phrenic nerve. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. And above it, in the interval between the scaleni, are the large trunks of the lower cervical nerves ; with the exception of the trunk formed by the union of the last cervical and first dorsal, that lies between the artery and the middle scalenus. The subclavian vein is below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle. From this part of the subclavian one branch takes its origin. Third part. — Beyond the scalenus the subclavian artery is contained in the clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (p. 58.), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course. This part of the artery is comparatively superficial whilst in the space before mentioned, for it is covered only by the integuments, the platysma and deep fascia, with some superficial nerves of the cervical plexus, and the external jugular vein; but near its termination the vessel gets under cover of the suprascapular artery and vein, and the clavicle and subclavius muscle. In the third part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib. Above the vessel is the brachial plexus, and below it is the subclavian vein. Usually no branch leaves the last part of the artery. Peculiarities.— There are some peculiarities affecting the origin, the course, and the level in the neck of the subclavian artery. With reference to origin. The level at which it springs from the innominate trunk may vary; so that in one case it may be above the sterno-clavicular articulation, in another, below that joint. Or the artery may spring as a separate trunk from the arch of the aorta; and in such a state of the parts, the vessel takes a deeper place than usual to reach the scaleni muscles : — a condi- tion that will be referred to with the arch of the aorta in the thorax. It has been before said (p. 59.) that the artery may be in front of the scalenus or in its fibres; or that it may be placed one inch and a half above the level of the clavicle. Branches of the subclavian. — Usually there are four Branch-