235 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. lobe extends back to a level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissure at the circumference. On the under surface of the cerebellum, there are three lobes that are separated, as above, by sulci amongst the lamina?, but these are not more distinct than on the upper surface: — Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior lobe, which joins the commissural lamina? behind the pyramid in the vallecula. Next in order is the slender lobe, which is connected with the posterior part of the pyramid, as well as with the other transverse lamina? behind that body. And lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the biventral lobe. Two other lobes appear between the biventral lobe and the medulla oblongata: — One of these is the amygdaloid lobe, which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small three on under surface, viz., pos- terior. slender, and bi- ventral. Two other lobes in valley; amyg- daloid pyramidal slip, that is directed outwards over (the under surface being uppermost) the crus cerebelli, and is named ^dfloc. flocculus, or subpeduncular lobe. Dissection. — To see the flocculus and the posterior me- pissec- dullary velum, the biventral and slender lobes of the under surface are to be sliced off, on the left side, so that the amyg- daloid lobe may be everted. The flocculus is then bared, and passing from it to the tip of the uvula is the thin white layer of the posterior velum; beneath the last a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can be now fully seen. Flocculus and medullary velum. — The position of the Position flocculus to the crus cerebelli, and in front of the biventral structure lobe, has been before mentioned. This body resembles the cuius?’ other lobes in structure; and it may be considered a rudi- mentary lobe, for it is divided on the surface into laminae, and contains a white medullary centre, from which offsets are furnished to those divisions. Passing from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior vermi- Poste- ' form process (nodule) is a thin white layer, the medullary duiiary velum (inferior or posterior), which serves as a commissure to the flocculi. On each side this band is semilunar in form, Form its anterior edge is free, but its posterior border is attached and at_J