727 FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To pre- pare the first layer all the fascia must be taken away, but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital branches of the plantar nerves, which become superficial to the muscles towards the toes, should be injured. The ten- dons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and the sheaths in which they are contained must be opened. First layer of muscles.— In the first layer which is now visible, are three muscles, viz. the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi digiti : the short flexor of the toes is in the centre of the foot, and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The abductor pollicis is the most internal of the muscles of the superficial layer. It takes origin from the inner part of the larger tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis ; from the internal annular ligament, and the fibrous structures on the inner side of the foot as far as the internal cuneiform bone ; and from the plantar fascia. In front the muscle ends * in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor of the great toe, and is inserted, with the tendon of that flexor, into the inner side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the plantar fascia ; and the other touches the plantar vessels and nerves, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, and the accessory muscle. The flexor brevis digitorum (flexor perforatus) arises posteriorly by a pointed tendinous process from the inner part of the larger tubercle of the os calcis, and by fleshy fibres from the plantar fascia and its septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons; these are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor, and entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe, the tendon of this muscle lies at first (in this position) on that of the long flexor; but opposite the middle of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot: it conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. 3 a 4 first ’ layer of muscles. Muscles are in four layers ; three muscles in the first. Abduc- tor pol- licis j origin; inser- tion ; connec- tions. Flexor brevis digito-^ rum divides into tendons for the toes j these are slit. Connec- tions.