DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 454 Covers the ure- thra, and sur- rounds it as in a sling. Com- pressor of the bulb. Trans- versals perinaei. Origin. Ends in central point of peri- naeum. Acces- sory trans- versalis. A trian- gular space between the three muscles de- scribed. The knife may enter this in litho- tomy. Dissec- tidn to see trian- gular liga- ment. penis, and join in a central tendon with the muscle of the opposite side. The accelerator muscle covers the bulb, and the urethra for two inches in front of the triangular liga- ment. If the muscle be cut through on the right side, and turned off the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Some of the deeper fibres, that immediately surround the bulb, have been described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated from the superficial by thin connective tissue, and join the corresponding part of the opposite side by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- pressor hemisphcerium bulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist. The transversalis perin^ei is a small thin muscle, which lies across the perineum opposite the base of the triangular ligament. Arising by a tendon from the inner aspect of the pubic arch near the ischial tuberosity, the fibres run inwards, and join in the central point of the perinseum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani and the accelerator urinae. Behind this muscle the super- ficial fascia dips down to join the triangular ligament. Sometimes there is a second small muscular slip anterior to the transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws itself into the accelerator muscle. Now the three muscles above described have been separated from one another by the dissection, they may be seen to en- close a triangular space, of which the accelerator urinae forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the transversalis perinaei muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. Into the posterior part of this space the knife may enter during the deeper incisions in the operations of lithotomy ; and as the instru- ment is carried backwards in the direction of the external incision, it will cut the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. Dissection. — For the display of the triangular ligament, the structures that are superficial to it, viz. the muscles and the crus penis, are to be detached in the following way: — On the left side the accelerator urinas is to be removed com- pletely from the front of the ligament, and the erector muscle