THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 283 humerus, but afterwards it is in front of that bone ; and its a»d si- 7 # tuation situation is indicated, on the surface, by the depression along jn^he the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In all its extent the brachial artery is very superficial; for Connec- it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia, with except at the bend of the elbow where it is crossed, in addi- and fasciae, tion, by the median basilic vein and the prolongation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following muscular connections: whilst it is inside the hu- merus it is placed over the long head of the triceps, and on the inner head of the same muscle ; but when the vessel has turned to the front of the bone, it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and on the brachialis anticus. To the outer side of the vessel are the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, the latter somewhat overlapping it in the lower part of the arm. Veins. — Venae comites lie on the sides of the artery, en- with . . .... veins, circling it with branches ; and the basilic vein is near the line of the artery, but separated from it by the fascia in the lower half of the arm. The nerves in relation with the artery are the following: and with . _ J nerves. — The internal cutaneous is in contact with the vessel until it has perforated the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle; and the musculo-spiral is behind the artery for a distance of about two inches. The median nerve is close to the vessel in all its course, but alters its position in this way: — as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis the nerve is on the outer side, but it then crosses obliquely either over or under the artery, and is placed internal to the vessel about two inches above the elbow joint. Branches spring both externally and internally from the its brachial artery. Those on the outer side are muscular, and are supply the coraco-brachialis and biceps ; those on the inner ™J1SCU- side are named superior and inferior profunda, anastomotic, and nutritious arteries. a. The superior profunda branch is larger than the others, and superior leaves the artery near the lower border of the tendon of the teres da°fu“" major; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm.