STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. 551 N N 4 of the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size and size of a pin’s head, and measure from ^th to y^th of an inch ance^' in diameter. Closely massed together, each presents a dark form and central point, and is isolated from the surrounding ones by ment- - a stratum of connective tissue. By means of transverse and vertical sections of the lobules, their form will appear triangular on the exterior, but five or many sided in the in- terior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions (sublobular) of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre (intra- lobular vein), something like the attachment of the lamina to the stalk or petiole of a leaf. The part of each lobule in contact with the small sublobular vein, wants the cover- ing of areolar tissue that invests the other sides. To study the minute structure of these secretory elements Difficult of the hepatic substance, the student should have the differ- lobule^ ent vessels of the liver minutely injected, and should be provided with a microscope. Constituents of the lobules.— Each lobule or elementary a lobule piece of the liver is composed of hepatic secretory cells, which distinct are arranged in lines so as to leave intervals between them; and is provided with a capillary network of vessels, and with radicles of an excretory duct. Cells of the lobules. — The hepatic or biliary cells are Biliary seen to be of an irregular form under the microscope, being the io- rounded or flattened, elongated, or many sided; and to pos- situation sess a bright nucleated nucleus, or even more than one. In size they vary from yoVo th to g^th of an inch ; they are of a size and yellowish colour, and enclose a half fluid substance, probably tents; the elements of the bile, together with fatty and yellow colouring particles. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows, with spaces between them, which radiate from the centre to the circumference: and this linear arrangement is oftentimes less regular at the outer third of the lobule. The cells are connected with the ?.onne?-, origin of the ducts, and are concerned in the secretion of the ducts- bile. Arranqement of the vessels. — The disposition of the seve- Arrange- ^ i xnent of* ral vessels is the following : The smallest branches of the its ves. vena portae, after uniting in a circle around the lobule, viz.’ X . vena where they are named interlobular, enter its substance, and porta?,