DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 688 that the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The branches to the adductor muscles are unnamed. The named branches are The . these : — external circumflex to the extensor muscles of the named branch. knee . internal circumflex round the inner side of the femur to es are —> 7 the back of the thigh; and perforating arteries through the adductors to the back of the limb and the extensor muscle of the knee. The external circumflex artery has been described in the dissec- tion of the muscles of the front of the thigh (p. 680.). The internal circumflex branch arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the border of the adductor brevis, along the ends on side of the tendon of the external obturator muscle. Having back of . . ® thigh, reached the back of the thigh, it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock. It supplies the under- supplies mentioned branches to the inner side of the thigh :—An articular anV°'nt artery enters the hip joint through the notch in the acetabulum, muscles. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular branches arise: external circum- flex'; internal circum- flex ; Origin- variable. Three perfo- rating branch- es; second gives nutri- tious artery, and the ending of pro- funda is a fourth one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles; the other, which is larger, descends beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. Peculiarities in origin. — The origin of the internal circumflex is very variable. In one body it may be from the femoral artery above the profunda ; in another from the external iliac artery, or from its branches — the epigastric and circumflex iliac. The perforating branches are usually three in number, and pierce the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur. The first is opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second branch arises lower down, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding: from it a nutritious artery is supplied to the femur. The third artery springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces the adductor magnus. These several arteries supply the muscles on the back and the outer part of the thigh ; and anasto- mose above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the popliteal artery. Pro- The profunda vein results from the union of the different vein3 branches corresponding with those of its companion artery. It closely accompanies the artery of the same name, to which