OBTURATOR MUSCLE AND VESSELS. 691 directed obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus ; it is pierced by part of the obturator nerve, and covers the obturator membrane and artery. As it courses backwards it is in contact with the inner, and the lower part of the hip joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection. — By detaching the obturator muscle in part from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the same name will be seen amongst its fibres. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac in the pelvis (p. 609.), and enters the thigh through the upper part of the thyroid foramen; whilst in its aperture the artery divides into two parts, which inosculate, and form a circle around the obturator membrane beneath the muscle. The upper branch extends along the inner half of the membrane, and anastomoses inferiorly with the other. The lower perforates the membrane beneath the upper branch, and turns downwards to form a circle by uniting with the preceding: this supplies an articular twig to the hip joint. Offsets of the obturator artery are furnished to the ob- turator muscles; and some small twigs extend even to the upper part of the adductors. Branches of nerve to the muscle come from the deep di- vision of the obturator trunk, and perforate the membrane with the lower branch of the artery. inser- tion. The ad- ductors cover it, and it touches hip joint Detach. obtura- tor. Obtura- tor ar- tery divides into two. upper and lower branch ; this gives ar- ticular twig. Muscu- lar. Branch- es of the nerve. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Position. — During the dissection of the back of the thigh Position the body is placed with the face down; and the pelvis is to body, be raised by blocks until the lower limbs hang almost verti- cally over the end of the dissecting table. Directions. — Now the body is turned, the student can Direc- better recognise the points of bone that mark, posteriorly, the limit between the thigh and the abdomen (p. 654.). Both this Section and the following one are to be gone T Y 2