228 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. anterior, and pos- terior parts. Origin of optic nerve. Dissec- tion. Origin of formx in optic thala- mus ; how forms corpus albicans. Joined by other fibres. Dissec- tion. the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior part looks to the foramen of Monro. And the posterior part, which is free in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inferiorly two small roundish tubercles,—internal and ex- ternal geniculate bodies, with which the optic nerve is con- nected. The origin of the optic nerve from the thalamus, and from the geniculate and quadrigeminal bodies, can be now seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract receives fibres from the optic thalamus, which it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands : —one of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadrigemina (nates); the other is similarly connected with the internal geniculate body, and then prolonged to the other quadri- geminal body (testis) of the same side. Dissection. — The origin of the fornix in the optic tha- lamus may be next followed out. But the anterior com- missure and the anterior part of the corpus callosum should first be cut along the middle line, so that the left hemisphere can be separated from the other; on this (the left) the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards to the corpus albicans, and then followed upwards into the optic thalamus. Anterior pillar of the fornix. — The fornix begins in the thalamus opticus, near the tubercle on the upper surface. From this origin it descends in a curved direction to the corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, and furnishes a white envelope to the gray matter of that body. The crus then ascends, being bent forwards, through the gray substance on the side of the optic thalamus, and is joined by the fibres of the tsenia semicircularis and peduncle of the pineal gland. Lastly, the crus is applied to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. The pineal body and the corpora quadrigemina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, may be next looked to. Dissection. — All the pia mater should be carefully re- moved from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, espe- cially on the left side, on which they are to be examined. The posterior lobe of the hemisphere of the same side may be cut off.