448 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. of the space. Inferior heemor- rhoidal ends on rectum and in its muscles. Branch of vein. Other offi-ets of pudic. Branch- es of the sciatic. Nerves. Inferior hemor- rhoidal is with artery of same name. Termin' ation. Branch of sacral nerve supplies sphinc- ter. Offsets ot small sciatic. branch of the pudic artery that is now dissected. Some other small branches of the pudic and sciatic are also seen. The inferior hcemorrhoidal artery arises from the trunk of the pudic, internal to the ischial tuberosity ; it divides into branches that pass inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa, and end in the skin, and the sphincter and levator ani muscles. On the rectum this artery anastomoses with the upper hcemorrhoidal branch, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well-injected body, some cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the peringeum, and to communicate with the superficial perinasal branch. Veins accompany the artery. Other small muscular branches of the pudic artery cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. Branches of the sciatic artery appear on the inner aspect of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the surface. Nerves.—The branches of nerves are the inferior haemor- rhoidal; an offset of the fourth sacral nerve; and some branches of the small sciatic nerve. The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is most frequently a branch of the pudic, though it may have a separate origin from the sacral plexus. Accompanying the artery of the same name across the ischio-rectal fossa, it reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and com- municate with the superficial perinceal nerve, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. The hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve reaches the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the coccygeus, or by passing between that muscle and the levator ani. Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, close to the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphinc- ter, and the integument behind the anus. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve turn round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the teguments on its surface.