CAVITY OF RIGHT VENTRICLE. 359 a a 4 The auriculo-ventricular orifice is situate in the base of opening the ventricle, near the right or the free border of the heart, aurTc/e \ and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third position; costal cartilages : it is slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval from side to form; side, and its shape is maintained by a strong fibrous band that surrounds it. Prolonged from the circumference of the opening is a thin membranous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is undivided, but it is serrated, or divided into three chief points at its free margin, and is named tricuspid; to is guard- this margin are attached small tendinous cords (chordrn tricuspid valve. tendineae), that unite it to the muscular bundles of the ven- tricle. The tricuspid valve is constructed by the lining membrane Tricus. of the heart, which encloses fibrous tissues derived from the valve; circumference of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Its three how . a formed ; slips or tongues are thus placed: — One is next the front of divi_ the ventricle; another is in contact with the posterior wall;slons; and- the remaining one, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the auricle and the pulmonary artery. The central part of each segment is strong, whilst the points are thin and notched; and between the primary divisions there are sometimes secondary points (Kiirschner). The tendinous cords that keep the valve in attach- position ascend from the musculi papillares in the intervals tendi- between the pieces of the valve, and are connected with the cords, two segments between which they lie *: they end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening, in three different ways; some reaching the attached upper margin of the valve, others entering the central thickened part of the segment, and the rest, that are much finer, ending in the thin point of the tongue of the valve. During the con-its use. traction of the ventricle the valve is raised by the blood, so as to close the opening into the auricle, but the farther pro- * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, whose tendons enter the interval on each side of the right or anterior tongue of the valve. In the interval between the left and the posterior segment of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and are con- nected with the septum.