475 poupakt’s ligament. and to lay bare the fibres which ascend therefrom to the linea alba with the name of triangular ligament. Poupart's ligament is the lower border of the aponeurosis, which intervenes between the front of the crista ilii and the pubes. Externally it is round and cord-like, and is at- tached to the anterior superior iliac spine; but internally it widens as it approaches the pubes, and is inserted into the pubic spine, as well as into the pectineal line of the hip bone for about three quarters of an inch, forming thus a triangular-looking piece, with its base directed outwards, which is named Gimbernafs ligament. (See the Dissection of the Thigh.) The line of Poupart’s ligament is not straight between its outer and inner attachments, but is curved downwards to the thigh, and retains this position as long as the fascia lata remains uncut. Its outer half is ob- lique, and is firmly united with the subjacent iliac fascia; along the line of union of the two, other lateral muscles of the abdominal wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and beneath the spermatic cord. Triangular ligament.— From the insertion of Poupart’s ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards beneath the inner pillar of the ring to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the name triangular ligament has been applied. Dissection.— The remnant of the external oblique is now to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts that it covers. The muscle may be detached by carrying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the attachment to the crista ilii. The muscle may be thrown forwards as far as it is practicable, after the nerves that cross the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique near the same part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves on its surface below, will be cleaned: at the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle is to be dissected out on the cord. Pou- part’s li- gament. Situa- tion. Outer and inner attach- ments : last forms Gimber- nat’s li- gament. Its direc- tion, and parts in con- tact with it. Trian- gular li- gament. Dissec- tion to expose internal oblique.