498 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Usual vessels around ring. State of the un- usual vessels. ' Course and co- verings of the hernia. From abdomen it has perito- neum and sub- perito- neal fat. Inner part of sheath. Stricture conjoined tendon, and externally is the femoral vein. In front of the sheath is Poupart’s ligament with the deep arch, and behind is the pubes. Along the front of the space, but outside the tube of membrane, lies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Position of vessels around the ring.—Commonly the crural ring is almost surrounded by vessels. Thus, on the outer side is the femoral vein; and above this, on the outer side, are the epigastric vessels. In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ring is bounded there- fore by vessels, except internally and behind. But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the epigastric, and comes to lie along a part of the ring as it passes to the pelvis. In that course it may have two posi- tions with respect to the ring: either it lies close to the iliac vein, and therefore on the outer side of the ring ; or it arches over the ring, descending on the inner side, at the base of Gimbernat’s ligament. If the artery takes the first-men- tioned course, which is the most frequent arrangement, the inner side of the ring will be still free from vessels; but in the other condition the ring will have an additional vessel on the inner side, and will be entirely encircled except at the posterior part. Course and coverings of femoral hernia. — The intestine leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring; and it descends in the large sheath on the vessels, internal to the vein, as far as the saphenous opening, where it projects to the surface of the thigh. In its progress the intestine will push before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fat (septum crurale), and will displace, or cause to be absorbed the gland that fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the saphenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath and the cribriform fascia; and, lastly, it receives coverings from the superficial structures of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller detail. Seat of stricture. — The stricture of a femoral hernia is either in the neck of the sac, opposite the base of Gimbernat’s ligament; or lower down, at the margin of the saphenous