DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 450 inferior puden- dal nerve. Superfi- cial fas- cia. Its thick- ness va- ries. Resem- bles that of groin, in having two lay- ers. Connec- tions of deep layer. Forms a pouch, open in front; this divided by a septum. Course of ef- fused urine. Dissec- tion of nerves and ves- sels on should seek the inferior pudendal nerve, which pierces the fascia lata about one inch anterior to the tuber ischii, and the same distance from the margin of the pubic arch; and should trace its junction with'the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve in the fat. Afterwards this nerve is to be followed for- wards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia in the middle line. The superficial fascia of the anterior half of the perinceum is continuous with that of the contiguous regions ; and its depth, and the quantity of fat in it will vary with the con- dition of the body. It resembles the superficial fascia of both the groin and the upper part of the thigh, in having two strata; — one is a subcutaneous fatty stratum, conti- nuous with that in other parts of the body, which loses its fat towards the fore part, and contains involuntary muscular fibres ; and the other is a deeper membranous layer, which is of limited extent, and is connected with the firm subjacent structures. An examination of the deep or membranous stratum will show it to have the following attachments: — On the outer side it is fixed to the pubic arch of the hip-bone, external to the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as low as the ischial tuberosity. Posteriorly the stratum bends down to join the triangular ligament of the perinaeum ; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to the scrotum and the penis. By means of similar connections on both sides, a pouch is formed over the anterior half of the peri- naeal space underneath the superficial fascia. From the under surface of this part of the fascia a septum dips down- wards in the middle line, and divides the subjacent space posteriorly into two parts ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect or disappears. Air blown beneath the fascia has been seen to pass only forwards to the scrotum ; and this direction is given to it by the connections of the deep layer with the parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the membranous part of the fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum, to the penis and the front of the abdomen. jDissection. — The superficial vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath the superficial fascia, on the right side of the perineum, by cutting through that structure in the same