461 PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the bulb and its artery lie immediately in front of the knife, and will be entered if the incisions are made too far forward; but the artery must necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In dividing the prostate gland the edge of the knife is to be turned outwards and downwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of that body, and so as not to injure the ejaculatory duct below. The upper part of the prostate and its fibrous capsule are not to be cut through, otherwise the urine may be effused beneath the peritoneum, and the vessels on the exterior may be divided. Directions. — When the dissection of the perinaeum is completed, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after some preservative fluid has been used, and the limbs are to be put down. bulb and its ar- tery. ejacula- tory duct. Capsule of the prostate gland. Direc- tions. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. In the female the perinasum differs from the like region in the male more in the external form than the internal ana- tomy ; but it has special parts distinguishing it, viz. the aperture of the vagina surrounded by its sphincter, and the aperture of the vulva with the labia. Surface-marking. — On the surface of the perinasal space in the middle line, there are two apertures, viz. those of the anus and vulva, which are separated from one another by an interval of about an inch ; the former is situate relatively rather farther back than in the male, and the vulva is in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Bounding the vulva are the labia majora, one on each side. Within the vulva, at the upper part, is the clitoris, with two small mem- branous folds, labia minora, extending downwards from it. Below the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the hymen. Deep boundaries.—The deep boundaries of the perinasum Peri-' nfeum of female has spe- cial parts. Along middle, aper- tures of anus and vulva. Parts within vulva. Parts’ bound-