780 DISSECTION OF THE ETE. Suspen- sory li- gament, extent, ^ is mark- ed by folds that are fitted between ciliary pro- cesses. Nature. Canal of Petit; situa- tion ; anterior part sac- culated. Lens of the eye- ball. Capsule] of the lens ; Situa- tion and connec- tions. Its ante- rior part is firm and trans- parent ; mass, along the bloodvessels supplying the back of the lens. This membrane and the vitreous mass are extra-vascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory ligament of the lens (Retzius). — This is the transparent membranous structure, situate around the lens at the front of the hyaloid membrane, which intervenes be- tween the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina and the lens capsule. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface; and when these are washed away plaits or folds, ciliary processes, come into view, which resemble the processes of the choroid coat, but are less prominent and longer : these two sets of folds are dovetailed together, the prominences of one membrane being received into hollows on the other. In this membrane are stiff longitudinal and elastic fibres. Canal of Petit. — Around the margin of the lens is a small. canal, about one tenth of an inch across, which has received the above name. It is situate between the plaited part of the suspensory ligament and the front of the hyaloid membrane — being the interval of separation between the two. When the canal has been opened and distended with air, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the large intes- tine, in consequence of the inflation of the plaits of the an- terior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Crystalline lens and its capsule. — The crystalline lens is situate behind the pupil of the eye, and acts in bring- ing to a focus on the retina the rays of light passing through that aperture. The capsule is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which is permeable to fluid, and closely surrounds the lens. It is seated in a hollow on the front of the vitreous body: the anterior part projecting towards the iris and the pupil; whilst the posterior is received in the vitreous body, to which it is inseparably united. The circumference of the case corresponds with the canal of Petit. Its anterior sur- face is free in the posterior chamber of the eye, and gives attachment towards the circumference (T^th of an inch off) to the suspensory ligament; its posterior surface is joined by