418 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. nerves of the neck and the vessels: of the same in the dorsal region : in the lumbar] region. Poste- rior di- vision of spinal nerves. In the neck occipital bone and the spines of the vertebrae, and raising it with care from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in which are contained the ramifications of the internal branches of the four or five highest cervical nerves. The first or suboccipital nerve is the most difficult of the set to find, but all should be sought with some care: this little nerve is a short trunk, which is contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and does not branch into two (inner and outer pieces) in the same regular way as the others; it will be best found by looking for the small twigs that are furnished by it to the recti muscles. The inner branches of the others are partly above and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle. The external branches are very small, and are given off close to where the trunks appear. In the dissection of those nerves the deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinalis muscle; a part of the vertebral artery will be found with the suboccipital nerve ; and the occipital artery will be seen crossing the occipital bone. * Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will be readily dissected on the removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse processes, and on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle. External and inter- nal branches are to be traced from each trunk ; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. * The lumbar nerves and vessels resemble the dorsal, and are found in the same line; but the inner branches are more difficult to recognise. * The sacral nerves are beneath the multifidus spinae, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 426.) * Posterior Branches of the Spinal Nerves. — The spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical and sacral parts of the spinal column, bifurcate in the interver- tebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches. The posterior, resulting from this division, turn backwards to supply the integument and the muscles of the back, and are now to be described. In the neck.—The posterior primary branches of the cer- vical nerves are eight in number. All, except those of the