ULNAR ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 303 teres.* Rather below the middle of the forearm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued across the hand to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers, after inser- being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is concealed above by the other Connec- muscles of the superficial layer; and the radial vessels lie on with the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is around, the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they enter beneath the annular ligament of the wrist; those of the middle and ring fingers being anterior, afid those of the index and little finger posterior in position. When the coronoid and condyloid attachments are divided, the muscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor digitorum profundus and flexor pollicis), the median nerve and the upper part of the ulnar artery. The ulnar artery is the larger of the two branches from uinar the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and is directed along ends m the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand. At its hand, extremity it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins the radial artery. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction, and its Connec- . . tions in depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of the A x upper its course. In the upper half of the forearm the artery is inclined obliquely inwards, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and is covered by the former, viz. by the pronator teres, flexor sublimis, palmaris longus, and flexor carpi radialis. But below the spot mentioned, the vessel is and quite superficial between the tendons of the flexor sublimis half of and flexor carpi ulnaris, and is concealed only by the com- arm. mon integuments and the proper fascia of the limb, though the flexor ulnaris somewhat overlays it, and serves as the guide to its position. Beneath the artery will be found first the brachialis anticus for a short distance, and afterwards the flexor profundus. The two companion veins are situate on the sides of the Position artery. The median nerve lies to the inner side of the vessel an<ieins for about an inch, but then crosses over that trunk to gain nerves' * Oftentimes this origin does not extend lower than the attachment of the pronator muscle.