INTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. 161 spread like the ribs of a fan from apex to base, and are col- lected into laminae as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane its poste- and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is continued from them, fibres, beneath the hyo-glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The pharyngeo-glossus (glosso-pharyngeus), or the part of con- the upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, at the passes amongst fibres of the stylo and hyo-glossus, and en- tcllsue’ tering into the lingual substance, is continued with the how transverse muscle to the septum. B. The intrinsic muscles are three in number in each half Number of the tongue, viz. transversalis, with a superior and an in- names ferior lingualis. Dissection. — To complete the preparation of the inferior First of these. com- lingualis, on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus piete covering it in front, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis then may be shown, on the left side, by taking only the mucous Ka-enor membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The then5’ transversalis may be laid bare, on the right side, by cutting versa*. li s away, on the upper aspect, the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen; and on the lower aspect, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus. The nerves for the supply of the tongue should be traced Trace on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a sepa- nerves, rate recent specimen would be required to follow these satis- factorily. The transversalis muscle forms an almost horizontal layer Th in the substance of the tongue from base to apex, fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and Attach .... ments. are thence directed outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its Fibres, fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres. The superior lingualis (noto-glossus of Zaglas *) is a thin This is layer of .oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the ficuSI IS IS rp» hori- -L ne zontal. * The description given by this author I find more correct than that of others. M