DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 332 liga- ment. The lower end alter. Dissec- tion. Bones forming wrist united by external lateral, internal lateral. anterior and poste- rior liga ment. Dissec- tion. Surface of ra- dius. osseous membrane, whose fibres have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coronoid process, and by the other it is inserted into the radius below the tubercle. This ligament divides the space above the interosseous membrane into two parts. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articulation cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist joint. Dissection.— To see the ligaments of the wrist joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back; and the fibrous structures and the small vessels must be cleaned away carefully from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist Joint. — The lower end of the radius and the first row of the carpal bones enter into the wrist joint; and four ligaments maintain in contact the osseous surfaces, viz. anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from this articulation by means of a piece of fibro- cartilage. The external lateral ligament is a short and strong band, that intervenes between the styloid process of the radius and the upper part of the scaphoid bone. The internal lateral ligament is smaller than the external, but is longer than it. It is attached by one end to the sty- loid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough, upper part of the cuneiform bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament takes origin from the end of the radius, and is inserted into the first row of carpal bones at the anterior surface, except the os pisiforme. The 'posterior ligament is membranous, like the anterior, and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards. Supe- riorly it is attached to the lower end of the radius, and in- feriorly it is fixed, after the manner of the anterior ligament, to the first row of carpal bones on the posterior aspect. Dissection. — To see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces. — The end of the radius, and the fibro- cartilage uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the re- ception of the carpal bones; and the surface of the radius