INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 217 and of a dilated part or hemisphere ; and the following de- ofhemi- scription may serve as an outline of the general arrangementS| hcrL of its constituents: — Connected with the base of the foot stalk, where it joins the hemisphere, are certain central or fundamental bodies ; and in the interior are some connecting pieces, that join together distant parts of the brain. In the middle, is a large central space, which is subdivided into smaller hollows or ventricles by the before-mentioned con- necting pieces. And the whole, except the foot stalk, is surrounded by a convoluted crust. , The fundamental parts of the hemisphere are the crus Funda- cerebri, and two masses of gray substance — corpus striatum bodies! and optic thalamus, which are situate above the crus: the last two bodies are sometimes called ganglia of the brain, because the fibres of the peduncle, whilst passing through them, are increased in number. The connecting pieces, andcom- which are named commissures, pass from the one hemisphere ^ures. to the other, across the middle line of the brain, or connect to- gether portions of the same half of the cerebrum: some of the commissural pieces serve as bounding parts of the ven- tricles. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will have to learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and afterwards to trace the connections between these by means of fibres. jHemisphere above the ventricles. — In the right hemi- Centrum sphere, which has been cut through above the level of the minus convolution of the corpus callosum, the surface displays a hemi- white central mass of an oval shape, the centrum ovale minus, sphere' that sends projections into the several convolutions. In a fresh brain, this surface is studded with drops of blood which escape from the divided vessels. When the hemispheres have been sliced off to the level of centrum , the corpus callosum, a much larger white surface comes into majus view, which has been named larger oval centre — centrum ovale, Vieussens. The white mass in each hemisphere may be further seen to be continuous across the middle line of the brain, where it is connected by a narrowed part, — the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum reaches from the one half of the Corpus cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of a space (lateral sum.'