14? SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. nerve along the vidian canal. The position of these several nerves may first be ascertained by examining their channels of transmission in the prepared skull. Dissection. — The branches of the ganglion that enter the seek 00 branches nose will be found on the left part of the sawn skull, by to the seeking them opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, through which they enter the nasal fossa with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), before referred to as lying in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated from the pituitary membrane, and followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. Branches of the internal max- illary artery accompany the nerves, and are to be dissected with them. To lay bare the nerves that descend to the palate, the branches posterior part of the mucous membrane detached from the palate, septum of the nose, and that lining the nasal fossa behind the spongy bones, should be taken away. After this has been removed, the palatine nerves and vessels will be seen through the thin translucent palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking carefully through the bone with a chisel. Afterwards the tube of membrane that contains the vessels and nerves is to be opened; and these are to be followed down to the soft palate and roof of the mouth, and then onwards towards the incisor teeth. The palatine body of nerves will lead upwards to the ganglion, which is close to fuon ; the body of the sphenoid bone. But to bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the over- hanging part of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion may be then seen to be a small reddish-looking body, from which the vidian nerve passes backwards. To trace backwards the vidian branch to the carotid plexus vidian nerve and the facial nerve, the student must lay open the canal which contains it in the root of the pterygoid process; and in doing this he must be careful of a small pharyngeal branch of nerve and artery that are superficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo-palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch from the vidian to the carotid plexus is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to be followed into the skull by cutting away the point of