DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 566 they soon become convoluted; whence the name coni vascu- losi, that has been given to them. When they are unravelled, they are from six to eight inches long ; and they will be found to join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. Excre- The excretory duct of the testis receives the vasa effe- tory duct rentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis; but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens, is bent The epididymis extends in the form of an arch, along the testicle outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and forming , r epidi. receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major, and at the lower part of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like — globus minor, before how ^ ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body. Its head is attached to the testis by the vasa efferentia that open into it; and its tail or lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by some fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, is but a After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous single tube; tissue, the epididymis may be seen to be formed of a single tube, bent into a zigzag form, whose bends are united into length one mass by fibrous tissue. This part of the tube, when un- cind §j26 * ravelled, measures twenty feet in length. The diameter of its canal is about ^th of an inch ; but there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor, where The vas deferens begins opposite the lower end of the straight testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epidi- it is the • •• vas de. dymis. At first this part of the excretory duct is slightly ferens * 5 wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm round tube. In its course to the urethra, it ascends on the inner side of the testicle to reach the bloodvessels of the this spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal into"the ring ; it is then directed along the side of the bladder, and urethra, tjir0Ugj1 ^he prostate, to open on the inner surface of the length latter (see Pelvic Viscera, p. 599.). The length of this part and size. eXcretory duct is about two feet, and the width of its canal about ^th of an inch. Near its termination the vas