22 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. Internal carotid artery. i winds through cavern- ous si- nus. The branches are to dura mater and or- bit. Sympa- thetic on carotid forms carotid plexus, cavern, ous plex- us. U nion with cranial nerves. Distri- bution. The internal carotid artery appears in the base of the skull at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In its ascent to the brain the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to look like the letter S reclined. On entering the sinus, the artery ascends, at first, to the posterior clinoid process ; it is then directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of the same name ; and lastly, it turns upwards internal to this point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The branches of this part of the artery are few. In the sinus there are some small arteries (arteriae receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body ; and opposite the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain. Sympathetic Nerve.— Around the carotid artery is a prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms the following plexuses : — The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve, and with the Gasserian ganglion. The cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery, which is close to the root of the anterior clinoid process. This small plexus is more immediately connected with the offset of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, that courses along the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments are given from this plexus to unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion, either se- parately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost in the cerebral membranes. Twope- Petrosal nerves.— Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large nerves in superji rialpetrosalnerve, entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the skun°f facial nerve. External to this is occasionally seen another small petrosal nerve (nervus petrosus superficial^ tertius, Bidder), which springs from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve with the preceding. A