DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 330 the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The bra- chialis anticus muscle covers it. Poste- The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is menus3* completely covered by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is weakest. Cached fjie pumerus above the fossa for the olecranon, and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissec- Dissection. — Open the joint by an incision across the front, near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the form of the articular surfaces may be seen. Synovial The synovial membrane lines the joint, and can be traced imane. from one bone to another along the inner surface of the con- Low'er end of the hu- merus. One sur- face for radius. another for the ulna; also for coronoid process and radius, and ole- cranon. End of the ulna End of necting ligaments. It projects between the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the articulation of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces of the bones. — The humerus presents inferiorly two distinct articular surfaces for the bones of the forearm. The one for the radius is on the outer side, and consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the an- terior aspect: between it and the surface that corresponds to the ulna is a slight hollow. The surface in contact with the ulna is limited internally and externally by a prominent ridge, and is hollowed out in the centre like a pulley (trochlea): the external ridge corresponds to the interval between the heads of the radius and ulna. On the front of the humerus, above the articular surface, are two depressions that receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexure of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the forearm. On the end of the ulna there is a large excavation named sigmoid cavity, which is narrow in the centre, but expanded in front and behind. A slightly raised line extends from front to back through the cavity, which is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus in the motions of the joint. In the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting completely, or for a greater or smaller distance across the articular hollow. The end of the radius presents a circular depression with