DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 94 to the buccina- tor ; to ptery- goid muscles. Branch- es of third part, only one now seen. Superior dental.j Internal maxilla- 3. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in the unusual position of the artery it may perforate the fibres of the pterygoid; it then descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the side of the face, on which it joins the branches of the facial artery. 4. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their ^position; whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter the pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise from the artery when it is about to enter, or has entered the spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, the superior dental, will be now described. The remainder will be examined with the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel’s ganglion (Section 14.) ; they are infraorbital, supe- rior palatine, pterygo-palatine, spheno-palatine, and vidian. 1. The superior or posterior dental branch arises near the upper maxillary bone, and descends to the teeth with a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. For the most part its offsets enter the foramina in the bone, and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, but some are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the lining membrane of the antrum. The internal maxillary vein receives the veins corre- ry vein sponding to the branches of the artery in the first two parts p?exusin°f its course. The veins of this region form a plexus— gold)?* pterygoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, and in part between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This plexus communicates with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary); and with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull, by means of branches that pass and ends through apertures in the base of the cranium. Escaping from naiju/u- the plexus, the vein accompanies the artery to the parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein,— the union of the two giving rise to a vessel that enters either the external or the internal jugular vein (p. 32.). lar. Inferior maxilla- ry nerve consists of a motor The inferior maxillary nerve is the largest of the three trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 19.), and re- sembles a spinal nerve in possessing fibrils that confer both motory and sensory properties on the parts to which they are distributed. The nerve leaves the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides into two chief parts