DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 626 and in i are the ejacula- tory ducts. Prosta- tic si- nuses also in floor. Mem- branous part. Dimen- sions. Parts around. Spongy part. Dimen- sions. Two di- lata- tions : one in bulb, one in glans. Lacunas. One larger than the rest. the prostate, for the distance of a quarter of an inch or less, passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes ; its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is dilated. In its wall, on each side, t is contained the common ejaculatory duct, which opens by a narrow slit on or within the free margin of the mouth of the sac. Small glands open likewise on the surface of the mucous membrane lining it. Some bristles should be intro- duced into the ejaculatory ducts, to render evident their position and apertures. On each side of the central ridge or crest is an excavation which is named the prostatic sinus. Into this hollow the greater number of the ducts of the prostate open ; whilst the apertures of others are seen at the posterior part of the central ridge, behind the hollow in it. The membranous part of the urethra is nearly an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of the prostate gland and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethras. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the nar- rowest portion of the whole canal, with the exception of the orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three divisions of the canal, and is supported by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of involuntary circular fibres (p. 457.), and outside all by the compressor urethrae muscle. The spongy part includes the rest of the urethra, viz. to the end of the penis. It is about five inches in length, and its strength depends upon an enveloping material, named corpus spongiosum urethrae. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than at any other part of the urethra. Two dilatations exist in the floor of the spongy portion : — one is contained in the bulb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb ; the other is situate in the glans penis, and has been called fossa navicu- laris from its shape. Many small pouches or lacunce are seen in the interior of the canal, chiefly along the floor, as far back as the membranous part, and have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these is larger than the rest, lacuna magna, and is placed •i