SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 149 the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. Whilst has in its canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments (inferior es to nasal) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; nose’ and, in the roof of the mouth, it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate. b. The small palatine nerve (posterior) lies in the smaller canal, small, and ends inferiorly in the soft palate and the levator palati muscle; and it supplies the uvula and tonsil. c. The external palatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and external descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. Branches to the nose. — The nasal branches, from three to Nasal five in number, are for the most part very small and soft, aJendies and pass inwards through the splieno-palatine foramen. One of these is the naso-palatine nerve. Their distribution is mentioned below. a. The superior nasal branches (anterior) are distributed in the superior mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few fila- nasa1’ ments reach the back part of the septum nasi. b. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius) crosses the roof ^aso. of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and descends on this Palatine* partition to near the front. The nerve now enters a special canal, by the side of the septum, that of the left side of the body being anterior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are united in the mouth, and are dis- tributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth; at their distribution they are connected with the great palatine nerves. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termi- nation, the canal in the roof of the mouth ought to be opened. The posterior branches are two : a pharyngeal branch, Branch- and the vidian nerve. wards are a. The pharyngeal branch is very small, and is directed through to pha- the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx r>nX near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. b. The vidian nerve passes backwards through the vidian canal, and the and sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane sympa- of the back part of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal nerves branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve furnishes a soft reddish offset (carotid branch) to join the sympathetic on the outer dian- side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartilaginous substance closing the fora- l 3