DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 578 Vein in In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as the • female, in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. ve!nal The renal or emutyent vein is of large size, and joins the position vena cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches feryV in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is differ- superficial to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, two and ioins the cava higher up than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin ot the superior mesen- branch, teric artery : it receives separate branches from the spermatic and suprarenal veins of the same side, supra- The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is renal ■* ends dif. compared with that of the body from which it comes. On ferently r t J on each the right side it opens into the cava, and on the left side into the renal vein. Phrenic The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two for each artery, 1 spring from the under surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either as one trunk or two. Hepatic veins, before noticed. Vena cava may be also on left side, or in part, or may end in the azy- gos vein. The hepatic veins enter the cava where it is in contact with the liver. These veins are described in the dissection of the liver (p. 553.). Peculiarities of the vena cava. — In position. — When trans- position of the viscera exists, the vena cava is found on the left of the spine. But without that transposition the vein may be on the left side of the aorta as high as the renal vein, before it crosses that vessel to take its usual place. In ending. — Instead of opening into the heart, the lower cava may be found entering the upper cava; and in these rare instances it finds its way to that vessel through the'channel of the intercostal or azygos vein. In this condition the inferior cava is wanting at the heart, and the blood from the lower part of the body is then trans- mitted to the heart by the superior cava. Should this deviation exist, the hepatic veins would form a separate trunk, and open into the riuht auricle in the situation of the inferior cava. THE DEEP MUSCLES. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen, which re- main to be learnt, are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lum- borum. Some fasciae are also to be seen in connection with the muscles. The psoas magnus reaches from the lumbar vertebrae to Psoas magnus;