BRANCHES OF THE AORTA. 369 Height. — The arch reaches commonly to about an inch from the Height upper part of the sternum, but it may ascend nearly to the top of and that bone, or stop an inch and a half or more from it. Direction. — Sometimes the aorta is arched over the root of the direc- right instead of the left lung, as in birds; and is directed afterwards the to its usual place on the spinal column, without any other change arch* in the position of the viscera of the body. Or, all the viscera of the cavities of the thorax and abdomen being transposed, the arch of the aorta may share the general disturbance in position. Position of branches. — The large branches of the neck may have Position their usual origin (the highest part of the arch) moved more to the primary right; or their distance from one another may be increased or g!;anch' diminished. When there is transposition of the arch there is like- wise change in the position of the branches—the innominate artery supplying the left side, and the carotid and subclavian vessels on the right side having separate attachments to the arch. Number usual, arrangement different.— In transposition of the Number arch, the left carotid and subclavian are united as before said ; or arranged without change in the situation of the arch the carotids may be ment* joined, and the subclavians separate. Number of branches unusual. — The most frequent change in Their number is the reduction of the branches of the arch to two, as when may be the left carotid arises from the innominate artery, or when, though totwo** rarely, the left carotid and left subclavian are conjoined. But the or in- creased number may be increased to four by the absence of the innominate to four, trunk, and the separate origin of the right carotid and subclavian arteries from the arch : — in this last case the right subclavian varies in its position, though commonly it is attached to the arch of the aorta, to the left of the rest. Lastly, there may be five or six trunks five, or * * six from the arch; and in instances of this state, the internal and ex- ternal carotids take their origin from it, in consequence of absence of the trunk common to the two, on one or both sides. * Occasional branches.— Some smaller or secondary arteries take Number • increased origin occasionally from the arch. The most frequent example of by this peculiarity is seen in the origin of the left vertebral artery be- ary°nd" tween the left carotid and subclavian trunks, or beyond them. branch_ es. Occasionally a thyroid artery (lowest thyroid), or the right internal mammary, or both vertebrals, will be seen to spring from the arch of the aorta. The innominate artery (brachiocephalic) is the largest inn0- offset of the transverse part of the arch, and is the first of ™rte?ye the three branches. It is a thick trunk, varying from one ends in inch and a half to two inches in length; ascending to the Sd°sub- right, beneath the sternum, it divides opposite the sterno- cla'lan‘ B B