DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 92 lssec- tion. Dissection. — The condyle of the jaw is next to be dis- articulated, still keeping the external pterygoid muscle uncut; and it with the attached muscle is to be drawn forwards so as to see the fifth nerve beneath; whilst cutting through the articular ligaments the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath. On drawing forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some con- nective tissue, the dissector will find the trunk and branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. All the four small muscular branches of the nerve should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone ; its auriculo-temporal branch should be followed backwards with care behind the articulation ; and the small chorda tympani should be found joining the posterior part of the gustatory nerve near the skull. The middle meningeal artery is to be sought beneath the external pterygoid ; and oftentimes the trunk of the in- ternal maxillary artery will be found beneath that muscle. Internal maxil- lary ar- tery. Course and con- nections, Varies in its position, Branch es are three sets. The internal maxillary artery is one of the terminal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, be- tween the bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve. Next, the vessel winds over the external pterygoid muscle, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And lastly, the artery enters the spheno- maxillary fossa between the processes of origin of the exter- nal pterygoid muscle. The trunk of the artery may be divided into three parts : one beneath the jaw, a second be- tween the muscles, and a third in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, in- stead of over the external pterygoid muscle : in such in- stances the artery gains the spheno-maxillary fossa by coming upwards through the origin of the muscle cover- ing it. The branches of this artery are very numerous, and are classed into three sets, corresponding to the divisions made in the trunk of the artery : thus one set arises beneath the jaw, another beneath the temporal muscle, and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa.