INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. 387 c c 2 inferior thyroid artery near the pharynx, and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. 4. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the con- Medias- nective tissue and the glands in the posterior part of the in- branch- CS • terpleural space. 5. The intercostal arteries are commonly ten or nine in inter- cost number on each side, and are furnished one to each of the arteries, lower intercostal spaces. To the other one or two upper Number, spaces branches are supplied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These small vessels arise from the Direc- • p -| tion to posterior part ot the aorta, and run outwards on the verte- the in- bras, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, to the in- spaces, tercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique, and the lower a transverse direction. As the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right vessels Right, are the longest, and pass beneath the oesophagus, the tlio- lon8est' racic duct, and the azygos veins; they supply many twigs to the bodies of the vertebrae on which they lie. a. The anterior branch is the continuation of the common trunk The an- in direction and size. At first this artery lies in the centre of the branch intercostal space, beneath the pleura and a fascia between the in- fntercos- tercostal muscles, and resting on the external intercostal layer. tal space But near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper limit of the space, and then continues onwards between the muscular strata nearly to the anterior third of the intercostal space, where it ends in two branches that anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammary (p. 2G6.). Accompanying the artery are with the intercostal nerve and vein, — the vein being commonly above, and vein, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is at* first higher than the artery, though it soon takes its place below Offsets, that vessel. Branches are furnished to the layers of intercostal muscles and the ribs: about the centre (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig accompanies the cutaneous nerve. The upper artery of the set anastomoses with the superior inter- Anasto- costal branch of the subclavian artery; and those below the true ribs enter the abdominal wall, and anastomose in it with the arteries of that part. b. The posterior branch turns backwards between the vertebra Pol- and the ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in branch the back. As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes theback.