102 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY KEGION. con- nected with chin, hyoid bone, and tongue, Contigu. ous parts. Lingual artery ascends to the tongue beneath hyo- glossus. , Its branches are — to hyoid bone; to back of the tongue ; to the sublin- gual gland; to the sub- stance of tongue. and the base at the tongue, and is in contact along the middle line with the corresponding muscle of the other side. It takes origin from the upper tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate to the whole length of the tongue, from root to point. Lying along the middle of the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow; whilst the lower border of the muscle corresponds to the genio-hyoideus, and the upper to the fraenum linguse. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the liyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the posterior fibres. The lingual artery is one of the anterior branches of the external carotid, and arises between the superior thyroid and facial branches. At first it is directed inwards above the os hyoides, but is afterwards inclined slightly upwards beneath the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue, and ends at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branches. Before reaching the hyo-glossus the artery is superficial, though it is crossed near that muscle by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle con- strictor and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, and is situate below the level of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its branches are these: — A small hyoid branch is distributed on the upper border of the os hyoides, where it anastomoses with the one of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of that organ. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is then directed out- wards to the gland from which it takes its name. Some offsets supply the gums and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. The ranine branch is the terminal part of the lingual artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio-hyo-glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends: it