CENTRAL BODIES OF THE CEREBRUM. 229 The pineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body, Pineal which is situate above the posterior commissure, and be- position, tween the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape, shape like the cone of a fir, it is less than a quarter of an inch in length, and has the base or wider part turned for- wards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two white bands, — peduncles of the pineal body: these begin at the attach - base of the pineal gland, and extending forwards, one on t2-t0 each side, along the inner part of the optic thalami, end by mus"J joining the crura of the fornix. The base of the gland is further connected by transverse white fibres with the pos- terior commissure. This body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses a struc- cavity. It contains in its substance large pale nucleated cells, with a few nerve fibres, and much calcareous material. The corpora quadrigemina are four small bodies, which Corpora are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a gemlna. median groove. Each pair is situate on the cerebral aspect in pairs on each of the peduncle of the cerebrum of the same side. side. The anterior eminence (nates) is somewhat larger than Anterior the posterior, from which it is separated by a slight depres- (nates), sion ; it is oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards a white band to join the optic thalamus and the optic nerve. The posterior eminence (testis) is rounder in form and Poste- . _. rior one whiter in colour than the preceding : it has also a lateral (testis): white band, which is directed beneath the corpus genicu- thaiaJ latum internum, and blends with the optic tract and the thalamus opticus. These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped stmc- by white, and are placed on the band of the fillet that forms their J A # bands. the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius. They send processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus, which are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Fillet of the olivary body. — If the upper margin of the Fillet of cerebellum be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of body*7 an inch in width, will be seen to issue from the transverse fibres of the pons, and to be directed upwards to the corpora quadrigemina. This is the upper or commissural piece of passes • beneath the fillet (p. 208.), which passes to the corpora quadrigemina, corpora and joins beneath them, over the Sylvian aqueduct, with gemlna. the similar part of the opposite side.