DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 226 Other choroid plexuses, Third ventricle is near base of brain. Roof. Floor, Parts on the sides, in front. and be- hind. Opening into other ventri- cles. Gray matter of the ventricle raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be visible. In reflecting the piece of pia mater, the student must be careful of the pineal body, which would otherwise be detached. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two fringed bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. The third ventricle is an interval between the optic tha- lami, and reaches to the base of the brain. Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, and below the level of the other ventricles, with which it communicates. Its boundaries and communications are given below: — The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is greater in front than behind : corresponding with the floor are the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri and the anterior longitudinal fissure, viz. locus perforatus, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity the optic thalami are situate. In front of the space are the descending pillars of the fornix, with part of the anterior commissure of the cere- brum in the interval between them. Behind, are the posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing the centre of the space, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray matter — the soft commissure. This space communicates with the other ventricles of the brain in the following way : — In front it joins each lateral ventricle through the foramen of Monro, and opens into the fifth ventricle in the fetus. Behind is an opening into the fourth ventricle, beneath the posterior commissure, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad in- fundibulum). The lining of the ventricle is continued into the neighbouring cavities through the different apertures of communication, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Gray matter of the ventricle.—A stratum of gray matter is seen to cover most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower part of each optic thalamus it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum; and in the floor