DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 334 tacarpal joints. Bones are joined into two rows. How first row is formed. Separate liga- ments of pisiform bone. Second row is like first. The two rows are joined by anterior. poste- rior. and lateral liga- ments. Dissec- tion. Surface of each row in contact. carpal with the carpal bones and with one another, should be dissected. Union of the Carpal Bones. — The several bones of the carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar and inter- osseous bands; and the two rows are connected one to ano- ther by separate ligaments. Bones of the first row. — The os semilunare is united to the contiguous bones, viz. the scaphoid and cuneiform, by a dorsal and a palmar transverse band, as well as by an interosseous ligament at the upper part of the contiguous surfaces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the cuneiform bone by a distinct capsule and a synovial membrane : it has further two special ligaments ; — one of these is attached to the process of the unciform bone, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The hones of the second row are connected together in the same way as those of the first row, viz. by a dorsal and a palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between the contiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are inter- osseous ligaments, one to each interval. One row with another.— The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament consists of irregular fibres, and intervenes between the two rows on the palmar aspect. The posterior ligament, which is longer and looser, and the greater number of whose fibres are transverse, has a corresponding attachment on the dorsal aspect of the bones. Of the lateral ligaments, the external is the best marked, and extends be- tween the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone ; whilst the internal ligament passes between the cuneiform and unciform bones. Dissection. — After the division of the lateral and pos- terior ligaments, the one row of bones may be separated from the other, so as to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces. — The first row of carpal bones forms an arch, whose hollow is turned towards the other. In the second row, the os magnum and os unciforme present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned: whilst the two outer bones are much below the