664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. on the position of the limb. Parts trans- mitted through the opening. Nomen- clature of the fascia at the top of the thigh. Anato- my of parts concern- ed in a femoral hernia. Dissec- tion to see a sheath around femoral vessels. Define sheath. The crural whilst the limb is moved in different directions, the dissector will perceive that this band is most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated outwards, and most relaxed when the thigh is flexed and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous vein, and the ducts of the inguinal glands are transmitted: and through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia would project. Sometimes terms are applied to the fascia on opposite sides of the saphenous opening, as if there was a distinct piece in each spot; thus the piece on the outer side of the opening is called iliac part of the fascia lata, from its at- tachment to the iliac crest; whilst that on the inner side, which is fixed to the pubes, is named in like manner the pubic part of the fascia lata. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. — Besides the saphenous opening, the dissector has to study the under- mentioned parts, to obtain a knowledge of the structures amongst which the hernial protrusion is situate; viz. the crural arch and Gimbernat’s ligament, the crural sheath, the crural canal and the crural ring, together with a membranous partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the ab- domen. Dissection. — To examine Poupart’s ligament and a loose sheath of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected by the following incisions. One cut may be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart’s liga- ment ; another is to be directed obliquely downwards from the termination of the first, towards and a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia has been turned inwards and some fat removed, the tube of membrane (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart’s ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the sheath is to be sepa- rated carefully from the fascia lata beneath, and from the ligament in front of it; and Gimbernat’s ligament on the inner side of the sheath, to which the upper end of the falci- form border is united, is to be defined. Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch, is a firm band, de-