494 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. internal hernia is farther out than the pre- ceding in the triangu- lar space. and is oblique in direc tion. Cover- ings are same as in exter- nal her- nia. Stricture at same spots. Division of it. Umbili- cal her- nia. Course. Cover- ings become united over the tumour. Stric- ture, where found. hernia (superior) projects through the*partof the area of the triangular space, where only the fascia transversalis is found. Its existence is dependent upon the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery behind the wall of the abdo- men (p. 495.). If this hernia existed, it is evident that it would pierce the abdominal wall close to the epigastric artery, and would descend along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; conse- quently the term direct will not apply strictly to the form of internal hernia now under consideration. Coverings. — As this internal hernia traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal canal, it has exactly the same number and kind of coverings as the external hernia that accompanies the spermatic cord, viz. the skin and the super- ficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. Seat of stricture. — The constriction of the intestine will take place at the same spots as in the external hernia; and from the inability always to decide, in the living body, whether the kind of hernia is internal or external, the rule observed in dividing the deep stricture is to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine either through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Coverings. — The coverings of the intestine in a small hernia are thin, and few in number, viz. the skin and the superficial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the abdominal opening, together with the remaining common coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperi- toneal fat and the peritoneum. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment that otherwise- is derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. Over the end of the tumour the fat of the superficial fascia disappears, and this covering becomes blended with the other contiguous structures. Seat of stricture.—The stricture on the intestine is gene- rally found at the margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall; and it should be remembered that this opening is at the upper part, not in the centre of the swell-