198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAJfC. has two parts. Origin of the^ facial. Small accesso- ry piece. Audito- ry part. Deep origin of facial; of audi- tory. Eighth nerve has three parts. Origin of glosso- pharyn- geal, vagus, lowest border of the pons, near the restifoLp^ body. It con - sists of two distinct trunks, facial and auditory ; the former being the motor nerve of the face, and the latter the special nerve for the organ of hearing. The facial nerve (portio dura, seventh nerve, Sommer- ring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditory, in- ternal to which it is placed. It issues from the lateral tract of the medulla, close to the pons, and is connected with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessory band of fibres that is intermediate between it and the auditory (intermediate portion of Wrisberg); it is then applied to the auditory nerve, and with it enters the internal meatus. The auditory nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, Sommer- ring) has a surface attachment to the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, and to the restiform body. The nerve is very soft, for it obtains its neurilemma, and therewith its consistence, only in the meatus auditorius. Deep origin.— The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth nerve. The auditory nerve has a superficial connection with the white transverse fibres that issue out of the median groove in the floor of the fourth ventricle; and it is connected deeply with the lower end of the gray mass called locus caeruleus, by means of many fibres that penetrate the upper part of the restiform body, and the lower part of the pons. It is said by some to be joined with the crus cerebelli by a fasciculus of fibres. Stilling notices gray matter in connection with its fibres, as these penetrate the pons Varolii. The eighth cranial nerve (Willis) is placed along the side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct trunks, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal acces- sory : the names of the first two indicate their destination, and the last, besides being accessory to the pneumo-gastric, supplies some muscles. a. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Sommerring) is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its apparent origin is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate the lateral tract of the cord close to the facial nerve. b. The 'pneumo-gastric or vagus (tenth nerve, Sommer- ring) is connected with the lateral tract of the medulla, below the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, by a series of filaments, which