POSTERIOR HALF OF PERINATAL SPACE. 445 POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perinseal space contains the lower end of the rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscle and the muscles acting on its opening—the anus. The gut, however, does not occupy the whole of the interval between the pelvic bones ; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in which is much loose fat, together with the vessels and nerves that supply the end of the gut. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised from this division of the perinaeum by the employment of the following cuts: — One is to be made across the perineeum at the front of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tube- rosity on each side; a second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx, in the same direction and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are then to be connected by carrying the knife along the middle line and around the anus. The flaps of skin, thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line : in detaching the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial sphincter muscle may be injured, without care, for it is close to the skin. The dissector should first trace that muscle back to the coccyx, and then forwards beneath the remaining piece of skin. The next step is to bring into view the hollow of the ischio-rectal fossa, between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip-bone : on the left side the fat is to be cleared out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissection is to be made of them. To clean out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the outer margin of the sphincter, and from that point proceed forwards and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend beyond the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the fibres of the levator ani (sometimes very pale) and of the coccygeus are to be dissected; and on the outer boundary, the pudic vessels should be denuded, as they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the surface. On the opposite side it is not necessary to clean the mus- Contents and general position. Dissec- tion of sphinc- ter ani. Differ- ence in exposing the ischio- rectal fossae. Dissec- tion of left ischio- rectal fossa. and of