DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 632 some are per- manent. StruC' turej Arteries. arrange- ment of superior hajmor- rhoidal. Veins are with- out valves. Nerves; lymph- atics. Viscera in the pelvis. some of which near the anus are longitudinal. But there are other three or four permanent folds, described by Mr. Houston, which are half an inch or less in width, and con- tain some of the circular fibres of the gut.* The most con- stant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder ; another is found on the right side of the intestine near the top; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two : occasionally there is a fourth on the back of the rectum, about an inch from the anus. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually disappears. Bloodvessels.— The arteries are supplied from three different sources: they are, superior haemorrhoidal, from the inferior me- senteric ; middle haemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac artery; and inferior haemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut, and only the upper haemor- rhoidal, which is the largest, requires further notice. The branches of this artery (p. 516.) about six in number pierce the muscular coat three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they end in loops like the veins, which pass from branch to branch just within the anus, and form circular arterial rings. The veins are deficient in valves, and communicate freely around the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and, through it, reach the vena portae; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by branches corresponding with the middle haemorrhoidal artery. Nerves and lymphatics. — The nerves for the intestine are ob- tained from the sympathetic, and those for the sphincter, from the spinal system. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on the sacrum. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE FEMALE. The viscera of the female pelvis consist of those common to both sexes, viz. the bladder and the urethra, with the * Vol. v. of the Dublin Hospital Reports, “ Observations on the Mucous Membrane of the Iiectum.”