522 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. How to dissect cceliac axis and its several branch- es. of chyio- and spleen ; this subdivides into three chief branches,— poietic viscera, coronary, hepatic, and splenic, whose destination is expressed by their names. The veins corresponding with those vessels are collected into one trunk — the vena portae : and the nerves are supplied from the vagus and the sympathetic trunks. Dissection.— The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and the preparation of them will be completed by the removal of the loose tissue and the peri- toneum from each. Before beginning this task the student should take care that the liver is well raised ; and whilst completing it he should spare the plexuses of nerves that surround the vessels. Starting from the coeliac axis, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and clear its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Next the hepatic artery, with the vena portae and the bile duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder ; and a considerable branch of it should be pursued, beneath the pylorus, to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned, and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen defined. The veins will be dissected for the most part with the arteries, but the origin of the vena portae is to be made out beneath the pancreas. The cceliac axis is the first visceral branch of the abdo- minal aorta, and arises from that vessel between the pillars of the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which projects above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the nerves of the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches — coronary, hepatic, and splenic,— radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. 1. The coronary artery is the smallest of the three branches, and passes between the layers of the little omen- tum to the left orifice of the stomach. At that spot it fur- nishes some oesophageal branches, and then turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric) from the hepatic artery. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed:— a. The oesophageal branches ascend on the gullet through This trunk supplies the three follow- ing branch- es : — Coro- nary, which gives offsets to