414 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Their connec- tions with other muscles. Dissec- tion of fourth layer. Sacro- lumba- lis and -acces- sory muscles. Offset to the iieck. Vessels and nerves. Longis- simus dorsi and pro- longa-< tions. fleshy fibres ascend and are inserted by a thin tendon into the apex and outer surface of the mastoid process, and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. The splenius colli is smaller than the splenius capitis, and its fibres are more oblique. These muscles are beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior; and the insertion into the occipital bone is beneath the sterno- mastoideus. The complexus muscle can be seen above the upper border of the splenius capitis. * Dissection. — To lay bare the fourth layer of muscles, the splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. The serratus inferior is also to be detached in the same way with the vertebral aponeurosis, and the connective tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinae, that now comes into view. * Opposite the last rib is the beginning of an intermus- cular interval, which divides the erector spinas into an outer piece or the sacro-lumbalis, and an inner piece or the lon- gissimus dorsi. By sinking the knife into this interval the sacro-lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs. A thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, which is continued from the sacro-lumbalis beyond the ribs, should be separated in the neck from the muscles around by the dissector of that part. * In preparing the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external branches of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will be found. * Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be needful to raise towards the spinous processes the thin muscular fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between that muscle and the spines of the vertebrae in the dorsal region. Then the attachments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae by rounded tendons; and for the purpose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus must be drawn away from the spinous processes, and its superficial apo- neurosis must be cut through below the ribs, in the line of