400 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. How to see the several liga- ments. The bodies are united by: Anterior common liga- ment, varies in width, length, and at- tach- ment of its fibres, and in thick- ness. Pos- terior common liga- ment is wide at parts ; Dissection. —- After the dissection of the ligaments of the ribs, the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the ligaments of the bodies and articular processes of the verte- brae. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae is therefore laid bare, but if the canal should not be opened, the arches of the vertebrae must be sawn through close to the articular processes. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be prepared with very little trouble, by only removing the connective tissue. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches and the spines of the bones may be defined on those pieces that have been taken away in opening the spinal canal. A. Ligaments of the bodies of the vertebrce. — The bodies of the vertebrae that remain separate are united by an an- terior and a posterior common ligament, and by intervening pieces of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament is white and strong, and reaches from the atlas to the sacrum: it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebrae, and becomes narrower as it is traced upwards. Its fibres are longitudinal in direction, and con- sist of a superficial and a deep layer: by detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen to reach the length of three or more vertebras, whilst the deep reach from bone to bone. A greater number of the fibres are attached to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages than to the bones; and more are fixed to the margins than to the centre of the body of a vertebra. Its outline is uneven, for it is broader over the bodies of the vertebrae than on the intervertebral substance: and if the ligament be cut across at intervals it will be found to be thickest opposite the hollow part of the body of the vertebra. The posterior common ligament is contained in the spinal canal, lying on the posterior aspect of the bodies of the ver- tebrae, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone. This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- wards, just the opposite of the anterior: in the neck it is loose, and extends all across the bodies of the vertebrae, whilst in the loins it is only a thin narrow band. Opposite the dorsal and lumbar intervertebral substance it is wider than at the centre of the bodies of the vertebrae, and sends off