DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 622 Coats of the bladder. Perito- neal. Muscu- lar has three strata; external or longi- tudinal. attach- ments forms detrusor urina ; internal or circu- lar gives rise to sphinc- ter ; continu- ous with prostate; sub- mucous layer. Extent. Fibres. Addi- tion to it. by the age and sex, and by the habits of the person. Ordi- narily the bladder holds about a pint, and as a general rule it is larger in the female than in the male. Structure. — A muscular and a mucous coat, with an intervening fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder: at parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a con- stituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering of 'peritoneum has been described (p. 594.), and has been removed. The muscular coat is formed of thin strata of unstriated muscular fibres, viz. an external or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. a. The longitudinal fibres form a continuous covering, with the usual plexiform disposition of the bundles of mus- cular fibres, and extend from the apex to the base : above some are connected with the urachus, and others are inserted into the peritoneum ; and below they are attached chiefly to the fascia covering the prostate, with the exception of an anterior fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back of the pubes, through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the mus- cular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical, than on the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer layer of fibres has been called detrusor urince, from its action in the expulsion of the urine. b. The circular fibres are thin, and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, called the sphincter vesicce, and are then continuous with the fibres of the prostate. In some instances the fibres are hypertrophied, and project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder ; and in other bodies the mucous coat may be forced outwards here and there, between the fibres, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. c. The submucous stratum forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but becomes scattered above. In the lower third of the bladder the fibres are longitudinal, and continuous with the fibres around the urethra, but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres