CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE THIGH. 661 u u 3 Middle cutaneous. — The nerve for the centre of the front of the Middle thigh is a cutaneous offset from the anterior crural, and divides into ous^' two branches that may pierce the fascia at separate spots. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Pou- part’s ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee, where '/ on . Y ° front of it communicates with the offset of the great saphenous nerve over the the patella. In the superficial fascia this nerve is united with the and genito-crural and internal cutaneous nerves. In some instances [h^knee. the nerve is inclined to the inner side of the knee, and is substi- tuted for a branch (anterior) of the following nerve. Internal cutaneous. — Derived from the anterior crural trunk, internal cutane- like the preceding, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of ous the thigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), is di- , & „ _ . . . , v ' vided that perforate the fascia in separate places. into two. a. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of Thean- the thigh in the line of the inner intermuscular septum, along or branch somewhat behind which it is continued to the knee. This branch is distributed in the integument of the lower third of the thigh at extends the inner part, as well as in that over the patella and the inner side along the of the knee joint, and is united with the branch of the internal septuin' saphenous nerve. Occasionally this part of the nerve is found below the level of the knee joint; and in that case it is larger than usual, and is joined by a small offset from the saphenous nerve. b. The inner branch perforates the fascia at the inner side of the The knee behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communi- endsln cates; it furnishes offsets to the lower part of the thigh, and the upper half of the leg on the inner surface. 1116 les* Other small cutaneous branches for the supply of the inner side other of the thigh arise from either the trunk, or the two final branches twigs to of the internal cutaneous nerve, and appear by the side of the part of saphenous vein, after piercing the fascia lata. One or two come into view near the upper part of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh; and one, of larger size than the rest, appears where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. These cutaneous offsets usually communicate. Internal saphenous. — A branch of the anterior crural, like the internal two preceding, this nerve is continued to the foot, but only a little part of it is now visible. The nerve pierces the fascia on the appears inner side of the knee, and, after communicating with the inner the . branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets over Passes t0 • • • • # the leg. the knee joint; finally it accompanies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. One branch of the saphenous nerve (patellar) appears on the Abranch surface of the fascia, higher than the trunk from which it springs from il . . . t r o • over the It is soon joined by the internal cutaneous nerve, and ends in many patella