701 EXTERNAL ROTATOR MUSCLES. Dissection.—To seethe remaining small rotator muscles, clean hook aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the muscles, branches of the sciatic artery if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be kept rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be turned aside from the tendon of the obturator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS is the highest of the two mus- Superior gemellus cular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator muscle. Internally it is attached to the ischial spine, and is often externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great trochanter. Oftentimes this muscle is absent. The inferior gemellus is larger and more constant than inferior 0 e gemellus its fellow. Its origin is connected with the upper and hinder part of the ischial tuberosity, and its insertion is the same inserted r , . with ob- as that of the obturator tendon. Tins muscle is placed turator. between the obturator internus and quadratus muscles, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. The obturator internus arises inside the pelvis, and obtura. . . tor in- passes to the exterior through the small sacro-sciatic notch ternus • / has part (p. 644.). Escaped from the pelvis, the muscle is directed inside . outwards over the articulation of the hip, and is inserted by a tendon with the gemelli into the upper part of the great trochanter, in front of the pyriformis, as well as into the Pelvis ? contiguous portion of the neck of the femur. Outside the latter ° L * pari lies pelvis the obturator is mostlv tendinous, and is embraced by over hip the gemelli muscles; beneath it is a synovial sac. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves, and the sciatic vessels ; and covering the whole is the gluteus maxi- mus. On cutting through the tendon, and raising the inner end, it will be found divided into four or five pieces as it its ten- ] turns over the margin of the pelvis; at this spot the pelvis divided is marked by ridges of fibro-cartilage, that correspond with edge the intervals between the tendons, and the whole is lubri- pelvis, cated by another synovial membrane. The quadratus femoris has the form expressed by its Quadra- name, and is situate between the inferior gemellus and the rus;fem°" adductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer border origin; of the tuber ischii, along the side of the origin of the semi- membranosus and part of the adductor magnus ; externally it is inserted into the linea quadrati of the upper end of the