412 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. the sub- branch, viz. towards the upper part of the scapula, but it is placed at a greater height above the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, this branch passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into the two following branches—superficial cervical and poste- rior scapular: — a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the cervical under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the and levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. b. The posterior scapular branch crosses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and turns downwards along the base of that bone beneath the rhomboid muscles. If these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them; and to give anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula, which join the other arteries distributed on the bone. This artery arises, very frequently, as a separate branch from the third part of the subclavian trunk. divides into super- ficial posterior scapular. Accom- panying veins. Nerve of rhom- boid muscle. Dissec- tion. Third layer of muscles. Serrati are two in num- ber. Smaller one at upper part of the tho- rax. The veins have the same name and course as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular vein near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. — This slender nerve of the brachial plexus (p. 77.) takes the same course as the preceding artery, beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula ; it is lost in the rhomboidei, on their under surface. * Dissection. — By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles to- wards the spinous processes, and removing the loose con- nective tissue, the thin upper serratus muscle which is beneath them will be laid bare. * Third Layer. — In this stratum are the following muscles : — the serratus posticus superior and inferior, with the splenius. * The serrati muscles are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebrae. * The serratus posticus superior arises from the ligamen- tum nuchae, and from the spinous processes of the last cer- vical, and the two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. The fleshy fibres are inclined downwards, and are attached by