517 AORTIC AND MESENTERIC PLEXUSES. l l 3 the aortic plexus will appear: from the upper part of this plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By removing the serous membrane from the front of the °fJnpo- sacrum, and following downwards, over the iliac arteries, plexus, the nerves from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large offset bn the Supe- . . x rior mes- mesenteric artery and its branches, and is distributed to the enteric * ' plexus same extent of the intestinal tube as the vessel. The is on nerves surround closely the artery with a sheath, and are oHne covered at first by the pancreas. In the mesentery, near name- the intestine, some of the nerves leave the arteries, and divide and communicate with others before entering the gut. The secondary plexuses are the same as the branches of its se- J r > condary the artery, viz. intestinal nerves to the small intestine ; and piex- J t uses. an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nerves covering the Aortic aorta below the superior mesenteric artery. Superiorly it is j* de- continuous with the solar plexus ; and inferiorly it ends on I each side in branches, which cross the common iliac artery, plexus, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it an offsets, offset is furnished to the two visceral branches of the aorta below the renal and superior mesenteric trunks, viz. to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The aortic plexus is stronger on the sides than on the This A ... plexus front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving accessory ^best^ branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. At on^ides the upper part the plexus seems to be derived from an offset, on each side of the aorta, which is connected with the solar and renal plexuses. The spermatic plexus is formed by an offset from both the Jpj*- aortic and the renal plexus. The nerves from it run on the plexus, spermatic artery to the testicle : and in the cord they join other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the spermatic (ovarian) artery are supplied to the ovary and the uterus.