586 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. nerve is like the inter- costal. Course in wall of the abdo- men. Lumbar arteries five in number on each side, like the inter- costal. Course and ter- mina- tion in a branch to the back. and a branch to the wall of the ab- domen. The veins re- semble the arte- ries. last dorsal nerve resembles the other intercostal nerves in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, and beneath the fascia covering that muscle. At the outer border of the quadratus it pierces the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum), enters the wall of the abdomen, and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 468.). Near the spine it fur- nishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle ; and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. An offset from the first lumbar artery accompanies the nerve. The lumbar arteries are some of the parietal branches of the aorta (p. 572.), and are furnished to the spinal canal and the wall of the abdomen: they resemble the aortic inter- costal branches in their course and distribution. Commonly five in number on each side, these arteries arise opposite the centre of the vertebrae, and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk : they then pass back- wards along the fore part of the vertebrae, beneath the pillar of the diaphragm and the psoas, to reach the intervals be- tween the transverse processes, where each ends in an ab- dominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side pass beneath the vena cava. a. The dorsal branch continues onwards to the back be- tween the transverse processes, and supplies an offset to the spinal canal. The distribution of the artery is described with the vessels of the back and spinal cord'(p. 422. 436.). b. The abdominal branches are directed outwards beneath the quadratus lumborum, the first being the largest, and enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they anastomose with the lower intercostal, the circumflex iliac, and the ilio-lumbar arteries: these branches supply the psoas and quadratus muscles. The branch of the first, and sometimes that of the last artery, is superficial to the quad- ratus ; and the size of the last two varies with that of the ilio-lumbar offset of the internal iliac artery. The lumbar veins are the same in number, and have the same course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the trans-