STRUCTURE OP THE TESTIS. 563 of the organ; and attached to the upper part of the testis, or that of the epididymis, is a very small body, two or three lines in length, whose use is unknown. It is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed Suspend- forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end back- liqueiy. wards and rather inwards. Size and weiqht. — In length the testis is an inch and a Dimen. v ° . sions half or two inches; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch; and from side to side rather less than an inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left ^ is frequently larger than the other. Structure.—The substance of the testicle is composed of a dense tunic a mass of minute secerning tubes, around which the blood- contains vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and support- secret- ing the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering of the tubes, tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection. — With the view of examining the investing How to SG6tne fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. structure . . . °fthe that on which the epididymis lies, and be fixed in that posi-testis- tion with pins. The fibrous coat may then be cut through along the anterior part, and raised as far backwards as to the entrance of the bloodvessels: in this proceeding a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) will be observed at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter. It will be necessary to remove part of the testicular mass of tubes, to bring into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, Fibrous is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance and , 7 L L charac- structurethe sclerotic coat of the eye-ball. This membrane ters; supports the soft glandular part of the testicle, and main- use. tains the shape of the organ by reason of its dense and un- yielding nature. Besides determining the general form, it sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal Sends x l l . inwards tubes. These several offsets of the membrane are seen in Pr°- cesses, the dissection that has been made ; and one of them, which is larger than the rest, is placed at the back of the testicle, and is named mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum) projects are'me- o o 2