311 ULNAR ARTERY AND NERVE. to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The deep or communicating branch (profunda) is small to join in size, and passes downwards with a branch of the ulnar arch, nerve between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. b. The digital branches are four in number, and supply Four ^ A J digital both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the branch- # es. index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and the little finger is undivided in its course.; but the others correspond to the three inner interosseous spaces, and bifur- cate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above- said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by in the the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the root of the fingers each receives a communicating branch from the vessels of the deep arch; but the artery for the inner side of the little finger has its communicating offset with the deep arch about the middle of the hand. From the point of bifurcation the branches extend along Termi- the sides of the fingers, accompanied by the digital nerves; sides of and on the last phalanx the vessels of opposite sides unite in gers. an arch, from whose convexity offsets proceed to supply the papillae of the ball of the finger, as well as the pulp beneath the nail. Collateral branches are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons; and small twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bone, one being close behind each joint. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Nerve. — The ulnar nerve uinar divides on the annular ligament or near it, into a superficial hand and a deep branch; these are distributed to one finger and a half, and to some of the muscles of the hand. The deep branch accompanies the profunda artery to the has a muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel. deepand The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris superfi- brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the cial part' inner part of the hand, and then ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next: — Digital nerves. — The more internal nerve is undivided, The last like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the tSoSd£