DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 776 sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. It has been supposed that this fluid was secreted by a special membrane lining the cavity, but evidence of the existence of such a structure is wanting. Retina The Nervous Tunic or Retina.— This coat (tunica is form. . . ed by nervea) is continuous with the optic nerve, and is the most optic y r nerve, delicate of all the structures of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is produced by the rays of light being brought to a focus in the bottom of the eye. Dissec- Dissection. — The retina can be satisfactorily examined see the only on an eye that is used before forty-eight hours have ex- pired after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball on which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps whilst the eye is immersed in water or spirit. If an entire eye is used for the purpose, a thread may be passed through the cornea, and fastened to a pin fixed in wax ; then on remov- ing in a fluid the sclerotic and choroid coats, the retina will be laid bare. The interior of the retina may be seen in the eye from which the cornea, the iris, and the corpus ciliare have been removed in front. situa- The retina is the most internal of the three concentric eyeball; strata in the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreous humour) that is lodged in the interior. It is moulded upon, and supported form by the vitreous body ; and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, as in the other coats, but its aperture in front i3 rather larger. Beginning behind at the optic nerve, this thin and ex- layer extends forwards nearly as far as the ciliary ligament, viz. to the spot at which the choroid coat becomes folded (outer margin of the corpus ciliare), where it ends in a wavy Ceils border—the ora serrata. Where the retina ceases in front prolong- a }ayer 0f elongated nucleated cells, which are not nerve front‘ elements, is continued on to the tips of the ciliary processes. Colour; This nervous expansion is of a pinkish gray colour, and semitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it at the bottom of the eye when the two external coats are transpa- removed ; but it soon loses this translucency, and is moreover IndCy rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances, nes? Its thickness is greater at the posterior than at the anterior part of the eyeball.