308 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. its Branches. — Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous branchgs chiefly muscles. One long branch, median, accompanies the median iar. nerve, supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or Median: extends beneath the annular ligament to the hand. About the middle of the forearm two nutrient vessels of the bones arise from the artery. Where it is about to turn backTvards, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus, and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median to the bones. Anterior leous' (p. 306.), and accompanies the artery of the same name to Sin the pronator quadratus muscle, on the under surface of prond’ which it ends. Some lateral branches are distributed by it tor. to the deep flexor muscles. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissec- tion. cuta- neous nerves. Define the pal- cia. Dissection. — Without any change in the position of the seek the hancb the skin is to be reflected from the palm by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre of the hand from the wrist to the fingers ; and the other is to be made from side to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be recognised at the inner margin of the hand, near the wrist. In the fat the ramifications of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be found. The student should remove the fat from the small muscle, mar fas- and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand, and should be careful not to destroy a thin transverse band of tissue (transverse ligament), that passes across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise the digital vessels and nerves, and must be especially careful of two : — viz. those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and the fingers by an incision along each, so that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. and ex- pose digital sheaths.