629 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. 8 s 3 cavity, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabeculm Ir> the x # cords contain elastic fibres and involuntary muscular fibres.— some ^ . muscu- Miiller. The cellular structure of the penis may be demon- !«■ strated by sections of that body after it has been distended with air and dried. Bloodvessels. — The bloodvessels of the penis are large vessels L 0 are erec- in size, and serve to nourish as well as minister to the func- tilej tion of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the interstices of the trabecular structure, and end in the venous plexuses. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the Source r .of the pudic, both at the root and along the body of the penis, arteries.; Entering the cavernous structure, they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabeculae, becoming finer and finer, until they cease in one of the two following ways: — The termi- •' ° . J nation greater number of the vessels terminate in capillaries, as in jo capii- other parts; but Valentin states that some of the smallest arterial branches open by large orifices into the veins in the jjdilat‘ intertrabecular spaces, without the intervention of capil- veins» laries. Others of the terminal twigs end in tufts of short, slightly curled vessels — the helicine arteries of Muller, or,in_the which project into the intertrabecular spaces, and are im- arteries, bedded in the coat of the thin veins : these twisted vascular bodies have dilated csecal parts ; they then become finer and end in the venous spaces (Kolliker). The helicine ar- teries exist in greatest number at the posterior part of each corpus cavernosum. The veins fill the interspaces of the areolar structure, and Veins are di- anastomose freely together to form venous plexuses. In lated J ° . 1 and form these spaces the walls of the veins are very thin, because plexuses, they receive support from the surrounding fibrous structure. Into the large radicles of the veins the capillaries pour their contents; and the erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of those receptacles. By means of the apertures in the septum, the veins of opposite sides communicate freely. Most of the veins of the corpus cavernosum issue along Ending the upper and under aspects of the penis, to end in the veins, dorsal vein; but some escape near the roots of the body, and join the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus.