569 THE DIAPHRAGM. The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most part by the peritoneum: in contact with it, on the right side, are the liver and the kidney; and on the left side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney: in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura and the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 396.). At the circumference of the muscle, the fleshy processes of origin alternate with like parts of the transversalis muscle: a slight interval separates the slips to the xiphoid cartilage and the seventh rib ; and a second interval sometimes exists between the fibres from the last rib, and those from the arch over the quadratus lumborum muscle. In the diaphragm are certain apertures for the transmission of parts from the thorax to the abdomen, viz. one for the oesophagus, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column: moreover, the pillars are perforated by the splanchnic nerves. The muscle is curved across the intercostal space, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen; and the arch reaches higher on the right than the left side (p. 342.). The height of the arch is constantly varying with the change in the condition of the diaphragm in respiration, being carried upwards or downwards from the average level. In forced expiration the muscle ascends and reaches the upper border of the fourth rib on the right, and the fifth rib on the left side. In forced inspiration it descends, and its slope would be represented by a line drawn from the en si form cartilage towards the tenth rib. The following parts, that have been mentioned incidentally in describing the diaphragm, are now to be noticed more fully; they are the central tendon, the pillars, the arches, and the apertures. The central tendon (tendo diaphragmatis, cordiform ten- don), occupying the middle of the diaphragm, is surrounded by muscular fibres, and the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different planes and in different directions. In form it re- sembles a trefoil leaf; of its three segments the right one is the largest, whilst the left is the smallest. Paris in contact with the under surface, and with the upper. Attach- ment of border. Aper- „ turesin the muscle. Arch. Height in forced expira- tion and inspira- tion. Special parts to be ex- amined. Central tendon. like a trefoil leaf.