220 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. One is hori- zontal. Its roof; floor, and bodies along it. Inner bound- ary. Aper- ture be- tween. The descend- ing part; roof; floor, and bo- dies on it. Septum lucidum; position, form, surfaces, borders, The upper or horizontal part reaches from the anterior into the posterior lobe, and is shaped something like the Italic letter f Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum. Its floor is irregular in outline, and presents, from before backwards, the following parts : — first, a small piece of the under part of the corpus callosum; next, a large gray, pear- shaped body, the corpus striatum; behind this, another large white projection, named optic thalamus; and between these two last bodies is a white line, taenia semicircularis. On the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold of the pia mater, known as the plexus choroides, together with the thin white edge of the fornix. Close behind the optic tha- lamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus major), that lies in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated emi- nence, the hippocampus minor. The inner boundary of the ventricle, or the septum ventriculorum, is a thin partition, which has been named septum lucidum; below the anterior part of this partition, opposite the front of the optic thala- mus, is the aperture of communication (foramen of Monro) between the two lateral ventricles. The lower or descending part of the ventricle winds be- neath the optic thalamus, and forms a curve like the half- bent fore finger. Forming the roof, will be the optic thala- mus and the contiguous part of the hemisphere. In the floor is a large curved, convex eminence, somewhat indented at the end, which is called the hippocampus major ; and along its concave margin is a thin white band — tasnia, that is prolonged from the fornix. External to the projection of the hippocampus is another white eminence, the pes acces- sorius, or eminentia collaterals. In this part of the ven- tricle is the vascular fringe of the plexus choroides: it enters by a fissure internal to the hippocampus. The septum lucidum, or the thin partition between the ventricles, is a translucent part of the cerebral mass, which hangs vertically in the middle line between the corpus cal- losum and the fornix. It is somewhat triangular in form, with the larger part turned forwards, and the narrow or pointed extremity directed backwards. Its surfaces look to the lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altogether to the under aspect of the corpus callosum ; and