ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSUS. 759 tween the rough lateral surfaces of the outer four bones, and seous may be afterwards seen by tearing these asunder. Irfents. Lateral union. — The outer four bones touch one another Lateral union. laterally, and the second lies against the internal cuneiform. At those spots they are covered with cartilage, and provided with synovial membrane, which is derived from the sacs Synovial serving for the articulation of those metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, Aiticu- ° . lation of is not united to the others by any intervening bands : it has great its own joint with the internal cuneiform bone. The digital ends of all the metatarsal bones are further Anterior united by the transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been ilfent. described in page 735. Articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Articu- — The last row of the tarsus articulates with the metatarsus the°tar.f in the following manner ; the three cuneiform with the inner metatar- three metatarsal, and the cuboid with the outer two meta- bUs‘ tarsal bones. The bones are tipped with cartilage where they *are in contact, and have, moreover, longitudinal or oblique dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments. a. The dorsal ligaments are thin bands of fibres, which Dorsal are either longitudinal or oblique, as they extend from the ments. tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone has one, except that of the second toe, to which there are three : — the first has its band from the inner cuneiform bone ; the second its bands from all the cuneiform bones, one from each ; the third has a ligament from the external cuneiform ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the os cuboides. b. Longitudinal plantar ligaments; — there is one from piantar each cuneiform to its corresponding metatarsal bone, but guulnn'ai between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only Sque. some scattered fibres. Oblique plantar ligaments between the bones are also present in the sole of the foot: for instance, a superficial fasciculus of fibres extends from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones ; and from the external cuneiform there is a superficial band to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. c. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal; they lie deeply Longi- between the bones, and are connected with the second and Jnteni 3 c 4