DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 732 inser- The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is deeper in tendon the sole of the foot than that of the flexor lon«rus digitorum, of flexor ..... . , , _. ° . . poiiicis. to which it is united by a strong tendinous process : it is then directed to the root of the great toe, enters the digital sheath, and is inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus ; and in the foot, in a groove below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the os calcis. Dissect Dissection. — For the dissection of the third layer of layer of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor Iuu dLS' are to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes ; whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with, and two small nerves to the external two lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third Third layer of muscles.—Only the short muscles of the muscles, great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal bone of the great toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and ex- ternal to it is the adductor pollicis ; on the metatarsal bone Position, of the little toe is the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. Flexor The flexor brevis pollicis muscle is tendinous and brr\ i> . poUicis pointed at the posterior part, but bifurcated in front. It is cated attached posteriorly to the inner border of the cuboid bone, before r • / and joins and to a prolongation from the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscles, to the outer two cuneiform bones. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the meta- tarsal phalanx. Resting on the muscle, and in the interval between the heads, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Adduc- The adductor pollicis, which is larger than the pre- lids ceding muscle, and external to it, arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the