438 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Two ganglia. Their usual situa- tion. Excep- tions in neck. Sacral and coc- cygeal. Arteries of cord are Anterior spinal, a single artery, and is conti- nued by anasto- motic branch- es. Termi- nation. Poste- rior arteries are two ; lie on sides of cord j are con- tinued along cord like an- terior. Veins. Termi- nation at top of cord. Situa- the root; so that it might be said to possess two small gan- glia, one for each bundle of fibrils, which are joined together at their outer ends. The ganglia are situate commonly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the regular position of those apertures is wanting, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal canal, they have the following position: — In the first two nerves they lie on the arches of the first and second vertebras. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Vessels of the Spinal Cord. — The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It commences at the medulla oblongata by the union of two small branches of the vertebral artery (p. 189.) ; and it is continued to the lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the back and loins. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, and are then distributed to the substance of the cord, some entering the median fissures. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. The posterior spinal aneries, one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some offsets enter the fissure of the cord. These vessels begin supe- riorly by offsets from the vertebral artery, and their continuity is maintained by a series of anastomotic branches, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves, and are furnished from the same source as the twigs that reinforce the anterior spinal artery. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous, and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals, larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches; these terminate in the inferior cerebellar, or in the petrosal sinuses, after communicating with the vertebral veins. The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical