DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. 456 Dissec- tion. Parts between trian- gular liga- ment. Muscles of ure- thra. / Deep trans- verse. Origin. Termi- nation. Con- strictor of ure- thral passage has two parts. muscles,- vessels and glands, and the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis, as the subsequent dissection will show. Dissection. — The muscles connected with the urethra between the layers of the ligament will be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dis- section, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the undermentioned position: — Parts between the layers of the ligament. — Near the base of the ligament is a narrow transverse muscle, which is directed to the bulb of the urethra. Coming inwards to the urethra, from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the compressor urethras muscle, which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone (pubic arch) are the pudic vessels and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb ; and below the pubes is the subpubic liga- ment. Deeper than all, the student will be able to recog- nise the posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the pelvic fascia which separates these parts from the cavity of the pelvis. Muscles. — The muscles between the layers of the tri- angular ligament, which are connected with the membranous part of the urethra, are two in number, viz. a deep trans- verse muscle, and a constrictor of the urethral passage. The deep transverse muscle of the perinaeum (elevator urethrae, Santorini) is a thin flat band, on a level with the base of the triangular ligament. It arises externally from the pubic arch of the innominate bone, and is directed in- wards below the tip of the bulb and the membranous part of the urethra ; it joins (sometimes by a tendon) the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central point of the perinaeum. This muscle conceals Cowper’s gland near the bulb, and is frequently placed over the artery of the bulb. The constrictor muscle of the urethra (constrictor isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of that tube, from the bulb to the prostate gland. It consists of trans- verse fibres, both above and below the urethra, which are connected on each side to the subpubic arch. Internal to