DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 616 below, where there is a gan. glion. Offsets of the ganglia to the spinal nerves; to the hypogas trie plexus and the viscera. Plexuses of the sympa- thetic : situa- tion ; how formed. Offsets to the viscera of the male, viz.— to the rectum to the bladder coccyx by means of a loop, on which is situate a single median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five. From the ganglia branches of communication pass to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray and white, and are very short; but, like those of the lum- bar ganglia, they may enter two sacral nerves instead of one. The gray connecting cord unites the ganglion and the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the gan- glion to the plexuses for the viscera.* The internal branches are smaller than those of other parts of the cord, and communicate in front of the sacrum, and around the middle sacral artery, with branches from the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some fila- ments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches and the ganglion impar, in front of the coccyx, offsets descend over that bone. The visceral or pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogas- tric) are two in number, a right and a left, and are con- tinuous with the lateral prolongations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 518.). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and the rectum, or the side of the vagina in the female, and is united with offsets from the third and fourth sacral nerves, to constitute the above-named plexus. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. From each plexus offsets are furnished to the viscera of the pelvis, and to the genital organs, along the branches of the internal iliac artery. These different secondary plexuses have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed ; but as they may not be seen in the dissection, a mere enu- meration of them will be sufficient. The inferior hcemorrhoidal plexus is an offset to the rectum from 5 the back of the plexus, and joins the sympathetic on the superior haemorrhoidal artery. The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred 5 or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side, and the lower * See a Paper on the “ Nerves of the Uterus,” by Dr. T. S. Beck, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846.