592 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Borders and surfaces. Two muscles form a fleshy dia- phragm. Anterior fibres named levator pros- tatae. Dissec- tion for the recto- vesical fascia. Recto- vesical fascia arises from pelvic fascia. and is reflected on to the viscera, support- ing them. middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx, as before described in the dissection of the perinseum (p. 447.). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the fascia that closes the pelvic cavity below the pubes, and the posterior are parallel to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surface is con- tiguous to the recto-vesical fascia, and the viscera of the pelvis ; and the under surface looks to the perineum (ischio- rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest: this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. In front there is an interval between the anterior fibres, which allows the urethra, together with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The anterior part of the muscle that descends by the side of the prostate, and unites with its fellow below the mem- branous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, has been named levator seu compressor prostatce. Dissection. — The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by de- taching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani at their origin, and the coccygeus muscle from the ischial spine, and throw- ing both downwards. Below the spot at which the fascia reaches the side of the prostate gland and the rectum, it gives sheaths to those viscera ; and to demonstrate these sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia. The recto-vesical fascia is derived from the pelvic fascia, and supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis. Arising, as before said, on a level with the band that ex- tends from the pubes to the ischial spine, the fascia is directed inwards on the levator ani, and has the following disposition on the viscera : — In the middle line in front it is continued from the back of the pubes to the apex and the upper surface of the prostate ; here it closes the pelvis be- fore the levatores ani, and forms on each side of the middle line a roundish band, the anterior ligament of the bladder. More to the side, the fascia is attached to the lateral part of the prostate and to the side of the bladder, giving rise to the