DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 432 Fibrous bands are con- nected with it. And ends inte- riorly in a fibrous piece. which is called central liga- ment. The den- tate liga- ment, which is fixed on one side to cord, and on other to dura mater by points. Number and at- tach- ment of these. Vessels and nerves of dura mater, rough. Along its front is a central, anterior fibrous band (linea splendens, Haller); and on each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scat- tered through the fibrous membrane are branched yellow or brown pigment cells, which in the neck are so numerous as to give it a darkish appearance. Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz. about the lower part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the investing tube of the pia mater is suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of a round fibrous cord. This cord-like part reaches towards the end of the spinal canal: it is unprovided with nervous substance, except for a short distance, and is blended with a central impervious prolongation of the dura mater, on a level with the upper part of the sacrum. It serves to fix the lower end of the medulla, and has been named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery accompany this fibrous piece, and thus mark it out from the surrounding nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum is the white fibrous band on each side of the spinal cord, that is so named from its serrated appearance: it has the same structure as the dura mater, ex- cept that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections, which are fixed at intervals along the dura mater, each being about midway between the apertures of transmission of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty-one of these denticulations, of which the first is attached to the dura mater opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the last is inserted opposite the last dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a ligament from that circumstance. Vessels and nerves of the membranes. — The dura mater of the cord has but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for its office is different; nerves have not yet been traced into it, though they have been found on the vessels that supply the cord and its membranes.