DISSECTION OF THE LEO. 744 anterior tibial and dor. sal ar- tery. Divide exten- sor lon- gus. Exten- sor bre- vis sends tendons to four inner toes; insertion of these. Cut through extensor brevis. Follow up the nerves. Nerves of the front of the leg. Recur' rent. wanting, in which case the place of its diminished or deficient part will be supplied by the posterior tibial or the peroneal artery. Position. — On the dorsum of the foot it is often removed farther outwards than the direction of a line from the centre of the ankle to the posterior part of the first interosseous space. Substitution. — The place of the dorsal artery of the foot may be taken by a large anterior peroneal artery. Dissection. — To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The attachment of the muscle to the os calcis should be defined. The extensor brevis digitortoi is a short thin muscle on the dorsum of the foot. It arises from the outer surface of the os calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the anterior annular ligament (the lower band) ; the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner toes. The tendon to the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the metatarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the tendons of the long extensor, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 741.). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the tendons of the long extensor. Its inner tendon crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. Dissection. — The branches of artery and nerve which are beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by dividing that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. By cutting through the lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor pollicis, and throwing outwards the external half of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment to the os calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are to be followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal; and a small branch from the same nerve is to be traced through the tibialis anticus to the knee joint. Nerves to the front of the leg.—Between the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into the recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is small, and takes the