DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 446 that on right side, seeking vessels and nerves. Situa- tion of the fossa. Form. Dimen- sions. Bound aries. Pudic vessels on the; outer wall. and nerves in the space. First cut in litho- tomy enters this space. cular fibres when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to their trunks (pudic vessels and nerve): some branches of the nerve are to be followed for- wards to their junction with two other nerves, the superficial perinaeal and inferior pudendal. In the posterior angle of the space there is a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve; and sometimes, external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and artery are found turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is a superficial perinaeal artery and nerve (of the pudic); and the last, after communicating with the haemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa in front. The trunks of the pudic vessels and nerve may be laid bare on the outer wall. The ischio-rectal fossa is the space intervening between the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. On a vertical section the interval would appear to be triangular, with its apex above and its base towards the surface. Its width is about one inch at the base, and its depth about two inches ; but it is larger behind than before. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner side of the space is very oblique, and is bounded by the levator ani and coccygeus muscles, and slightly by the sphincter; but the outer side is straight, and corresponds to the obturator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen); and behind by the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the largest gluteal muscle. Position of vessels. — Along the outer wall are the pudic vessels and nerve; these lie in a tube of fascia, being one inch and a half from the margin of the ischial tuberosity, but towards the front of the space they approach near the edge of the pubic arch. Crossing the centre of the space are the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve,—branches of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance, is one superficial perinaeal nerve (of the pudic); and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve. Into this space the surgeon sinks his knife in the first in- cisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy; and as he car- ries the knife from before backwards, he will divide the superficial haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve.