2 DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. Dissec- iton of the up. per mus- cles, of pos- terior muscle. Attra- hens aurem muscle is united with next. Attol- lens aurem muscle. Retra- hens aurem consists of two or three bundles. Dissection. — When the ear has been drawn down by hooks, the position of the two upper muscles will be indi- cated by a slight prominence between it and the head; and the muscular fibres will be laid bare by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than the skin. One of these is to be carried upwards along the cutaneous ridge before mentioned and the side of the head, for about three inches; and the other is to be directed from before back- wards close above the ear, for nearly the same distance, so that the two may join at a right angle in the middle of the last. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from below upwards, and removing a little subjacent tissue, the thin muscular fibres will come into view — the more anterior constituting the attrahens, and the posterior the attollens aurem muscle. On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks, in like manner, the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be drawn down, about an inch behind the ear, from the transverse cut above as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by these cuts has been reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle will be easily found beneath the subcutaneous tissue, for it is stronger though deeper than the others. The attrahens aurem is a small fan-shaped muscle that arises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis. Its fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. This muscle is united with the following at its origin, but a cellular interval exists between them near their insertion. Beneath it are the temporal vessels. The attollens aurem has the same form as the preced- ing, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Aris- ing also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear, — into an eminence corresponding to a fossa (that of the anti-helix) on the opposite aspect. The retrahens aurem (musculi retrahentes, Alb.) con- sists of two or three roundish, but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost transversely forwards to be inserted by aponeurotic