760 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. liga- ments. Line of the ar- ticula- tion across the foot.' Three synovial mem- branes. Separate bones for inter, osseousj liga- ments. third metatarsals : they will be better seen by partly cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the metatarsals. The bone of the second toe has two, one on each side; — the inner being strong and attached to the internal cunei- form, and the outer to the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The bone of the third toe is also provided with two lateral bands: of these the outer is fixed into the external cuneiform, and the inner into the middle cuneiform bone.* Line of the articulation. — The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulations the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines further back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch in front of this last articulation for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. The synovial membranes in the articulation are three in number, as in the hand. There is one between the internal cuneiform and its metatarsal bone. A second is between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and serves for the adjacent^lateral articular surfaces of these bones: this is not always separate from the following. The third is placed in the articulation between the middle and the external cuneiform with their corresponding (second and third) metatarsal bones, and is an offset of the common synovial membrane belonging to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuneiform bones (p. 758.) : prolongations from it are furnished to the lateral articular parts of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Dissection. — All the superficial ligaments having been taken away, the cuneiform bones may be forcibly separated from one another and from the os cuboides ; the latter bone from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsal bones from one another — to see the interosseous ligaments * Three of these ligamentous bands are most commonly present, viz. two to the second toe, and one to the outer side of the third toe : the ligaments inserted into the contiguous surfaces of the middle and ex- ternal cuneiform bones, may be wanting.