466 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. seek To make the necessary dissection on the right side, all vessels , 0 7 and the fascia that is superficial to the vessels is to be raised in nerves in right the same manner as the piece of the skin. The vessels that groin. will then appear are the superficial pudic on the inside, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and there may be an off- set of the superficial circumflex iliac artery on the outside. Some inguinal glands are seen along the line of the reflected fascia. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought; one, the ilio-inguinal, comes out through the abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh; the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdo- minal ring. separate In the dissection of the fascia, on the left side, two strata super- ficial or layers are to be made out, one above and one beneath the fascia J into vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be layers ^ A in left raised by means of one transverse cut, not much above groin. Poupart’s ligament, from the front of the iliac crest to the middle line, and another along the middle line to the pubes: the position of the subjacent vessels marks the depth of this layer; and when these are reached, a flap of the fascia like that of the skin, is to be thrown down towards the thigh. To define the thinner under stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and then detach it with the vessels on it from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum; and as the student follows it down- wards, he will find it connected with Poupart’s ligament, and inseparably joined with the fascia lata close below that structure. super- The superficial fascia is a single layer over the greater fascia part of the abdomen, and lies between the skin and the spe- is di- cial fascia investing the muscles; but in the groin it is into two divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper layer by the vessels and the glands. The sub- The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and therefore cuta- * % 7 iay0erS varies appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it contains js sometimes divisible into several strata, whilst at others it fat, is very thin and somewhat membranous near the thigh. This layer is continuous with the cutaneous fatty covering ,