DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 500 Is oval. Above is the dia- phragm; below levator ani. In front and on sides, bones and mus- cles. Behind is spine. Depth is altered by action of dia- phragm and leva- tor ani. Width ' by mus- cles in wall of abdo- men. How excreta expelled. Division of space. Pelvic portion. Abdo- men proper. Abdo- men pro- per here de- scribed. Pelvis after. downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much wider superiorly than inferiorly. Boundaries.— Above it is limited by the diaphragm ; and below by the levatores ani, and the structures that close the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are in part fleshy, and concave towards the contents of the cavity, so that the viscera will be acted on by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular : thus towards the upper and lower limits is the bony framework of the body, viz. the ribs in one direc- tion and the pelvis in the other ; but in the centre are the muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is the spinal column with the muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size.— The dimensions of the cavity are in- fluenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. The depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contraction and ascent of the levatores ani; and is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. The width is lessened by the contraction of the abdominal muscles; and is enlarged during their re- laxation by the action of the diaphragm and the levatores ani driving outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Divisions of the space.— An arbitrary division has been • made of the space into that of the pelvis and that of the abdomen proper. The pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys—the secretory organs of the urine. A serous membrane, the peritoneum, lines the cavity, and covers the viscera. The following description concerns the part of the cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the cavity of the pelvis will receive a separate notice.