Childrens Dinner Table. 307 paying one penny for every dinner afforded. The ticket must be left at the room before 9 o’clock on the morning of the day on which its recipient will dine, so that the number may be provided for. The dinners will commence in October and continue till July. “ Tickets will be sure of beneficial distribution if forwarded to any of the neighbouring hospitals or local dispensaries, to the clergy, or the district visitors. “A list of these, and full information on all points connected with the establishment of this ‘ Children’s Dinner Table,’ may be obtained by those willing to co-operate, on application to Mrs. Eyre, 20, Upper Wimpole Street; or Mrs. Henry Thompson, Treasurer, 35, Wimpole Street; or Mrs. H. G. Wright, Secretary, 23, Somerset Street, Portman Square. Subscriptions may be paid to the Bankers, Sir S. Scott & Co., 1, Cavendish Square. Tickets may be had at Thomas & Co.’s Stationery Warehouse, 21, Great Marylebone Street. “August, 1866.” The scheme was well supported by friends and neigh- bours, and came into operation early in October. Her first report thereon (also now before me), dated November of that year, and therefore when the plan had been tried only six weeks, shows that the dinners had been provided “ every Wednesday and Saturday at 12 o’clock. The room accommodates 60 children.” It goes on to say that “a dinner can be sent to a child too ill to attend, if the messenger applies at the room before nine in the morning,” etc.—a further valuable development of the original plan. This was the first public children’s free dinner-table provided in this country. Victor Hugo was delighted with this endeavour to realize his idea in London, and wrote to the pioneer of his views here earnestly and encouragingly to persevere in her work. From that time to the present day, this institution has been continued on the same system, and has been very popular and well supported, so that its funds and operations have been largely increased. A kitchen open daily for good and cheap soup has been associated with it. For many