n m fef- U W ARGUMENT FAVOUR OF REQUIRING EVERT CANDIDATE FOR A DEGREE IN MEDICINE TO ATTEND A COURSE OF CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ADDRESSED TO THE PRINCIPAL AND PROFESSORS > OF THE BY JAMES RUSSELL, PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY. EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY J. & C. MUIRHEAD. 1824.Wednesday, 17th November, 4, p. m. Dear Sir, I send such part of your MS. as I have been able to recover. I exceedingly regret that it will cost you a good deal of trouble to connect and complete it for the Printer again. Had it not been for the dismal calamity you would have received a complete proof sheet yesterday forenoon. Dear Sir, With much esteem, your's, PAT. NEILL. To Professor Russell. Thursday, 18tk November, 6, p. m. Sir, We are sorry that it will not be in our power to furnish you with copies of the Appendix till to-morrow. We are, Sir, Your's, &c. J. & C. MUIRHEAD. To Professor Russell.ARGUMENT, &c. Every one conversant with the actual state of Medical Practice knows the impossibility of sepa- rating the practice of a Physician from that of a Surgeon, with any great degree of exactness; so that no one can reasonably entertain hopes of becoming a successful practitioner, who confines his studies ex- clusively to one department of the profession. A Physician, therefore, requires to possess a competent knowledge of Surgery to enable him to treat a nu- merous class of cases in a judicious manner. If he is deficient in this branch of knowledge, he will be often embarrassed with cases which should not have occasioned him any particular difficulty to under- stand; and may, when too late, have reason to regret his improvidence, in not having laid a more exten- sive foundation of knowledge during the progress of his education. I have witnessed several instances of this kind of embarrassment in the course of my own experience, and I have heard of and have read of many more. I have, therefore, no hesitation in pronouncing a competent knowledge of Surgery to be an indispensible requisite in forming the cha- racter of an accomplished Physician. In this opi- nion I am supported by the concurring testimony of every Physician of experience, and judgment4 with whom I have conversed upon the subject.* There is one fact, indeed, which alone is, in my opinion, so conclusive, as completely to decide the question. I refer to an existing regulation of the Army Me- dical Board, which interdicts any person from being promoted to the situation of Physician to the Forces unless he had for some years served in the capacity of a Regimental Surgeon. This regulation was en- acted, in consequence of the extreme inconvenience which had been experienced from appointing Gen- tlemen ignorant of Surgery to be Physicians to the Forces. Supported by such authority, I am well war- ranted to recommend the study of Surgery to the attention of all those who aspire to become distin- guished members of the Medical Profession. Upon this point, as I have considered it often and tho- roughly, I deliver my opinion with confidence. I farther know the advantage which results to a Stu- dent from commencing the study of Surgery at an early period of his education, from the circumstance of the symptoms of Surgical cases being obvious to the senses, simple, and easily understood. Upon these ac- counts, they can be followed through their whole pro- gress with certainty and ease. The idea which the Student forms of their character is distinct and for- cible, and consequently long and clearly remembered. He, therefore, has a certain prospect of making rapid and sure progress in his studies, when he begins his Medical education with the study of Surgery. A Student, by thus studying the appearance of disease in local external affections, is acquiring an accurate knowledge of the fundamental principles of * See Appepdix.diseased action, which may be easily transferred to explain the nature of similar morbid affections of the internal parts. Many internal and external dis- eases are perfectly alike in character. Inflammation, abscesses, swelled glands, and various other cases of daily occurrence in practice, afford instances of this identity. The benefit, therefore, which a young man derives from following this progress in the study of diseases, is incalculably great. The superiority of Clinical Lectures, as an advan- tageous method of conveying practical instruction, is most conspicuous in Surgery, on account of the ob- vious nature of the symptoms. A Student, who is diligent in his attendance upon a ward of Surgical patients, vigilant in watching the progress of the cases, attentive to the Lectures of the Professor, and careful to compare what he hears with what he observes, is certain to derive much real practical im- provement from employing his time in this manner. This profitable employment of time is, besides, at- tended with the farther advantage of affording the nearest approximation to actual practice which a Student can enjoy: For having the nature of the case and principles of the practice explained to him, the different reports and prescriptions communicated to him, and their effect upon the patient open to his observation, he has strong inducements to exert his own faculties in judging of the result. And as all his improvement is connected with his own per- sonal exertions, with his activity, industry, and ac- curacy of observation, he is daily acquiring habits of infinite value in preparing him to enter upon prac- tice with great advantage: for nothing is more im-* portant in the education of a young man, who is destined for a practical profession, than, early in life,6 when his mind is flexible, to initiate him in those habits of observation, activity, and exertion, which are indispensible to his success, and which are so difficult to acquire at a more advanced age. Prac- tical habits, too, together with immediate personal intercourse with £he sick, proveth the best corrective to that unfortunate tendency to speculation, in which young men are too apt to indulge who obtain all their knowledge of Medicine within the walls of a University. An early introduction to Clinical Sur- gery is, therefore, a most desirable arrangement in regulating the course of a young man's studies; for every one at all acquainted with the subject, will admit, that a ward containing Surgical patients may, with less previous knowledge, be attended advanta- geously, than when the patients are labouring under diseases of a more obscure and complicated nature. Strongly impressed with the importance of pro- moting this mode of studying Surgery, I began to deliver a course of Clinical Lectures, upon the prac- tice of Surgery, at the Royal Infirmary, in the month of November 1786, and I have ever since, now near- ly forty years, continued to deliver one or two courses annually. The success of the experiment, and the growing estimation of the course, mark sufficiently the public opinion of the undertaking. The Royal College of Surgeons took the class under their pro- tection, after I had lectured for fifteen years. About the same time the Senatus Academicus recommended the class to the favour of his Majesty. After the lapse of nearly fifteen years more, the Managers of the Royal Infirmary, with the additional experience of fifteen years to assist their judgment, made Clini- cal Lectures on Surgery an essential part of the sur- gical department. And the Students mark their7 approbation of those measures by honouring me with a very respectable attendances During a twelve- month from this date, including both winter and summer sessions, between 170 and 180 Students have attended Clinical Surgery, much about the number who attended the Medical Clinical Lectures during the same period of time. The class, there- fore, is now in a very flourishing condition. And as its prosperity depends upon the intrinsic merit of the establishment, there is every encouragement to expect that it will continue to prosper so long as the University shall flourish, and Edinburgh be a dis- tinguished School of Medicine. Such being the state of the fact, I naturally ex- pected to receive the patronage and support of the Medical Faculty, to approve of including Clinical Surgery among the number of protected classes; but in these expectations I was completely disap- pointed, as the Members of the Medical Faculty una- nimously disapproved of the proposed arrangement. The arguments adduced by the Members of the Medical Faculty, in opposing my proposal, seem to me inaccurate and fallacious, as I shall now en- deavour to show. In the first place, however, I cannot omit this o^, port-unity of expressing my astonishment at the very slender provision which the Medical Faculty has made for the cultivation of surgical knowledge. The respect paid to Surgery in Foreign Universities is very different. At Paris, a Candidate for a degree in Medicine, has, during an attendance of four years, each year consisting of a winter and a summer ses- sion, to attend four courses of Surgery, besides a finishing course of Clinical Surgery, to render his knowledge of practice as perfect as possible. Now,8 in the Curriculum just circulated, the Medical Fa- culty contents itself with enjoining attendance upon a single course of Surgery, and even that under cir- cumstances exceedingly unfavourable to the improve- ment of the Student, who is advised to attend Sur- gery in conjunction with Anatomy, during his first year at the University, a period when he must be supposed to be wholly unprepared to understand the most plain and elementary Lectures on Surgery. For every one must be aware of the impossibility of a Student deriving useful instruction from a course of Lectures on Surgery, while he is completely ig- norant of Anatomy. This injudicious conjunction, therefore, of Surgery and Anatomy, during the first year of attendance upon the medical classes, forms a radical defect in the constitution of the University, which even the great and acknowledged abilities of the present Learned Professor, Dr. Monro, is not able to overcome.* It is productive of several insu- perable disadvantages. In the first place, the atten- tion of the Student is distracted by being at one time obliged to attend to the details of two compre- hensive complicated subjects, both of which are quite new to him. He will therefore learn neither of them completely. In the second place, he will ac- quire the unfortunate habit of remaining contented with an imperfect confused superficial knowledge of * I have spoken with freedom respecting the imperfections of the mode of teaching Surgery in the University, from my con- fidence in being able to suggest a plan for curing them, without subjecting Dr. Monro to trouble or expense. He has only to give the two tickets for separate years, the ticket for Anatomy for the first year; and that for Surgery for next year. By this slight alteration the public will enjoy the full benefit of Dr. Monro's abilities, which are universally acknowledged.9 important subjects, which he ought to understand thoroughly in all their details;, a habit most unfa- vourable to . the acquisition of useful fundamental knowledge, and which it is almost impossible to cor- rect in after life. As all the above-mentioned imperfections, with regard to the mode of teaching Surgery in the Uni- versity are obvious and undeniable, one should have expected that the Medical Faculty would have exerted their efforts to remedy the evil, by en- forcing attendance upon a course of Clinical Surgery, where a Student enjoys an opportunity to learn the doctrines of pure practical Surgery under the most favourable circumstances. Even some degree of countenance is due to a class which his Majesty has thought proper to endow upon the recommendation of the Senatus Academicus. The Medical Facul- ty, however, was not influenced by any of those con- siderations. But, disregarding an arrangement so reasonable in itself, and so advantageous to the Stu- dents, they have recommended a second attendance upon the Clinical Medicine, to the exclusion of the Clinical Surgery, from the number of pro- tected classes. The arrangement was accompanied with the additional unfairness of placing Clini- cal Surgery on a worse footing than it was before, by occupying the time in attending Clinical Medi- cine, which was before open in the option of the Stu- dent to attend Clinical -Surgery. For a Student, while here, and at the expense of one Infirmary ticket, has no opportunity to attend Clinical Sur- gery, if he comply with the regulation of attend- ing nine months upon Clinical Medicine. This re- gulation, therefore, seems to me to be an act of fla- grant injustice.10 Here I cannot omit noticing a circumstance, which, though it appears trivial, indicates great unwilling- ness to give the smallest countenance to Clinical Surgery. The second edition of the Curriculum re- commends attendance upon a course of Clinical Sur- gery to the attention of the Students. But the third improved edition does not honour Clinical Sur- gery, even with the futility of a recommendation. To return to the analysis and refutation of the several objections. One member of the Medical Faculty opened the business by exclaiming, just as I had mentioned the number of Students of Clinical Surgery for the last year, " that the class was bolstered up by a re- " gulation of the College of Surgeons, which had u doubled, trebled, nay, he would say, had increased " the number of Students fivefold."* I was as- tonished to hear remarks so little to the purpose, and so little respectful to myself and to the Col- lege of Surgeons, come from a member of the Se- natus Academicus: For the remarks did not con- tradict any assertion, nor controvert any argument which I had advanced, nor did they, in the least, bear upon the question then under the considera- tion of the Senatus. While they were evidently calculated to degrade me in the estimation of my colleagues, by representing the prosperity of the class to depend upon extrinsic circumstances, wholly * The remarks about bolstering up a class, place me in a re- lation to the College of Surgeons, which may require an ex- planation from me regarding the manner in which I have con- ducted the course of Clinical Lectures on Surgery, as I do not choose to lie under the imputation of having been unworthy of the patronage with which the College of Surgeons has hon- oured me.11 unconnected with my personal exertions, and to cast a slur upon the Royal College of Surgeons, for having had the meanness to lend their authority to a despicable job in favour of one of their own mem- bers. The remarks were the more extraordinary, from the circumstance of the classes of Clinical Surgery and Clinical Medicine being equally pro- tected. If the Clinical Surgery be protected by a regulation of the College of Surgeons, Clinical Medicine is protected by a regulation of the Sena- tus Academicus. Besides, the Professor should have recollected the double protection which the classes of practical Medicine, Chemistry, Mate- ria Medica, and Institutions of Medicine, derive from the circumstance of their tickets being admit- ted by the Royal College of Surgeons, and likewise by their being indispensible to the candidates for degrees in Medicine who attend this University. The Professor had probably overlooked all those particulars, when he spoke so disrespectfully of bol- stering up a class. A second member of the Medical Faculty next delivered his opinion on the subject, by explaining the nature of the connection which subsisted be- tween the Managers of the Royal Infirmary and the Professor of Clinical Surgery, dwelling particularly upon the peculiarity of my connection, which, he said, was personal and accidental, and not likely to take place during the incumbency of my suc- cessor. The speech was specious and plausible, though the arguments were, in my opinion, unfound- ed and fallacious, by proceeding upon the supposi- tion that tickets for attendance upon clinical sur- gery wTould not be received by the Senatus unless the lectures were delivered by a Professer in the Uni~12 versity. Now, this statement is not correct, as the Senatus had before agreed to receive the tickets of those Lecturers, who were Fellows of the Royal Col- lege of Surgeons. In point of stability, the Medical and Surgical Clinical Lectures are precisely on a footing, both depending on the pleasure of the Managers. And by the last arrangement of the Surgical attendance, the delivery of a course of Clinical Lectures on Surgery is made an integral part of the establishment; so that now there is as great security for the permanence of the institution, and for the regular delivery of Clinical Lectures in the Surgical department as in the Medical. Clin- ical Lectures are necessarily delivered at an hospital. And although a Professor, from idleness, or lazi- ness, or any cause whatever, should not choose to lecture, yet his silence ought not to deprive the Student of the advantage, nor the public of the se- curity, which the instruction derived from Clinical Lectures affords. A third member of the Medical Faculty then took up a very singular train of argument, by ad- verting to the particular manner in which I conduct- ed my course of lectures. The lectures, he admit- ted, in language highly complimentary, were excel- lent general dissertations on surgical subjects, illus- trated by cases, but not, strictly speaking, proper Clinical Lectures, in which the remarks should ema- nate from the cases of the patients, under the imme- diate treatment of the practitioner. Now, without entering into any explanation or defence of the me- thod in which I conduct the lectures, I cannot repress my astonishment at hearing the Professor, when attempting to disprove the utility of Clinical Lec- tures to a physician, advance an argument so little13 apposite to the point at issue. Since, whatever ab- stractly considered, may be the most advantageous method of conducting a course of Clinical Lectures on Surgery, there is not a doubt that the form of general dissertations is the best adapted to the pur- poses of a physician, since his object is to obtain ac- curate comprehensive general views of the subject, without troubling himself with the details of the more minute particulars. According to the Profes- sor's own statement, therefore, the method of con- ducting lectures, which he censures in me, was in reality the best calculated to instruct a physician in all the principles of Surgery, which are applicable to medical cases. The method of conducting Clinical Lectures, which the Learned Professor condemns, refers to an epoch more than twenty years back, when he did me the honour to attend a course of Clinical Surgery. Since then I have endeavoured to improve the style of Lecturing, by keeping in view the model which he describes to be the standard of perfection in a Clinical Lecture; so that the criticism which might possibly be just at the period of his attendance, does not apply to the Lectures which I now deliver. After this, the Professor who spoke first,* avail- * Although I will cheerfully submit to the most rigid scrutiny into my conduct as a Professor ever since I have had the honour to fill a Chair in the University, and shall be ready to give an ample explanation of the principles upon which I have conduct- ed the course of Clinical Lectures on Surgery committed to my care, I very much question the propriety of a Professor, merely from hearsay evidence, commenting upon my manner of pro- ceeding. If such a liberty be tolerated, then we might hear censorious criticisms on all the Lectures in the University, on no better authority than common report. The abuse to which such a licence would lead, is too apparent to require any eluci- dation, though I do not mean to retaliate by making any re- marks upon what I hear of the learned Professor's lectures.14 ing himself of the account which his Learned Col- league had given of the method in which I conduct Clinical Lectures, favoured the Senatus with some additional remarks upon the subject, by contrasting the excellence of the method which he follows, with the imperfections of the one which he ascribed to me. He, it seems, gives regular commentaries on all the cases under his care, at most, twenty-eight in number; while I select from nearly eighty cases, those which promise to afford most instruction to the Students. I shall not enter into an explanation of the particulars, in which Medical and Surgical Cli- nical Lectures differ from each other, since after ha- ving delivered above seventy courses, I may take credit to myself for being a competent judge of the best mode of conducting a course of Clinical Lec- tures on the practice of Surgery. The method which I pursue is the most laborious to myself, but by much the most useful to the Students. For I do not conceive the possibility of conveying much use- ful instruction to Students, by offering a few cursory superficial remarks upon the cases of seventy or eighty patients. A Student could never make him- self master of so great a number of cases, with any tolerable degree of accuracy, while the time allotted for the discussion of them would be much too short to admit of giving a satisfactory account of every case. An objection of a very singular nature, derived from a most unexpected source, was publicly mention- ed. The proposal to admit the Clinical Surgery into the number of protected classes, was represented to be unreasonable, because the College of Surgeons did not insist upon candidates for diplomas attend- ing Clinical Medicine. This declaration, if I rightly15 understand the purport of it, leads to inferences not very creditable to the dignity and independence of the Senatus Academicus. It may imply a willing- ness on their part to countenance Clinical Surgery, provided the College of Surgeons previously counte- nance Clinical Medicine. Agreeably to this con- struction, the Senatus Academicus would act a sub- ordinate part to the College of Surgeons, by sub- mitting to follow their example. Much as I respect the College of Surgeons, I should regret exceedingly to see them receive so high a compliment at the ex- pense of the Senatus Academicus. If the measure be right in itself, the Senatus Academicus should adopt it, on account of its own intrinsic merit, what- ever any other public body may do. If it be wrong, they should on no account do what they disapprove. The declaration may likewise be construed to im- ply a readiness on the part of the Senatus Acade- micus to enter into a negotiation with the College of Surgeons, to concur in enacting regulations to en- force the attendance of the Students upon the Clini- cal Lectures of both departments, on account of some supposed advantage connected with this ar- rangement. I am not aware of any other construc- tion which can be put upon the above very singular declaration. If any one more creditable to the dig- nity of the Senatus should occur to me, I shall be most willing to adopt it. I have now brought the whole business relating to the class of Clinical Surgery under the review of the Senatus Academicus, with a fullness of detail, which will enable every one to form a decided opi- nion upon the merits of the question. I have stated the utility of the knowledge of Surgery to the prac- tical Physician, and pointed out the advantageswhich Clinical Lectures possess in conveying useful instruction in the practice of Surgery. I have like- wise brought forward all the arguments urged against the proposed arrangement, accompanied, I trust, with a satisfactory answer to every one of them. If I have the good fortune to succeed in the at- tempt, I shall feel much gratified in having been the instrument of conferring a benefit upon the profession of medicine. If, on the contrary, I shall be disappointed of my object, I shall still have the consolation to reflect, with much satisfac- tion, on having done my duty to the Chair which I have the honour to hold in the University, to the profession of medicine, and to the public at large. The result of this business is a matter of indifference to me as an individual; since, at my advanced time of life, a few years will soon put an end to my labours as a public teacher. I already divide the duties of my office with another practi- tioner, who shares in the emoluments. The effect of an arrangement, the operation of which does not com- mence for several years, cannot affect one who is gradually retiring from the scenes of active life. Neither my reputation, nor my fortune, nor my rank in society, can be influenced by the vote which the Senatus Academicus gives on this occa- sion. There are no motives of self-interest prompt- ing me to exert my endeavours to promote the proposed arrangement; and I most sincerely hope, that every one who is to vote on this occasion, will divest himself from all feelings of prejudice and prepossession as completely as I am at this moment. My sole wish is, that the measure most advanta- geous to the public may ultimately be adopted.