CARCINOMA. 653 ment, only partially destroying the disease, tends to excite fresh growth, and conduces rather to rapid increase than to cure. Both the facial epithelioma and the rodent ulcer should, whenever it is possible, be very freely removed with the knife, and in the operation every consideration should be banished save the one great consideration of completely removing the disease. If this necessity were borne in mind in the early treatment, especially of rodent ulcer, and the incisions were carried wide of the disease, even to the sacrificing of im- portant and ornamental structures, the success attending the operation would be proportionately increased. Unfortunately, the reluctance of the patient and of the surgeon to sacrifice enough at the first onset, leads generally to insufficient treatment. The disease recurs immediately, and the recurrence is worse than the original ulcer. It is essential to remember that these diseases are strictly local, and that local measures, promptly and widely enough applied, are at once necessary and sufficient for their cure. Carcinoma of the Larynx.—To compare with the sarcomas of the larynx, and also for the general interest they possess, the carcinomas of the larynx may be considered in a few words. Squamous-celled carcinoma is by far the most frequent of them, but glandular-celled carcinoma is not very unusual, and one case at least has been recorded of a colunmar-celled carcinoma. The disease may originate in the outer or the inner structures of the larynx: in the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds, or the margin of the interarytenoid fold; in the vocal cords, the ventricles, the ventricular bands, or the subglottic region. To the tumors which arise in the first-named situations, the term extrinsic has been applied ; to those which ai'ise within the larynx, the term intrinsic. The distinction is worthy to be borne in mind, on account both of certain differences of symptoms which belong to the two sets of tumors, and of certain important differences in their course. Carcinoma of the larynx is very rare before the age of thirty-five, may occur at any period after, but appears to be most common between fifty and sixty years. It attacks men far more often than women, perhaps four times as frequently. Whatever be the character of the carcinoma, it slowly extends and early ulcerates. Only rarely is a large tumor produced, for the disease, being generally epithelio- matous, exhibits the prevailing features of epithelioma, and is characterized rather by ragged ulceration with an indurated base and edges, than by the formation of a large mass. Like carcinoma of other parts, the disease shows the same disposition to infiltrate, to attack all structures, almost, without choice, and to destroy. The mucous and submucous tissues, the muscles, the essential tissues of the cords and the frame-work of the larynx, all yield to the invading growth.1 It is most interesting, though painful, to watch the steady progress of a small excrescence or ulcer at first limited to a single cord: how it fixes the cord, then spreads to the ventricle or around to the healthy fellow cord, attacks the deeper structures of the larynx, narrows or fills up the glottis, and at length destroys the form of all the natural struc- tures. It is not needful or desirable in this place to detail the symptoms of the malady: as might be expected, the intrinsic carcinomas produce the earliest and most serious obstacles to respiration ; the extrinsic carcinomas are often first noticed on account of pain and difficulty in deglutition, especially when they are seated in the immediate vicinity of the pharynx, about the aryte- noids or the ary-epiglottic folds. The diagnosis depends upon the presence and extension of ulceration, the greater destruction produced by this disease than even by syphilis or tubercle, the absence of history and of other signs of The cartilages, however, resist for a long time the progress of the infiltration.