EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 475 Excision of the Elbow-Joint.—The elbow-joint may require excision on account of chronic disease involving the articulation (especially in cases of strumous synovitis, or, as I have preferred to call it, gelatinous arthritis), com- pound fracture or dislocation, or bony anchylosis. Even in cases of bony anchylosis with the limb in a good position, the operation may be properly resorted to in favorable cases, since the movable joint afforded by a successful excision is more useful than a stiff one. The lower extremity of the humerus appears, as already mentioned, to have been resected by Wainman, of Shripton, England, in 1759, in a case of compound dislocation of the elbow; the operation was entirely successful, the patient surviving many years, and being able to “ perform all the motions of the joint,” which was “as flexible as if nothing had ever been amiss.” This operation was repeated by Tyre, of Gloucester, likewise in a case of compound luxation, and with equal success, some twenty-five or thirty years afterwards; and about the same time, or a little earlier, Justamond success- fully removed the olecranon and upper part of the ulna, in a case of caries.1 But the first complete excision of the elbow-joint was performed by the elder Moreau, in 1794. The case was one of chronic joint-disease, and the patient recovered with a useful limb in the course of seven months. The first surgeon to introduce elbow-joint excision into military practice was the celebrated Percy, and the first case in American military surgery was that of Dr. Otis Hoyt, during the Mexican War, in 1847. The first American ope- ration in civil practice was performed by Dr. John C. Warren, of Boston, in 1834. Fig. 700. Various incisions have been recommended for excision of the elbow, many surgeons, including Mr. Butcher, of Dublin, and the late Prof. Syme, of Edin- burgh, preferring an H-shaped wound, as shown in Fig. 700, while others 1 In my “ Principles and Practice of Surgery” (third edit. p. 627), I have, following Dr. Hodges, given the date of Justamond’s case as 1775 ; hut in Park’s second letter, dated Novem- ber 5, 1789, he speaks of this operation as having been performed since the publication of his first letter, which was in 1783.