GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. 55 muslin along the sides of the limb, one over each layer of bandage, to act as side-splints. During the application the limb should be kept in proper posi- tion by assistants grasping it above and below. Generally in about ten minutes the silicate becomes so firm that the limb may be safely laid on a pillow. Plaster of Paris may be employed in the same way, the dry plaster being sifted into a basin of hot (or cold) water, and applied with the bands of an assistant as the surgeon puts on the bandage. The latter should be loose- meshed (what is sold in the shops as cheese or dairy muslin answers very well). The mixture is ready for use as soon as it begins to assume the con- sistence of thin cream ; it takes rather longer to set than the silicate does. Whichever material is used, a narrow space may be left along the, back (under surface) of the limb, along which in a few days the bandage may be split up with a pair of strong scissors, for the purpose of examination; and thereafter we have a moulded splint, which may he simply reapplied and kept in place by a fresh roller of bandage-muslin. Another way of applying plaster of Paris is by means of loose-meshed ban- dages, filled with dry plaster, loosely rolled, and dipped into water just before they are used. In hospitals, or where these are extensively employed, it is worth while to have an apparatus1 for imbuing the bandages with the plaster; and they should be kept in close tin boxes, or wrapped in waxed paper. To divide a plaster bandage put on in this way, the saw or pliers must be used.2 Still another method is known, in its best form, as the Bavarian. It con- sists in cutting two pieces of stuff (shrunk flannel is the best) a little more than wide enough to encircle the limb. Two rows of stitches, about an inch apart, are now carried along on either side of the middle line, so as to fasten the pieces together. The cloth now being laid under the limb, the two upper flaps are brought together above and stitched, thus encasing the limb. Next the other flaps are evenly spread with the mixed plaster, of about the con- sistency of thick cream ; and these being brought up into place are also sewed together, and the spare stuff is cut off. The limb is thus encased within two double layers of flannel, which, by the setting of the plaster between them, will form a very firm support on each side. A roller over all will serve to reinforce the stitching, and keep the whole in place. A somewhat similar arrangement has been proposed3 by Mr. Jordan under the name of “laminated plaster splints.” lie uses six or seven layers of muslin, with plaster of Paris spread evenly between them with a spatula; they are then dipped in water and applied. A flannel bandage, or layer of cotton wadding, is put next the skin. Some surgeons advocate the insertion of strips of tin between the layers of the plaster bandage, in order to give it strength ; and in the case of very large and heavy limbs this might he desirable, as it would largely increase the firmness of the apparatus without adding materially to its weight. Ordin- arily, however, it would be needless. Paper splints, the material being saturated with starch, and applied in layers until the requisite thickness is obtained to give firm support when dry, were first suggested by Laugier.4 The idea has since been repeatedly brought forward anew by others. When the fracture is compound, the wound must of course be left uncovered for the purpose of applying suitable dressings. This may be done either by cutting the bandage as it is put on, when the proper point is reached, and beginning afresh at the other side of the gap; or by cutting a hole in the apparatus after it is finished. The former is the preferable plan; the plaster 1 See Vol. I. p. 498. 3 British Medical Journal, July 15, 1882. 3 Ibid., p. 499. 4 L’Experience, 1 Aout, 1844.