140 INJURIES OF BONES. wound in front of the arm, and the artery was torn completely across, render- ing amputation necessary. Sometimes, hut more rarely than might perhaps be supposed, the circulation is interfered with by ill-applied apparatus, as in a case recorded by Wright,1 in which by the pressure of an anterior angular splint, in a case of separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus, the artery was occluded for twenty- two days ; no permanent harm, however, resulted. Occasionally, serious damage is done to nerves in connection with the fractures in question. The close relation of the ulnar nerve to the bone would seem to involve it in constant danger; yet the usual character of the displacement, the lower end of the upper fragment going forward, is ob- viously such as to diminish the risk. Callender2 gives a number of cases in which this or the median nerve suffered, and suggests that they may become adherent, and be stretched by sudden movements. Lange3 has re- corded the case of a girl, aged eight, who, after a supra-condyloid frac- ture of the humerus, had pain at the seat of injury, the wrist and fingers being flexed, with a very limited degree of motion. A sharp edge of bone could be felt. Electricity, massage, and systematic movements were tried for six weeks, at first with some apparent success. An operation was per- formed, and the median nerve found flattened against the edge of bone; above this point it was thickened and swollen. The nerve was loosened, and the edge of bone excised, with decided relief to the symptoms. “ There was one interesting point, namely, that since the operation an entirely different and more normal form of nail was growing, and there were ridges on all of the nails alike, marking the parts before the operation from those afterward. The color and temperature of the skiu had also markedly improved.” Another danger in these cases is from the abnormal or excessive development of callus, which however happens more rarely here than in some other regions. In the Museum of the ISTew York Hospital4 is a specimen of T-fracture at the lower end of the humerus, in which the ulna and radius are anchylosed to each other and to the external condyle by bone effused between their con- tiguous surfaces. A case is recorded5 in which Mr. Croly excised the elbow- joint of a man about thirty years of age, who had about fifteen months pre- viously sustained a fracture of the joint. A large amount of callus prevented flexion of the joint or use of the fingers. The olecranon, the head of the radius, and the end of the humerus were removed; the coronoid process was left in order to keep the bracliialis anticus muscle intact. The ultimate result is not stated. Malgaigne refers to a case, seen by Monteggia, in which tetanus ensued upon a simple fracture near the lower end of the humerus, and proved fatal, although amputation was performed. As to the diagnosis of these fractures, it presents in some cases little or no difficulty, while in others it is more or less obscure, and occasionally ex- tremely so. Much depends upon the time which has elapsed between the receipt of the injury and the examination, since often a very few hours suffice for the occurrence of such swelling as to completely mask the parts. Under such circumstances the patient should be placed under the influence of an anaesthetic, and the utmost care used in determining whether or not there is luxation of the bones of the forearm-—a point which can generally be de- cided, if in no other way, by the degree to which passive motion can be made. This is a matter of the utmost importance, as the reduction can be i Ibid. 2 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870. 3 New York Medical Journal, April 28, 1883. 4 Catalogue, p. 68. 5 Lancet, Feb. 17, 1883.