291 SYNOVITIS FROM ABSORPTION OF MORBID MATTERS. affected. The swelling is not like that of simple synovitis. Even when the joint-cavity is manifestly full of fluid, considerable periarticular effusion, sometimes evidently situated in tendinous sheaths, masks the shape of that membrane in distension. The skin is in nearly all cases white. If redness be present at all, it is of a pink quality, in lines, and in the site of lymphatics. A network of large veins is commonly very distinct, and this appearance is usually combined with oedema of the limb below. The temperature of the body is in this disease very high, but I have never been able to find any local elevation about an affected joint. Metastasis from joint to joint is in the early stages common; in the latter —that is, when the local disease has lasted six days—it is rare. In certain of the more chronic forms of blood-poisoning, and especially in such as will now come under consideration, the patient complains of pain in several joints, as the shoulders, sterno-clavicular joints, wrists, knees, etc. Examination reveals no swelling, but there is usually some tenderness. After a few days, most of these pains disappear, and localize themselves in one or two articu- lations, which then assume the characteristic appearances. It is these vague, multiple joint-pains which cause some of these maladies to be so often mis- taken for rheumatism. If we keep before our minds a case of acute pyaemia from wound or from parturition, there would seem no possibility of confounding the disease with acute rheumatism ; but, as before said, these are not the only forms of blood- poisoning with which we have to do; indeed, one of the diseases ascribable to this cause has, since the appearance of my writings on this subject, almost ceased to be called by its former name of “gonorrhoeal rheumatism.” I would name it instead, “urethral synovitis.” It very commonly follows upon long-standing, or inveterate, or neglected gonorrhoeas, and especially when the inflammation has passed far back; but it is occasionally produced by the use of bougies, etc. It usually begins with a rigor, and a rise of temperature up to 100 or 102° F., very rarely higher. After this, the patient, feeling very ill and depressed, complains of pains in several joints, among which is nearly always the knee. Ultimately one, or at most two joints remain affected. Sometimes a rather mild but obstinate conjunctivitis, rarely iritis, is also present. After from five to nine days, the most severe stage of the disease subsides, and the temperature is rarely above 100° F.; but the joint, though but slightly painful while at rest, is very tender on pressure, and cannot brook any movement. This subacute stage is exceedingly obstinate, and at any time while the gonorrhoea lasts, even though it be a mere gleet, relapse may occur. If the patient, too, after being cured, contract a fresh gonorrhoea, he will, though years may have intervened, be almost certain to have recurrence of the articular disease.1 I he existence of joint-affections connected with the female genital system was unsuspected by surgeons until a comparatively recent date, because they were always taken for rheumatism; nevertheless, there is no doubt but that such exist; and since the publication of my work I have received many con- firmatory communications from other observers. Some of these affections are connected with the pregnant or parturient state, others simply with disturbance of the menstrual function. The former we may describe as “ante-partum” and “post-partum.” Occasionally there seems to be a link of connection between the two varieties. Ante-partum joint-affections occur mostly about the fourth month of pregnancy, and, judging from what I have 1 For examples, see Volkmann, Kranklieiten der Bewegungsorgane; Pitha und Billroth, Handbuch der Chirurgie, Bd. ii. S. 505. See also my work on Diseases of Joints, 2d ed. p. 113.