FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 213 going pages, as to the necessity of extension and counter-extension in the cases in question,I quote the following: Winchester1 has advanced the opinion that muscular contraction “ is, if rightly understood, a natural power of in- estimable value, supplying the exact amount of forcible contact between the broken surfaces necessary to excite healthy reparative action in the most speedy and perfect manner, accurately adjusted to the functional capacity of each individual case.” When union has taken place with the fragments in bad position, in fractures of the shaft of the femur, the correction of the deformity is highly desirable, since, if left to itself, it entails upon the patient a lameness which not only is unsightly and mortifying, but may be a very serious hindrance to his gaining a livelihood. Generally, the best procedure in such cases is forcible refracture under anaesthesia. Numerous instances of this kind have been recorded. Norris2 gives references, and more or less of detail, in regard to some twenty- five cases, all but three of which were successful. One, operated on by Bon- tecou, is recorded among the experiences of our late war.3 Fayrer4 gives two, in one of which the bone was broken at two points—at the middle and in the lower third. The patient, an English boy fourteen years of age, had met with his accident at sea. Both cases did well. Buck5 has recorded five. A very remarkable case of multiple fractures, one of which, in the femur, united with deformity and was corrected by re-fracture, is recorded by Tiffany.6 I myself had occasion, some years since, to rectify a fractured femur in a boy nine years old, which had been badly treated in the country, and had united with marked overlapping as well as slight angle outward; the callus gave way readily under ether, and the little fellow recovered so as to walk without any perceptible limp. It is well to bear in mind that in conducting a procedure of this kind a good deal of force may be saved, by not only bending the bone, but giving it a slight twist also. Extension should be cautiously made in these cases, lest if it be suddenly and too strongly effected, damage should result to the soft parts, and especially to the vessels. I have seen death caused in this manner. Subcutaneous osteotomy may sometimes be resorted to with advantage, as in a case reported by Verneuil,7 this plan being preferable when the bone is affected near a joint, or when the injury is of such ancient date that union is probably very firm. The details of the operation are much the same as when it is practised in other cases, and the after-treatment does not differ materially from that of accidental fractures. Resection through an open wound, a procedure attended with much greater risk, was many times prac- tised, and with a considerable degree of success, by the older surgeons.8 It is now almost wholly abandoned in favor of the improved method just mentioned. Occasionally, when the callus has not yet become thoroughly solidified, it may be bent into proper shape by firm but gentle pressure applied by means of well-padded splints and compresses, or by bands attached to the bedstead. A case so treated with success at the tenth week, extension and counter-ex- tension being also used, has been reported by Michener.9 ! ncist, Aug. 22, 1863. 2 Contributions to Practical Surgery, pp. 112 et sea. ‘ a . an<* Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Part III., Surgical Volume, p. 651. 4 Indian Medical Gazette, March 1, 1872. 6 Transactions of N. Y. Acad, of Medicine, 1855. 6 Trans, of Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland, 1874. 7 Bull, de la Societe de Chirurgie, 5 Dec. 1882. * See Norris, op. cit. 9 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1848.