DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 274 that while severe sprains or certain partial dislocations are very generally followed by severe synovitis and distension ; yet complete luxations, accom- panied as they are by laceration of the synovial membrane, although more severe, are not accompanied by any synovitis. The inference is fair, that accumulation in, and distension of, the joint cavity by the hypersecretion, is that which prolongs and gives severity to the disease. This distension also, if allowed to continue, is followed by certain evils, such as laxity of liga- ments and of periarticular tissues, that render the part for a long time weak and painful; and therefore, for many years past, it has been my practice to puncture and empty all acutely inflamed joints, when distension has been marked. For this purpose, a sharp, tubular needle (an exaggerated subcuta- neous-injection needle) is all that is necessary but, for precaution’s sake, an India-rubber tube of \ inch capacity and about three feet long, may be added. The mode of performance is this: an elastic-webbing bandage is to be lightly rolled on the knee, leaving between two turns the part to be punc- tured, which of course will be salient. Here the needle, clean and purified by immersion in carbolic oil, is to be thrust in by a quick, dexterous stab, and pressed well home into the cavity. I have very often done this without any tube, believing that the pressure of the elastic baud would quite prevent the possibility of the entrance of any air; nor have I ever had reason to distrust the method. Nevertheless, if extra caution be desired, a tube as above described may be secured to the collar of the needle, and filled by suction with a four- per-cent. solution of carbolic acid. This tube is held a foot or two above the level of the joint, and, after puncture has been effected, is gradually lowered, letting its lower end be received into a vessel containing the same solution; or, taking care to avoid any sharp bend, its end may be kept a little raised, so that always some fluid remaining in the tube may act as a trap or valve against any possible admission of air. By this means, we may draw from a knee, from four, even to six ounces of fluid; from a shoulder, from two to three ; from an elbow or an ankle, two ounces is a large quantity. But it may be that, though the evidence of fluid in the joint cavity is complete and conclusive, yet none will flow through the needle on account of its viscous nature, or from the canula becoming clogged with flocculi; under these cir- cumstances, a suction-vacuum may be applied, though it will not often be successful; it is better to withdraw the needle, and, passing into the same puncture a fine tenotome, to make in the synovial membrane a pretty wide subcutaneous incision, whereby the excess of fluid soon drains away into the neighboring tissues and leaves the hitherto distended joint empty and flaccid. The result of this evacuation is immediate and strongly marked. Tension, of course, ceases at once, and pain very rapidly, sometimes immediately, dis- appears. Thus the chief symptoms of synovitis vanish, though it can hardly be that the inflammation itself is so rapidly subdued ; but the chief cause of its severity and persistence having vanished, its subsidence, as a rule, very soon follows. I have known cases in which the swelling, to a certain extent, re- turned; in such, the amount of fluid in the joint is usually very small, and the tension null. In a very few instances the synovial sac has filled again, tension has returned, and the evacuation has been repeated; but I have never had occasion to resort to this procedure a third time. Another remedial resource is extension of the limb,1 2 that is to say, subject- 1 There is no occasion for the suction or aspirating apparatus of Dieulafoy; indeed it often leads to disappointment. 2 There is here some little difficulty in nomenclature. The term as thus applied does not mean straightening of the limb, hut traction in the direction of its long axis. Volkmann and, following him, many German writers call the method “distraction.”