345 ACUTE ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. amount of secretion, and the splint should be arranged in such wise that the dressing may he done without disturbing the limb. In comparing the results of these methods, we find that the direct method is somewhat more dangerous to life and limb than the indirect, and that the latter, though by no means free from danger, is especially liable to failure, by impossibility of extruding the body through the incisions made. These two sorts of mishap were at one time, according to Larrey’s tables, so fre- quent, that more than half of the cases operated on either failed or were fatal. Here subjoined are two tables, that of Larrey, coming down to 1860, and one of my own, embracing cases recorded since that date.1 H. Larrey (1860). Direct. Indirect. Success . N amber. Per cent. 74.8 Number. 19 Per cent. 48.7 Death . . . . 28 21.3 5 12.8 Failure . • • • 5 3.8 15 38.4 Success . Barwell. Number. . 44 Per cent. 91.6 Number. 29 Per cent. 72.5 Death 8.4 1 2.5 Failure . — 10 25.0 Joint Diseases which are due to Osteitis. I. Acute Articular Osteitis. TVe have hitherto had to do with a class of diseases which commence in the synovial tissue and its immediate neighborhood. Those which primarily affect the bones, and which after a time spread by one of various ways to the joints, must now engage our attention. They are not less interesting than diseases of synovial origin; in certain points of view their study is more important, since in many cases their early recognition—before the joint itself has become deeply involved—may enable us to prevent a long process of disease which often has a most undesirable termination. The maladies in question attack the bone in the immediate vicinity of a joint—the articular extremity in adults, the epiphysis or shaft-end in younger people; in both, a short bone, as of the carpus or tarsus, may be the seat of disease. A very severe disease of bone, namely, acute osteo-myelitis, or acute osteitis, must first be studied. By some authorities the disease is ascribed to systemic causes, and is likened to erysipelas or phlebitis (osteo-phlebitis). By others it is ascribed to local chilling or traumatism. But the attack often occurs when no or very trilling exposure or injury can be traced; it is severe, out of all proportion to the injury received; and it is not unfrequently multiple; we cannot therefore, I conceive, logically ascribe a disease which is so violent to a very slight external cause, although some chill or hurt may determine the time and place of its commencement. Acute osteo-myelitis is especially a disease of young life, during which period the bones, undergoing rapid growth and considerable change, are extremely vascular. The preference of the malady, too, is markedly for 1 The tables may be taken somewhat as guides to indicate the results of the two methods, but it need hardly be pointed out that the earlier statistics do not apply to the present time, and that in collections of published cases the numbers of failures and deaths are very much below the reality.