KIIEUMATIC SYNOVITIS. 325 tuation, which lies very near the hand. If the surgeon, with his finger-tip placed on the most accessible part of the synovial membrane, rub the soft parts with sufficient pressure to and fro, he will feel a peculiar crackling, and when the patient alternately bends and straightens the limb, the surgeon may with the palm detect a similar friction-sign. Both these forms of crepi- tation are very fine, especially the first. I have named it silken crepitus, because it is exactly like what may be obtained by rubbing between the finger and thumb two opposed surfaces of stout silk. At a later period, the crepitation, especially that produced by movement, becomes coarser; after- wards, if the joint get very full, both forms may disappear. But we have now to do merely with early symptoms, and I would direct especial attention to the fact, that, in a large proportion of cases, the surgeon’s finger, rubbing the soft parts about the joint up and down, will feel, besides the crackling, a number of little lumps, gliding away under and escaping from the pressure. These are evidently very abundant, very movable, round, or rounded, and not hard. Cases presenting these symptoms will, if not cured, end in one of two ways—either as one of simple hydrops articuli, or as one of multiple false bodies with some little effusion. Both of these maladies are discussed in a subsequent portion of this article. Treatment of Rheumatic Synovitis.—If an inflamed joint, after acute rheumatism, comes out of the physician’s care into the surgeon’s hands, some malposture is very commonly found. In such a case, the severe fever has probably produced such suffering and restlessness that it has been hardly possible to keep the limb on a splint. Thus it is usually the surgeon’s first duty to place the limb in a proper position, even though inflammatory symp- toms be still pretty strongly marked. This alone, as in other joint-dis- eases, will very much mitigate the pain, and I have known it to cause the nightly high temperature, appearing at first sight as a remnant of the fever, but in reality due to the joint-inflammation, to decline. If the very slight force wdiich nearly always suffices to place the limb upon a splint, in the proper posture, should produce pain, a small hypodermic injection of morphia near the joint will afford relief. After this, the limb must be kept in one of the removable splints described in other sections. Blisters are, in my experience, more valuable in this form of synovitis than in any other joint-malady; they should be small, should be allowed to heal quickly, and should be frequently repeated: they1 are most efficacious, in the case of the knee, when placed over the patellar plexus; and though other points of skin must of course be utilized, most of the blisters should be applied in patches about If inches in diameter, over a hand-wide space above the patella and inside of the rectus tendon. Another remedy whereby counter-irritation, or indeed vesication, may be produced, is the oleate of mercury, first introduced by Mr. Marshall. It is made by rubbing up the yellow oxide of mercury with different proportions of oleic acid, so as to procure a compound of which the mineral salt forms either 5,10, or 20 per cent.2 The stronger preparation will blister most skins if painted on, night and morning, for a day or two; the weaker may be rub- bed on with a piece of flannel. We may thus use either one or the other, according as we want a more or less irritant action. The value of this drug is difficult to fix. I certainly have seen cases in which sluggish, hard swell- ing rapidly diminished under its use; while in other cases, merely the ordi- 1 One method of treating acute rheumatism, which has been highly extolled, is by frequent blistering. 2 1 he formulae stand thus: yellow oxide of mercury, gr. v, gr. x, gr. xx, mixed with oleic acid, gr. xcv, gr. xc, gr. lxxx.