pott’s disease of the spine. 919 nite, general features. Tlie spine becomes rigid and tends to develop an angular deformity, an abscess with some peculiarities may form, paraplegia may ensue, and, after death, the anterior segments of the column will be found more or less extensively damaged by a destructive process. Various names have been given to this disease, and some explanation may be offered as to why the particular name that is adopted here has been selected. Among the terms applied to, or associated with, this malady, may be mentioned caries of the spine, vertebral tuberculosis (Xelaton), vertebral arthritis (Ripoll), osteitis of the spine, angular curvature of the spine, and Pott’s disease. The term “ Caries of the spine” is very definite, but its very preciseness is an objection to its use in the present instance. The morbid process in this malady is indeed, in the vast majority of all cases, a caries of the bone, but at the same time cases are recorded where the bone has been exempt and the disease has been limited to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. On the other hand, it can by no means be said that all cases of vertebral caries are asso- ciated with the general symptoms above mentioned, so that, if the clinical entity of the “Pott’s disease” is to be maintained, the term now criticized is both too narrow and too wide. The terms “ vertebral tuberculosis” and “ vertebral arthritis” are to be discarded, inasmuch as they commit the user to certain very definite and limited views, in the one case as to the nature of the morbid process, and in the other as to its primary seat. The term “osteitis of the spine,” on the other hand, is too indefinite to express the peculiar clinical attributes of the present affection. Inflammation is common enough in the bones of the column, but it is only in a comparatively small number of instances that that process leads to the definite disease known by many as Pott’s disease. It would certainly be no gain to clinical surgery to forcibly associate this disease with such other forms of osteitis of the spine as necrosis of the spinous processes after injury, or inflammation of the odontoid body. The common and much used term “ angular curvature” is open to the gravest objections. In the first place, the term is in itself ridicu- lous, involving, as it does, an obvious contradiction. An angular curve must, from a geometrical point of view, be classed with a square circle, or a round triangle. Then, again, the angular deformity is but one symptom of the disease, and that symptom, be it noted, not of necessity a constant one. Moreover, unwholesome ideas as to the treatment of the disease may be per- petuated by the prominence thus given to an important but isolated symp- tom. Finally, I would urge the use of the term “ Pott’s disease” upon these grounds. The meaning of the expression is well known, and its clinical associations are familiar. The term is extensively employed, not only in England and America, but especially on the Continent. In France, indeed, the title “ mal de Pott” is the generally accepted name for this malady. Then, again, the term commits the user to no particular pathological opinion, and may be used by men holding the most opposed views in pathology, to express the same association of clinical features. Lastly, the term serves to perpetuate the name of a man who well deserves the honor, and who was the first to remove this disorder of the spine from the region of a confused igno- rance, and from the especial province of the quacks. Etiology.—Age.—-Pott’s disease may occur at almost any period of life. It has been met with in infants in arms, and in patients far advanced in years. Bryant,1 indeed, details an instance where the disease attacked a foetus in utero. The specimen is preserved in Guy’s Hospital Museum, and shows “ the bodies of three or four of the dorsal vertebrae .... clearly fused 1 Manual for tlie Practice of Surgery, vol. i., 2d ed., p. 278.