823 SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. the legs, was obtained. The symptoms were very well marked; the treat- ment was, therefore, founded on an accurate diagnosis. It will also be remembered that belladonna (per orem) gave notable relief to vesical and urethral hyperesthesia in one of the cases related above. In at least three instances belonging to the same category as Dr. Taylor’s patient, I have seen much benefit derived from the fluid extract of ergot and potassium iodide. In one case where there probably was constitutional (tertiary) syphilis, cor- rosive sublimate (gr. thrice daily) did good. Concerning belladonna,Brown- Sequard justly remarks that no other medicine known has so much power to diminish the reflex faculty of the spinal cord.1 Nux vomica and strychnia are never admissible in the treatment of this disease, because they increase the amount of blood in the cord. Sacro-G-luteal Eschars, and other so-called Bed-Sores, arising from Lesions of the Spinal Cord and Spinal Nerves. These affections so often present themselves in cases of spinal injury, and; usually give so much trouble to both surgeons and attendants, as well as to patients, whenever they do appear; and finally, they prove so fre- quently to be the proximate cause of death in fatal cases of spinal injury, that a special consideration of them is demanded in this place. There are two important varieties of these eschars or sores which are met with in cases where the spine is injured; and they differ very widely in respect to their causation, the gravity of their prognosis, and the remedial measures that are necessary. These distinct kinds or varieties of bed-sores are: (1) the common, or that which is often met with in cases where there is no spinal injury nor spinal disease, as well as in cases where the spinal column is injured; and (2) the neurotrophic or neuropathic, or that which arises from some morbid exci- tation or disease of the spinal cord or spinal nerves. The former has long been known; the latter was first described by M. Brown-Sequard. (1) The common kind of bed-sore is liable to occur in all injuries or dis- eases which are attended with inability on the part of patients to move themselves or change their positions in bed ; for instance, in certain fractures of the femur, and in certain forms of disease or injury of the hip-joint, etc., as well as in fractures and dislocations of the spinal column. In such cases the patients, unless properly cared for by others, will continue to lie in one settled or unchanged position all day, and all night, perhaps for several days and nights together. Hence, the whole weight of their hips will press with concentrated energy upon the integuments which cover the most projecting points of their pelves. The skin and fasciae overlying the superficial, con- vex, and irregular surface of the sacrum sustain the principal pressure. That compression interrupts the circulation; the blood which ought to enter the compressed tissues is prevented from doing so; the blood already there is squeezed out; the vessels are tenantless. An additional evil remains; it is almost impossible, with even the greatest care, to prevent some urine, perhaps but very little, from trickling into the bed-clothes or down the private parts. Furthermore, in spite of every attention, the fecal discharge lodges about the anus, to greater or less extent, and gets mixed with the urine. The integu- ments of the nates may become macerated in this stinking mixture, and then its liquid portion will act on the sodden tissues like an escharotic sub- stance. It is, therefore, not surprising that the integuments covering the sacrum, etc., when subjected to the destructive influence of pressure too con- Op. cit., pp. 175, 176.