795 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. This patient survived the accident something less than six days. Both the hyperesthesia and the spinal paralysis that were observed in his case, arose from the contusion of the spinal marrow, that is, from the disintegration of its elementary tissues, and the extravasation of blood therein, and from the secondary lesions of the marrow, hyperemia and hyperplasia, which were induced by the injury. Still, as the absorption of the blood extra- vasated in the bruised part of the spinal cord progressed, the symptoms of spinal paralysis, e. g., the loss of sensibility and voluntary motion, decreased in corresponding degree. The hyperesthesia also varied from day to day. To sum up the symptoms which present themselves in cases of contusion combined with concussion of the spinal cord, they are: loss of sensibility, loss of voluntary motion, and loss of reflex motor action in all the parts supplied by those filaments of the spinal cord which are directly or indirectly injured by the contusion of the cord, or which issue from the spinal cord below the seat of contusion, occurring suddenly and coincidentally with the injury of the cord itself; also hyperaesthesia which, not unfrequently, comes on some hours, or even days, after the injury has been inflicted. Furthermore, concussions and contusions of the spinal cord, like disloca- tions and fractures of the spinal column, may be attended by very consider- able deviations of the body-heat from the normal, both above and below, as was pointed out on page 741. Mr. Erichsen, in particular, has seen spinal concussion attended by marked and prolonged lowering of the vital tem- perature. Contusions of the spinal marrow with extravasations of blood into the substance thereof, are of not unfrequent occurrence. Besides the foregoing examples, M. Brown-Sequard1 mentions a case by Walker, in which there was dislocation of the fourth cervical vertebra ; an incision showed that there was no fracture. The dislocation was reduced, and the patient was improved thereby. Death, however, ensued in six days. Necroscopy revealed hemorrhage in the spinal cord. Mr. Luke2 relates the case of a laborer, injured by being knocked against the side of a ship, with which the back of his neck came in contact. Projection of the vertebrae in the neck, spinal paralysis, priapism, etc. were noted. In two days death occurred. Necroscopy showed fracture of the sixth cervical vertebra; the spinal cord was en- larged and softened; it also contained a blood-clot. Mr. Solly3 reports the case of a plasterer, aged 40, who fell from a scaffolding, strik- ing his head, and being stunned. There were paralysis of the right side, a scalp-wound, and a fractured clavicle. He died in forty hours. Necroscopy revealed fractures of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae; also hemorrhage into the spinal cord, which was soft and bruised. M. Colin4 reports a case of hemorrhage into the spinal cord. Treatment.—The therapeutical indications to be fulfilled in contusions of the spinal marrow are the same as in concussions of the spinal marrow, which have already been described. Compression of the Spinal Cord.—The nerve-fibres, ganglion-cells, and bloodvessels of the spinal cord, may be fatally compressed by blood when it is extravasated into the substance of the cord itself, into the spinal menin- ges (by intra-thecal hemorrhage), or into the spinal canal external to the theca vertebralis; also by the displacements of bone which arise from dislo- cations and fractures of the vertebrae, and by foreign bodies when they have 1 Op. cit. 3 Ibid., 1851. 1 Lancet, 1850. 4 L’Union Medicate, 18G2.