105 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. mechanism of the displacement. Gurlt gives fifteen, all produced by very great violence. Besides these, Lane,1 Burr,2 and Wight3 have published cases of the kind. Wight’s patient had good union in the bone of the left side, but only ligamentous in the right; yet he could work as well as ever. These cases have a special interest, to be further referred to, in view of the difficul- ties presented in their treatment. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of fracture of the clavicle is for the most part easy; the attitude of the patient, the loss of power in the arm, the seat of pain, the projection of the fragment or fragments which can often be both seen and felt, the crepitus, and the abnormal mobility—all these signs, with the history of a fall on the hand, or on the point of the shoulder, or of vio- lence applied to the part, or of stress put upon the bone by sudden muscular exertion, will generally lead even a non-professional person to a true construc- tion of the case. When, as in transverse fractures, with little or no displacement, deformity is wanting, pain is slight, and crepitus is hardly to be perceived, the existence of tenderness at a special point, developed either by direct pressure or by a push or tap on the acromial end of the bone, should suffice to indicate the nature of the injury. The caution given in regard to some other cases, as to undue zeal in the eliciting of symptoms, may be emphasized here; as there are instances on record in which, in able hands, incomplete fractures have been made com- plete, of course increasing the risk of deformity. Should there be any doubt, it would be right to treat the case as one of fracture; keeping the arm and shoulder at as perfect rest as possible, and watching for the occurrence of more positive symptoms. Complications.—Examples of complicated fracture of the clavicle, although not by any means of frequent occurrence, have been often enough recorded to make it surprising that Malgaigne should have known of no such cases.4 * These complications may consist in injuries of the artery, veins, or nerves; of the lungs; or of other bones. They may ensue immediately, or may be among the later phenomena; and they differ greatly in the degree of their gravity, of the suffering which they cause, and of their amenability to treat- ment. Evans6 reports a case in which an aneurism of the innominate artery was ascribed to a fracture of the right clavicle sustained by the patient, a sailor, many months before he came under surgical observation. Dupuytren is said by Helens6 to have given, in a clinical lecture in 1831, several cases of aneu- rism from a like cause. Injury of the veins is somewhat more frequent. Holmes7 says, “ I have once seen death result from this injury in consequence of the fragment hav- ing lacerated the internal jugular vein.” Ilulke and Flower8 mention a speci- men (perhaps from the same case) of like injury. They also refer to the case of Sir Robert Peel,9 in which there was “ a comminuted fracture of the left clavicle, below which a swelling as large as the hand could cover, and which pulsated synchronously with the contractions of the auricles of the heart, 1 Lancet, July, 1876. 2 Medical Record, May 6, 1882. 3 Med. Gazette (New York), 1882. 4 Op. cit., p. 471 ; translation, p. 382. 6 Transactions of Pathological Society of London, vol. xvii. 1866. 6 Arch. Gen. de Medecine, Aout, 1881. 7 Surgical Treatment of the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, 1st ed., p. 248. 8 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 769 ; Am. ed., vol. i. p. 848. 9 Lancet, July 6, 1850 (editorial article).