INJURIES OF BONES. oo ture is one along with which there is some serious surgical lesion of neigh- boring structures. Thus there may be extensive wounding of the soft parts, but not admitting the air to the broken ends. (Such admission of air would, as before said, make the fracture compound ; and while the fact of its being compound really constitutes a complication, there is a propriety, as well as convenience, in limiting the use of these terms.) Again, the original violence may have not only broken the hone, but also ruptured the adjacent artery or a vein of considerable size, or lacerated a large nerve-trunk. Such rupture or laceration may also be caused by contact with the sharp or jagged edge of one of the fragments. Or, besides the fracture, there may he luxation of the neighboring joint; or, without dislocation, the joint may have been seriously damaged. Or, in certain positions, important viscera may have been lacerated or penetrated by the fragments ; thus the bladder is apt to be ruptured in frac- tures of the pelvis, and the lungs, or even the heart, may be wounded in frac- tures of the ribs. The amount and character of the influence exerted by these other lesions upon the course of a case of fracture, vary, as might be supposed, very greatly. Some, as wounds of the soft parts, merely embarrass the surgeon in his treat- ment ; others, like luxations, require special measures for their relief; or, if uncorrected, will, in a marked degree, vitiate the ultimate usefulness of the limb. Injuries of vessels or nerves, superadded to fracture, may necessitate amputation. lint there is a large class of complicated fractures—those in which the vis- cera are wounded—in which the gravity of the complication is apt to be such as to altogether overshadow that of the fracture. These cases may he ame- nable to surgical treatment, as, for example, when the bladder is ruptured in fracture of the pelvis, and success depends upon preventing the escape of urine, either into the surrounding areolar tissue or into the peritoneal cavity; or they may come within the province of the physician, as when a pleurisy is set up by a broken rib. Sometimes the lesion complicating the fracture is neces- sarily fatal, as in the case of a wound of the heart. Further reference to these various complications will be made in connection with fractures affecting special bones. There is still another class of complications of fracture—those, namely, which arise secondarily, from the occurrence of inflammation in neighboring parts. Thus it occasionally, though rarely, happens that an abscess is formed either about the fragments, in the soft parts close by, or in a joint. Under such circumstances, the treatment of the fracture itself may he seriously inter- fered with, and the prospect of restoration of usefulness to the limb much impaired. Intra-uterine Fractures.—Notwithstanding the mobility of the foetus, and its protection by the amniotic liquid and by the maternal body, its bones are occasionally broken. These injuries are generally due either to blows or to other violence inflicted from without through the belly of the mother, or to abnormal contraction of the muscles of the child itself. In one or two in- stances, one of twins has sustained fracture apparently from entanglement of its limbs with those of its fellow. When external violence is the cause of these fractures, the effect is, of course, limited to those bones on which it falls. Of this many instances have been published, and are quoted by Malgaigne and other systematic writers. Only a few points need be noted here.