92 INJURIES OF BONEb. Multiple fracture of the pelvis. was sitting in the side window of the “ cab ” of a locomotive, leaning for- warcl with his buttocks projecting, when it passed through the narrow door of an engine-house, and he was caught Fig. 598. and jammed. After his death, it was found that the bone had given way on each side. Occasionally, fractures of the pelvis have been seen as the result of falls on the feet, and even from much slighter accidents. Thus Bouvier1 recorded the case of a man, aged 71, who met with a slight fall out of bed, and fractured the left os innominatum, from the ilio- pectineal eminence, down through the acetabulum to the spine of the ischium. Sometimes the force acts directly through the head of the femur upon the adjacent portion of the os innomi- natum. Hutchinson2 records an in- stance of starred fracture of the acetabulum, the head of the femur being driven through it by a fall on the trochanter. Gama3 reported the case of a man, aged 30, who fell eighteen feet, striking on the trochanter. Death occur- red from peritonitis on the tenth day. At the autopsy it was found that there was an abscess extending from the hip to the calf of the leg, and into the iliac region within the pelvis; the acetabulum had been broken into three pieces, the smallest of which was placed with the round ligament upon it, and unbroken, on the head of the bone; the second was the horizontal ramus of the pubis, which was separated from the symphysis pubis and ischium; and the third was the ischium, which was no longer connected with the ilium. Perhaps the most remarkable case is that recorded by Lendrick,4 * in which, by an accident many years previous, the head of the femur was found to have been driven through the acetabulum, and to be covered in, partly by bone, partly by fibrous tissue; the os pubis had been fractured and united with shortening, entangling a portion of intestine, which remained within a bony cavity as a sort of hernia; the ischium also had been fractured and united. It not unfrequently happens that the anterior portion only of the pelvis suffers, perhaps at numerous points. Lodge® saw six fractures thus located, as the result of the caving in of a bank of earth upon the patient; and Peaslee6 a case in which seven fractures had been caused by the patient being jammed in a narrow space between a railroad car and a platform. Rupture of the bladder had occurred in both cases. In one instance, reported by Letenneur,7 it was claimed that fracture of the pubis had been caused by muscular action ; the patient, a woman, was lifting some large stones in unloading a boat, and felt something give way; but as it is expressly stated that, at that moment, she rested a stone, weighing over one hundred and fifty pounds, on the pubis, there must at least be some dotibt whether the fracture might not be more justly attributed to the direct pressure thus exerted. Coates8 has recorded a case in which the os pubis was fractured in a very analogous way, a coach in which the patient was 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, February, 1839. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, February 24, 1866. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, May, 1838, from Gaz. Med. de Paris. 4 London Medical Gazette, March, 1839. 6 Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences, Oct. 1865. 6 Ibid., April, 1850. 7 Medical Times and Gazette, November 28, 1868. 8 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi.