782 INJURIES OF THE BACK. disorganized. M. Louis, the most celebrated French surgeon of the eighteenth cen- tury,1 relates the case of a soldier who, in 1762, received a gunshot wound of the dorsal spine, in consequence of which lie became completely paralyzed in the lower limbs; the wound was enlarged at once, and the ball taken out. Louis saw the patient on the fifth day after the casualty; he found that there were several fragments of bone press- ing upon the spinal cord. He removed these fragments ; and, although there was a considerable suppuration after this operation, the paraplegia slowly but gradually disap- peared, and the patient was completely cured, excepting a slight weakness which remained in his lower limbs. Twelve years afterward, however, he still had to walk with a cane. These facts and examples are mentioned mainly with a view to encourage surgeons to conduct in a thorough manner the treatment of gunshot fractures of the spinal column, in all instances which come under their care, by showing that, even in cases where re- covery is impossible, life may be greatly prolonged by careful treatment. The prognosis of these cases is rendered much more unfavorable by the occurrence of inflammation of the spinal membranes or spinal cord, as doubt- less happened in the following instance:— Fig. 789. A soldier, aged 19, was admitted to Emory Hospital, Washington, August 25, 1862, for a gunshot wound of the back, received on the night of the 22d. He was then in great pain and very restless, but not paralyzed in any part. An anodyne was prescribed, with cold applications to the wound. He passed a restless night, and morning found him wearied and anxious, very restless, with an occasional tetanic spasm, though not severe. An anaesthetic was administered, the wound was enlarged, and the missile (a conoidal musket-ball) was found impacted between the laminae of the first and second lumbar vertebrae, the spinous process of the second having been broken off, as shown in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 789) which represents the specimen. The missile was extracted with much difficulty. All spiculas of bone were then carefully removed, the wound was drawn together by adhesive straps, and cold-water dressings were applied. The oper- ation of an enema of assafoetida and turpentine left the patient in a profound sleep, disturbed occasionally, how- ever, by slight spasms of short duration. His bowels acted twice that night; the micturition was free, and there were no symptoms of paralysis. On the 27th, there was marked increase in the severity of the tetanic symptoms. The enema was repeated, but without effect. Chloroform was now brought to his relief, and its use continued until 10 A. M., when he died. Necroscopy.—The ball was found to have destroyed the spinous process of the second lumbar vertebra, and to have buried itself, apex foremost, between the lamina; of the first and second, in the spinal canal, bruising and pressing upon the spinal cord.2 Showing gunshot fracture of the spinous process of the 'second lum- bar vertebra, with the missile im- pacted between the laminte of the first and second. (Spec. 611, Sect. I, A. M. M.) The condition of the spinal membranes does not appear to have been noted at the autopsy. Nevertheless, the symptoms which characterized this case, e. y.,the intense raehialgia, the extreme degree of restlessness, and the tetanic spasms, are symptoms which often present themselves in cases of idiopathic, as well as in cases of epidemic, spinal meningitis; and, no doubt, there was traumatic spinal meningitis of an acute character in this case. The patient survived the onset of the acute symptoms, less than two days. It also ap- pears that chloroform was administered continuously for several hours before death occurred. "Was the proximate cause of death the disease, or the ehlo- 1 Memoire posthume. Archives Gen. de Medecine, etc., Aout, 1836, p. 397 ; Brown-Sequard’s Lectures on the Central Nervous System, p. 251. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 444.