INJURIES OF BONES. 196 2 See p. 29. 1 British Med. Journal, March 18, 1882. would be conclusive. But, although Prof. Smith adduces a large number of cases in support of his opinion, there are many specimens of the fracture in question, in which the trochanter remains unbroken; and hence this idea cannot form a ground for diagnosis. The other lesions with which fracture of the cervix femoris may be con- founded, and from which it needs to be distinguished, are luxation of the hip-joint, and fracture of the acetabulum. Of the latter, an instance is recorded by Mr. Marsh ;* the main symptoms were shortening and eversion of the limb, and the true nature of the lesion was only discovered upon examination after death. As to the means of distinguishing fractures about the hip from luxations of that joint, the foregoing discussion of the symp- toms of fracture leaves very little to be said. I may, however, again call attention to the fact, elsewhere referred to,2 that while in luxation there is limitation of passive motion in one or more directions, in fracture it is apt to be rather abnormally free. Great difficulties may, especially in persons below middle age, surround this question. In one instance within my knowledge, a man was twice examined, under anaesthesia, by four expe- rienced surgeons, who decided that he had a fracture of the cervix femoris, but after the swelling had subsided it was discovered that the head of the femur was resting upon the dorsum ilii, and there it remained, all attempts at reduction failing. After middle life, and in proportion to the development of the peculiarities belonging to advancing age, the chances in favor of fracture as against luxa- tion steadily increase, until in the very old the latter lesion is almost out of the question. The few instances of the kind on record should, however, inspire caution, and prevent too hasty a judgment. Malgaigne quotes with- out question the observation by Gauthier of a luxation of the hip in a woman of eighty-six, and Hamilton another in a woman of seventy-three, which was unreduced when she was seen thirteen years later. Hence, in any case in which there is room for doubt, a careful and thorough examination should be instituted before pronouncing a positive opinion. The prognosis in these fractures is always grave. Although life may not be destroyed, the chance is that the patient will be a cripple for the remain- der of his days, and no surgeon should hold out hopes of complete recovery in such cases. At the same time, much depends upon keeping up the courage of the old and feeble, and it will often require tact and skill to do this. As to the treatment, it must vary with the circumstances of each case. Sometimes all that can be done is to promote the comfort of the patient and to sustain his strength. Often the inconvenience and even distress caused by the application of confining apparatus, especially in cases of very old persons, will outweigh all the advantage derived from it. Yet there are many instances, in those who may reasonably look forward to a considerable term of life, in which suitable treatment may do much to mitigate, if not to pre- vent, lameness. In the former class of cases, the knee should be supported on a pillow, and the limb placed in the easiest position, with the muscles relaxed. The patient should be allowed to lie as may suit him best; sometimes a reclin- ing chair, enabling him to sit up and lie back alternately, answers an excellent purpose. Bed-sores must be carefully guarded against by cleanliness, by fre- quent washing of the prominent bony points with whiskey, and by the use of India-rubber air-cushions. Sometimes these cases are complicated by drib- bling of urine, especially in old men with prostatic enlargement; and then the bladder should be emptied with the catheter at stated times. In cases of the other class, extension is called for, and may be best effected