796 INJURIES OF THE BACK. entered the spinal canal; finally, the spinal marrow may be mortally com- pressed by the products of inflammatory action which are liable to be effused in all cases of spinal meningitis or myelitis. Compression of the filaments and other elementary structures of the cord from blood extravasated into its substance, not unfrequently occurs, and ex- amples in considerable number have been presented. But this subject has already been sufficiently discussed in connection with contusion of the cord. Compression of the spinal marrow from hemorrhage within or upon its membranes has likewise been illustrated in many instances that have been presented in the foregoing pages. As extravasations of blood between the cranium and the cerebral dura mater, or into the cerebral meninges, often destroy life by compressing the brain, so extravasations of blood between the spinal column and the theca vertebralis, or inside of the sheath formed by that membrane, not unfrequently destroy life by compressing the spinal mar- row. Mr. Hutchinson,1 however, asserts that although much has been said about large elfusions of blood into the spinal canal as a cause of paralysis, such effusions are, he believes, the rarest of occurrences, for he has “ never seen any effusion to the extent of possible compression, and in the majority of cases there is little or none.” That this eminent writer’s belief on this important point is singularly inaccurate, many cases, already mentioned in this article, in which large effusions of blood were found in the spinal canal, on examination after death, bear strong testimony ; and this evidence can be corroborated by presenting many others of a like nature. For instance:— (1) Dupuytren2 mentions the case of a soldier having a gunshot wound of the neck. There was almost complete paralysis. Death ensued twenty-four hours after the injury. The autopsy showed fractures of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra;; cord unhurt; much blood effused in the spinal canal, and at the base of the brain. (2) Murney3 reports the case of a laborer, aged 22, who fell from a scaffold twenty feet, striking his back. lie walked to a neighboring house. In two hours paralysis began ; priapism with retention of urine and feces followed ; skin hot. Death occurred in four days. The autopsy revealed fractures of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical, and of the first dorsal vertebra;; no displacement; blood-clots on the spinal cord, which also was softened. (Ashhurst.) In this case, the coming on of paralysis some hours after the accident, and the gradual increment of the symptoms, kept pace with the sanguinolent efi’usion in the spinal canal. (3) Hutton4 records the case of a man, aged 35, thrown from a cart into a ditch. There were “ stunning,” paralysis, and dyspnoea; and death ensued in four days. The autopsy revealed dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra, with slight fracture ; cord softened ; and extravasated blood. (Ashhurst.) In respect to symptoms and spinal-cord lesions, this case strongly resembles the last. (4) A very great extravasation of blood occurred within the theca vertebralis in a case under the care of Dr. Stephen Smith, at Bellevue Hospital, some years ago. The patient was a healthy, temperate, and well-nourished derrickman, aged 41, injured by being thrown from a cart and striking his back upon the pavement; he was not ren- dered unconscious, and did not feel hurt until some one attempted to raise him ; then he found that he was paralyzed, and that motion caused him intense pain. On October 12, P. M., he was admitted to the hospital, two hours after the injury, in a state of collapse ; pulse too frequent and feeble to be counted ; respiration 18. There were complete sensory and voluntary-motor paralysis of the lower extremities and body up to the sixth intercostal space; moderate priapism ; normal temperature. The subjective symptoms were severe pain in the back of the neck, and pain, numb- ness, and tingling in the arms. Objectively, nothing abnormal was found in the cervical region ; but, in the dorsal region, a depression was discovered between two spinous 1 London Hospital Reports, vol. iii. 1866. 3 Dublin Medical Journal, vol. xxiv. 2 Op. cit. 4 Ibid., vol. xvii.