DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 808 wards by a dirty, muddy hue. Suppuration of one part of the granulation- tissue is generally accompanied by its spread further and further from the centre, and this more recent growth may in its turn suppurate, leading either to large pus-formations in various parts of the limb, or to isolated or slightly connected abscesses in what was the cavity ot the joint, near to that locality, or at variable distances, both in the sott parts or in the bone. These may be termed respectively, “intra- Fig> 638> articular,” “periarticular,” “adjacent,” and “ intraosseous.” Of periarticular abscesses, it may be said that they sometimes originate in ■ the passage outward from the central cavity of a little pus, which sets up or encourages suppuration in its new position; but they more often arise independently, having for some time no communication with the remains of the joint-cavity. Adjacent abscesses of a more superficial sort, namely, immediately beneath the deep fascia, separating that structure from the muscles beneath, are not uncommon in this disease, and they may, espe- cially if the pus be of slow formation, burrow a long way under the tough, Intra-articular, periarticular, and adjacent abscess in a fiblOUS stlUCtUIO. A. deeper form, case of synovitis of the ankle. namely, among the muscles and more especially that sort of adjacent abscess that travels along the bone, is much more common in osseous than in synovial joint-disease. Intraosseous abscess of any large extent or significance is not usual in chronic synovial disease, although small foci of suppuration close to the end of the bone are often found; suppurative softening of the epiphyseal line, giving rise to diastasis, is also unusual in synovial disease, though it is not so uncommon when the disease commences in the epiphysis itself. Anyone of these abscesses may open outward; even the intraosseous, com- municating after a time with one of the other varieties, gains indirectly the surface. When, however, the pus arrives at the deep surface of a fascia it does not, unless of very rapid formation, continue its course directly outward, but burrows some distance—passing sometimes along the course of a tendon, sometimes gliding in an intermuscular groove—according to the anatomical arrangement of the part. Even when it reaches the skin, slowly formed pus does not, quickly penetrate that structure, but spreads itself in a radiating manner from the spot first reached, sometimes to a considerable distance. These processes of fatty degeneration and suppuration may be almost rapid enough to be termed acute, even though the preceding stages have been very slow; they may too involve a large part of the limb, causing considerable destruction. In the mean time, the joint, loosened and broken down, becomes more and more disorganized, and the bones displaced; afterwards, if allowed to continue and if the patient survive, fragments of ligamentous or osseous tissue come away with the discharge. Rarely, however, are these forms of joint-disease permitted by nature or by art to reach these ultimate limits. Operative measures are employed, or, these being inapplicable, a kindly death terminates the patient’s sufferings. Eor the local changes above described do not stand alone, but on the contrary