5 CAUSES OF FRACTURE. similar case were in larger amount, and tlie proportion of lime to phosphoric acid less, than normal; the bones resembling those of the foetus. Moore1 placed upon record a case of “ osteo-malacia” in a woman, aged 70, the sub- ject of acute mania, who had had at different times four fractures, and who died soon after the fourth. 'He does not appear, however, to have recog- nized this “ breaking down of the bone-tissue” as dependent upon the disease of the central nervous system. In 1867 I made an autopsy in the case of the late Dr. Pennock,2 who had been long a paralytic; the bones were all so soft as to be easily cut with a knife, and presented much the same appearance as those above mentioned, although no fracture had taken place. Dr. Weir Mitchell, in 1873,3 in an article on “Rest in Locomotor Ataxia,” said: “ It naturally occurs to ask why so many ataxies have chanced to break limbs ? and as to this I should answer, first, that no people are so awkward or fall so much; and, next, that in some of the cases it seemed to me that the habitual abruptness of the muscular acts had a share in the calamity, and that I have suspected, what has not yet been proved, that the bones in ataxies may suffer some impairment of their nutrition, and hence of their strength.” Charcot4 * reported a very remarkable case, in which several fractures occurred in the person of an ataxic woman; and referred, with assent, to the suggestion of Mitchell, just cpioted. Further observations were communicated to the Pathological Society of London, in 1880, by Buzzard,6 and the subject was discussed by Hutchinson and others. A lady, about 60 years of age, was under my care in 1879, who had long been paraplegic, and who, by catching her foot against a cushion as she was lifted into a carriage, sustained a fracture of both bones of the right leg; just about a year pre- viously she had broken the other leg from an equally slight cause. A very similar case, in a man of 65, was placed on record by Mr. Busk.6 Professor Bruns, of Tubingen, has published a very interesting paper,7 based upon the case of an ataxic woman, tet. 57, who had sustained fractures, at different times, of both forearms ; the right without known cause, the left in lifting a plate. He gives a long list of references to articles, by various authors, bearing upon the subject, and defines the change which occurs in the bones as an eccentric atrophy, with rarefaction of the compact substance, and filling of the widened marrow-spaces with fat. Ross,8 speaking of troplio-neuroses, says:— “ Spontaneous fractures have attracted the attention of surgeons from a remote period, but these accidents were attributed to the influence of certain diatheses, such as' gout, rheumatism, scrofula, and cancer. Larrey drew special attention to the fact that a cer- tain form of paralysis of the lower extremities was associated with a strong predisposi- tion to fractures of their bones. In the record of this case, however, it is mentioned that the so-called paralytic symptoms were associated with amaurosis and great exalta- tion of the sensibility of the lower extremities, which renders it almost certain that the symptoms were not due to paralysis, but to ataxia. In 1873, Weir Mitchell drew attention to the frequency of spontaneous fractures in locomotor ataxia, and suggested 1 St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1871-2. 2 See American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 18G8. 3 Ibid., July, 1873. 4 Arch, de Physiologie, Janvier, 1874. 6 Brit. Med. Journal, Feb. 14, 1880. The reader may refer with advantage to another article by Buzzard, “On the Affection of the Bones and Joints in Locomotor Ataxy,” in the British Medical Journal for March 5, 1881. 6 London Medical Gazette, April 10, 1840. 7 Spontan-fracturen bei Tabes. Berl. klin. Wochenschr., March 13, 1882. 8 Treatise on Diseases of the Nervous System, 1881, vol. i. p. 224.