245 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. fragments have remained in their false position. Muscular action is not the sole cause, often not even the chief cause of the deformity, which is in gen- eral due to the fracturing force, or to the weight of the parts; but it very commonly is an obstacle to its correction. Hence this process is facilitated by relaxing the muscles, which is done by flexing the knee, and slightly extending the foot. Fractures which cannot be reduced at all with the knee straight will often yield promptly as soon as it is bent. The test of the limb being in proper line is that the inner edge of the patella, the inner side of the ankle, and the inner side of the great toe, are in the same vertical plane. And the fingers passed along the tibia should detect no angular irregularity in its surface. I have said that the main difficulties in reduction are due to interlocking of the fragments of the tibia, and to muscular contraction. Sometimes the condition of things is more complicated, and may be very obscure:— A woman, aged fifty, was brought into St. Joseph’s Hospital, Philadelphia, having been run over by a wagon which had produced a severe compound fracture at the upper part of the right leg ; reduction was impossible, although the most apparent obstacle was removed by cutting off the end of the upper tibial fragment, which protruded through the skin. Eight days afterward, amputation being performed through the knee-joint, it was found that the upper end of the lower fragment of the fibula was wedged in between the upper fragments of both bones, and that this had constituted the difficulty in replace- ment. The reduction being effected, some surgeons are willing to trust for its maintenance to the pressure of a pillow, lapped around the limb and tied about with tapes or strips of bandage. Although this plan has been sanctioned by some high authorities,11 have never myself seen a case in which I should have felt justified in using it, except as a temporary resource. Plaster bandages, the Bavarian splint, and other forms of solidifying dress- ing, have found many advocates within the last forty years, since the revival of this method by Larrey and Seutin. One objection holds against every form of it as a primary dressing for fractures of the leg, namely, that it pre- vents the constant inspection of the limb which can alone assure the surgeon that it is properly kept in shape. Skilfully applied, and carefully watched, I do not believe that the immovable apparatus is likely to do any harm by constricting the limb, although under other circumstances serious trouble has arisen in this way. At a later stage of the case, when the union between the fragments has become somewhat firm, a plaster or silicated bandage, or the Bavarian splint, may be employed to great advantage, enabling the patient to sit up, and to move about on crutches. The “ fracture-box” is an appliance which has long been used in the Penn- sylvania Hospital, and which has some great merits, having two sides attached by hinges, and a foot-piece. (Fig. 624.) The sides being let down, a pillow is laid in the box; the leg is carefully adjusted in the pil- low, and the foot secured by a strip of wide bandage passed under the heel, its ends being then crossed over the instep and put through two slits in the foot- piece, to be tied at its outer side. How the sides of the box are brought up, pressing the pillow against the leg so as to give it uniform and complete support. Of course, the size of the box must be adapted to that of the limb. If the fragments tend to form an angle forward, the heel can be raised; if backward, it can be lowered. 1 Skey, Lancet, Jan. 9, 1864; Wicks, British Med. Journal, Nov. 25, 1882; Duke, ibid., Dec. 16, 1882. Sand-bags are generally added in order to promote the steadiness of the limb. It consists of a board, Fig. 624. Fracture-box with movable sides.