897 SPINA BIFIDA. has proceeded to actual ulceration, I presume that the use of collodion would be very generally considered as inapplicable, even if possible. Before any more active measures are proposed, it is well to consider the relations and surroundings of the tumor. The true spina bifida communi- cates with the cavity of the spinal membranes, and usually contains either the cord or some part of it, or a certain number of the lowest spinal nerves. Any operation, therefore, upon such a tumor must involve the spinal mem- branes, and probably the medulla spinalis itself, and it is unnecessary to point out that an operation with such incidents must be among the most serious that can be entertained in the practice of surgery. In the face of these serious features in any operative proceedings for the relief of spina bifida, it has been pointed out that the cases most suitable for operation are those where the bony defect is trifling, the tumor well pedun- culated, and the cord and its nerves free from any participation in the pro- trusion. This is obvious; but these very cases that are considered the best suited for operation, are the very cases that are the most prone to undergo spontaneous cure. I would venture to urge that the possibility of sponta- neous cure in spina bifida has been a little too lightly estimated, and that, while perhaps harm may be done by temporizing with a case, that harm is not so very unevenly balanced by the mischief that has followed upon hasty, premature, and ill-conceived operations. There are not a few cases on record that, like the following example, would urge a greater tolerance of the possi- bility of spontaneous cure. A man, aged twenty, had a spina bifida that had of course existed from birth. It was of great size, but, apart from the inconvenience attending its large bulk, it gave him no trouble. For twenty years, then, it had caused no serious or even very troublesome symptoms. At the age of twenty, the tumor was tapped. With what result ? Within six days of the second tapping the man was dead.1 Looking over the records of the treatment of this deformity, one is struck with the immense number of cases of spina bifida that have been subjected to operation within a few days—nay some even within a few hours—of the birth of the victim. In such cases, the possibility of spontaneous cure can hardly have been considered, and it remains with those who have undertaken such operations to show upon what grounds these apparently premature and hasty measures have been adopted. 1 would then urge a little patience as the first factor in the treatment of spina bifida. Let the first measures be pal- liative, and let operative measures be considered when some definite indica- tions for further treatment arise. These indications may be afforded by the rapid growth of the tumor, by the probability of its speedy rupture, by the onset of convulsions or other nerve disturbance, or by the increase in a paralysis that has perhaps always existed to some extent. The principal curative measures (so called) may be considered under the head of (1) Puncture, (2) Injection, (8) Ligature, and (4) Excision. (1) Puncture.— There are many cases where the only symptom that requires to be immediately dealt with is the rapid increase in the size of the tumor, or in the degree of its tenseness. I think that such cases can—for a while at least—be very well treated by puncture. I might best illustrate the matter by reference to two cases at present under my care at the London Hospital. One patient is aged nine, and the other six months. Both tumors are in the lumbo-sacral region ; they are both large, and have but thin coverings. In each case the skin is inflamed about the summit of the cyst, and has been many times ulcerated. There is reason to believe that the cord, or some part of it, has a share in the protrusion in each instance. For some weeks after ' Trans. Path. Soo., vol. viii. page 10. VOL. IV.—57