DISORDERS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 847 an irritation of the spinal cord, and not upon a paralysis due to a division of the cord. For on the one hand, a [mere] section of the cord is never followed by these alterations in the kidneys or the bladder; and, on the other hand, we often observe these altera- tions too quickly after the spine has been fractured, to admit that they are due to a paralysis.”1 In the same lecture he also said:— “ The influence of a mechanical excitation of the spinal cord by a piece of broken bone [or of a pathological excitation of the cord by an inflammatory process], deserves the full attention of the physiologist and the practitioner. Among the alterations of nutrition, ... in cases of that kind, we will particularly notice the sloughs on the sacrum, and the various morbid changes that take place in the bladder and in the urinary secretion. These alterations in nutrition and secretion are certainly frequent causes of death after fractures of the spine. Therefore, it is of the greatest importance to find out the mode of production of these morbid changes, and to try to prevent or to cure them.”2 The mode of causation, as well as the 'phenomena of the renal and vesical inflammations which result from lesions of the spinal cord, can be most briefly, as well as clearly set forth, by presenting a few examples; and a very instruc- tive one has already been mentioned on page 749:— A young infantry soldier, aged 19, fractured his fifth cervical vertebra, without dis- placement, while bathing in the Arkansas River, by diving headforemost into shallow water, and immediately became paraplegic from concussion of the spinal cord. Intra- thecal extravasation of blood ensued, and, on the following day, the cord showed signs of compression arising from this cause. But absorption of the extravasated blood occurred, the symptoms of paraplegia gradually passed away, and in eight days he became able to pass his urine without a catheter. He continued to improve during the next four or five days, until traumatic spinal meningitis rather suddenly supervened, its invasion being marked by chills and by a rise in the body-lieat. Myelitis followed. In two or three days alterations in the urinary secretions began to appear. I will now quote the words of the official report: “ On the morning of the 18th, the urine became turbid.” “ By the morning of the 20th, the pulse had become so frequent that it could not be counted, the bowels were loose, the urine was ammoniacal and thick with mucus.” “A very high temperature (105°) followed. The patient at this time was still able to pass his urine without a catheter; but [haematuria supervened and], on the 21st, this instrument was used with difficulty, owing to the formation of clots in the bladder. The patient also suffered from decubitus [bed-sores], and, by the 24th, his stomach became so irri- table as to retain scarcely anything. On the day following his appetite was entirely gone. On the 26th the temperature was 91.8°. He died at noon on the 28th,” twenty-five days after the accident, and ten or twelve days after his urine first began to be abnormal. The autopsy revealed the following urinary lesions : “ The kidneys were enlarged and gorged with blood ; the pelvis of the left being filled with pus.” “ The ureters were very dark, and one of them contained a clot at the entrance of the bladder. The walls of the bladder were of a dark-purple color, inflamed, and thickened ; the mucous membrane being absent in patches.”3 The urinary lesion.s in this case did not arise from injury (traumatism) of the kidneys or bladder, for the urinary discharge did not present any morbid appearances until a fortnight after the accident; they were not due to par- alysis of the bladder, for the urinary paralyse had disappeared, and the man had passed his water at will for a week before it presented any abnormal change; they were not caused by the introduction of septic matters from without, because catheterization had been discontinued for a week before “ the urine became turbid,” and was not again resorted to until three days after- ward, when haematuria bail occurred, and the urethral outlet of the bladder 1 Op. cit., p. 249. 2 Ibid., p. 248. 3 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871, pp- 129-131.