INJURIES OF BONES. 228 A fact of much importance, as will he seen when the subject of treatment conies under discussion, is that the usefulness of the limb after recovery from fracture of the patella is not necessarily in proportion to the closeness of apposition of the fragments. I have seen a number of persons who had had this injury, and in whom very great separation remained, avIio yet were able to walk, to go up and down stairs, and even to mount, as for instance into a chair, as well apparently as ever. One very large and portly man, well known for years in Philadelphia, had had fracture of both patellie at different times, with very lengthy ligamentous union, and yet he walked about freely, and showed no peculiarity of gait beyond what might have been perfectly natural to him. Such, however, is not always the case. Callender1 says: I note in April, 1866, the case of a poor fellow who had fractured either patella some years previously, and who was admitted for some other trouble. He had lost all power of recovering himself when the body was bent back from the knees, and thus he constantly fell whilst moving about. In his case the interval between the two fragments of bone on each side was less than two inches and a half, but then both knees were damaged.” My belief is that much depends upon the confidence felt by the patient; and it is very probable that in a case of simultaneous fracture of both bones, the loss of power would be apt to be greater and more persistent than if the injury should be sustained first in one limb, and at some later period in the other. When fracture of one patella has taken place, and even when, as in an instance recorded by Hamilton,2 the fragments are separated to a distance of four and a half inches, and no bond of union can be detected, the rule is that in a greater or less length of time, with judicious management, the strength and usefulness of the limb are in a very complete measure regained. Hence it seems to me that the prognosis of these cases may be favorable, so far as the ultimate result is concerned ; but the patient should not be led to think that his recovery will be speedy, not only lest he should be disappointed, but also lest he should by imprudence sustain further damage. As to the treatment, a great deal of ingenuity has been expended in the endeavor to devise means of holding the fragments in apposition, or as nearly so as possible; and a vast number of appliances for this purpose, many of them very similar in principle, and varying only in trifling details, have been described, each with its inventor’s name. I shall not attempt to give a com- plete list of these, but propose to state the objects to be aimed at, and the chief methods by which they may be attained ; not omitting any practical suggestions, but not being careful to mention all the curious and complicated mechanisms which have been from time to time recommended, without acquiring more than a transient and local reputation. Surgeons have differed as to the best position in which to place the limb, some advocating the flexion of the liip-joint, others deeming it of little im- portance. Callender3 says: “I hope the old fashioned plan of raising the limb on an inclined plane for the treatment of fracture of the patella is quite obsolete. Fractures of this sesamoid bone are now treated in St. Bartholo- mew’s by rest simply, the limb lying in the horizontal position.” On the other hand, Mr. Croly, of Dublin, is said4 to be “content to obtain good fibrous union by simply elevating the limb, so that a line drawn from the toe will pass on a level with the patient’s nose, the chest and shoulders being raised by a bed-rest, and subduing all inflammation by ice and evaporating lotions.” 1 Loc. cit., p. 49. 3 Loc. cit., p. 48. 3 Op. cit., 6th ed., p. 527. 1880. 4 Lancet (editorial), March 31, 1883.