INJURIES OF THE BACK. 682 a N. Y. Herald, June 8, 1882. the condition of his wound. His attorney courteously responded to this letter, and transmitted a photograph and diagram of the cicatrix, which then bounded a raw sur- face of irregular shape, three inches wide by two inches in height. The photograph is reproduced in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 769). For a long time the granula- tions on this raw surface had been indolent, and the cicatrization had made no progress ; there were no sinuses nor fistulous tracks to indicate the existence of diseased bone, or of any other internal cause of irritation. The invalid’s general health was satisfactory. Dr. Otis advised that M. Reverdin’s plan of skin-grafting, on which Messrs. Bryant and Pollock had latterly reported so favorably, should be resorted to; but, at the time of writing, he had not been informed whether this advice had been followed.1 G. Fischer2 * cites the case of a French soldier, who, while kneeling, was struck by a rolling cannon ball, which carried away a portion of the buttocks having the size of a dinner-plate. In another instance, a piece as large as a man’s hand was torn off. In both cases luxuriant granulations arose, and complete recoveries were expected. Concerning the treatment of this class of injuries, not much remains to be saicl. The chief risks pertaining to them arise from a liability to the occur- rence of tetanus, of spinal meningitis, of septicaemia, of pyaemia, or of ex- haustion from profuseness and protractedness of the suppuration. The plans of treatment should, therefore, be framed with a view to avoid the occurrence of these complications as far as possible. To this end, the dress- ings applied to the wounds should always be antiseptic in their nature, a nourishing diet, with tonics and stimulants, should generally be allowed, and constitutional irritation, as well as pain, should be promptly allayed by a judicious administration of opium or morphia. The action of opiates in these cases, to allay nervous irritation, may sometimes be advantageously supplemented by exhibiting the bromides or chloral hydrate. The cicatriza- tion of the wounds, especially when the sores are large, and have become chronic, should be aided by introducing skin-grafts, as recommended for this class of injuries by Dr. Otis. In civil life, immense lacerated wounds of the back are sometimes inflicted with the implements of labor, accidentally or designedly. For example :— “ Dominick Jeffri, an Italian laborer, was struck in the back with a pickaxe in the hands of John Cannon, a fellow workman, and fatally injured yesterday. The men, who were recently arrived emigrants, were employed in making an excavation for gas pipes on Atlantic Street, Brooklyn, when Jeffri stepped backward in a stooping position just as Cannon’s pick was descending. The full force of the blow drove the sharp- pointed, heavy pick through the back, near the spine, for the depth of five or six inches, causing the blood to flow from a terribly lacerated wound.8 The treatment of this form of injury should be conducted on the principles which have already been laid down. Gunshot (small-arm) Flesh-wounds of the Back. In the Second Surgical Volume of the Medical and Surgical History of the late Civil War, at page 428, there is presented a tabular statement embracing 12,681 cases of gunshot flesh-wound of the back. The number of deaths was exactly 800, which gives a ratio of mortality of a trifle over 6 per cent. The proximate causes of death are specified in 380 of these cases. Eighty- three of them were complicated by other wounds. Of the remaining 297 1 Ibid., p. 430. 2 Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chir., 1872, Bd. I. S. 198. (Otis.)