INJURIES OF TI1E BACK. 816 tinct chill; pyrexia follows, with thirst ancl increased frequency of pulse, and the bod}' temperature may rise to 103° Fahr. The affected part is generally the seat of a dull pain or ache (quite distinct, however, from the intense pain of meningitis), which is increased by bending and by percussing the diseased part, and by applying a hot sponge over it. The functions of the spinal cord are immediately disturbed, and notable derangements of the cutaneous sensibility at once ensue. They often take the form of “ pins and needles,” of a sensation as if water were trickling over the cutaneous sur- face, as if the limbs were asleep, or as if the cutaneous surface were very cold, while in reality it is very hot, and vice versa. It will be remembered that coldness of the surface without any apparent cause was complained of in the first foudroyant case of spinal meningitis above related. But anses- thesia is the general condition of the skin that is most common in this disease. It is, however, attended not unfrequently by cutaneous pain or liypersesthesia; indeed, spontaneous and severe pains are often felt in the skin, when the cutaneous sensibility is already much impaired. Complete analgesia soon follows. The voluntary motility is destroyed at an early period in this disease. At first the reflex excitability may be exaggerated, but it likewise soon disap- pears. Then the sphincter ani and sphincter vesica' entirely cease to act, and the feces and urine flow out into the bed without any restraint whatever. The urine becomes alkaline, and oftentimes is thick with mucus.1 Simul- taneously, sacral eschars, or so-called acute bed-sores, are very liable to be formed. These eschars are due less to the patient’s position than to the lesion of the spinal cord. In twenty-four hours these bed-sores sometimes appear, and in such cases the febrile movement caused by the myelitis is often mistakenly ascribed to the eschars themselves. In the subacute and circumscribed, forms of the disease, the aberrations of sensibility are less strongly marked, and they succeed each other less rapidly on account of the slower progress or the more restricted range of the morbid process. The sensation of a band drawn tightly around the body is generally, but not always, present in such cases, and its seat marks the upper limit of the rachidian inflammation. The destruction of voluntary motility and of reflex excitability usually travels upward, pari passu, with that of sensibility. The inflammatory process in traumatic myelitis generally exhibits a re- markable tendency to spread upward in the rachidian substance. This pecu- liarity was long ago specially noted by Dupuytren, in cases where inflam- mation of the cord had arisen from dislocation or fracture of the spine. The most frequent mode in which traumatic myelitis destroys life is by par- alyzing the respiratory muscles in consequence of its upward spread, and thus causing fatal asphyxia. The following example illustrates this point, as well as several others in the natural history of the disease:— A cavalry soldier at Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, received a shot-wound in the neck, in a brawl, on November 19, 1868, and was taken into hospital shortly afterward. There was complete paralysis of both upper extremities ; respiration gasping and fre- quent; pulse about 100, of fair volume and strength ; mind clear ; he complained of some pain in the hands. The missile had penetrated the neck, on its left side, at the anterior 1 Dr. C. B. Radcliffe, however, has recorded a case (Lancet, December 3, 1864) in which the urine remained acid throughout. The myelitis was acute and very extensive, and in ten or twelve days death ensued. There were retention of urine and marked priapism. The motor and sensory paralysis extended up to a line drawn round the body four inches below the ensiform cartilage ; reflex movements absent. Autopsy.—Spinal membranes, normal; substance of cord, yellowish-red in color and softened to the consistence of cream, from its brachial enlargement to its inferior extremity ; it here consisted of the debris of its normal structure mixed with blood- corpuscles, exudation granules, and some pus-corpuscles.