DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 386 Mr. Hancock to resect the hip, and in which the head of the bone was found on the pubis ; and another, figured by Mr. Holmes.1 A singular coincidence between hip-disease and phimosis was observed by me many years ago. It was so constant, that at last I noted every case of male hip-disease to which I had access. When one hundred had been re- corded, I examined the documents, and found that in only six cases was there no phimosis ; sixty-six had the affection severely, and twenty-eight slightly. I cannot consider this coincidence a mere chance, but think rather that this condition, so apt to induce frequent and long-continued priapism, has upon the infantile spinal cord a deleterious influence, which is reflected back, some- times in mere awkward or stumbling gait, sometimes more severely, in hip- disease. Adverse criticism may, of course, find manifold difficulties and objections to this view of the case, but nevertheless the fact remains. Symptoms.—Occasionally cases of acute hip-disease occur. They are mostly, if not always, examples of osteo-myelitis ; and it seems hardly desirable to add to the remarks which may be found in the section on acute osteitis. It may, however, be noted here, that sometimes during an ordinary attack very acute symptoms, but without any great pyrexia, may arise. These appear to belong to another category—namely, to partial luxation, the head of the bone press- ing on the edge of the acetabulm.2 But the vast majority of cases begin and continue throughout chronic, sometimes without, sometimes with a doubtful history of traumatism.3 First Stage.—This includes all that part of the disease previous to the ad- vent of those postures which produce apparent lengthening and shortening. The symptoms are very significant; their correct interpretation is exceedingly important. They are: limping, joint-pain and tenderness, sometimes swell- ing, fixity of the thigh. Limjnng is the earliest, or, at least, the first symptom observed; it is at first merely occasional, perhaps oidy noticeable after unusual fatigue; some- times most marked at night, sometimes in the morning. Those forms of limping, which evidence great disinclination to place any weight on the limb, indicate a femoral origin. They are all marked by an unevenness of gait, the one step occupying a longer period than the other. After a certain time— occasionally only a few days, more often some weeks—the limp becomes con- stant, and, at the same time, the child begins to look out of health, worn, pale, and dark under the eyes; he sleeps badly and interruptedly. Joint-pain is not always the cause of a limp, for, in many children thus affected, examination, unless unjustifiable violence be used, elicits no sign of pain; while other children, apparently not more severely affected, will scream when placed erect, or if the limb be moved. Most children with hip-disease sleep on the back, or on the sound side; a few on the affected side. When the child is old enough to define the place of pain, he indicates one of several spots: occasionally the outside of the ilium; sometimes a spot on the front, inner aspect of the thigh, a little below the apex of Scarpa’s triangle; more often the knee; at this last place the pain may be very definitely localized in front of the inner condyle, or may be more vaguely spread over the whole aspect of 1 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, p. 466. 2 In one of the three cases above referred to, I resected, for acute symptoms that had rather suddenly supervened, the head of a femur, deeply furrowed by the edge of the acetabulum, on which I found it resting. 3 Dr. Sayre considers hip-joint disease as usually traumatic (Lectures on Orthopaedic Surgery, p. 231 et seq.). I can only say that such is not the fact in England, certainly not in London In some cases the parents refer to a fall or injury, in this as in all other joint-diseases, but such histories are generally hunted up for the sake of finding a cause, and often are imaginary.