416 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. the leg lies at less than a right angle to the thigh, division of the tibia also is probably desirable in order to obviate deformity and inconvenient projection of the knee. I performed the double operation for a rectangular anchylosis some years ago, but believe that it is not necessary in all such cases if the subject be young ; when the angle is acute, it will probably be desirable. The effect of division of the femur alone may first he tried, and, if replacement cannot be thus effected, or if it produce great tension of the skin, or sufficient pressure on the popliteal artery to sensibly affect the pulsation of the tibia! vessels, the limb may be left at an angle of 135°, and complete rectification afterwards procured by division of the leg-bones. The method of operating on the femur is this: For osteotomy of this de- scription the surgeon requires, of peculiar instruments, merely a small mallet of some rather heavy wood, such as lignum vitce, and a chisel. This latter must not like an ordinary carpenter’s chisel be bevelled to the cutting part entirely from the face, hut from both back and front, so that the lateral border is lancet-shaped. Two very important points the surgeon must test for him- self, since instrument makers are much inclined to go wrong. The blade must not get thicker or broader above the bevel, since, if it do so, it is sure to get jammed while cutting the bone; indeed, if any difference in thickness may be allowed, the maximum should he just where the bevel begins. My chisel has these dimensions: At the lower, the cutting end, it is y9^ inch broad and just over inch thick. At the upper end it is \ inch broad and a shade less than inch thick. When fully anaesthetized, the patient is to he placed on his sound side,1 and the limb of that side is to be drawn down quite straight, at both hip and knee. The other limb is bent, crossing over the sound one so that the inner condyle rests on a small bag of slightly moistened sand, which gives sufficient resistance to let the mallet-blows tell, and yet does not bruise the part lying on it. The ridge on the condyle which separates the articular facet from its outer lateral surface should be made out; a line or two above this is the most con- venient place for operating.2 A scalpel, with the edge looking forward, is passed through all the soft parts to the bone ; the skin is best divided by pulling it backward with the other hand against the blade ; by moving the point forward, well pressed against the bone, the periosteum is incised. Tak- ing the chisel in the other hand, the surgeon slides it along the flat of the knife, still kept in place, until it is felt to come in contact with the bone, which must necessarily be at the periosteal wound. Now the scalpel is withdrawn, and by taps of the mallet, gentle at first, the instrument is made to bite, that is, to sink into the bone so deeply that it supports its own weight; after this, the mallet-blows may be a little heavier. By this means the chisel is driven in various directions into the bone, taking care between every four or five mallet-taps to loosen the instrument by moving it sideways, that is, across the axis of the hone, not up and down. Sometimes, in spite of all care, the chisel may get jammed sufficiently to require some force in loosen- ing it, and in doing this it may be pulled a little too forcibly, and come out of"the osseous wound. When this happens, it is very essential to make sure of its re-introduction into the same slit, as otherwise a thin shaving of bone might be severed, which would be very likely to become necrosed and set up suppuration. Thereupon the chisel should he quite removed, when the eye-end of a silver probe may be passed into the flesh-wound, and gently moved up and down till it falls into the osseous gap; along this the chisel is to be guided into its proper place, and the cutting may then recommence. 1 I prefer operating from the outer aspect of the thigh. 2 Even although disease have obliterated this ridge, there will be no difficulty in fixing the spot above indicated.