794 INJURIES OF THE BACK. mater of the cord remains entire and without ecchymosis, as it did in the cases just related. On slicing the cord, however, its substance is found to be crushed more or less completely through and through, and blackened by extravasated blood. Sometimes the cord-substance is utterly smashed and broken down into a diffluent pulp throughout a space one inch or more in length, while the pia mater over it remains entire. In other instances, ecchy- mosis is plainly visible on the outer surface of the cord. Occasionally, this ecchymosis is very considerable in degree and extent. For instance, Lasalle1 reports the case of a man, aged 36, and a maniac, who injured his neck by violently throwing his head forward, while struggling against restraint. His head remained bent forward, and there was spinal paralysis. Death ensued thirty- six hours afterward. Necroscopy showed that the intervertebral substance between the bodies of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras w'as torn through, without any frac- ture, and with but slight displacement of the implicated bones. Great ecchymosis, however, was found on the spinal cord. Symptoms.—Besides the signs of spinal paralysis already mentioned, e. g., the destruction of sensibility, of voluntary motion, and of reflex motor action, in the parts supplied by spinal nerves which issue from the cord below the bruise, another important symptom, namely, liypersesthesia, is not unfre- quently observed. For example, Mr. Bryant2 relates the case of a coal-porter, aged 33, who fell down stairs with a sack of coal on top of him, and broke his neck. He had spinal paralysis, priapism, and diaphragmatic breathing; but, after a few hours, liypersesthesia came on. In thirty-four hours death ensued. Necroscopy revealed fracture and displacement of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrne. The cord was contused but not compressed. The liypersesthesia does not appear to have been caused by injury of the spinal nerves, but by changes that were taking place in the bruised part of the spinal cord. There are not yet on record so many examples of contusion of the spinal marrow, with a full account of the symptoms and post-mortem appearances observed in each, that we can safely trust to generalizations drawn from them, and thus dispense with giving the particulars of the cases, when discussing the subject. The details of the following example are very instructive:— Mr. South3 relates the case of an old man, aged 68, who was injured and stunned by falling down stairs, and who was admitted to St. Thomas’s Hospital a few hours after- ward : He had pain at the back of his neck, which was increased by pressure ; all his limbs, except the left lower extremity, which still retained slight motion, were palsied ; the sen- sibility of the whole right side of the body was morbidly acute, that of the left totally destroyed, excepting on the belly, where he felt slightly, and to which he referred a sensation of numbness when the left thigh was pinched. Next day he complained of pain in the right arm ; the skin on the left side of the belly was less sensible. On the third day the morbid sensibility of the right side had diminished, and sensation had slightly returned on the left. He complained of pain in the right hypochondrium, and fancied that his arms lay across his chest. On the following day the belly became tym- panitic. On the fifth day there was slight motion of the left arm, and the capability of moving the right leg had increased; but he was rapidly sinking, although in good heart, and died late at night. On examination, it was found that the atlas was broken in two places, the line of fracture being diagonal, and traversing the left vertebral hole. The pivot of the axis was broken off at its root, and a small piece of the body also. The fifth vertebra was fractured through the body. With neither fracture was there sufficient displacement to produce pressure. On cutting through the spinal cord a central cell was found, containing a small quantity of blood, and the substance of the spinal cord was broken down and disorganized opposite the fifth vertebra. 1 Gazette Medicate, 1841. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. v. 3 Notes to Chelius’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 585, Am. ed.