INJURIES OF BONES. 198 occurs, of course, only in the young, the epiphysis uniting with the neck at about the eighteenth year. Another important difference, as appears from the recorded cases, is the much greater violence generally assigned as the cause of the epiphyseal disjunction. Six instances of this lesion may be found described by Hamilton, one of which he himself saw. Hutchinson1 met with one, and refers to two others. Stimson2 quotes a case in which the diagnosis was verified by dissection. Hr. J. M. Barton has recently3 reported the case of a boy of fifteen, in which he suspected a lesion of this character, but the evidence does not seem to me to have been conclusive. Far more may be expected from treatment, in a lesion of this kind, than in the fractures which affect the same region in advanced life. Such short- ening as exists, may be corrected by extension with the weight and pulley, and the joint may be immobilized by means of a well-applied plaster-of-Paris bandage around the pelvis and thigh. This confinement may be continued, with sand-bags on either side of the limb, and the extension kept up, for two or three weeks in the case of a child; a longer confinement would be advantageous in patients beyond the age of puberty. Cautious experiments should be made at first in allowing flexion of the hip-joint, but if they are productive of no pain or irritation, more and more freedom may be accorded to the patient, until he can move the limb without hindrance; after which, with equal caution, he may be encouraged to put the foot to the ground, and to bear his weight upon it. A number of years ago, I had a patient, nineteen years of age, who, by a fall from a very high wagon-seat, had sustained a fracture of the cervix femoris, the existence of which was verified, with the patient under ether, by Hr. Nancrede and myself. He was treated in the manner above men- tioned, and in six weeks was driving his wagon again, with scarcely any perceptible lameness in walking. My belief is, that the lesion was really a separation of the epiphysis. Fracture of the trochanter major is by no means uncommon as a complica- tion of fracture of the neck of the bone; and it has been known to occur by itself, but the recorded instances are very few. Mr. Key’s case, published by Sir A. Cooper,4 which occurred in 1822, was the first, as far as I know. It was that of a young girl who fell in the street, striking the trochanter against a curb-stone; the nature of the lesion was only discovered after the patient’s death. Mr. B. Cooper5 gives an account of another case which was seen by him, and in which the diagnosis was justified by the symptoms as described, although the patient recovered, and hence absolute certainty could not be arrived at. The man’s age is not stated. Stanley6 has reported two cases, but in regard to one at least there is room for doubt whether it was not really an ordinary extra-capsular fracture of the cervix, the trochanter also being separated. Bryant mentions one in a boy aged twelve, treated by Mr. Poland. McCarthy7 reports that a girl of eight, having fallen on her left side, had an abscess in the hip, and that this communicated with one within the pelvis; she had also pyaemia, with pericarditis, pleurisy, and pneumonia, and the trochanter was found detached. Roddick8 saw a young man, aged sixteen, who had a strain while exercising, and a few days afterward symptoms of abscess about the trochanter, which was found necrosed and separated. 1 Med. Times and Gazette, Feb. 24, 1866. 2 Op. cit., p. 496 ; from Bull, de la Societe Anatomique for 1867. 3 Medical News, July 14, 1883. 4 Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, p. 186. s Ibid., p. 187. 6 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xiii. 1 Trans, of the Pathological Society, vol. xxv. London, 1874. 8 Canada Medical and Surgical Journal, Nov. 1875.