570 TUMORS. veiling tissue, for they may occur equally, whether this tissue be fibrous or sarcomatous. Cystoid cavities are, iu some rare instances, formed owing to mucous transformation of the fibrous tissue, or to the combination of fibrous with mucous tissue. Fibrous tumors may occur either singly or in numbers. Multiple fibromas grow in the uterus, in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and on the nerves. Those of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and the tumors of the nerves, are in some persons very numerous; they may exist in hundreds. Some of their relations and characters are so peculiar- that they deserve remark. They commence in many instances in childhood, or even during infancy. They increase in size for the most part slowly, but there seems scarcely a limit to the number which may be produced. They are usually restricted to the tissues mentioned above, but occasionally affect tissues nearly allied in their disposition, the submucous tissue for example. The large majority of the tumors remain exceedingly small, even when their existence for forty or fifty years has been established. In the monograph already mentioned, Reck- linghausen has given an admirable account of the structure of these tumors in two patients. They were decidedly fibrous, but their intimate structure differed somewhat according to the precise nature of the structures from which they were derived. Most of the multiple fibromas of the skin and nerves are hard, but some are quite soft. To certain cases of the latter variety the term fibroma molluscum has been applied, partly on account of their soft consistence, partly, I believe, on account of the resemblance of many of the cutaneous tumors to those of molluscum contagiosum. The appearance of the larger soft tumors of fibroma molluscum resembles that of the soft fibro- cellular tumors. Microscopic sections, however, exhibit a structure which is very different from that of most fibrous or fibro-cellular tumors. They are composed in great part of trabeculae of cells containing vessels, and inclosing spaces filled with fiuid. The cells vary much in shape and size; many of them are spindle-shaped or stellate. But cells of a very different character are sometimes seen among them, or in the fluid—round or oval cells with a double contour, nucleated, and closely resembling cartilage cells. With the tumors of small and moderate size in this disease are not uncommonly asso- ciated huge outgrowths of connective tissue covered with thick and roughened skin, which hang down around the patient’s body in a great fold or folds.1 Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The clinical characters of fibroma vary according to the situation and variety of the tumor. Thus the tumor may be extremely firm, nay,.hard; or extremly soft, and even fluctuating. It may be very mova- ble, or immovably adherent; it may be perfectly circumscribed, or diffused, and indistinguishably blended with the tissues of the part in which it grows. And yet the diagnosis of fibroma is not, for most examples, difficult. For, although the clinical characters of all fibromas, taken collectively, are subject to wide variation, the characters of the fibromas of each part in which they commonly occur, are generally decidedly impressed. In the breast, for example, the fibrous tumors are generally small, perfectly circumscribed, nodular, very freely movable, detached or almost separate from the gland, of rounded shape and slow growth, painless, and not adherent to the skin or muscle; they at- tack usually the breasts of young women. They can only lie mistaken for ade- nomas, an error quite unimportant; or for sarcomas, from which they may be distinguished in most instances by the quicker growth of the latter and their less mobility. In the lower jaw, again, the fibrous tumors assume generally 1 [These are the growths to which the terms dermatolysis (Wilson), pachydermatocele (Mott), and eiloides (Warren), have been applied.]