695 SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. ot' the abdomen. There was no displacement of the bodies or spinous processes of the vertebrae. For several days, the loins were fomented with a strong decoction of chamo- mile flowers and wormwood. His favorite posture in bed was that of lying upon the side (it did not seem to matter which side), with his body semi-flexed, and knees drawn up. For many days he was reluctant to make any change whatever in his posture, because of the excruciating pains in the lumbar region, which every little twist or flexure of the injured articulations of the spine, and every contraction of the lumbar muscles, gave rise to. As continuous confinement to bed was enforced, the first im- portant evidence that he was recovering was noted when he began to move himself about in bed, of his own accord. On discontinuing the fomentations, a large belladonna plaster was applied to the loins. He was confined to bed just four weeks, and the com- plete rest of the injured parts, thus secured, was the chief means relied upon to promote his recovery. He wore belladonna plasters, and complained of feeling lame and weak in the lumbar region for a long time afterward ; but, in the end, he perfectly recovered. In this case, the articulations of the lumbar vertebrae were wrenched in a peculiar manner. The young man’s buttocks, in falling from a height of fully fourteen feet, struck the ground with great force. At that instant, the lower part of the spinal column was suddenly compelled to support the weight and impetus, or momentum, of all parts of the body situated above the loins, the first effect of which was to compress the intervertebral substances, to be followed, however, in an instant afterward, by a violent bending of the spinal column backward, at the peculiar curvature formed by the lumbar vertebrae on top of the sacral curvature. The greatest part of the strain, therefore, fell upon the articulations of the last three lumbar vertebrae; and, at the same time, the intervertebral substance and the bodies of these vertebrae were in the line of extension. In this way, the anterior and posterior common ligaments of the spine, and the intervertebral substances, in the lumbar region, together with the psoas muscles, were all severely stretched ; and this circumstance accounts for the fact that much tenderness under pressure was discerned on examining the lumbar vertebrae through the front wall of the abdomen. The nature of the lesion also explains why it was that the attempt to crawl on the belly caused so much increase of the pains in the injured part; for, on elevating the shoulders in order to execute the movements which constitute crawling, the injured vertebral ligaments and muscles were again put on the stretch. A good illustration of the last-mentioned kind of accident, in which the vulnerating force is indirectly applied to the lumbar region, was lately under my care:— E. B. C., aged about 60, while walking in the second-story hall of an old house, January 21, 1882, entirely oblivious of danger, was suddenly struck on top of the head by a mass of plastering, estimated to weigh over two hundred pounds, that, having become loosened, had fallen down from the ceiling, which itself was rather lofty, being about sixteen feet high. The blow on the head, of course, was exceedingly violent; it gave him a scalp-wound two and one-half inches long over the right parietal bone, with severe concussion and contusion of the brain. His body was also bent forward, and doubled up, by the force of the blow on the head and the weight or momentum of the falling mass of plastering, so that he was instantly crushed down to the floor, where he lay stunned for some little time. The forcible bending forward and doubling up of his body took place at the loins ; and thus the lumbar muscles and the articulations of the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrae were badly strained. Obviously, the structures of the fore- part of bis spinal column suffered powerful compression at the place of forcible flexure, while those at the back-part thereof were subjected to violent elongation and over- stretching. The cerebral lesion masked to a great extent the subjective symptoms of the lumbar lesions, for a considerable time ; but, objectively, there soon arose a swell- ing across the injured loins which attained the thickness of a man’s hand, was very tender under pressure, and lasted a long time. The quietude and other remedial mea-