844 INJURIES OF THE BACK. contraction, catheterization performed at suitable intervals is always neces- sary, and must never be neglected ; in fact, the operation is indispensable in such cases, for, if it be not performed, the urinary secretion will continue to accumulate in the viscus, until it becomes distended even to the point of bursting. I have myself seen more than one case, in civil as well as in military practice, of vesical paralysis arising from spinal injury, in which, from want of catheterization, the bladder became so much distended as to cause a notable tumefaction, discernible on external examination, and in which, on introducing a flexible instrument, a great quantity of urine, an ordinary chamber utensil more than half full, or considerably more than half a gallon, was withdrawn, and that, too, when there were no signs of urinary overflow present. Inasmuch as these two forms of urinary retention are clinically distinguishable from each other only by experimentally ascer- taining whether reflex motor action can be excited in the detrusor muscle, the safest course for the surgeon to pursue, in both forms, is to draw ofl' the water at suitable intervals with a perfectly clean, flexible instrument. Incontinence of urine, when it results directly from injury or disease of the spinal cord, is always due to paralysis of the sphincter muscle, that is, to functional inactivity or destruction of the tonic centre in the cord upon which the contraction of its fibres, and the closure of the urethral orifice of the bladder, entirely depend. Paralysis of the sphincter vcsicie arising from destruction of its reflex centre, is almost invariably associated with paralysis of the detrusor urinse, because its reflex centre is also destroyed. These reflex centres may be directly destroyed by injuries, e. <j., by fractures or disloca- tions of the lumbar vertebra, or by hemorrhage into or inflammation of the cord-substance. But, as already intimated, paralysis of the sphincter vesicle is very rare per se. It is nearly always accompanied by paralysis of the de- trusor muscle, and by paralysis of the rectum. Interruptions of the conducting parts to and from the brain, in the spinal cord above the reflex centres for the vesical muscles, are of frequent occur- rence in spinal injuries. When the lesion of the cord is suddenly produced, it may be accompanied by a concussion of the cord which temporarily arrests the reflex motor functions of all the segments situated below the lesion, including of course the urinary centres. In chronic cases, the effect of the rachidian lesion varies with its position and extent. When the sensory con- ductors or sensory perceptive centres only are affected, the desire to urinate is not perceived ; the reflex arc is uninjured, and, as soon as the bladder be- comes sufficiently distended with urine, it is unconsciously evacuated. It, therefore, should be remembered that the involuntary discharge of urine and feces, in cases of paraplegia or coma, does not necessarily imply any paralysis of the bladder or rectum. When the motor and inhibitory conducting fibres of the cord alone are interrupted, the desire to urinate is perceived, but the act itself takes place quite independently of volition. It can neither be assisted nor deferred by any effort of the will in such cases. Concussion of the spinal cord, especially when the lower part of it alone is affected, may be attended by paralysis of the detrusor muscle, indicated by retention of urine, when no other portion of the muscular system appears to be paralyzed. Concussion of the spinal cord, when severe enough to produce paraplegia (that is, both voluntary-motor and sensory paralysis in the lower part of the body), may also suppress for a time the reflex motor functions of the urinary centres, as well as the conducting functions of the rachidian fibres; and then paralysis of the sphincter muscle, with incontinence of urine, will also be present.