DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 418 tlie posture of the lower femoral fragment. It is better, therefore, to let from a month to six weeks, according to the age of the patient, elapse, and then divide the leg-bones. It certainly is better to divide both fibula and tibia, rather than the tibia alone, while fracturing the former by mere manual force. Just a little below its head, the fibula dwindles down into a very thin neck. Choosing a spot just below its head, and a little behind the bone, the knife is sunk and the chisel glided down to it; two or three taps with the mallet will so far weaken it that it may readily be broken by pressure with the thumb. The surgeon now finds a place on the inner posterior edge of the tibia, on a level with the lower part of the tubercle; here the head or tuberosity of the tibia ceases and the shaft begins. It is almost subcutaneous, so that the knife followed by the chisel reaches the bone very easily. From this point it is driven in a direction for- ward and a very little outward ; then, being almost withdrawn, it is directed more backward, but still outward and a little forward. A very slight back- ward twitch will fracture the rest, the knee and recent line of union of the divided femur being held firmly. The same bandages and modes of dressing- are used as after the previous osteotomy. Fig. 671. Tree anchylosis of knee after division of femur. Fig. 672. The same limb after division of tibia and fibula also. This mode of treating anchylosis is very successful and extremely satis- factorv. Very remarkable is the slight amount of deformity left by an operation which must bend a bone, normally straight, at a very considerable angle. Let us, for instance, assume that a knee is anchylosed at a right angle; the femur is divided and the tibia brought to lie in a line with the femur.1 To effect this, the bone must lie bent at a right angle at the place of section. At first (as in Fig. 672), a considerable inflection is perceptible, but 1 Strictly, in a line parallel to a prolongation of the axis of the femur.