t>3 GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. York,1 in passing the wire through holes drilled in the walls of the frag- ments, so as to keep them in apposition. Many cases of union brought about in this way are upon record ; it is especially applicable where there are two bones, ancl those very movable, as in the forearm. Dr. Id. J. Bigelow2 at- taches importance to stripping up the periosteum from the fragments, for a short distance, before dividing the bony structure. Other American surgeons who have operated in this way with success are Brainard,3 Byrd,4 Jones,5 Sanborn,6 Ashhurst, and myself.7 Cases are also reported by Annandale,8 and Renton.9 A somewhat more complicated device was employed by Le Moyne,10 in the shape of a steel clamp, drilling and ivory pegs having been previously used without success. A ext day the clamp was found to have started from the upper fragment; the wound was therefore reopened, and silver wires placed around clamp and fragments, so as to hold the former lirmly in place. Two months after the operation union seemed to be perfect, but the wire and clamp were so lirmly held that it was determined to leave them, and the wires were cut off as closely as possible. At the last report, some months afterward, the wound was almost entirely closed. Hamilton11 speaks of having on one occasion engaged the end of one frag- ment in the medullary canal of the other, but does not state with what suc- cess. Roux12 did the same, but, although no bad symptoms ensued, a fall at the end of two months caused such fresh injury that the arm was amputated. It would be interesting to know what was the state of the bone which had been so treated. Aussbaum is reported13 to have operated by transplantation in a case of frac- ture of the ulna with loss of substance. lie cut a portion two inches long, comprising about half the thickness of the bone, from the upper fragment, and, without severing its fibrous attachments entirely, he shifted it down- wards so as to fill up the gap. The I’esult is said to have been entirely satis- factory. Such a procedure could scarcely be undertaken except by a surgeon with shoulders broad enough to take the consequences of possible failure. Having now passed in review the various plans which have from time to time been employed for the cure of pseudarthrosis, the subject may be dis- missed with a few general remarks. In the first place, the milder measures should be first adopted, where they offer any chance of success. In cases of long standing, where the broken ends have obviously become rounded off, and are completely separated, there may be no reason for delay ; and here resection and wiring seems to me to be the safest and most certain of the methods. But in more "hopeful cases, after rest and accurate adaptation have been tried, with rubbing of the fragments upon one another, drilling may be resorted to, with or without the insertion of ivory pegs. Failing all these, an operation may be determined upon. As to the gravity ot resection, it has been by some surgeons over-estimated, and by others, perhaps, not sufficiently appreciated. The condition brought about is not precisely that of compound fracture, since there is far less injury inflicted on the soft parts, and the previous pathological processes have estab- 1 Heard, New York Journal of Medicine, Oct. 1839. 2 Ununited Fractures successfully treated, with Remarks on the Operation. By Henry J. Bigelow, M.D., etc. Boston, 1867. 3 Northwestern Med. and Surg. Journal, Aug. 1848. 4 Richmond and Louisville Med. Journal, Oct. 1874, and N. Y. Med. Journal, May, 1876. 6 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1866. 6 Ibid., July, 1859, and April, 1860. 7 Ibid., July, 1875. 8 British Med. Journal, Jan. 9, 1875. 9 Lancet, July 22, 1882. 10 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1879. 11 Op. cit., p. 82. 12 Malgaigne, op. cit., t. i. p. 315. Translation, p. 255. 13 Med. Times and Gazette, April 24, 1875.