297 STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. the one, in which a considerable tendency to growth is combined with incom- pleteness or at least tardiness in completing the process; the other, in which the finish of the modelling is perfect, even exquisite, hut in which the nutrition or assimilation by the tissues is insufficient. The former of these types is marked by a want of definition about the making of the features; we might say, if we wTere speaking of a sculptor’s work, that a rough lump-sketch had been blocked out, but that the outlines had been left blurred, and that the modelling was unfinished. Thus the head is large and uneven, big behind ; the ears are large and stand out widely, their folds and edges being thick and hadly marked ; the undecided, thick, under lip is apt to droop, and both it and the upper one to crack ; the alte of the nose look swollen and have no distinct edging, nor do they come off from the face at a well-defined place, unless marked by redness round about. The eyelids also, often edged with red, and fringed with short, thick lashes that stand out in different directions and are apt to mat together, have the same lack of clear and distinct modelling ; add to this a dull, coarse hair, gravel-colored or lustreless black, and we have the strongly drawn type of that struma which tends to the scrofulous, the glandular-swell- ing variety. The characteristics of the other kind are much more pleasing, indeed often exquisitely beautiful: the thin skin, almost translucent in its delicacy, either of the milk-and-rose or of the soft-brunette complexion, covers features of the finest form and most refined modelling; the long eyelashes fringe their lids marked with a delicate tracery of wandering veins ; the eye- brows are softly pencilled; the forehead is placid and smooth, with ash-gray tones in the half shadows; the long hair is delicate, fine and silken in texture ; and the lips are red and finely cut. There is no particular complexion for this form ; the hair varies from brown, through auburn, to very fair.1 Often a fine but long down grows on parts not usually hairy, especially at the edges of the usual capillary growth—-for instance, low and far forward on the temples and sides of the forehead. This type tends little to scrofulosis, but rather to tuberculosis. Both these types of personal formation are the result of certain peculiari- ties of nutrition, affecting the areolar and other connective tissues; and since inflammation is but a modification of nutritive acts, it is evident that if nu- trition be peculiar its modification will also be of a peculiar type. We find therefore that inflammations occurring in strumous persons—or, if we like to call them so, “ strumous inflammations”—are marked by certain special features, viz., a tendency to fall into a very chronic form, and for the inflam- matory products to remain during lengthened periods embryonic (granula- tion-tissue), and then either to caseate or to suppurate with much fatty degeneration. Indeed, according to Billroth,2 “we may assume a scrofulous diathesis for those cases in which a slight and transient irritation of some part of the body sets up a chronic inflammatory process, which not only out- lasts the irritation, but spreads or continues independently of it, and which usually results in suppuration or caseation, and rarely assumes the form of pure hyperplasia.” In the British Islands, and more especially in the large towns, struma is very prevalent; hence we have to do, in both hospital and private practice, with a great number of inflammations which have the characteristics given by Bill- roth very strongly marked; among these is a class of very chronic and very persistent joint-diseases, having but little tendency to get well, but apt rather to run on to destructive processes. The history of such cases may be conve- niently described as passing through three stages. 1 The combination of very dark hair with blue eyes is significant. 2 Scropbulosis und Tuberkulosis; Pitha und Billroth, llandbucli der Cliirurgie, Bd. i. Abth. 2, Heft 1, S. 311.