61 GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. larger surface, passed a wire loop between the fragments.1 At present the setou has been abandoned in favor of more certain methods ; it was not free from danger, and I have myself witnessed a death from its use. Drilling of the fragments has been practised by many surgeons, with a large measure of success; it may be done with an ordinary gimlet, although various forms of more surgical-looking instruments have been devised for the purpose. Fig. 589 represents that employed by the late Prof. J. Pancoast; Fig. 589. Pancoast’s screw for ununited fracture. and Fig. 590 a more complex, but very convenient instrument, invented by Mr. T. Gemrig. Dieffenbach’s plan of introducing ivory pegs into the holes, thus made in the bone, enjoyed for a time a high place in surgical esteem, and Fig. 590. Improved drill for ununited fracture. has not yet been wholly given up. Bickersteth2 is said to have described, in 1854, a modification of Dieffenbach’s process, which proved very efficient; it consisted in drilling the broken ends, and nailing them together with ivory pegs. Anderson3 reports a case in which the pegs were not removed for four months, and quotes from Trendelenburg one in which they were allowed to remain for a year and a half. From an observation reported by Riedinger to the tenth German Surgical Congress,4 it would appear that ivory pegs buried in a human bone need not undergo absorption, but may remain for years without exciting reaction ; any portion, however, which may project outside of the periosteum, does become absorbed at that level, and drops off. M. Schede, of Hamburg, recently exhibited to the Congress of the German Society of Surgery,5 some gilt steel needles, three and a half centimetres in length, and two millimetres in thickness, used with advantage by him in cases of pseudarthrosis. Ten or twelve of these needles are inserted into the softened part of the bone, without any complaint of pain on the part of the patient; an antiseptic dressing is then applied. The needles are kept in place about fifteen days. So far, M. Schede says, this simple and convenient procedure has succeeded in all the cases in which it has been employed. 1 Med.-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xvi. 1830. 2 Note signed “ W. T. C.,” Lancet, Dec. 16, 1882. 3 Trans, of Pathological Society of London, 1881. 4 Verhandlungen, 1881, S. 167. s Gaz. Med. de Paris, Aug. 12, 1882.