272 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. synovitis, pass through various phases of exacerbation until it end in anchy- losis ; and that, therefore, it will behoove him to place every inflamed joint in or near such a position as will leave the limb most useful. This position is, fortunately, that which is most advantageous for immediate treatment. So important is posture in the management of joint disease, that it certainly is unwise to temporize. If, when the surgeon is called in, he finds the limb in a had position, and so fixed that he cannot change it by mere traction, without producing severe pain and muscular spasm, it becomes his duty to administer an anaesthetic, and to place the joint in a good position and on a proper splint while his patient is unconscious. But certain joints are, if they are to be anchylosed, most useful when flexed; others, when straight or nearly straight; and it fortunately happens that these particular postures are those that are best for curative treatment. Therefore each joint lias its own angle for fixation, both for treatment and for use. The shoulder should be placed so that the elbow lies a little in front of the median plane of the body, and a little separated from the flank, while the hand may be supported against the thorax of the sound side. A wedge-shaped cushion, which goes by the name of Stromeyer,1 may be used for this purpose; or, since that is rather liable to slip, two pieces of wood may be placed to- gether in a V shape, inverted, and retained by a metal bracket. One of these is to lie upon the side, the other supports the arm; this latter is to be about three or three and a half inches broad, and is to reach from the borders of the axilla to the inner condyle. The other is to be of the same breadth above, but may gradually widen towards its lower end. To use it, place it when well but not too thickly padded, with its apex in the axilla; bind, by circular turns of a bandage, the one part to the chest, taking care that the other leg of the V shall he in the desired position, and that one or two turns of the bandage shall run from the angle, across the chest and back, to the sound shoulder. When this first portion is well secured, lay the arm on its appro- priate part of the splint, and bind it in its place.2 The elbow is best kept at a right angle, the hand so placed that the thumb lies upward. For this joint a moulded splint of poro-plastic felt, or of leather, is preferable to a flat one of wood. It may be applied either to the inner or outer side. The wrist must he kept straight; an ordinary “ dish” splint answers the purpose sufficiently for this sort of case, but a thick pad is to be placed under the palm so as to allow the fingers to be slightly flexed. The hip too must he kept straight, and should also be slightly abducted. The unfortunately common affection known as hip-disease will be discussed in another part of this article; but it is necessary to remark here that that disease very rarely begins in acute synovitis, which is usually a much milder affection, running its whole course, under good treatment, in about ten days. When the surgeon is confident in his diagnosis of a mere synovitis coxse, he may rest content with placing his patient on his back in bed, and employing weight extension, as in cases of fractured thigh. The knee must he placed nearly straight, and the foot a little in flexion; theoretically, a perfectly straight joint would be preferable, but practically that posture does not avail, because it very soon becomes painful, and because the strain on the Winslow’s and posterior crucial ligaments keeps up the inflam- matory irritation. As to the sort of splint to be employed, many different opinions prevail. Some surgeons, more especially in Germany, prefer the 1 See Figs. 260, 261. Vol. II., page 158. 2 In cases of obesity, and also in very thin subjects, it is-better not to let the two boards quite meet, but to keep them nearly or quite an inch apart at the apex of the splint; there must then be two metal brackets, one at each end.