419 NEUROSES OF JOINTS. in a month or two the divided bone appears quite straight; the entering angle, the soft parts being lifted away, appears to become filled up, and the salient angle, pressed up by soft parts somewhat stretched, to become absorbed. Thus the ultimate result—that is, about four months after the photograph was taken —showed in this case of double osteotomy a straight limb without deformity of either segment. Under certain unusual conditions osteotomy might be required at the shoulder (upper end of the humerus); or at the ankle (lower end of the tibia and fibula), for anchylosis of the foot at an awkward angle. Neuroses of Joints. (Hysterical Joints.) The nature and pathology of hysteria hardly lie within the scope of a surgical work ; but I may be permitted to say that the name is somewhat unfortunate, because, first, although chiefly manifested in, it is not absolutely confined to, the female sex; and because, secondly, it frequently occurs without owing its origin in any way to the uterus or other genital organs. Never- theless, the malady is most common where some cause of uterine irritation may be traced. Thus, certain women are always hysterical when pregnant, and never at other times; some are hysterical just prior to the appearance of the catamenia, the symptoms ceasing when the flow is fully established ; some prostitutes are always strongly hysterical. These instances furnish distinct evidence of genital irritation ; but the larger number of cases, though not as a rule the more violent ones, are furnished by unmarried maidens, between the ages of 17 and 30, and in a goodly proportion of such cases amenorrlicea, dysmenorrhcea, or a slight degree of menorrhagia, is present. Sometimes ovarian pain, in all probability produced by congestion, can be detected; and, in many cases, there is a history of misplaced or disappointed affection. But, on the contrary, many hysterical persons have no uterine malady what- ever, nor, as far as can be ascertained, any disappointment. Both women and —but far more rarely—men, reduced by long and wearing disease, may be affected by that form of causeless, or almost causeless, weeping, which we call hysterical. The forms which hysteria takes are two—viz., hysterical paroxysm and mock disease. The two are rarely coincident and simultaneous, but' the latter not unfrequently succeeds the former; and I have known a good strong fit to dispel most obstinate articular and spinal hysterical neuralgia. Although no period of life, after puberty, is exempt from liability to this neurosis, yet there are some differences and peculiarities at different ages. Young women—that is, from 17 to 25—are more subject to the paroxysmal form. After 25 (unless in pregnancy) the tendency is more towards mock disease. If at the younger age some local malady be simulated, it is l’ather more commonly of the spine than of a joint; and if of a joint, the hip is most usually affected. Again, the hysterical neuralgia of the young is of an acute kind—the pain is described as “horrible,” or “awful;” that of the more mature has the characters of a chronic disease.1 . A peculiarity of all hysterical symptoms is this: That any moderate ex- citement or shock, whether of joy or grief, may excite or bring them on, whether previously quite absent or merely slight. But a violent shock, as 1 Numerous exceptions to these aphorisms occur. The malady is protean, and it is only possible, in so variable a disease, to indicate the prevalent conditions.