STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. 305 spots by the cartilage ulceration, sometimes spreads laterally beneath the articular lamella, and the resulting osteitis is much more extensive than the original chondritis; the cancellar plates and articular lamella consequently give way for a considerable distance beneath cartilage which is still in a sound, or almost sound, condition. That piece of cartilage therefore, being now detached, lies floating, as it were, between synovial and bone granula- tions, having still adherent to its deep surface a sabulous matter composed of the detritus of the articular lamella. Thus the joint has arrived at this state: the two (or, in some instances, three) bones are no longer closed at their ends, either by cartilage or a con- tinuous plate of bone ; their cancelli, on the contrary, lie open, and from them sprout granulations, which, with those from the synovial membrane, form one mass. The unsealed bones are conjoined by a mass of granulations, in the midst of which is a cavity, usually containing pus, and there are generally also more abscess-cavities among the inflammatory tissues. The capsular or other ligaments are likewise invaded by this same material, and are thereby softened and loosened, and may in time become absorbed. It is, however, rare that the mere proliferating (granulating) mass goes on to thus entirely occupy the place of the former joint, without, in some part, undergoing either degenerative and destructive, or reparatory and consolidating acts. Thus there may be abscesses in various parts, accompanied or preceded by fatty degeneration, or, more rarely, by spots of caseation ; or, again, we may And here and there a tendency to form cicatricial-like, fibrous tissue through- out a greater or less extent of the growth. All these changes we will leave for the present, in order to study certain phenomena that accompany syno- vitis, and, more especially, the ulceration of cartilage. We have seen (page 264) that in acute synovitis the flexor muscles shorten very considerably, thus producing persistent flexion of the joint; this is at first merely contraction of a reflex character—that is to say, the aapxof is actively involved—but after a time the sarcolemma and other fibrous elements shorten themselves (since the muscle is never elongated), becoming thus adapted to the decreased length. This fibrous shortening is that which I, many years ago, named “contracture.” If disease were now to cease, there would result a limb bound into a certain angle by a fibrous band; that angle can be diminished, that is, the limb can be further flexed, but it cannot, unless force be employed, be increased. The disease, however, and with it the muscular contraction, may not now cease ; on the contrary, the aap*o5, with fresh vantage-hold on the shortened fibres of its sheath, acts with greater vigor, drawing the distal bone into a still sharper angle, and itself becoming more contractured. This form of shortening is always accom- panied by fibrous degeneration of the muscular element, and the affected muscles, therefore, waste very considerably ; the muscles, more especially the flexors, soon become little else than fibrous cords. The extensors, on the other hand, which are not thus affected by reflex tonic contraction, nor, therefore, by contracture, remain flaccid, and are prone rather to fatty degeneration, which, however, does not occur so early in the disease. (But another effect, besides flexion, follows these muscular acts at certain joints, more especially at the knee. For since the cartilages are, in part, destroyed, and the shape of the bone-ends modified, a certain loss of sub- stance has been thus produced, which, by approximating certain points of bone, renders the ligaments somewhat looser. Moreover, those structures are, as we have seen, involved, and, more or less, disintegrated by the granulating process, which softens them and causes their fibres to be still more flaccid. In consequence, the continued drag which the muscles exercise, as above VOL. iv.—20