INJURIES OF BONES. 100 first rib being smaller, and the bone itself more delicate. Again, in some persons the clavicle is much straighter, and stands out more directly from the sternum than in others. I think that these two conditions usually correspond. When the first rib forms a wide and strong arch, and the collar-bone runs somewhat backward as well as closer to the rib, the two bones may even be almost in contact as far nearly as to the middle of the clavicle. In such a case, a blow, the recoil of a gun, or any force driving or dragging the outer portion of this bone downward, or downward and backward, would act on the bone as a lever, and tend to break it at any point where it might be weakest. The rib, being a strongly stayed arch, pressed upon at its convexity, would not give way; while the clavicle would be at a disadvantage, being subjected to a force at its concavity, tending to increase its curvature. I think that this was clearly the mechanism of the following case, mentioned by Malgaigne: “I have seen an incomplete fracture of the clavicle resulting from the pressure of a burden which slipped from the shoulder down on the arm, and thus, pulling downward on the outer end of the bone, bent and broke it at about the middle.” Very possibly this leverage over the first rib may have something to do with some fractures by indirect violence, as when a man falls forward on his outstretched hand, and the scapula, forced backward by the head of the humerus, carries the acromial end of the clavicle along with it. There are cases in which it would seem that the clavicle is broken by the forcing upward of its acromial end; and these can only be explained by the firmness of its ligamentous attachment to the sternum, and the unyielding character of the rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament. Perhaps, however, more accurate information as to the circumstances would set this theory aside. Often the surgeon has to be content with very vague statements on the part of the patient or his friends, and caution is needful in drawing con- clusions from premises which may be wholly or in part incorrect. When the clavicle gives way to a force acting at its outer extremity, as in the case of a fall on the point of the shoulder, it may be easily seen that the mechanism is simply the exaggeration of the normal curves, carried so far as to overcome the resistance of the bony structure. And the more suddenly the stress comes, the more likely is the hone to be broken. The point at which the fracture shall occur is determined by the exact direction of the force, and perhaps in some degree by the action of the muscles at the moment. But in the very large majority of cases the line of fracture runs obliquely through the body of the bone, from within outward and from before back- ward. The relation of the obliquity to the upper and lower surfaces, I do not know; it is probably not a constant one. Symptoms of Fractured Clavicle.—Upon the occurrence of fracture of the clavicle, if the periosteum yields, there is generally marked displacement. And this may be either a mere prominence of the inner fragment, or a posi- tive projection, the outer fragment being carried behind the inner so as to make the latter start forward. This is the almost universal rule; but cases have been observed in which the outer fragment has been in front of the inner. The annexed cut (Fig. 600) represents the clavicle of a patient in my wards at the Episcopal Hospital in 1882, in whom the outer fragment was directly below the inner. The man was a German teamster, and said he had fallen down, striking his shoulder; he could give no details of the accident, and at the time when I saw him there was no bruise or other indication of the exact point of impact. The complete reduction of the fracture was im- possible, but a good recovery ensued, with some superabundance of callus. I