INJURIES OF BONES. 74 1 Op cit., p. 127. by wiring the teeth. Great swelling followed, preventing deglutition for many days ; but the patient, being supported through an oesophagus tube, eventually recovered.” Here it was the unopposed action of the muscles of the floor of the mouth that dragged back the fragment. Indeed, the effect of muscular action in causing or keeping up displacement is generally as clearly demonstrable in frac- tures of the lower jaw as in those of any other bone. In one case, in 1877,1 was obliged to divide the muscles behind the symphysis, in a fracture close to that point, in order to reduce the fragment drawn back by them. Occasionally, however, the degree of displacement is curiously slight, per- haps because the actions of different muscles counterbalance one another, as is noticed in some other parts of the skeleton also. The signs of fracture of the body of the lower jaw are seldom very obscure, and sometimes very plain. Usually there is rapid swelling, which, when the bone is broken at one side, produces a curious twist of the face. Of course the motion of the part is limited, not only by the mere loss of continuity in the bone, hut by the pain caused by it; and there is apt besides to be at least a temporary paralysis of the lip, from the injury to the inferior dental nerve. Hence speech is impaired and chewing often impossible. Profuse salivation is an almost constant symptom, and is made more apparent by the loss of control of the mouth. Sometimes, especially if the fracture be compound, the saliva is offensive, even to the patient himself. When the finger is inserted into the mouth, and the other hand applied outside, the line of the teeth is found to be abruptly irregular, and the fragments may be moved upon one another, with the production of pain, and of more or less distinct crepitus. It must be borne in mind that very few adults have perfectly regular teeth ; and that even very marked irregularities do not indicate frac- ture, unless there is pain on pressure, and a corresponding deviation at some point on the opposite margin of the bone. Abnormal mobility, also, is very rarely wanting, though it may be so slight as to require extreme care for its detection. The irregularity in the line of the teeth may be either transverse, one frag- ment being drawn down below the level of the other, or lateral, the anterior fragment generally slipping up within the posterior. This latter displace- ment is due partly to muscular action, but partly also to the fact noted by Malgaigne, that the plane of the fracture is apt to run inward and backward, the posterior fragment being beveled at the expense of its inner face; and this again, it seems to me, may be accounted for by the pointed arch-shape of the whole bone. Although it would seem as if the dental nerve could never escape being torn or stretched in fractures of the body of the lower jaw, the occurrence of permanent trouble from this cause is very rare. Hamilton1 gives one case, and refers to another seen by Desirabode. Fractures at the angle of the jaw are generally oblique, in the direction shown in the annexed cut (Fig. 595), representing a specimen without history in the Mutter Museum. In this case there had been a false joint formed. Another case occurred in my ward at the Episcopal Hospital, in 1882, in the person of an elderly man who had fallen down, striking on a stone. A much rarer form of fracture, partly involving the angle, is shown in Fig. 596 ; it represents a specimen also in the Mutter Museum, and of unknown history. Besides a very old and firmly united fracture, almost exactly at the symphysis, there is a recent oblique one beginning at the angle and running downward and forward to near the middle of the lower margin of the right half of the body of the bone.