783 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. roform which was administered in order to relieve the symptoms? In six additional cases of gunshot injury of the vertebral column, during the late civil war, analogous symptoms were reported; and it appears that these cases were all fatal. Another bad prognostic in gunshot injuries of the spinal column is the occurrence of bed-sores, especially when they arise from the trophic disorder of the tissues which results from lesions of the spinal cord. A still more evil portent in such cases is the appearance of metastatic abscesses, especially when they spring from the septicaemia that results from suppurative inflammation of the cancellated tissue (osteo-myelitis) of the fractured vertebrae. A considerable number of instances of this sort were reported during the late civil war; and metastatic abscesses arising from this cause were more recently observed in the case of President Garfield, already mentioned above, where it is stated that the fractured spongy tissue of the injured vertebrae was suppurating, and that the adjoining intervertebral car- tilages were partly destroyed by ulceration. Diagnosis.—The presence of an open wound that has been made by a gun- shot missile, the track of which extends in a direct line to the vertebral column, the impairment of function evinced by the stricken portion of the vertebral column, and the exploration of the wound with a finger, whenever practicable, by which the fragments of the broken vertebrae themselves can lie felt, usually suffice to establish the diagnosis in a satisfactory manner.1 Treatment.—If the missile has lodged, it should be found and Extracted, if possible. All foreign bodies, e. g., bits of clothing and of accoutrements, blood-clots, and detached or quite loosened splinters or fragments of bone, should likewise be extracted. The utmost cleanliness should be observed, antiseptic dressings should be applied, drainage-tubes should be used to pre- vent any collections of matter from being formed in the wounds, and necrosed fragments of bone should be removed as soon as they become detached. Fragments of the vertebrae were extracted, after gunshot fractures thereof, in twenty-four instances during the late civil war. Of these cases only ten were fatal.2 In all of the fourteen eases which did not prove fatal, there was recovery more or less complete. In seven of the nine instances in which the spinous process alone, or portions of it only, were extracted, the patients recovered speedily as well as completely, and were returned to duty, or ex- changed. In one instance belonging to this category, which was under my care for two and a half months at Stanton Hospital, there was paraplegia from concussion of the spinal cord, as well as gunshot fracture of the spinous ] >ro- cess of the second lumbar vertebra. Several fragments which became detached were promptly removed, and the paralysis, all things considered, rapidly passed away.3 This man’s recovery wras complete, for “ his name is not on the pension-list, nor have his heirs made application for pension.”4 But, in five successful cases wherein portions of the laminae or of the transverse pro- cesses were removed, the results were much less satisfactory; nearly all of these patients were still suffering from serious disabilities in 1872.® 1 There is, however, on record the case of an officer, in which a pistol-ball, after fracturing the right humerus, passed into the chest, and, lodging, was not extracted ; fifteen days afterwards, he died of pneumonia and secondary hemorrhage. Necroscopy showed the missile firmly imbedded in the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, nearly the whole of which was shattered. Nevertheless, no spinal symptoms had been developed, and the lesion itself had not been suspected during life. The specimen is preserved in our Army Medical Museum (No. 3515, Sect. I). (Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 436.) 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 459. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1864, p. 327. 4 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 459. 6 Ibid.