887 REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. normal, sometimes sluggish, and sometimes abnormally active. They are sluggish in cases of asthenopia, but abnormally active in cases where there is intra-ocular hypenemia or inflammation.1 The ophthalmoscopical appearances presented by cases of spinal disease or injury have been described by Dr. Allbutt, as well as by Mr. Wharton Jones. Dr. Allbutt finds that they may all be classed under two heads:— “ 1. Simple or primary atrophy of the optic nerve, sometimes accompanied at first by that slight hyperaemia and inactive proliferation which make up the state I have called chronic neuritis. This sort of change I have never found as a result of spinal injuries, but I have often met with it in chronic degeneration of the cord and in locomotor ataxy. 2. A somewhat characteristic hypersemic change, which I have not seen in chronic degeneration, nor in locomotor ataxy, but in cases of injury to the spine only. The retinal arteries do not dilate, but become indistinguishable; while the veins begin to swell, and become somewhat dark and tortuous. The disk then becomes uniformly reddened, and its borders are lost, the redness or pinkness commencing with increased, fine vascularity at the inner border, which then invades the white centre and the rest, so that the disk is obscured, or its situation known only by the convergence of the vessels. In many cases, rather than redness, I have observed a delicate pink—pink which sometimes passes into a daffodil color. In one case in particular—a railway accident—which I examined in consultation with my friend and colleague, Mr. Teale, this daffodil color of the whole field was very curious; no disk was to be distinguished, but the dark vessels stood out in beautiful relief. The other eye presented the common appearances of hyperaemia and serous effusion, with slight swelling. It is to be re- marked that this state is generally or always of long duration ; it passes very slowly up to its full development, and then shows a disposition to end in resolution rather than in atrophy. In those cases which I have been able to watch diligently for many months, the pinkness seems slowly to have receded, leaving an indistinct but not very abnormal disk behind. Sometimes the sight suffers a good deal in these cases, sometimes but little or scarcely at all. I have never seen true optic neuritis, with active proliferation, as a sequel of spinal disease.”2 Dr. Allbutt states that in thirteen cases of chronic spinal disease following accidents, he found disturbance of the optic disk and its neighborhood in eight instances, and that the disturbance of the eye “is seen to follow dis- turbance of the spine with sufficient frequency and uniformity to establish the probability of a causal relation between the two events.” But, in the more severe forms of spinal injury, those, for example, which prove fatal in a few weeks, these evidences of ophthalmic disease are not met with ; for, in seventeen cases of this sort, Dr. Allbutt found no evidence of ophthalmic disease in any instance. To what should the impairment of vision in question he ascribed ? The same eminent authority holds “ that hyperaemia of the back of the eye, fol- lowing injury to the spine, is probably dependent upon a greater or less extension of the meningeal irritation up to the base of the brain. ISTow, have we any reason to suppose that spinal meningitis does creep up into the ence- phalon ? We have: For, setting aside the curious head-symptoms such patients often present, here the actual demonstration of autopsy comes to our aid. It is tolerably well known to careful pathologists that encephalic meningitis is a very common accompaniment of spinal meningitis.” More- over, in a number of instances presented in the foregoing pages, the post- mortem examination revealed the fact that inflammation of the spinal membranes had extended upward until it likewise involved the encephalic membranes. I have no doubt that the ophthalmic lesions above mentioned are solely due to the creeping upward of a chronic meningitis which originally is spinal, but in the end becomes cerebral also. 1 On Failure of Sight after Railway and other Injuries, p. 44. 2 Lancet, 1870, vol. i. pp. 76, 77.