MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 902 Such an instance is represented by Braune in liis well-known monograph (Plate 3, Figure 7). Usually the superfluous limb is obvious at birth, but it may be concealed for some time within a fibrous sac, and may thus resemble the cystic tumor with foetal contents to be next dealt with. In two or three recorded instances of this condition, the child was born with a sacral tumor that continued for some time to increase, and then gave way, allowing a foot and leg to come out. The treatment of these supernumerary limbs is by amputation. The chief difficulty in any such operation is the connection of the member to the pelvis. But in these cases a disarticulation is not necessary in all instances, nor is it of course desirable to in any way interfere with any pelvic abnormality. It is sufficient to remove the projecting part of the additional member, and this operation would appear from recorded cases to be both fairly simple and more than fairly successful.1 Congenital Tumors with Fcetal Remains.—These tumors present them- selves under a great variety of aspects. Usually they appear as roundish or irregular tumors, pendulous from the sacro-coceygeal region, and covered with a thin and often purplish skin. Beneath the skin is a sac, lined with a smooth membrane, and within this sac is a certain amount of fluid, and foetal remains of the most variable nature and aspect. These foetal remains usually present themselves in the form of an irregular, solid mass, bony, pendulous, and imperfectly pedunculated. This mass is composed of fatty and fibrous tissue, and presents usually a number of multilocular cysts, variously disposed. Some part of the mass may present fingers or toes, or rudimentary limbs. In other cases the tumor may contain portions of bone, most usually portions of the vertebrae, or fragments of cartilage, with here and there some ill-formed and indefinitely arranged muscular tissue. In other instances the mass has presented a knuckle of gut, that has sometimes contained a material like meconium. Some few of these masses would appear to have been dermoid, and have contained hair, teeth, and fragments of bone. These tumors may occupy the subcutaneous tissue, but usually they are more deeply seated, and they are, as a rule, closely adherent to the bone. They may communicate with the spinal canal, but such communication is quite rare. Sometimes they extend deeply into the pelvis, and a large congenital tumor may in addition be found in that region ; their size varies greatly ; they are apt to be pendulous, but are seldom well pedunculated. Stanley has reported a case where the tumor reached almost to the feet.2 Braune has detailed the case of a girl, who presented a congenital mass of this nature that was pendu- lous and attached to the buttock by a stout pedicle. The tumor contained the rudiments of limbs. It increased in size, and at the age of 16 was 26 inches long, and weighed 20 lbs. It was then successfully amputated. These tumors usually grow after birth, and, as a rule, their growth is rapid. The skin covering the mass may give way, and the foetal remains contained within may protrude. This may or may not be preceded by more or less inflamma- tion or sloughing of the excrescence. In one or two instances these tumors have been associated with a spina bifida in the sacral region. Sometimes the foetal remains are not contained within a sac, but are freely exposed. Such a condition rather approaches that alluded to under the term “ attached foetus.” Such tumors are very irregular in outline, and still more irregular in composition. They may present, in addition to much fatty and 1 For an account of the cases operated upon, see Braune’s work, and also an excellent article by Mr. Holmes, in his System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. v. page 801. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv. page 235.