463 EXCISION OF THE PELVIS. partial removal of the lung are attributed to a surgeon named Suif, and to Dr. Milton Antony, of Georgia. Resection of one or more ribs for em- pyema, as a substitute for the use of a drainage tube after paracentesis, appears to have been first employed, in this country at least, by the late Dr. Warren Stone, of iSTew Orleans. The operation has been since strongly re- commended by Roser, Peltavy, and Estlander, and lias been practised, usually with good results, by numerous surgeons, including T. G. Richardson, Simon, Taylor, Ilowse, Thomas, Ashby, Marshall, Konig, Wagner, Lange, Fenger, Bruglocher, and J. William White, of Philadelphia. Schneider reports a recovery after resection of five ribs and the clavicle, for empyema following gunshot injury. The operation of resecting a rib is not particularly difficult, the chief points requiring attention being to avoid, if possible, wounding the pleura, and the intercostal artery and nerve. This is comparatively easy in cases of necrosis, in which the periosteum can commonly be separated from the bone and pushed backwards, but is less readily effected when the operation is employed for compound fracture, and is usually impracticable in cases of tumor, in which indeed the pleura is itself very apt to be involved. In the operation for empyema, the pleura is of course opened, and a portion cut away with the bone. When only a single rib is to be resected, a straight incision following its course will afford sufficient exposure, but when the operation is to involve more than one rib, it will be better to turn up a semilunar flap, as shown in Fig. 693. If the intercostal artery be divided, as it almost necessarily will Fig. 693. tesection of ribs. be in cases of tumor or empyema, both ends should he immediately secured with ligatures. The rib itself may be severed with the chain-saw, or, in the case of a child, with strong cutting forceps. Excisions of the Pelvis.—Portions of the innominate bones have been occa- sionally removed in cases of caries or necrosis, and the acetabulum not unfre- quently requires gouging after removal of the head of the femur for hip- disease. Rut these operations should hardly be dignified by the name of