337 HYDROPS ARTICULI, HYDRARTHRUS, OR HYDRARTHROSIS. Fig. 647. than its fellow ; by lifting the limb sharply upward from the elbow, one could feel the head of the humerus impinge against the glenoid cavity, and the arm lost its abnormal length. The swelling was very peculiar; the cavity of the axilla was nearly filled up. The deltoid portion of the shoulder was very large, more especially at the anterior and posterior part. Behind, the fluid tumefaction occupied the outer half of the infra-spinous fossa. On the top of the swelling the acromion seemed to form a depression, more especially visible when the arm was pushed upward, as above described. Of course, in all these cases fluc- tuation from one part of the tumor to the other is very distinct. When distension from within, by fluid accumulation, has gone on for a considerable period, the liga- ments and other fibrous tissues about the joint become considerably lengthened; they no longer bind the bones firmly together, and the use of the limb is much impaired ; the tibia or ulna may in such cases be ro- tated, abducted and adducted, or made to glide sideways on the femur and humerus respectively. Diagnosis and Prognosis.—The mere de- tection of a non-inflammatory accumulation of fluid in the joint, easy as it is, gives us the diagnosis of hydrarthrus ; but in order to form a probable prognosis, we must dis- tinguish the one sort of case from the other. While distension of the joint-sac is still moderate, we may, by pressing deeply on its most accessible part, obtain, if there be fringe-hypertrophy, that gentle, soft crepitation which I have described as “silken crepitus,” which will be of finer or coarser quality according to the smaller or larger size of the growths. Sometimes, in verifying fluctuation, the hand will feel, as the wave passes from place to place, a sense of the movement, the actual current; this cannot of course be due to the motion of a pure fluid; it is caused by the passage under the fingers of those little semi-solids already mentioned (melon-seed bodies). But when the sac is completely full, these peculiarities cannot be lelt until it be partially or entirely emptied. In the latter condition, we may also detect any nodular terminations to the fringes that may be present. Also, but best when the joint is half empty, any plates of cartilage or other substance developed in the joint-tissues can be made out; they are to be felt as harder portions floating on the subjacent fluid, and slightly elevated beyond the surrounding structures; they can be depressed towards the cavity, but cannot be moved from side to side, and cannot be so isolated as to be grasped in the fingers. The prognosis depends very much on the presence or absence of fringes, nodules, and extra-articular plates; it is unfavorable when the two latter can be lelt, but is less bad when only fine fringe-hypertrophy is present. When no sign of internal roughness or of plates can be felt, tiie prognosis, though guarded, may be fairly favorable, unless the disease be old, abnormal mobility tree, or the constitution broken either by age or marked diathesis. vol. iv.—22 Simple hydrarthrus of knee ; distension of snbcrural sac ; bursiform enlargement laid open behind.