178 INJURIES OF BONES. viously quoted, which is sufficient to attract attention, but which it is not easy to explain. Agnew’s tables are not so arranged with regard to the ages of the patients as to enable a comparison to be made in this respect. Among the 316 cases of fracture before quoted from the records of the Children’s Hospital, in Philadelphia, 105, or a little over 33 per cent., affected the bones of the forearm. Of this number, 36, or over 34 per cent., affected both the radius and ulna; 15, or over 14 per cent,, the ulna alone (including the olecranon); and 54, or over 51 per cent,, the radius alone. As to the influence of sex, Malgaigne says that “ they are equal in number from two to fifteen years ; from fifteen to twenty, there are eighteen males to one female; from twenty to forty-five, the number of men is just double that of the women; after forty-five, the women regain their equality, and even exceed it, being twenty-two to nineteen.” It is in this region, as stated in the early part of this article, that bending or incomplete fracture has been chiefly observed. The causes of fractures of both bones of the forearm are most frequently indirect, such as falls on the hand. The mechanism is not always clear; that is, it does not appear why a fall of this kind should sometimes give rise to fracture of the radius alone, close to the wrist, while in other cases both bones give way in their shafts. Probably it is sometimes due to a difference in the mode of impact, and sometimes to the elasticity and toughness of the radius, and the thickness of the periosteum, which prevents yielding, except at the thinner and less protected position of the shaft, the ulna breaking an instant afterward for want of support. Direct violence may affect this part of the skeleton in various ways: ma- chinery accidents, falls against resisting objects, crushing forces, as by the passage of a wheel, the kick of a horse, blows, etc. Muscular action, in a case recorded by Malgaigne, and in two other instances,’ has been known to cause fracture of the forearm. Occasionally there is double fracture, each bone giving way at two points; and comminution is not seldom met with. Either of these conditions is apt to occur in cases due to direct violence, especially in machinery accidents, as when the arm is drawn around a revolving shaft. Sometimes the two bones are broken at the same level, but they may give way at different points, and then the fracture of the radius is apt to take place higher up—nearer to the elbow—than the fracture of the ulna. This fact may be accounted for partly by the comparative slenderness of the radius above, and of the ulna below; partly, perhaps, by the muscular attachments of the former bone. Hamilton mentions one case seen by him, in which “ the radius was broken three-quarters of an inch above the lower end, and the ulna about one inch below the coronoid process.” This is certainly very rare, and it is to be re- gretted that no details are given either as to the causation or the ultimate result of the injury. Fractures situated so far apart might almost be con- sidered as wholly separate lesions. Upon the occurrence of fracture of both bones of the forearm, however caused, more or less displacement of the fragments commonly ensues. Very often the fracturing force has much to do with this, but muscular action can scarcely fail to influence it. The resulting condition may be very simple, but it may be very complex. Sometimes the bones retain their parallelism, but are bent backward, forward, or to either side. Sometimes the two upper fragments are pressed together, and the two lower ones separated, or vice versa. Again, either by the fracturing force or by subsequent changes of position of Gurlt, op. cit., Bd. i. S. 244.