INJURIES OF THE BACK. 882 since the accident; has now much distress in the cervical and dorsal, as well as in the lumbar portion of the spine ; the pains extend from the left loin and hip downward into the left thigh and knee ; has also much pain extending from the spine into the left arm, and numbness in the parts supplied by the ulnar nerve (little finger and adja- cent side of ring finger); has lost much flesh ; is very weak and nervous, and has been soever since the accident; often has cardiac palpitations so marked that she is afraid to go into the street alone; pulse frequent (about 100), and rather weak ; countenance anaemic, and expressive of great suffering; tongue clean; bowels regular; appetite and digestion good, but her food does not seem to benefit her; she suffers much from insomnia, for the pains in her spine, left hip,'and left extremities, both lower and upper, keep her awake ; the lumbar part of the spine, especially the left side thereof, exhibits tenderness under pressure. I prescribed the bromides of potassium, sodium, and iron, in full doses, with rest as nearly absolute as possible, and counter-irritation to be applied over the whole spinal column ; and I hoped that, as the inflammation of the wrenched vertebral articulations should subside under this treatment, the symptoms of meningo- rachidian irritation would likewise disappear. July 21. She is no better; is much emaciated (weighing but 103 lbs., while her usual weight is 119 lbs.) ; is pallid, and looks wan, wearied and prematurely old; has much distress in the head, with a sore feeling in the scalp, and rapid falling of the hair ; pains in the spine and left hip continue severe, and involve the whole of the left upper extremity, as well as the whole of the left lower extremity ; pains sometimes shoot down into her left leg and foot; has no pain in the right extremities; suffers great dis- tress at the bottom of her back, across the sacrum (sacrodynia), and when her back is worse her distress in the head is more severe ; she also has formication, a “ pins and needles” feeling, and a sensation of numbness or as if the parts were asleep, in all of her left side, and in her left hip, but especially in the left foot and leg; has likewise a “ pins and needles” feeling in the left hand and arm, but not as much as in the left lower extremity ; has a constricted or “ tight-belt” feeling which extends around her body ; the muscles of her left leg and thigh often feel stiff; her pains and abnormal sensations are always made worse by getting tired; during the last two months, exercise, or a sense of fatigue, always brings on nausea, and sometimes vomiting; feels sick at the stomach this morning in consequence of walking to my office; lies in bed on her left side, because she gets more ease in that position ; has often to get up at night and rub the affected parts on account of the “ pins and needles” feelings, arid sensations of numbness; is very restless at night, and scarcely ever sleeps more than two hours at a time; menstruation irregular and deficient;” she also has much thirst and “inward fever;” pulse about 100, and feeble ; tongue clear, bowels soluble. Potassium iodide, in ten grain doses, three times a day, was ordered as a remedy against the spinal meningitis and myelitis which were obviously now present, with syrup of the hypo- phosphites of lime and sodium as a tonic; counter-irritation over the left hip and the whole length of the spinal column, to be continued, with rest in bed ; but unfortunately her circumstances in life were not such that the last-named remedial measure could be carried out as thoroughly as was desired. October 2. Her case became complicated with an attack of malarial fever, which was promptly subdued by the administration of quinine. March 21, 1882. She is somewhat better, but her eyesight is impaired; says that after resting in bed for a time, she always gets better; but, as soon as she begins to go around again, especially if she tries to work, she again gets worse. In addition to potas- sium iodide, syrup of the iodide of iron, gtt. xv., three times a day, was prescribed. June 12. I was called, and found her suffering very much from coccygodynia; the sacro-coccygeal articulation was inflamed, and so much damaged that the coccyx was quite movable, as well as bent forward at nearly a right angle; her general symp- toms, however, were upon the whole rather better. June 15. Professor "VVm. A. Hammond saw her in consultation. Her weight is now 99^ lbs.; it used to be 119 lbs.; the headache continues, and her eyesight is very much impaired; she has difficulty in holding her urine, which is normal in appearance; makes it too often, and has to run in order to avoid wetting herself (vesical hyperaes- thesia) ; has pain in the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal regions all the time, and it is always aggravated by exertion. There is much tenderness under pressure along the