298 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. First Stage.—A child, generally under eight years, who may or may not have had an attack of measles1 or scarlatina, or who may have suffered from enlarged cervical glands while cutting the back teeth, or who may hitherto have been perfectly healthy, is observed sometimes, without any sign of pain, to have a swollen joint. In some cases this is preceded by a slight injury, in others the evidence of traumatism is conjectural, and again in others the absence of any violence is distinctly affirmed ; often, and these cases are in the end the worst, there is no evidence of pain. The enlargement slowly increases, and soon the child limps, if the lower limb be the seat of disease. When examined, the swellingis seen to he of avery shapeless, indefinite character-—rounded, but not marked by the ligaments, etc., as in acute synovitis ; its consistence is semi-elastic, and in this stage equally resistant throughout, concealing both to sight and touch the form and mark- ings of the bones and other anatomical points. The joint is easily movable within certain restricted limits, and the motion, unless these limits be over- stepped, is painless, as is also moderate pressure. The color of the skin up to this point is either unaffected, or it is rather white. The opportunity of examining joints, even in this very early stage, some- times fortuitously occurs; we find then that the cavity contains a slight ex- cess of fluid, which usually is turbid from the admixture of many cells, some of which are like leucocytes, but most of which are derived from the endothelial lining of the synovial membrane. The inner surface of that structure is no longer smooth and polished, but is studded with little rounded or pyramidal elevations, and presents, not the branched and dendritic growths of suppu- rative synovitis, but a different form of fringe, hypertrophied into thin, vascular membranes, which encroach Fig. 636. upon and overlie the cartilages. They are at first quite fine and delicate, digitated or foliaceous, and fenestrated here and there, where in their luxuri- ant growth two or more of the digits have coalesced at their extremities, leaving an unoccupied space between. Very soon these pannus-like forma- tions increase in thickness, become coarser, inflame, and granulate like the other soft parts of the joint-struc- ture, and at last form an inflammatory tissue. The cut edge of the synovial and perisynovial tissues presents (Fig. 636) a jelly-like appearance, and is continuous with the round and pyra- midal elevations above mentioned. The color of this material is light pink or yellow, with the suspicion of a green tinge in the shadows : through it run long, wavy, hardly branching vessels, and thin white lines of unal- tered or scarcely altered fibrous tissue. This gelatinous material encroaches on the joint-cavity, and extends to- Strumons synovitis; granulation tissue lying on the war(| gPin ^O a degree Varying cartilage. (From a specimen in the Museum of the i , • n.i °r ^ ° Royal College of Surgeons.) With the duration of the disease. 1 The first symptoms of strumous disease are frequently dated from a protracted convalescence after measles.