CARCINOMA. 631 tissues. In those cases in which the tumor is a polypus, it is necessary to remove it by cutting through its stalk, and the stalk must be destroyed to prevent recurrence of the growth. The steps of the operation do not differ, in either instance, from those which are customary in the removal of other innocent tumors of the same parts. Carcinoma.1 A carcinoma is a tumor of epithelial origin, possessing generally an alveolar structure. The cells are seldom separated by a visible intercellular substance. The vessels run in the walls of the alveoli, not between the cells, and the cells increase in number, chiefly by endogenous formation. In treating of the carcinomas, a similar course will be pursued to that fol- lowed in describing the sarcomas. First, a general account of the disease will be given; next, a short account of each of the chief subclasses; third, illustrations of the manner in which different parts of the body are affected by carcinoma. There are three subclasses of carcinoma : the spheroidal-celled or glandular- celled, the squamous-celled, and the columnar-cel led or cylindrical-celled. Spheroidal-cellf.d or glandular-celled carcinomas are those which are derived from the spheroidal or glandular epithelium of the racemose glands, the mammary gland, the liver, etc. The alveolar structure is generally well expressed, and 11 ie cells resemble those of spheroidal epithelium. (Plate XIX. Figs. 15 and 16.) The spheroidal-celled tumors include all those carcinomas which are commonly called hard (scirrhous, withering, tubular, fibrous) and soft (medullary, encephaloid, multicellular, acinous). The chief difference between the hard and soft carcinomas consists in the much greater quantity of fibrous tissue which the hard contain, and the much larger number of cells of which the soft are composed ; but there does not appear to be any essential difference between them. Squamous-celled carcinomas are developed from squamous epithelium. (Plate XX. Figs. 17 and 18.) They include all the squamous epitheliomas; indeed, in English-speaking countries, epithelioma and squamous-celled carci- noma are practically convertible terms, provided that the term epithelioma be not extended to the cylindrical-celled carcinomas. The cells of squamous- celled carcinoma are usually easily recognized by their resemblance to those of the epidermis of the tongue, lip, and other parts. Their borders are often fringed or jagged, and they vary much in size and shape. Instead of a single nucleus, many of them contain two or three nuclei. Yet their general large size, flattened shape, and decided characters, serve to distinguish them from the cells of other tumors. The alveolar structure of epithelioma is not well marked ; often, indeed, it cannot be said to exist. The connection of the disease with the epithelium of the surface is generally demonstrable. And in the masses or columns of cells which dip down from the superficial into the deeper parts, are almost always found the cell-nests or epidermic globes which are justly held to be so characteristic of the disease. These bodies are composed of flattened, scale-like cells, surrounding, in a few or many layers, one or more central cells. They are not, however, confined to epithelioma or even to morbid tissues, for they may be discovered in the normal skin and [* It will be observed that the term “cancer” is avoided, as having a clinical rather than a pathological signification.]