INJURIES OF BONES. 40 Ranvier thinks that the new bone constituting callus is always, in simple fractures, developed through a cartilaginous stage, but this is at variance with the views of other observers. Mr. J. Greig Smith has published1 an interesting article on the histology of fracture repair in man, giving the results of the examination of a number of specimens at various stages of the process. He sums them up as follows:— “ A plastic, parent tissue is provided partly by the swollen and inflamed pre-existing tissues, partly by organized inflammatory neoplasm. The ossific stimulus lays hold of this parent tissue and infects it with the first change toward ossification, viz., calcifica- tion. The calcifying process proceeds along numerous irregularly disposed lines through the parent tissue, modifying it before it finally completely invades it. This modifica- tion of matrix ahead of the line of calcification consists chiefly of a swelling of the intercellular substance, bringing about an occasional resemblance to ordinary hyaline cartilage. When the process is completed by the formation of an areolar calcified tissue containing variously modified embryonic substance in its meshes, we have the great mass of so-called bony callus. This callus material soon begins to undergo the further changes toward true ossification ; namely, absorption of the calcified substance and de- velopment on these calcified lines of true lamellar bone by osteoblasts derived from out- growing marrow or cambium layer of periosteum.” As to the individual tissues concerned, he thus summarizes:— “Blood-clot The greater part of the effused blood is absorbed and disappears. Some amount of blood-clot usually remains in certain positions to become organized. After organization, more or less perfect, it may either directly become a parent tissue for bony growth, or undergo a further transformation toward this end. Blood-clot organizes by preference in the exposed medullary canal and over the jagged ends of the broken bones. Where it forms the chief nidus for ossification, bony union is longest delayed. “Periosteum Periosteum contributes to fracture repair rather by virtue of its posi- tion as a fibrous tissue than through its ordinary function as a bone-producer. Perios- teal callus is rather a calcifying cellulitis than an ossifying periostitis. Periosteum does not undergo very much change preparatory to calcification. The calcified perios- teal trabeculae are the least perfectly developed and the most unstable of all the areolar bony callus material. Shreds of periosteal fibre traversing embryonic inflammatory tissue contribute materially to the rapidity with which calcification is carried out. “ Tendon and Ligament Where present, these tissues play an important part in the ossifying process. Sometimes undergoing calcification without exhibiting material change of structure, they frequently, however, are subjected to preparatory modifica- tions which assimilate them in appearance to true cartilage, and thereafter behave in ossification as ordinary cartilage does. The presence of an abundance of ligamentous tissue should warn us of a possible overgrowth of uniting bone. “Fibro-cartilage White fibro-cartilage may become calcified without undergoing preliminary structural changes. The calcareous deposit is finely divided and dense; and the advent of the absorptive process is long delayed. As a temporary bond of union, it 5s, when once formed, the strongest of all. “ New inflammatory tissue contributes to bony growth after it has been in varying de- grees assimilated to the formed tissues in its neighborhood. Occasionally it assumes a resemblance in structure to hyaline cartilage.” After the callus has been deposited and ossified, and the bone has begun to acquire strength, there still remains the modelling process to be accomplished; in other words, projecting points, edges, or other roughnesses have to be re- moved by absorption, so as to restore as nearly as may be the normal form of the bone. This is brought about in the same way as in the case of a bone sawed through squarely in an amputation, which becomes in time rounded off by a shell of compact bone, usually thin, and backed up by lamellae nearly 1 Journ. of Anatomy and Physiology, Jan. 1882.