FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 211 jacket of stout muslin. Neither of these plans seems to me to possess any advantages over other methods more generally known. Fig. 622. Hodgen’s suspension splint for treatment of fractured thigh. Mention has already been made, in a previous part of this article, of certain forms of apparatus known as fracture-beds. These contrivances, of which the best known perhaps were Earle’s, Amesbury’s, Crosby’s, and Burge’s, were mostly on the principle of the double-inclined plane, but some of them were arranged for making extension with the limb straight. They were all com- plicated and expensive, and liable, when used in hospitals, to become infested with bugs. At the present day, I think that they may be said to have been abandoned. Vertical extension has been recommended in cases of children, by Kdimmel,1 who applies adhesive plaster in the manner before described, and keeps the leg in the vertical position, with the corresponding side of the pelvis suspended by means of a cord fixed to the loop of plaster, and either attached above to some object over the bed, or slung over a pulley, with its free end support- ing a weight. A curious etiect of this treatment, in female children, is the occurrence of vaginal catarrh, which, however, soon yields to appropriate measures when the extension is no longer kept up. Bryant recommends ver- tical extension of both the sound and the injured limb. A few words may now be said as to the development of the present methods of treating fractures of the shaft of the femur, and especially in regard to certain points. Benjamin Bell2 describes an apparatus, invented, he says, by Gooch, and improved by Aitken, “ which promises to be of the greatest utility in oblique fracture of the thigh.” It consists of two leather straps, one buckled around the upper part ol the thigh, the other around the lower part; “ two or three steel splints, connected with the straps, pass from one to the other in such a manner, that by means of them the straps can be forced asunder,” thus making extension and counter-extension. If such an apparatus could be borne by the patient, it would seem that there would be great danger of undue pressure, with serious consequences. Desault’s splint extended from the crista ilii to the sole of the foot. It was 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1882 ; from Berl. klin. Wocheuschrift, No. 4, 1882. 2 System of Surgery, vol. vi. London, 1788.