INJURIES OF THE BACK. 700 ILematuria from Contusions and Sprains of the Back. — Traumatic lesions of the kidneys, with bloody urine, occur so frequently in cases where severe contusions and strains, or wrenches, are sustained in the lumbar regions, that a pretty full account of them is necessary in this place. The source of the hemorrhage, in these eases, it is seldom difficult to deter- mine ; for, when blood is found intermingled with the urine, after such injuries of the loins, it may generally be inferred with safety that one (at least) of the kidneys is also injured. When, however, slender, cylindrical, pale pieces of fibrin, or dark-colored coagula having a similar shape, are seen in the urine, the surgeon may be sure that the blood has come from the kidney, for these clots have been moulded in the ureter and then have been washed down therefrom by the urine. Moreover, when blood is passed inti- mately blended with the urine, but without coagula, in cases of lumbar injury, it has likewise, in all probability, a renal origin. It will be remembered that the kidneys are two dense and rather brittle glands which lie close to the sides of the spinal column from the first to the third lumbar vertebrae inclusive, and outside of the peritoneum; that they are surrounded, and held in place with considerable firmness, by connective tissue containing much fat; that the right kidney lies rather lower than the left; and that each of them projects downward below the last rib, and, behind, is covered by the quadratus lumborum muscle. Hence, all violent flexures of the upper 1 umbo-vertebral articulations from sprains or wrenches are liable to be attended by corresponding bends and breaks of the kidneys; hence, also, the impact of powerful blows on the lumbar muscles may readily be transmitted through these muscles to the kidneys themselves, with enough force to contuse or even tear those organs. Finally, the renal lesion in these cases, whether consisting merely of contusion, or of slight rupture, or of extensive laceration of the renal substance, is usually attended by hsematuria. But, when the kidneys contain calculi, and when they are congested, as, for example, in the first stage of Bright’s disease, or when their texture has become weakened, as, for instance, in chronic parenchymatous nephritis, com- paratively slight injuries of the lumbar region may be attended by hsematuria. The clinical features or characteristics of the above-mentioned forms of renal injury can best be presented by the narration of some examples. In military life, the blow on the lumbar region which causes the mischief, may result from the explosion of a shell, as happened in the following instances, two in number, which were reported during the late civil war:— J. H. P., Co. K, 142d Pennsylvania Vols., aged 20, was struck on the left lumbar region, July 2, 1863, at Gettysburg, by a large fragment of shell, which caused a grave contusion with ecchymosis, but without abi-asion of the skin. There was shock, and much pain and tenderness at the injured part, and the urine was scanty and bloody. The pain extended along the course of the ureter, and there was retraction of the tes- ticle with smarting at the orifice of the urethra. There was much difficulty in micturi- tion, and occasionally tubular clots of blood were passed, after which the urine flowed in a stream, with great relief. The patient was also suffering from diarrhoea. He was treated with hot fomentations applied to the injured part, and with chalk mixture and spirit of nitric ether, until the 11th, when he had rallied sufficiently to be transferred to the Satterlee Hospital, at Philadelphia. There he was treated with infusion of buchu, together with counter-irritation applied to the loins; and, as soon as the irrita- bility of his bowels permitted, he was placed on nourishing diet, with ferruginous medi- cines, and bitter tonics. The haematuria disappeared after the third week from the reception of the injury. The patient gradually conva’esced, and, on December 31, 1863, was transferred to the Invalid Corps.1 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Vol., pp. 20, 21.