260 INJURIES OF BONES. the surgeon is called upon in such cases until the more serious secondary symptoms have declared themselves, the mode of managing which will be elsewhere detailed. Incised wounds of bone sometimes occur. They are most frequent as the result of accidents in saw-mills, hut are occasionally met with in carpenters or wood-cutters. I once sawT an old man who had fallen with his knee on the upturned edge of a scythe, which had cut clean through the patella, and laid the joint open entirely across. Gross1 mentions the case of a man, aged thirty- nine, who had had his olecranon severed by a cut with a butcher-knife; the joint was of course laid open, and there was free bleeding. Union took place with anchylosis. In 1876,1 had in my ward in the Episcopal Hospital, a man aged twenty-five, who had had a very similar injury inflicted upon him with a'~“ drawing-knifethe closure of the wound was impossible, and I excised the entire joint, with a fairly good result, although the motion of the parts was very limited. Of course injuries of this kind must always he compound, and their gravity will vary according to the seat and extent of the damage inflicted on the hone, as well as the degree to which the soft parts are involved. If a limb be cut entirely through, the question will necessarily arise whether union can take place or not. Some marvellous stories are told of cases in which severed fingers have been readjusted, and with perfect success;2 hut my own experi- ments in this way have uniformly failed. The treatment must be adapted to the circumstances of each case. Some- times it will consist simply in arresting hemorrhage, closing the wound, and putting the parts at entire rest by means of splints and bandages; just as in compound fractures. Sometimes amputation will be clearly indicated ; and sometimes, as in my case above mentioned, excision may be the proper course. Punctured wounds of bone have been met with, especially in Indian war- fare. These have already been considered at sufficient length in the article on Bayonet and Arrow Wounds.3 I once myself, in making an autopsy, sustained a punctured wound of the second phalanx of the middle finger; the point of a scalpel penetrated the hone, and it was seven months before the wound healed, the bone itself remaining swollen and tender. Gunshot wounds of bone have already been fully discussed in the article on injuries of that class.4 1 Op cit., vol. i. p. 831. 2 For one of the most extraordinary, in which the forearm is said to have been cut through all but a strip of skin, and to have healed again perfectly, see the quotation of General Hunter’s case. (Med. and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion. Part Second, Surgical Vol., p. 918, note.) s See Vol. II. pp. 103 et seq. 4 See Vol. II. pp. 123, 145 et seq.