372 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. the continued friction wears the surface with a rapidity that is not a little remarkable, and the joint-cavities become greatly altered in form, partly by this, but partly and chiefly by another agency, which will be mentioned im- mediately. Such attrition leaves its very evident marks in lines of polished ridge and furrow, always running in the direction of movement, namely, in straight lines in liinge-joints, as in the patella, femur, and tibia, at the knee; in cycloidal curves in enarthrodial joints, as at the hip and shoulder. Thus, to epitomize the above: wherever friction occurs, there we find inter- stitial hypertrophy with dimensional atrophy, that is, a somewhat solidified bone gradually wearing away; but where no friction and no pressure take place, there we find the direct contrary—interstitial atrophy, with dimensional hypertrophy. In other words, the bone proper (that is, not bone of new formation), in places subject to neither friction nor pressure, becomes porotic, the Haversian canals enlarging to the size of wormholes in old mahogany. At the same time, the marginal hyperplasia above described produces new masses and outgrowths, first of cartilage, and then of bone, the juxtaposed surfaces of which, when they come into contact, form a new portion of articular surface outside and beyond the old and normal joint-area, becoming also, at the points of touching, polished and porcellanous. Such outgrowths greatly deform the joint, and together with the effects of friction above described, may very con- siderable modify the shape of the part. Thus bony heads, normally globular, become mushroom-shaped, or more rarely conical; hollows which, in their healthy state, are but slight concavities, as, for instance, those on the tibial tuberosities, are transformed into wide and deep depressions; while cavities, naturally deep and cup-shaped, like the acetabulum, may be widened into broad and shallow saucers. Hor is it contradictory of this pathology that the forms produced vary in different cases very considerably, since any pecu- liarity of posture or of movement, assumed for the avoidance of pain, may greatly modify the situation of pressure and of friction, and therefore the locality of atrophy or hypertrophy. Let us take, as an example of the effects produced by this singular admix- ture of hypertrophy and atrophy, such changes as frequently occur at the upper part of the femur. A first sight of the dry bone gives the idea that the neck has wasted and become bent down, so that the head, somewhat en- larged, has become sessile on the shaft between the two trochanters. What really happens is, that all the head, save a little at the lower part, is atro- phied and worn away, while by marginal hyperplasia the neck is enlarged, so as to be transformed into something that looks like a misshapen head. At certain joints, less surrounded than the hip by muscular structures, osteophytic outgrowths are very strongly marked; those which have been already mentioned are frequently craggy, rough, and outwardly uneven, while those from opposed bones that come in contact, receive a porcellanous polish, and at the same time greatly interfere with or entirely prevent mo- bility. A joint, such as the knee, may thus become entirely motionless, but not by anchylosis, which in this disease is exceedingly rare. In considering these very remarkable osseous changes, it appears to me im- possible to suppose that the malady originates in the synovial membrane, and is then transferred to the bones; perhaps (though it would be contrary to our experience of other joint diseases) it may simultaneously invade all the articular structures.1 For my part, I believe it to be in its origin osseous, and that the synovial affections sometimes appear before any bony change can be detected, simply because these affections are occult, like other interstitial changes of bone. When we consider that neighboring processes become in- 1 Hueter (Klinik der Gelenkkrankheiten) calls the disease Polypanarthritis.