FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 181 In cases suitable for semi-pronation, the best splint is an “ internal angular” one, extending from about the middle of the arm to the ends of the lingers, or further, if extension needs to be made. A dorsal splint, padded somewhat more thickly along the middle than at the edges, and extending from oppo- site the bend of the elbow to a point just above the wrist, should also be employed. These splints should be just the width of the arm at each point; if they are wider, the forearm may be bent toward the radial or ulnar side, and if narrower, the pressure of the bandage may drive the fragments toward one another. Hence my own practice is to shape the splints beforehand by taking an outline from the sound limb, and cutting away the parts outside of this outline. When binders’ board is used as the material for the splints, the ulnar edge of the forearm-part may be slightly turned up, so as to afford support to this portion of the limb. By most surgeons, anterior and posterior splints are applied to the forearm only, and by many the pads for preserving the interosseous space are thought to be “ if useful, intolerable; if tolerable, useless.”1 I can only say that, in my opinion, one cause of disturbance of the fragments, in these cases, is the con- stant, slight, irregular, but unopposed pulling of the muscles, due to continual slight movements of the elbow; hence I would put the forearm at absolute rest by confining the elbow also. Another disturbing cause is the rotation of the forearm, which is effectually prevented, and the thumb kept upward, by simply adding the arm-part to the palmar splint. As to the pads, the mistake generally made is to have them too large in every way, and thus to get pressure where it is not wanted. I think that they should be exactly adapted in size to the space between the bones in each case, and, above all, that they should not be too long. I attach much importance, not only to keeping the upper fragments at rest by confining the elbow, but to doing the same for the lower fragments by giving due support to the hand, which should be placed at the proper or natural angle with the forearm, slightly adducted. The hand should never be allowed to hang down, as this would tilt up the lower fragments of both bones, and cause an angle salient toward the radial edge of the forearm. The sling should be wide, and should give the forearm perfect support; but if the previous dressing have been properly done in the manner above described, there can be no risk of bending, even if only a narrow sling be used. After the first dressing, there may be no occasion to disturb the apparatus for several days, if it continue firm, causing no pain, and if the circulation be shown by the state of the fingers to be properly carried on. The splints should then be removed for the purpose of thorough examination, and immediately reapplied. After this the dressings should be renewed about ouce in forty- eight hours, and at the end of three weeks very gentle passive motion may be attempted, the surgeon taking hold of the forearm above and below the seat of fracture, and rotating the two parts in exact accord. The fracture remaining firm, at the end of the fourth week the fingers may be left free, and two or three days afterwards the part of the splint corresponding to the hand may be removed, as well as the arm-part. After this the dressing may be left on until it becomes loose, and then, on its removal, it will probably be safe to leave it off entirely. In children union takes place more quickly; I recently attended a little girl, three years old, whose forearm, broken at about the middle, was quite firm on the fourteenth day. These fractures afford a striking illustration of the fact, noted in the early Caswell, in Holmes’s System of Surgery, Am. ed. vol. i. p. 861.