25 PHENOMENA AND SYMPTOMS OF FRACTURE. In 1876, one of my own children had his arm broken by an accidental blow; there was no displacement, and no sign of fracture except pain and loss of powrer, until two weeks later, when he had a fall, and the fragments at once became freely movable. Deformity of the affected part is almost always one of the results of frac- ture ; not invariably, because it may be that the periosteum remains suffi- ciently intact to hold the fragments in place. The kind and degree of deformity vary greatly in different bones, and in different portions of the same bone ; it is apt to be less where the fracturing force has not been very violent, where only one of two parallel bones is broken, and where the bone, if single, is surrounded by a large mass of muscle. Deformity may be owing either to the original violence, to muscular con- traction, to the weight of the distal part of the limb, or to incidental causes, such as, in case of the femur, the pressure of the bed-clothes on the foot. When the fracturing violence is direct, it simply forces the fragments apart after breaking them; and they may be held thus by the entanglement of their serrations, by muscular contraction, or by both combined; when it is indirect, the leverage afforded by one or both fragments will be readily un- derstood. Muscular contraction may drag the fragments apart, as in the case of the patella or olecranon; or may pull one fragment past the other, as when the shaft of the femur is broken obliquely; or may rotate one fragment, as in fracture of the cervix femoris. In case of fracture of the thigh or leg, the slight weight of the foot, perhaps with the addition of that of the bed-clothes, is sufficient, acting through a long bent lever, such as is formed by the distal part of the limb, to produce great twisting. We often meet with expressions such as “the fragments being uncon- trolled,” and “the fragments assuming bad positions;” but these are incorrect, as they imply that the fragments are not, as they really are, absolutely passive. It is not generally at the seat of injury that we must look for the causes of deformity or of its continuance. However produced, deformity consists in a change in the relation of the axes of the fragments. This change may consist either in their forming an angle with each other—angular deformity ; or in the rotation of the distal one— rotary deformity; or in the end of one passing by the end of the other—lateral deformity, over-riding, over-lapping, or shortening. Obviously these may all be presented together in fracture of a long bone—the femur, for example—or they may exist singly. And either of them may, in either case, be very slight or very pronounced; but their significance does not depend upon their degree. Of all the phenomena attending fractures, the deformity is the most im- portant, not as much on account of appearances (although in women this may sometimes be a matter of great moment), as by reason of the disability which it is apt to involve if it is uncorrected. Even a slight degree of angular or rotary displacement may, in the upper extremity, interfere seriously with the complicated movements upon which the free use of the hand depends, or, 'in the lower extremity, may give rise to awkward lameness. Hence the great end and aim of the innumerable appliances which have been, constantly are, and probably will always continue to be, proposed for the treatment of frac- tures, is the keeping of the fragments in their normal relation until they have become fixed thus by the process of repair. The degree of the deformity is not always, or indeed generally, an index of the difficulty of its correction; for often a very slight displacement can scarcely be overcome, while it may be that a very great one will yield at once. But, on the other hand, deformity which is easily corrected is apt to