448 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. presented so marked an outward flexion of the lower third of the leg as to seriously inter- fere with walking. By cutting away a wedge-shaped segment of the tibia, and a small disk of the fibula, I was enabled to bring the bones into good position, and then fasten- ing them with sutures of thick silver wire and placing the limb in a bracketed splint, such as will be hereafter described in connection with excisions of the ankle, I suc- ceeded in obtaining firm union without any reproduction of the deformity, and gave the patient a perfectly useful, though slightly shortened member. Excision of the astragalus or other tarsal bones has been successfully prac- tised to relieve the deformity of inveterate cases of club-foot. Caries and Necrosis.—Many cases which are described as excisions of the long bones for necrosis are in reality nothing more than sequestrotomies, and, indeed, it is hard to conceive of an ordinary case of slow' necrosis in which formal excision could be justified; if uncomplicated, the sequestrum should certainly be removed without unnecessary disturbance of the new-formed invo- lucrum, and if this were forbidden by implication of the neighboring joints or other circumstances, amputation would probably be indicated. There are, however, cases of acute necrosis, resulting from subperiosteal abscess, in which immediate interference is necessary, and in -which removal of the entire shaft of the bone, after splitting the periosteum longitudinally, may permit the preservation of the limb. Brilliant and successful operations of this kind have been recorded by Mr. T. Holmes, Dr. Shrady, and other surgeons. Caries is usually amenable to milder treatment than removal of the entire bone, but in cases in which the disease is too extensive for gouging, or for Prof. Sedillot’s method of evidement, subperiosteal excision may be properly resorted to. Rachitic deformities of the long bones have occasionally been thought to justify resection, but in almost all cases can be remedied either by the use of mechanical appliances or by the less dangerous operation of subcutaneous osteotomy. Tumors of bones, finally, may become the indication for excision. In the case of the long bones amputation should usually be preferred, though suc- cessful resections for myeloid growths of the radius and ulna have been recorded by Mr. Lucas and Mr. Morris. In the case, liowrever, of the round or flat bones—as, for instance, the maxillae, scapula, or clavicle—excision may properly be performed. The remarks which have already been made as to the indications and contraindications of excision, in cases of joint-disease, are equally applicable, mutatis mutandis, in regard to resection for injuries and diseases of the bones. Erom them it will be perceived that, while these operations are, in suitable cases, admirable and truly conservative procedures, they are yet, after all, adapted only to selected cases ; it is therefore manifestly unfair to attempt, as is sometimes done, to prove that excision is a less grave operation than ampu- tation, by instituting a comparison of their statistical results; the fact being that while the first-named operation is habitually reserved for the more favor- able cases, the other is, of necessity, employed for those wdiich offer a less favorable prognosis. Greatly as I admire the operation of excision, and strongly as I deprecate, under all circumstances, the unnecessary sacrifice of a limb, I cannot but believe that, other things being equal, excision is, in most regions of the body, at least as fatal, if not more fatal, than the corre- sponding amputation.