COURSE AND GROWTH OF TUMORS. 547 Whether various kinds of malignant tumor are due to different forms of micro-organism, or to modifications of a single organism, can scarcely be discussed. Nor can the questions of the entrance, maintenance, growth, and influence of the parasite be dwelt upon. But I feel confident that the rapid advance in the knowledge of micro-organisms will lead, ere long, to the dis- covery of tumor parasites. Some of the conditions which have been mentioned as predisposing, are also exciting causes of tumors—inflammation and long-continued irritation, for example. The hypertemia, which Cohnheim regards as an important exciting cause, is present in most of these conditions. Course and Growth of Tumors. A tumor, once formed, tends always to maintain its size, or to increase in bulk, and this maintenance or increase of size is generally quite independent of the conditions of the whole body. The latter may remain unchanged or even waste, but the tumor grows. It rarely becomes smaller, and almost never disappears, either spontaneously or under treatment. It may, however, though rarely, die, and it may wholly, or in part, slough out. The increase may be by interstitial growth, by additions to the surface, or by infiltration. An illustration of the first method may be observed in any growing fatty tumor. The small portion of protoplasm between the fat-cells gradually enlarges; a tiny drop of liquid fat appears within it; the drop grows larger, and, in time, flattening out the protoplasm around it, forms a new fat-cell. Of surface-increase, an admirable example may be found in the growth of a cancellous exostosis. The boije is covered with a layer of hyaline cartilage, which, becoming ossified in its deepest layers where it is continuous with the cancellous bone, maintains its thickness and provides for the increase of the tumor by the addition of new cartilage to its surface. Growth by infiltration may be studied in carcinoma, the elements of which are, as it were, thrust in between the natural textures of the part invaded. Long rows of carcinoma-cells may thus be found lymg between and separating the fibres of inorganic muscle, or groups of similar cells are seen between fat-cells or bundles of connective-tissue. The changes in the tissues which are produced by infiltration will be presently discussed. Of the precise mode of origin of most tumors we have no definite know- ledge. Many of them may, and probably do, commence, as Virchow has suggested,1 in the form of granulation-tissue. But this is certainly not the case with all. The origin of carcinoma may often be traced to changes in epithelium, and, without any intervening granulation stage, the carcinoma cells are derived from the normal epithelial cells. All primary tumors indeed appear to be derived from the elements of the natural tissues, but the first steps in their development can very rarely be observed. The tissue from which they take their origin, and the tissues in the midst of which they grow, exercise a marked influence upon their structure. The influence ot the former is the more powerful, and, so great is the tendency of tumors to assume a structure similar to that of the parent tissue, that the latter may often be inferred by observation of the former. Even if the same structure be not present in the tumor and the parent tissue, the tumor invariably belongs to the same histological series. Thus, a fibrous tissue may produce a fibrous tumor, or a tumor formed of bone or cartilage, or a tumor whose development into fibrous tissue has not taken place (sarcoma). Krankhaften Gescliwulste. Band i. Vorlesung 5.