ACUTE ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. 353 cate wide destruction, the repair of which will of necessity destroy the pa- tient, amputation is the sole resource. If, however, symptoms of pyaemia, which must be carefully looked for, appear, the treatment must be carried out on the lines already indicated (see page 294). During the whole course of the disease, the surgeon must endeavor to pre- vent diastasis by enforcement of rest in a good position; and especially if the parts about the knee be alfected, a straight posture must be maintained, as otherwise the mere power of the flexors will, without blow or sudden move- ment, produce that displacement. But, except in the more rapid or osteo- phlebitic form, separation of the epiphysis is not a sudden event, and, there- fore, while the groove of separation (see page 347) is being gradually formed, the greatest care will be necessary to prevent any movement which might frac- ture the remaining connection ; for while any portion of attachment remains, separation may be avoided and repair hoped for. When diastasis has taken place, we need not absolutely despair of reunion, provided that the neighbor- ing bone be fairly sound; the problem, and it is often a difficult one, is to insure that union shall take place in the best possible posture, for at all joints there is great tendency to deformation towards the side of flexion. Xo ap- pliance seems so well calculated to insure this result as the plaster-of-Paris bandage, applied while, by extension or otherwise, the limb is held in position. If mouths of sinuses, or the remains of abscesses, be anywhere found, corres- ponding openings must be made in the bandage. The management of the accompanying joint-disease must depend on its form and severity. If the surgeon have to do with a mild joint-affection tending to become chronic—and, if so, remarkably obstinate—he will employ such treatment as has been described in previous pages. The more severe affec- tions, too, must be treated on principles already laid down. Especially would I here point out, that, if the synovial tissues suppurate, free incision and thorough drainage are particularly necessary, and that the opening thus made must be utilized for making a cai’eful investigation into the state of the bone. In case one or both epiphyses be found lying in an abscess, loose and ne- crosed, there will be no possibility of restoring the joint, nor, as long as the sequestra remain, of procuring anchylosis; moreover, the presence of the dead material keeps up suppuration, which may go on to the exhaustion of the patient. It is therefore evident that these must be removed; but there is some choice as to the method, which must be guided partly by the condition of the patient’s health, partly by the anatomical position of the joint involved. Thus, if the patient have suffered much, or if suppuration have been consider- able, so that the bodily powers are unequal to a rather long and arduous work of repair, it may be desirable, whatever be the joint involved (except the hip), to amputate ; otherwise, the surgeon may for most articulations cut into the abscess widely enough to remove the loose ends, drain the cavity thoroughly, and, keeping the part at rest, endeavor to obtain such union, fibrous or otherwise, between the ends of the shafts, as shall enable the limb to serve some useful purpose. This, especially, may be the result with the joints of the upper extremity, and more particularly with the elbow. If the disease be at the knee, its most frequent seat, sundry considerations become involved. It is very doubtful indeed, if, the necrosed epiphysis or epiphyses being removed from an abscess-cavity, it would be possible to secure synostosis of the femur and tibia ; and if this should not occur, the limb would be very useless.1 Moreover, if synostosis should take place, the limb would hardly grow from the end which had shed its epiphysis, and if the patient 1 The condition of things is very dili'erent from that in which an excision of the knee-joint is usually performed. VOL. IV.—23