762 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Dr. T. G. Morton1 reports the case of a young man, aged 19, injured by falling into the hold of a vessel, and striking his head and neck. The neck was shortened, and the head thrown forward. There were pain, paralysis, and priapism, with “ symptoms of concussion.” In ten days death ensued. Dissection showed fractures of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra}; partial dislocation of the fifth ; the spinal cord was compressed, and there were blood-clots in the vertebral canal. (Ashhurst.) To the symptoms of fracture of the bodies of the vertebrae already mentioned, shortening of the spinal column, when it is caused by vertebral injury, must, therefore be added. By the displacement of the fragments, which results from certain fractures of the bodies of the vertebrae, the spinal cord may be bruised, compressed, or even severed; and, in this way, spinal paralysis, priapism, retention of urine and feces, bed-sores, etc., are not unfrequently produced. But spinal paralysis, appearing coincidently with the accident which causes the fracture, is quite as likely to arise from concussion of the spinal cord as from compression thereof; for fractures of the bodies of the vertebrae are often attended by con- cussion of the spinal cord—much oftener, I fancy, than luxations. When spinal paralysis begins a few hours after the accident, in the lower extremities, and creeps gradually upward, it is generally due to extravasation of blood within the theca vertebralis. Many examples have already been presented.2 When spinal paralysis begins at a later period, it is often caused by spinal meningitis or myelitis.3 But much .displacement of the fragments, without the occurrence of spinal paralysis, has often been observed in cases where the lower dorsal and the lumbar vertebrae were fractured. For example, Mr. Shaw4 reports four cases in which the lower dorsal and the upper lumbar vertebra* were fractured, and the fragments much displaced, without causing any spinal paralysis. These patients all recovered more or less completely. It will be remembered that the spinal cord, having progressively dimi- nished in size in the dorsal region, terminates in adults in a rounded point at the first or second lumbar vertebra, after sending off the cauda equina; in children, at birth, it extends to the middle of the third lumbar vertebra, and, in the embryo, is prolonged as far as the coccyx. Dr. Bennett5 relates a case of fracture of the third lumbar vertebra from direct violence, without the spinal canal suffering from encroachment. Local pain, as already stated, is usually present in cases where the bodies and pedicles, etc., of the vertebrae are broken. But when the spinal nerves also are injured by fracture-splinters, especially during their passage through the intervertebral foramina, severe pain is excited in their terminal branches, which appears to the unfortunate patient to be fixed in the parts supplied by the injured nerves. For instance, when the sixth, seventh, or eighth dorsal nerve is thus irritated at the intervertebral foramen, pain and perhaps cramps, corresponding to the irritation, will be felt in the part of the abdominal walls where the terminal branches of the injured nerve are distributed. The pres- ence of such a pain not unfrequently furnishes important aid in diagnosticat- ing a vertebral fracture. The symptoms and diagnosis of the so-called latent fractures of the bodies of the vertebrae yet remain to be considered. These cases are not attended by appreciable displacement of the fragments during life, nor by crepitus, nor by shortening of the spinal column, nor, at the outset, by spinal paralysis. They bear a close resemblance to instances of sprains or wrenches of the vertebral joints. Like sprains, they are caused by blows on the back, or by falls, etc. 1 Proceedings Pathol. Soc. Philadelphia, vol. i. 2 For a further discussion of these important topics, see Injuries of the Spinal Cord, infra. 3 See Traumatic Meningitis and Traumatic Myelitis, infra. 4 Med. Gazette, vol. xvii., and Trans. Pathol. Soc. London, vol. iii. 5 Dublin Quart. Journal, February, 1809.