677 CONTUSIONS AND CONTUSED WOUNDS OF THE BACK. half inches in length, extending somewhat obliquely from above downward, and penetrated to the bone, which was also slightly cut by the edge of the axe. There was considerable hemorrhage, but no ligatures were required. The bleeding having been stanched, and the coagulum entirely removed, the edges of the wound were brought into apposition, and fixed without difficulty by strips of adhesive plaster. The wound united throughout by the first intention, but the patient complained for a long time of having pain and soreness in the sacrum beneath the cicatrix. These symptoms, however, ultimately disappeared without the occurrence of suppuration or the dis- charge of any pieces of bone. Contusions and Contused Wounds of the Back. The skin on the dorsal region of the human subject is so thick and strong that it will stand a great deal of hard usage without breaking. There is, however, a considerable liability to the occurrence of contusions and con- tused wounds in the posterior cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions, from railway accidents, from falls, from blows with blunt instruments, and from the impact of falling bodies or of the missiles of war. The following examples are in point:— Contusion of the Sacral Region from a Railway Accident.—Private John Hol- den, Co. C, 29th Infantry, aged 23 ; was injured at Keswick, Va., September 28, 1868. He was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, on the next day, and stated that, while riding on the top of a box car, and seeing the next car in front rolling over an embankment, lie jumped off, but, being unable to escape, was struck on the back by the car as it rolled over. He complained of intense pain over the sacrum, extending between the anterior superior spinous process and the right tuber ischii. The parts over the sacrum were exceedingly tender under pressure, the slightest motion or touch causing him to scream with pain. No crepitus could be elicited. He could flex the leg on the thigh without pain, but was unable to flex the thigh on the pelvis. The injured part was much ecchymosed ; and lie had a dull, mov- ing, continuous pain, extending across the whole front of the pelvis. Anodynes, with a nourishing diet, were administered. The patient made a good recovery, and was returned to duty on November 26.1 Contusions of the Dorso-Lumbar Region from Blows with the Butt-end of a Musket—Private Thomas Carroll, Battery L, 1st Artillery, aged 23, presented himself at surgeon’s call October 5, 1867, at Fort Porter, N. Y., stating that, some time during the previous night, he had been struck in the back with the butt-end of a musket in the hands of a sentinel. The blow had knocked him down, whereupon he had been struck twice in the splenic region with the same weapon. On examination, a slight wound, such as might have been made by the percussion hammer of a musket, was found about an inch and a half to the left of the articulation of the twelfth rib with the twelfth dorsal vertebra. About two inches lower, at the same distance from the second lumbar verte- bra, another wound of the same character was found. The man was treated in the post hospital at Fort Porter, until Oct. 21, when lie was returned to duty entirely cured.2 Contusion of the Back caused by a F<dl August Burtz, artificer of Co. II, 2d Infantry, aged 38, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Ky., November 7, 1868, having fallen from a ladder to the floor, a distance of fourteen feet. He com- plained of pain in the bowels, and inability to pass water, and suffered considerably from shock. A stimulant and an anodyne were administered. On the 8th be was improved. On the 10th lie was taken witli intermittent fever, which yielded to quinine and iron. He speedily recovered, and was returned to duty on the 15th.3 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., August 17, 1871, p. 106. 2 Ibid., p. 106. 3 ibid., p. 106.