GOUTY SYNOVITIS. 331 Fig. 644. different from that above pictured; the attack is both less sudden and less severe, the patient feeling a gradually increasing pain, which is never violent; the redness may be a mere blush; the veins are hardly turgid, and the oedema, if any, is slight and deep; pyrexia is hardly marked; but the patient is much depressed in spirit, and low in health.1 Unfortunately, these attacks are fol- lowed by greater injury to the part, and the intervals are less free, than in the other form; other and larger joints also become more speedily involved. Chronic gout is the condition which exists during the intervals between the fits. In these intervals, the patient is, in different cases and in the various stages of the disease, more or less relieved; but it is only after the first fit or two of sthenic gout that he feels quite free from the malady. After many attacks, more or less trouble is continuous. When a certain amount of de- posit has taken place, its presence always keeps up a certain degree of pain and a certain amount of inflammation, which augments the injury already done. In a few instances, chiefly of asthenic gout, this state continues unin- terruptedly; most persons, however, suffer from periodical exacerbations; and during intervals of either comparative quiescence or moderated fit, fresh joints, tendinous sheaths, or bursae, may become involved; also, and this is of especial importance, it is during this sort of diseased action that gouty degen- erations, such as are found in the vascular coats, chiefly occur. After several fits of gout, or after a considerable period of the more quiet form of suffering, great accumulations of chalk-stone are found, as well in the joints as in the sheaths and burste. I have seen the end of the first metatarsal bone, and the corre- sponding part of the phalanx of the great toe, so completely occu- pied that they seemed converted into urate of sodium, with sparse trabeculae of osseous matter run- ning through them; and the sheaths of tendons, both at the ankle and wrist, with the bursae over the olecranon processes, and several others, merely bags of chalk-stone. Both hands were grotesquely padded and swollen, with irregular lumps, so that they looked like hunches of badly grown horse- radish. Attacks of misplaced or of metastatiqgout are dangerous according to the vital importance of the organ involved; they frequently observe, in both the acute and chronic forms, a sort of alternation with the joint affection- while the one is severe, the other will he slight, and vice versa; the non-arti- cular form is sometimes called “suppressed.” These internal affections inte- rest us only in a secondary manner.2 I need only mention gouty encephalitis and cephalalgia, sometimes delirium, and rarely mania, cardialgia and angina, syncope, bronchitis and asthma, gastritis, gastralgia and enteritis, as also the affections of the skin already named, to show (and there are several others) how many and how varied may be the maladies produced. Hand beset with urate-of-sodium deposits. From a prepara- tion in the Museum of the Cliaring-Oross Hospital. 1 Sometimes it is difficult to diagnose these cases ; considerable help may he obtained by observ- ing the subsequent desquamation, which very usually follows, but not so constantly as after a sthenic attack. 2 They are only mentioned here, since certain modes of treating articular gout occasionally produce retrocession.