327 GOUTY SYNOVITIS. 1 See p. 322. Of wines, hock and claret are the least harmful; next to them, still and sound Moselle. The treatment during the intervals is not the least important, its object being to prevent the storing up of the materies morbi. This, though hardly feasible in inveterate cases, inherited perhaps through several gene- rations, is far less difficult in a condition acquired by wrong habits of life, llapid feeding on badly masticated food, excess of stimuli, especially of beer or of sherry, sedentary habits, and study, undertaken immediately after meals, all tend to this condition; and probably more important than the exhibition of any drug, is the rational regulation of the patient’s life. For medicines, when the urine is acid and loaded with lithic acid or lithate of ammonium, the potassium neutral salts, and iodide of potassium or ammonium, will be found useful, while some of the saline waters, as those of Vichy, Carlsbad, Kreuznach, and often the Woodhall Spa of Lincolnshire, may be advanta- geous. Sulphurous waters, as baths, are in some cases very useful, and certain patients have found benefit from baths of artificially sulphurated water. These are easily prepared by pouring over an ounce of sulphur, broken rather small but not powdered, a pint of boiling water, and, after this has stood five minutes, pouring the whole into a bath previously raised to the temperature of from 93° to 97° Fahr. The patient should remain in the bath a quarter of an hour, additional hot water being added if desirable. There is, however, another form of rheumatism, which is very obstinate, and usually very painful. It is combined with pallor, anaemia, and an alka- line condition of urine, or one which at least tends to alkalinity. In such cases the treatment must be in almost every particular the reverse of that above described. Alkalies, or the neutral vegetable salts, are injurious; while quinine, iron, salicylic acid, and a certain amount of wine—even sometimes champagne or port wine—are beneficial, at least for a certain period. This condition may have been caused by too assiduous and long-continued treat- ment of the more sthenic form, or may simply be due to rheumatism, com- bined with the depressing effect of little food, bad air, and over-work. The appearance of phosphates in the urine must be treated on the usual principles of relieving that condition. In the mean time, as soon as the more pressing symptoms of joint-inflam- mation have subsided, passive movement and shampooing have great effect in causing the absorption of the deposited fibrine. The friction should be especially directed centrifugally, the object being to induce activity of the absorbents.1 In carrying out these measures, the tendency to adhesion of tendons to their sheaths must not be forgotten, and the friction must be directed also to those parts. If the disease be of the wrist, each finger and the thumb should be separately moved; or, if of a compound joint, like the elbow, each of the movements—flexion, extension, supination, and pronation —must be attended to. If the acuter stages have passed, and have only produced slight stiffness, the case is very hopeful; but if considerable stiffness be left, the prognosis is less favorable. Gouty Synovitis. Gout is a malady of very protean character and of very variable severity ; nor are the troubles which it produces by any means confined to the joints. Its essence, more demonstrable than that of most other diseases, is a blood surcharged with uric acid, which, combined with soda, forms, when dry, a pul- verulent, when wet, a pultaceous substance, that from ipere excess infiltrates