923 pott’s disease of the spine. sitis, as it is called. Certain it is, that for some time the mischief may remain limited to that portion of the bone which corresponds to the epiphysis. Follin and Duplay state that the earliest change in Pott’s disease is often to be noticed about the posterior part of the body, near its junction with the pedicles; and other observers have cited the centre of the bone as a frequent spot for the commencement of the disease. The change itself would be described, in the language of the text-books, as an osteitis interna, or as a caries fungosa, and, very briefly, the following are the alterations that are to be noted in the part: A certain area in the cancellous substance of a vertebral body becomes congested, and all the spaces in the bone become engorged with blood. Into the immediate cause of this limited congestion we cannot now enter. This vascular disturbance is soon followed by grosser changes, which consist, in the main, of two distinct processes—a softening and breaking down of the bone structure, and a development of certain fungous granulations. To properly appreciate these changes, it is needful to recall to mind the fact that two elements enter into the formation of bone, viz., inorganic matter and an organic matrix. The relation which these two elements bear to one another may be compared to the relation that exists between the plaster and the laths in a latli-and-plaster wall. Just as the laths support or hold together the plaster, so does the organic matrix of bone serve to support the inorganic elements or lime-salts. Now, it is obvious that the morbid process in inflammation of bone must be limited to the organic matter of the affected tissue, and that the inorganic material can take none but a purely passive part in any pathological change. Inflammation, to speak roughly and generally, has a tendency, in the first place, to soften the tissue that it invades. When inflammation attacks bone—or, rather, when it attacks the organic matter of a bone—it softens that material, and one might almost say that it dissolves it. The result of such a change is, that the matrix is no longer able to support the inorganic elements, and the structure crumbles down, just as would a latli-and-plaster wall if it were possible by some pro- cess to dissolve out the laths without seriously disturbing the plaster. It is needless to say that this softening and disintegrating change is no mere chemical process, but is brought about by active changes in the part itself, and in the bloodvessels that are concerned in its nutrition. Into the minute features of the process, it is unnecessary here to enter. Suffice it to say that the partition walls between neighboring cancellous spaces are broken down, and that one large and irregular space results from the fusion of several small ones. Thus, the bone becomes lighter and more spongy, more cancellous apparently in its structure, and more friable undoubtedly to the touch. These bony spaces are by no means empty, nor have they for con- tents but the debris that has resulted from neighboring disintegration. On the contrary, they are occupied by a “ fungous” granulation-tissue that has been derived partly from tlie altered cell-elements of the bone, and partly from an exudation provided by the bloodvessels in the area of disease. The “ fungous” character of these granulations can hardly be said to be apparent until there is such a loss of parts that they find themselves projecting from a free surface. These granulations are very intimately connected with the dis- integration of the bone. Indeed, they appear to penetrate the parts and carry destruction in their wake. It is by them that the process spreads, and it is to them that the pathologist has turned for a clue to the nature of the entire process. When the disease reaches the periosteum, the granulations are described by Lannelongue-as perforating that membrane, and as piercing it, as it were, often at many points. The periosteum, readily altered, would become a part of this granulation-material, and would in time be destroyed, as the bone had been destroyed. Thus would the bone be bared and an erosion in