210 INJURIES OF BONES. above and the other below the knee. By changing the point of suspension, a more or less considerable degree of extending force was applied to the limb, the weight of the body upon the bed giving the counter-extension. Afterwards, this splint was modified by substituting for the wooden splint a wire frame, suspended by means of wire loops. One advantage of this is that it may be bent so as to .suit limbs of various lengths. The cord attached to the splint runs through the loop of another cord, which passes over a pulley fastened in the ceiling, or in a frame over the bed; and this latter cord is passed through what is known as a tent-block, by means of which it may be tightened up or let out, so as to raise or lower the limb at pleasure. (Fig. 621.) Fig. 621. Smith’s anterior splint for treatment of fractured thigh. By the late Dr. Hodgen, of St. Louis, a somewhat similar splint was used, but, instead of being bandaged to it, the limb was suspended in it by means of strips of muslin, so that it formed a sort of cradle. (Fig. 622.) With both these forms of apparatus good results have been obtained in a very large number of cases. Yet in one instance seen by me, that ot a man treated by an experienced surgeon, and an enthusiastic advocate ot Smith’s method, the fragments had united at an angle backward, and such pressure had been made upon the sciatic nerve as to give rise to very serious symp- toms, only partially relieved by an operation. I may mention that Dr. J. B. Taylor, of Yew York, has recently1 published an account of a “ saddle” attached to an iron brace, and fitting into the peri- neum, for the purpose of making counter-extension, extension being made by means of a coiled spring. Dr. Brownrigg, of Tennessee, has described2 an apparatus of his own, in which counter-extension is made by means of a 1 Journal of Am. Med. Association, Sept. 1, 1883. 2 Trans, of Mississippi State Med. Association for 1881, quoted in the College and Clinical Record for August 15, 1883.