647 CARCINOMA. nodules of carcinoma form in the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the mam- mary region. They are not necessarily limited to the mammary region, but may be spread widely over the back and front of the chest. In a few rare cases, the skin of the breast is extensively involved by carcinomatous nodules, while yet the mammary gland seems almost free from tumor. The nodules coalesce and transform the skin into a hard, stiff, red, or reddish-brown cov- ering, through which the breast can be no longer felt, and to which the term “ squirrhe en cuirasse” has been applied. It is very unusual for both breasts to be attacked simultaneously by carcinoma, or even for both breasts to be attacked at different periods in the same patient; but it is still more unusual for cancer to occur simultaneously in two or more parts of the same breast. The affection of the lymphatic glands, which is a part of the life history of carcinoma of the breast, may occur early or late in the disease—within two or three mouths of its first appearance, or not till after many (seven or eight) years. The average duration of the disease, if untreated by operation, is about two and a quarter years ; but this period gives no idea of the shortness of the course in some instances, or of its extreme length in others. In the worst case which I have ever seen, death occurred within four months of the time when attention was first directed to the breast. Both breasts were affected, and completely transformed into masses of extreme hardness, but in neither case larger than the size of the breast before becoming diseased, and in neither case ulcerated, although adherent to the skin. The glands in both tixilhe were enlarged and hard. The lungs and liver were occupied by cancerohs masses, and other of the viscera were affected. This patient had early pre- sented all the signs of cancerous cachexia; she had become sallow, had lost flesh and strength and spirits, and for days before she died was dusky Und unconscious. On the other hand, I have seen an aged woman with a large ulcerated carcinoma of the breast of many years’ duration. It was adherent to the pectoral muscle, and probably to the ribs, and extended round almost into the axilla. It discharged offensively and bled at frequent intervals, for the patient, who was insane, would tear her dressings off and even tear the wound, so that, on more than one occasion, it was thought that the hemor- rhage would kill her. Yet she lived in this condition many years, and it was only towards the end that cachexia became established. A very large proportion of cases of mammary carcinoma arc submitted to operation in spite of the admitted fact that the very large majority of those operated on die within a short period of the disease. Indeed, only a very small percentage can be claimed to be rescued from death by treatment. The majority of patients treated by operation die with return of the dis- ease in situ, or with enlargement of the axillary glands without local recur- rence, or with recurrence in the axilla after removal of the lymphatic glands. In spite of these discouraging results the operation continues to he practised; nay, probably grows in favor. By many surgeons it is regarded as palliative, not curative: it is thought to diminish the liability to ulceration, inasmuch as the disease does not necessarily recur in situ ; to remove a source of grave anxiety, be it otdy for a short period ; to remove a cause of acute pain in cer- tain instances; and to prolong life in a few cases, perhaps for a few months, or even more. By some surgeons it is looked on as offering a very slender chance of cure, yet still the only chance. And by a few surgeons it is re- garded in a more hopeful light, not merely as a possible means of cure, but as a means which, used earlier and with greater freedom, would insure a good percentage of complete recoveries. Most surgeons remove the entire breast even when the tumor is comparatively small; but those who expect most from the operation, sweep the tumor and the breast completely off, together with a very wide area of integument, and, not content with removing