246 INJURIES OF BONES. In England, the splint known as McIntyre’s or Liston’s has been very largely used, generally with a Stromeyer screw for the purpose of changing the angle of the knee when desired; and the ordinary double inclined plane has also been employed, not only by British surgeons, but on the continent of Europe and in this country. I think, however, that although there can be no question of the fact that good results have been obtained by such means, the want of more effective lateral pressure than is likely to be made by a mere bandage, and the uncertainty of posterior support through the muscles of the calf, make these forms of apparatus less available for general use than might be supposed from the reputation accorded them. Lateral support, indeed, seems to me to be of prime importance in the treatment of the injuries in question; and my own practice is to employ it sedulously in every case- For this purpose I prefer moulded splints of binder’s board, gutta-percha, or sole-leather, accurately adapted to the limb, properly lined or padded, and secured by careful bandaging, so as to control the leg and foot as perfectly as possible. Pressure upon the bony points, the head of the fibula, the malleoli, and the tarsal bones in very thin persons, must be guarded against by cutting out holes in the splints, and all the edges must be nicely bevelled. The side-splints should extend up along the side of the foot, so as to keep it steady and in line; but they should not reach so high as to interfere with the free flexion of the knee. Patients with fractures of the leg are rendered far more comfortable by having the injured limb suspended, so that it can move freely without dis- turbing the fragments. By this arrangement they are enabled to sit up, and even to be out of bed, with perfect safety. When the fracture-box is used, it may be hung in a frame (Fig. 625) by means of cords attached to the ends of the arms; the frame should be made of iron bars stiff enough to sustain the weight without bending. When the lateral splints are employed, I prefer suspension by means of a Fig. 626. Fig. 625. Frame for suspending fractnre-box. Wire frame for suspending leg.