INJURIES OF THE BACK. 822 that this also was a case of ascending myelitis. Paraplegia beginning some days after the injury was inflicted, and then gradually extending upward, with incontinence of feces and urine, delirium, and diaphragmatic breathing, are signs quite characteristic of this affection when it spreads from the lumbar, upward to the cervical region. In respect to disordered sensations, it should he observed that the excru- ciating pains in the wound and lower extremities which this patient endured, arose from the spinal meningitis which attended the inflammation of the cord-substance. But patients having acute traumatic myelitis often make no complaint of pain whatever during the whole course of the disease. A case in point is related on page 777, in which the cord was severed by the missile (Fig. 783); and although the upper portion of the cord was much softened by the inflammatory process, there was no complaint of pain. Sir W. Gull’s case of acute myelitis, arising from a strain of the back (related above), like- wise shows that the spinal cord may be completely destroyed for a consider- able distance by the inflammatory process without causing much if any pain; for, in that case, no pain whatever was complained of, excepting the pain which attended the strain itself. Among the symptoms which are particularly bad as prognostics in cases of traumatic myelitis, we may mention gangrenous eschars over the sacrum that are rapidly enlarging, inflammations of the kidneys or bladder that are rapidly extending, ascending paraplegia—paralysis of the upper extremities appearing some days after that of the lower extremities, etc., has occurred— and diaphragmatic breathing, especially when the latter is attended by dys- pnoea and bronchial rfdes, for then the end may be quite near. But, although the prognosis of traumatic myelitis is generally unfavorable, we are still not entirely without hope during the first stage of the disease; for, in the case of the cavalryman, aged 35, whose death suddenly resulted from haemoptysis the case is related on page 817), the disease was shown by the necroscopy to be undergoing resolution ; and in the foudroyant case of traumatic spinal meningitis related on page 808, potassium iodide and ergot were administered with a notably good effect upon the inflammation (acute hyperaemia) which attended the injury of the cord-substance, and preceded the inflammation of the spinal membranes. Treatment.—Stromeyer says: “In a case where a bullet, entering laterally, bruised the third and fourth cervical vertebrae severely, arid was not extracted, death resulted from the advance of inflammation of the spinal cord and brain; there was at first paralysis of the arm belonging to the injured side ; it was followed by incomplete paralysis of all the limbs, ending in coma. Anti- phlogistic treatment had been entirely neglected.”1 The patient afflicted with acute traumatic myelitis should always be placed on a water bed. In other respects the prophylaxis and treatment of this disease are the same as for traumatic spinal meningitis (see page 814). For an account of the prophylaxis and treatment of sacral eschars (so- called bed-sores), and of vesical and renal inflammations which result from myelitis, the reader should consult the sections specially devoted to those topics. In regard to the treatment of chronic myelitis with paraplegia, I will briefly mention a case which was successfully managed by Dr. C. Taylor.2 The disease had lasted eleven months before the treatment was commenced. This consisted in the administration of ergot and belladonna, potassium iodide, and cod-liver oil, with alternated cold and hot flapping of the back, twice daily, and a cold douche followed by violent rubbing with mustard every morning. Complete recovery, excepting some slight want of ability to guide Op. cit., p. 38. e British Med. Journal, May 24, 18G2.