283 SUPPURATIVE SYNOVITIS. the joint, after some time the limb-segment below participates in this cedema- tous condition. The skin, save over deep joints, is somewhat reddened; not uniformly, but in parts corresponding to the place of the absorbents, or of the larger veins; between these pink parts the skin looks white, and subsequently sodden. If there be an open wound into the joint, it assumes a peculiar look; the orifice from which synovia flowed becomes dry; the granulations, if any have formed, become pale and shrivelled, or if none have arisen, the raw edge of the wound becomes livid and foul. In from two to five days, according to the violence and rapidity of the disease, contraction of muscles (exaggerated tonicity), causes malposture1 of the joint, which is always towards the side of flexion, and at first is merely a morbid fixity. Very soon, however, clonic spasms, also called “starting pains,” are superadded, and with them the position of the limb may become in itself abnormal—flexion may overstep the natural limits, or some subluxation may occur. In the mean time the muscles affected with these spasms waste very rapidly, the limb-segment above the joint more especially shrivelling very quickly. This wasting is often mistaken for additional swelling of the joint, which, lying between two shrivelled parts, naturally appears larger. Measure- ment will correct this impression. After a few days the form of the fever somewhat changes; it was at first, though high, yet moderately uniform, but it now becomes, sometimes sooner sometimes later, very uneven, the chart marking large variations. In the meantime the tongue becomes furred, and the pulse small and weak. At this point the surgeon, seeing the patient for the first time, has many difficult points of prognosis to consider, and on them to found his treatment —whether to aim at restoration, or at more or less anchylosis. Unfavorable signs are a more or less cedematous state of the limb below, a dry furfu- raceous skin, patchy redness over the joint, with a network of large veins on its surface and meandering up the limb, and progressive aggravation of symp- toms, both local and general. Nevertheless, in order to arrive at a sure view, it is desirable to give some anaesthetic, under the influence of which a more complete but a very gentle examination may be made. By palpation, the amount of fluid in, and the distension ofi the synovial membrane may be esti- mated, and the presence and situation of surrounding abscess, as also the pre- sence or absence of bony enlargement, may be determined. Then the joint maybe gently moved, while the following points are especially noted: Whether the one bone moves upon the other without crepitus; the presence of that symptom shows of course that ulceration of cartilages has taken place, though its absence does not connote the contrary, since in such ulcers the bone beneath is often protected by granulations. Whether the lower limb-segment moves upon the other in its normal area and sphere. Whether any abnormal mobility be present, as, for instance, a lateral or antero-posterior gliding of the ulna on the humerus, or of the tibia on the femur. A negative to all these queries would go far to induce a favorable prognosis, and strenuous efforts to preserve the joint. In its further continuance the disease may still remain acute, abscesses 1 I use this word in a perhaps rather unusual sense ; thus, the position of a limb may he in itself abnormal, or, being normal, may be only faulty in its fixity ; e. g., a knee bent at a right angle is not faulty as to its position, which is one that healthy knees assume many hundred times in the course of a day ; hut if that posture he more or less fixed, so that the individual does not or cannot move it out of that angle, this is malposture by fixity, even though the surgeon may with very little power alter the angle. To this fixity may, or may not, he added abnormity in the relations of the hones to one another, or flexion may simply be carried beyond the natural limits ; here malposture by position is added to that by fixity. But when the word “malposture” is used alone, I intend to denote either one or the other, or both together; it is a general, abstract term, the more convenient that it does not particularize.