221 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. The symptoms of these cases would seem, as far as they have been recorded, to resemble in many respects those of fractures of both condyles; there is the same pain, loss of power, swelling, and crepitus, and in some cases, especially where the bone has been broken higher up also, there would seem to be like deformity. But if one condyle alone is separated, and the case is seen before the parts have been masked by swelling, it may be possible to grasp the frag- ment by itself, and to move it upon the rest of the bone, so as to gain some idea in regard to it. The diagnosis, however, is extremely difficult in injuries of this portion of the femur; and for my own part, I should be unwilling to make a positive assertion as to any case in which the examination was made after swelling had taken place, unless either the detached fragment was thrown off, or an opportunity for dissection had occurred. I may say that I have seen several cases in which there was reason to believe that one or other condyle had been separated, but it was impossible to arrive at anything approaching to certainty. Theoretically, it is easy to point out what it seems ought to be the signs of one or other lesion ; but in practice the matter is far more per- plexing. The course of these cases varies very much; sometimes excellent results have been obtained, but in other cases, either from the previous bad habits of the patients, or from the severity of other injuries, the loss of the limb, or even of life, has ensued. When recovery has taken place, the use of the limb has generally been in very great measure restored, and sometimes the cure may be said to have been perfect. As to the treatment, no precise directions can be given, but the general course to be followed is the same as that advised for fractures involving both condyles. Fractures of the Patella. • According to most observers who have furnished statistics, the patella is affected in something less than 2 per cent, of all the cases of fracture. Grurlt,1 in the tables before quoted, cites from the record of the Klinik and Poly- klinik at Halle, given by Blasius, the statement that out of 778 cases there were 20, or over 2J per cent., of the patella. On the other hand, at the Allerheiligen Hospital at Breslau, Middeldorpf reported but 3 fractures of the patella out of 325 cases, being less than 1 per cent. By'far the larger number of the subjects of fractured patella are adult males. Agnew2 says that, in the Pennsylvania Hospital, out of 106 cases 96 were in men and only 10 in women ; only one case was seen under twenty years of age, the largest number, 36, occurring between twenty and thirty. Fractures of the patella do not appear at all in the seven years’ tables of the Children’s Hos- pital in Philadelphia, already several times cited. Malgaigne’s figures are not quite as striking as the above; out of 45 cases, 37 were in men to 8 in women. Of 20 cases observed by himself, only 4 were in women. But 1 of the 45 was in a person under seventeen years of age; one of his own cases, however, was that of a boy of eleven. He calls attention to the fact that in women, from the seventeenth year to the fifty-fifth, there were but 3 fractures ot the patella; there were 5 beyond this period. Rare as this injury is in children, it lias been observed in them. Hamilton mentions the case of a boy of five, in whom, by a direct blow, a small piece of the margin of the bone was broken off Dr. Samuel Ashliurst has reported to the Academy of Surgery, in Philadelphia, the case of a child four years old, 1 Op. cit., Bd. i. S. 6 und 7. 2 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 971.