GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. 59 4 Op. cit., p. 118. * Lancet, 1846. iodine. After this the immovable apparatus may be again put on for three or four weeks. During all this time the strength of the patient should be supported and improved by nutritious diet, with tonics if need be. Certain remedies have long been supposed to have a direct effect in promoting the formation of cal- lus. Thus the phosphate of lime and the carbonate and phosphate of mag- nesium, have been credited with hastening union in some cases. Probably the “ osteo-colla,” or “ ossifrage,” recommended by Hildanus, and spoken of by Turner1 as used both internally and externally—a stone found near Darmstadt in Germany—was composed mainly of these salts. Milne-Edwards2 found by experiments on dogs that the phosphate and carbonate of lime given inter- nally promoted the healing of their fractures; and quotes the favorable ex- perience of Gosselin with the same drugs, in man, given in the dose of half a gramme (about 8 grains) thrice daily. Fletcher3 gives six cases of remarkably early union, in persons to whom lime-water and chalk-mixture had been ad- ministered. Gurlt quotes from Saucerotte a case in which a tisane of madder is said to have produced, in two months, union of a fracture of the leg which had been three months unhealed. Hammick4 says, that “ mercury will fre- quently be required by patients who never had any syphilitic taint, not oidy to act as an alterative, but even it will be necessary to push it to a con- siderable extent before union of a fractured bone will take place.” He Smith’s apparatus for nnunited fracture Smith’s apparatus for ununited fracture of the leg. of the thigh. quotes a case in point, and says that “ this so commonly occurs, that it will not be necessary to trouble you with the detail of any more cases in con- firmation of it.” As my own experience in regard to the medication of cases of delayed union has never gone beyond the use of tonics, and of anti- 1 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 153. 2 Am. Journal of tlie Med. Sciences, Oct. 1856.