INJURIES OF BONES. 148 Fracture of the olecranon is very rare in children, although it is men- tioned three times among the 316 cases in the records of the Children’s Hos- pital, before quoted, while Malgaigne quotes three cases recorded at the Hotel Dieu between the ages of eleven and fifteen. Holmes1 figures a speci- men of “fracture of the cartilaginous epiphysis of the olecranon,” but does not mention the age of the patient; the head of the radius was dislocated for- ward. By far the most common cause of this injury would seem to be falling upon the elbow, the joint being strongly flexed at the moment. A blow, or any other direct violence, may cause it in like manner. An old woman once came under my care, who had fallen down in ascending a staircase, striking her elbow on a pebble which lay on one of the steps, and breaking the ole- cranon. Muscular action has been thought to produce this fracture in a number of cases, although Malgaigne, while admitting four, says that “in- stances of this kind call for careful scrutiny.” Dupuytren2 says: “A sud- den and very violent extension of the forearm, by the action of the triceps, may also produce fracture of the olecranon, which happened whilst I was a student, to a person who, whilst playing at tennis, gave the ball a violent back-stroke with the racket, and immediately felt a sharp pain at the elbow. I examined the arm, and found that the olecranon was fractured.” It must be remembered that the triceps is not inserted into the tip of the olecranon, but “ into the back part of its upper surface, a small bursa, occa- sionally multilocular, being interposed between the tendon and the front of this surface.”3 Moreover, the tendon of the triceps, expanding over the upper and back part of the ulna, gets a much larger attachment than merely to the upper surface of the olecranon, and the “tearing off” of this process, described by some surgical writers, is actually impossible. In one case, quoted by Malgaigne from Veyne and Robert, it is said that these surgeons “ made out a detachment of the apex of the olecranon ;” and this is the only one of the instances mentioned by Malgaigne in which the exact seat of the fracture is stated. Lonsdale4 suggests that fracture of the olecranon may sometimes be ex- plained “ by the ulna being thrown hack against the humerus with great violence, which motion produces extreme extension, and throws the olecranon process forcibly against the humerus, which may he sufficient to break it off from the rest of the bone;” I may say that this idea had crossed my own mind, but that it had seemed to me that the anterior attachments of the fore- arm, both muscular and ligamentous, would prevent such extreme extension. The olecranon may give way at either of several points. Sometimes the line of fracture runs through the slightly constricted part which corresponds to the middle of the sigmoid cavity, as looked at from the side. Sometimes it passes across the middle of the process, and occasionally it is much closer to the apex. In one specimen in the Warren Museum,5 in Boston, there is a double fracture, with close fibrous union. “ The lines of fracture are, respec- tively, | inch and 1^ inches from the extremity of the bone; and at this last the union was so close that it only appeared when the pieces were separated by maceration.” Very probably there is often a certain amount of crushing of the edges of a fracture produced by direct violence, but the above is the only instance known to me ot double fracture. The direction of the line of fracture varies, although it would seem to be mainly transverse. 1 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, p. 265, Fig. 45. 2 Diseases and Injuries of the Bones, Syd. Soc. Transl., p. 37. 3 Gray’s Anatomy, Descriptive and Surgical, p. 305. 4 Op. cit., p. 154. 6 Catalogue, p. 171.