SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. 835 characterized by a name which distinctly recognizes their neurotrophic or neuropathic origin. Course and Consequences of Neuropathic Sphacelus or Eschars.—Should the disease spontaneously abate, or should the treatment prove successful, it may happen: (1) that the initial vesicles or blebs will wither, dry up, and leave a healthy surface ; or (2) that the erosions, being superficial, will take on healthy action, granulate, and cicatrize; or (3) that the slough, although extending deeply, will become surrounded by a line of inflammatory demarcation sepa- rating the dead from the living tissues; that purulent matter will form through- out this line of demarcation, whereby the slough will become detached from the living tissues, so that it can be readily taken away by the surgeon ; that the cavity thus formed will fill up by the granulating process; and, finally, that the space occupied by the slough, whether large or small, will become covered with new integument in the form of a cicatrix. But not always, nor even in a majority of instances, is this fortunate issue obtained in cases of neuropathic sphacelus. On the contrary, this dis- order often proves fatal, and that, too, in certain determinate ways, which I will now proceed to point out:— (1) Occasionally, this disorder directly destroys life by causing acute septi- caemia. That is, it sometimes happens in cases of neuropathic sphacelus that the eschars are very large, and at the same time do not become environed by any lines of inflammatory demarcation which plug with coagula the veins passing from the dead into the living tissues; wherefore these vessels remain open, and directly convey the decomposing blood, and putrid juices and putrid gases from the dead parts, into the general current of the circulation. Thus, septic poisoning of the blood, or septicaemia in its most acute form, sometimes occurs in cases of neuropathic sphacelus, and quickly destroys life. AVithout doubt this happened in the case reported by Dr. Conant, and already presented on p. 825, where a man had sustained vertebral fracture at the dorso-lumbar junction by being blown off from the rigging of a vessel while at work; for, on the morning of the following Sunday, a large blister of mortification was noticed on the inner side of each thigh, which extended nearly the whole length thereof; at 4 P. M. he had a violent chill, and became delirious; he sank rapidly, and died quietly at 7 o’clock on the same evening; and the autopsy revealed no cause for his sudden death, excepting the neuropathic gangrene and the consequent septicaemia. A case of simple fracture of the first lumbar vertebra, with a wood-cut to illustrate it (Fig. 775), was presented on page 757, in which it is not improb- able that septicaemia arising from a neuropathic eschar was likewise the immediate cause of death ; for “ the parts in the region of the sacrum were gangrenous,” and smelled so badly that, it was necessary to apply strong disin- fectants (chlorides), in order to suppress the stench. (2) Neuropathic bed-sores not unfrequently destroy life by inducing puru- lent infection, or pyaemia, attended with the production of metastatic abscesses in the viscera. I have already mentioned a considerable number of cases in which this accident occurred, and here is another example J. H. Gray1 relates the case of a boy, aged 13, who fell thirty-five or forty feet, striking his back, and was stunned. Projection of the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra was noted ; also delirium ; paralysis ; priapism ; incontinence of urine and feces ; ab- normal heat; excoriation; on ninth day cystitis; bed-sores. He did well for three weeks, but then rigors occurred, and were followed by death twenty-eight days after the accident. Necroscopy revealed fracture and displacement forward of the sixth dorsal 1 London Hospital Reports, vol. i.