480 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. extremities of the several bones removed with the Butcher’s saw. The joint was found to be full of pus, which gushed out as soon as the knife entered the articulation, the cartilages were eroded (especially over the head of the radius), and (here was in- cipient caries of the subjacent bones. No ligatures were required, and, the edges of the wound having been brought together with leaden sutures, a strip of oiled lint was applied, and the limb placed at an angle of about 120° in a felt splint, which, however, bred maggots in the dressings, and was therefore replaced by a simple wooden splint on the third day. The after-progress of the patient was satisfactory ; an abscess which formed in the neighborhood of the excision wound was opened on January 31, 1871; and in the following March the splint was left off, and a simple soap plaster and band- age substituted. The motions of pronation and supination were by this time fully restored, and there was slight power of flexion and extension, which could doubtless have been materially increased had the patient persevered in systematically exercising the limb. This, however, was not done, and anchylosis as regards flexion and exten- sion eventually occurred. The patient was discharged from the hospital on April 15, 1872, but the last occasion upon which I saw her was in February, 1874, at which time the condition of the resected arm was very satisfactory, the limb though stiff being extremely useful, and the motions of pronation and supination being, as before remarked, perfectly restored. The next case was also one of arthritis following injury, and, the splint having been dispensed with at an earlier period, the motions of flexion and extension were preserved, as well as those of pronation and supination. Excision of Left Elbow-Joint for Arthritis; Recovery The patient in this case was a boy, R. A., aged ten years, a native of Scotland, who was admitted to the Epis- copal Hospital on January 11, 1872, suffering from arthritis of the left elbow, the result of an injury received one year previously. Excision was performed in the usual way, the joint being opened by a single incision made in the direction of the long axis of the limb, on January 18. Five ligatures were required, the excision wound was dressed with oiled lint, and the arm placed on an internal angular splint. The exsected parts presented a good example of ulceration of the articular cartilages with incipient disease of the underlying bone. The splint was left off in the course of a few weeks, and care taken to prevent the occurrence of anchylosis by the systematic use of passive motion. The result of the case was in every respect satisfactory, the patient leaving the hospital on June 1, 1872, with the wound firmly healed, and with the normal motions of the part quite restored. Iii the next case I abandoned the use of the splint at a still earlier period:— Excision of the Left Elbow-Joint in a Young Child; Splint left off after the Eighth Day; Recovery The subject of this case, G. P., a boy four years of age, entered the Children’s Hospital on August 8, 1872, suffering from disease of the left elbow-joint of one year’s duration, believed to have originated from an injury, though the history of this was not very clear. Excision was performed in the usual manner on August 12, two ligatures only being required, and the wound being closed with sutures, dressed with oiled lint, and placed on a splint ; this, however, was dispensed with after the eighth day, by which time the wound had united and the parts were measurably con- solidated, the limb from this time forward being simply supported in a broad sling. The condition of the exsected parts may be seen from the accompanying illustrations (Figs. 705, 706) ; the principal seats of disease were the base of the trochlea and the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, at which points (a, a) the cartilage had dis- appeared and the subjacent bone was carious and deeply eroded. The progress of the case after the operation was satisfactory ; an abscess which had formed in the neighbor- hood of the joint was opened on February 28, 1873, and the patient left the hospital on May 28, of the same year. A photograph, from which the annexed illustration (Fig. 707) has been copied, was taken in October, 1873, at which time the wound was firmly healed, the arm strong, and the motions of the part perfect in every respect. In the next case the patient made a good recovery as far as the operation was concerned, but perished from the effects of constitutional disease nearly seventeen months subsequently.