DISEASE OF THE ATLO-AXOID REGION. 963 Op. cit., page 111. 2 See Vol. II. page 269. this spinal disease. The recumbent posture was ordered and maintained most rigidly. In 14 days the child had remarkably improved, when an officious nurse, in direct disobedience to orders, thought fit to ask the child to sit up. The child did so; the head fell forwards, and the patient was dead.1 The relief that the recumbent posture often gives to some of the most urgent symptoms of the malady is well shown in the following case, also recorded by Mr. Hilton. The patient—a young woman—when seen by Mr. Hilton, was almost pulseless, was unable to swallow, was scarcely breathing, and not quite conscious, and was paralyzed nearly completely in both arms and legs. She was propped up in bed by pillows at her back, with her head inclined somewhat forwards. Her death appeared imminent. She was at once laid flat upon the bed, with a pillow beneath the nape of her neck, as above de- scribed. The sense of suffocation was immediately relieved, and the severity of the other symptoms soon diminished. She retained the recumbent posture for six months, and then left the hospital cured. When it is believed that firm consolidation has taken place, the patient may be allowed to get up; but before such a change in position is permitted, the head and neck must be fixed in some rigid apparatus. This apparatus may consist of a well-moulded stock of gutta percha, leather, or poro-plastic felt, and should be well secured below to the shoulders, back, and chest, and above to the chin, lower jaw, and occiput. Or, in the place of these appli- ances, a jacket may be fitted to the trunk, and a jury-mast applied in the manner indicated when dealing with the treatment of Pott’s disease. The diseased parts should be thus maintained until perfect cure has resulted. In no case should any of these instruments be used as a preliminary mode of treatment, to the disregard of the recumbent position. In all cases they should be merely supplemental or secondary to the treatment by posture. Those who deprecate prolonged recumbency urge that many cases do well and end in cure when this measure has not been made use of. But it must be remembered that cases of cure under these circumstances are exceptional, and they should be regarded merely as fortunate occurrences, and not as fur- nishing grounds for the selection of a mode of treatment. It is, perhaps, needless to observe that attempts to reduce the dislocation, such as have been practised by some surgeons, are quite unjustifiable, and are more likely to end in death than in any improvement. With regard to the abscess, it should be opened at the earliest opportunity, and a free vent given to the pus. This especially applies to post-pharyngeal collections. These abscesses should be opened by a small puncture that may be subsequently enlarged, and the operation should be performed while the patient is in the recumbent posture, in order that the escaping pus may run down into the gullet, rather than into the larynx, as might readily occur, especially when the subject of the operation is a child. When the purulent collection presents itself both at the side of the neck and behind the pharynx, it may be well to open it in the former situation, according to the method ad- vocated by Ililton.2 This surgeon has given an example of the opening of an abscess in the neck that presented itself also behind the pharynx. A good result followed. Any sequestra that may be exposed by the opening of the pharyn- geal abscess, or by the extension of a pharyngeal ulcer, may be removed by forceps, provided that they are quite loose. Large portions of both the atlas and the axis have been removed through the mouth under these circum- stances. In cases due to syphilis, a specific treatment must of course be adopted.