554 TUMORS. greatly exposed to infection. In some cases, cancerous emboli of considerable size are probably conveyed by the blood, for the primary disease projects into the interior of large veins, such as the iliac or jugular veins, and fragments are easily separated from the mass. But, in the vast majority of instances, there is no perceptible perforation of a vessel wall, and the infecting material is probably precisely similar to that which is carried by the lymph to the lymphatic glands. Fragments of the primary disease may be conveyed by the inspired air, take root in the lungs, and grow. In this manner some of the carcinomas secondary to those of the larynx and oesophagus are accounted for. The frequent or continual contact of a healthy with a cancerous surface may lead to the inoculation of the former. Thus are formed, apparently, some of the secondary tumors of the mucous membrane of the bladder, where the bladder is the seat of an ulcerated, primary carcinoma. However different the manner of infection in individual instances, the secondary tumors bear almost always a marvellous resemblance to the pri- mary disease, so marvellous indeed that the nature and seat of the primary disease may frequently be recognized by microscopical examination of sec- tions of the secondary tumors. Even the metamorphoses of the primary disease are often repeated in the secondary tumors, and thus the lungs are filled with cartilaginous growths derived from a chondrifying sarcoma of the testis, or with bony growths from au ossifying sarcoma of the femur. Recurrence of Tumors. "With the multiplicity of tumors, the question of recurrence may fairly be considered. And here it is important to be sure of the sense in which the term recurrence is employed. It is most frequently used to denote the refor- mation or reproduction of a tumor after removal or destruction. And as reproduction takes place usually within a few months of the operation, the cause of recurrence is, in most instances, justly assumed to be a fragment of the tumor left at the operation. The fragment may be microscopical or may be of considerable size. Both innocent and malignant tumors may recur under these circumstances. Thus mucous and fibrous polypi, as every sur- geon knows, recur unless their bases are removed; and sarcomas and carci- nomas which seem to have been thoroughly removed, frequently recur with singular obstinacy. But, if a tumor reappears many years after removal, this is equally termed recurrence, although the second tumor cannot possibly be traced to incom- plete removal of the first. In such case, both tumors probably own the same or a similar cause, and there is really no direct relation between them. A third condition, which is sometimes spoken of as recurrence, is the affec- tion of lymphatic glands after removal of a tumor which has not itself recurred, the glands at the time of the operation not having appeared to be abnormal. To the last condition the term recurrence should never be applied, for it is obvious that the glands must have been already affected at the time of the operation, although the affection was not sufficiently advanced to be detected. The second condition may justly be termed recurrence, but I think it is desi- rable to limit the term to the re-formation or reproduction of a tumor within a few months of its removal: first, because it is in this sense that the word is most frequently employed; second, because, when used thus, it carries with it the important admission that the disease was not completely removed. The difference is apparent in prognosis: a surgeon assures his patient, after removal of a fatty or bony tumor, that the disease will not recur; but he certainly