■606 TUMORS. clieesy substance. The more cellular and the less vascular the tumor, the greater is the tendency to caseous degeneration. Organization into fibrous tissue, cartilage, and bone, is exceedingly common in the tumors of certain parts. Fibrifieation may take place in the tumors of almost every part; on a large scale it is more frequent in those of the fasche and intermuscular septa. Chondrifieation is not uncommon in the sarcomas of the testis, and is very common in those of bone. (Plate XIX. Fig. 13.) And ossification is of very frequent occurrence in subperiosteal sarcomas (Plate XIX., Fig. 12), sometimes transforming the greater portion of a tumor into bone, sometimes only forming bony spicuke, or an imperfect and fragile bony skeleton. The calcification of subperiosteal tumors is almost as frequent as their ossification; the distinction is not apparent to the naked eye, but is evident in microscopic sections, when the lacunae and canaliculi of ill-developed bone may be observed in the ossifying tumors. Mucous transformation is observed in sarcomas of the breast, the testis, and the nerves, and in those of the salivary glands. The mucous and fatty transformations may lead to the formation of cystoid cavities. Some of the large mixed-celled sarcomas of the bones are remarkable for the size and number of these cavities, most of which, probably, derive their origin from mucous transformation of the tissues of the tumor. These dif- ferent changes in sarcomas are productive of much inconvenience in classifi- cation, for a sarcoma is liable to be so altered in appearance by them, that it may be mistaken for a growth of an entirely different character. This matter was referred to in the preliminary portion of this article, and the necessity was there pointed out of distinguishing clearly between these metamorphosed tumors and the growths which they most resemble. For this purpose an ex- amination of the youngest portions of the tumor must be made, and, when possible, of recurrent and secondary growths. The method of classifying many of these tumors separately, as osteoid cancers, osteoid sarcomas, and osteo-sarcomas, was also objected to. The principle is incorrect, and the nomenclature is misleading. In connection with mucous transformation, must be mentioned the possi- bility of colloid transformation of sarcomas. This has been so long regarded as a change only befalling carcinoma, that it seems difficult at first to admit that sarcoma may be also liable to it. Yet, apart from the close relation which probably exists between mucous and colloid changes, there seems no reason why the cells of a sarcoma should not undergo the colloid change. There can be no doubt that conditions which are indistinguishable, or scarcely to be distinguished, from those observed in colloid carcinoma, may befall cer- tain sarcomas. An admirable illustration of such a case may be found in the Transactions of the London Pathological Society,1 where a multiple sarcoma of bone presented all the characters of colloid carcinoma. The disease was, indeed, described as colloid cancer, but the origin of the tumors in the inte- rior of the bones forbids the idea that they were truly carcinomas. Although the transformations of a tumor must be regarded as secondary changes, they are, nevertheless, in many instances, as essential to it as its proper primary structure. They affect a large portion of its tissues; they are repeated in recurrent and secondary growths in distant parts. The tenacity with which they adhere to the disease throughout its course, is observed in the pigmented (melanotic) sarcomas, and in the hemorrhagic and organizing growths. The practice of noticing the transformations of a sarcoma in its name, has on this account some ground to justify it. Xor, as long as the terms employed are simple and intelligible, can there he any serious objection raised against it. A sarcoma may be named an ossifying, 1 Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xxii. p. 206.