INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. 793 nor ecchymosis on the integuments of his back and shoulders. There was no deformity nor abnormal mobility found in the spinal column. There was moderate tenderness under pressure when made upon the vertebrae, at the upper part of the dorsal region. He did not complain of being hurt in any part while being turned over in bed. He had considerable cough, with expectoration ; sputa unstained. His face had a dusky hue (not deep). He swallowed both solids and fluids without difficulty. Did not complain of distress in any part; no priapism. He died on Saturday the 17th, six days after the accident, from failure of the respiratory function. Autopsy Among the muscles, near the upper dorsal vertebrae, a small quantity of blood was found extravasated, but no cutaneous ecchymosis. The laminae of the first dorsal vertebra and the body of the second were fractured, with but little if any dis- placement; that is, there was a fissured fracture which extended through the laminae of the first and the body of the second dorsal vertebra. The anterior common ligament was torn partly through, and the posterior common ligament was loosened or detached to some extent at the seat of fracture. Between the theca vertebralis and the bone, on the left side of the spinal canal, in the same neighborhood, a thin blood-clot was found. It was about two inches long by one-fourth of an inch in breadth, and did not compress the spinal cord. There was no extravasated blood within the theca vertebralis. The spinal cord, externally, presented no abnormal appearance whatever. It was not dis- colored, nor notched, nor lacerated. But, on making a longitudinal section, the gray substance of the interior was found to present an ecchymosed and contused appearance opposite the fracture, but not elsewhere. Here it was dark-brown in color from the ex- travasation of blood, and pulpefied in consistence from the force of the contusion. These lesions were symmetrically developed. The spinal membranes and spinal cord were not inflamed. The lungs (both) contained more than the normal quantity of blood, that is, they exhibited passive hypersemia, but in other respects they were sound. This abstract touches all the essential points pertaining to concussion and contusion of the spinal cord. The blow struck by the falling tree upon this man’s spinal column, as he lay face downward on the ground, suddenly bent it downward (that is, forward) at an acute angle, by severely stretching and so partly rupturing the anterior common ligament, and by making a rent or fissured fracture which extended upward through the body of the second and the laminae of the first dorsal vertebra. The fragments immediately sprang hack into place again. But the blow and the abrupt bending of the spinal column mortally injured the spinal cord. The elementary tissues composing its interior were disintegrated, or reduced to a pulp-like consist- ence, and were deeply stained with blood extravasated from the ruptured capillaries. The conducting power of the cord was totally destroyed either by the force of the blow itself, or by the pressure which the extravasated blood exerted upon the conducting fibres of the cord. Moreover, the con- cussion or “ shock,” which the spinal cord received from the blow, abolished its office as a distinct centre of the nervous system, over a large space, with- out leaving any alterations of structure whatever to account therefor, that were visible after death. Thus, the man was wholly deprived of reflex motor activity, as well as of sensibility and voluntary motion, in all the parts supplied with spinal nerves which depart from the cord below the lesion of its substance just described. The loss of reflex motor action in the paralyzed parts was as complete in this case, as it was in that which precedes it, and in both alike the post-mortem examination failed to reveal any anatomical cause. From the autopsies of cases such as these, the statement appears to he well founded, that concussion of the spinal marrow, unless it be compli- cated with contusion, is not attended by any structural change of the marrow which is discernible after death, with the unaided eye. Anatomical Lesions attending Bruises of the Spinal Cord.—In such cases, the theca vertebralis is very rarely found torn ; and, on laying it open, one might imagine the cord to be uninjured, in many instances, because the pia