FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 235 ment so as not to injure the articular face, and a double-acting screw-instru- ment is applied so as to bring the fragments together. Then a coil of very thin copper wire is firmly wound around the pins, and the screw-instrument is removed. Occasionally, very bad results have followed these heroic measures. Wyeth1 relates a case of long standing in which the fragments were sutured ; the joint suppurated, and amputation became necessary. It has been proposed by Ollier, Wyeth,2 and others, to insert fresh marrow cells between the fragments ; and the plan has been adopted in a few instances, but I believe with only negative results. The theory of such a procedure is difficult to understand : it would seem to be needless if the fragments were close together, and useless if they were widely separated, to say nothing of the want of a physiological ground for expecting any advantage from it in the way of bone-formation. Dieffenbach3 made a subcutaneous section of the ligamentum patellae, and of the rectus femoris about three inches above the patella; he then rubbed the fragments together, and kept them in contact by means of an apparatus for parallel pressure; it is said that there was “ complete hardening of the interposed substance,” and that the patient’s condition was markedly im- proved. One cannot help asking, however, whether the mere solidification of the patella would not be somewhat dearly bought at the expense of a length- ened and weakened ligament, and a muscle impaired by the substitution of a cicatrix for a portion of its substance. It will now be necessary, in order that the reader may not be only embar- rassed by the foregoing enumeration of methods and appliances for the treat- ment of fractures ot the patella,4 that I should give a brief and practical summary of the subject. Here, as elsewhere, the great aim of the surgeon is, and ought to be, to restore, as nearly as possible, the normal state of things; and it has, therefore, been thought desirable to obtain bony union between the fragments. But that this is not essential to a good cure has been shown in the facts stated as to the value of limbs in which the fragments were con- nected only by a fibrous band of considerable length. Hence it may well be questioned whether it is not a mistake to concentrate all our attention upon merely forcing the fragments together, and especially to run any risk of doing greater mischief by the very means employed to this end. Whenever the fragments have already been forced apart, a tearing of the fibrous tissues surrounding the bone, and in the neighborhood, must have occurred. To prevent any increase of this rending, by properly securing the upper portion of the bone, is manifestly indicated; and in doing this it is equally clear that interference with the nutrition of the bone and of the limb should be avoided. I think that it is sound surgery to use mild means first; and hence should advise the relaxation of the quadriceps muscle by extend- ing the knee, and flexing the hip-joint by elevating the foot. As soon as the inflammatory symptoms of the first few days have been subdued, the upper fragment should be brought down, but not with any great force, and a com- press applied above it, with pressure in such a direction as to oppose the upward pull of the quadriceps muscle. For this purpose any of the simpler means above described will answer; I think that the elastic traction of the Mid- dlesex-IIospital plan is perhaps the best, but it should not be too vigorously applied. At the end of six or seven weeks, it will be found that the tendency 1 Med. Record, June 22, 1882. 2 Ibid., May 11, 1878. 3 Casper’s Wochenschrift, Oct. 2, 1841. 4 The list might have been still further extended, but 1 have not thought it worth while to include a number of contrivances, which, although published as new, are really only inodili- cations, and often very trilling ones, of existing plans or instruments.