TUMORS. 560 the present generation. With the growth of knowledge of the minute anatomy of tumors, the clinical classification, which was generally employed twenty years ago, came to he regarded as eminently unsatisfactory. In truth, it had during many years been gradually forfeiting its claim to be considered a con- sistent classificat ion. Certain of the classes were based on the coarse, anatomical characters; certain of them even on the microscopical characters of the tumors. It had become, therefore, a mixed classification, partly clinical, partly anatomi- cal. Its insufficiency for scientific purposes was daily becoming more mani- fest when, in 1863, it received its death-blow by the publication of the first volume of Virchow’s great work on tumors.1 In this volume the great pathologist clearly established the desirability, nay necessity, of classifying all tumors according to their anatomical characters, and without any refer- ence to their clinical attributes. Since that day the anatomical classification has been gradually growing in favor, and is now generally adopted by sur- geons, among some of whom, however, there is still a tendency to regard all malignant tumors as cancers, and to ascribe to all cancers equal and fancied attributes. Although, without question, the present classification is much more scientific than the old, it is just as undoubted that it is defective in cer- tain parts. But the defects are not more numerous and certainly not more glaring than those which are inseparable from the clinical method. And as our knowledge of the whole subject, and especially of the individual tumors of certain classes, increases, there is every reason to hope and believe that the anatomical classification may become the most perfect, and at the same time the most useful, for the purposes of the clinical surgeon. Many of the classes are arranged without difficulty, and do not differ from the classes belonging to the old method—the osseous, fibrous, fatty, and carti- laginous tumors, for example. Their likeness to normal bone, fibrous tissue, fat, or cartilage, is at once apparent, and a microscopical examination is not needed to confirm the diagnosis. Other classes are arranged with just as little difficulty by the aid of microscopical examination, as the glandular tumors, whose prototypes are the acinous or cylindrical glands. The pro- totypes of other classes are not so easy to discover, for they exist only in one or two situations in the human body. Of such a kind is mucous tissue, found in adult man only in the vitreous humor of the eye. And for two great classes no physiological prototype can be found in normal, perfect structures. That of the sarcoma has to be sought in embryonic tissues: that of the carcinoma does not exist even in these. The difficulty of de- ciding on the relative and general position of these two large and important classes, has made one of the chief difficulties in perfecting the anatomical classification. Since no certain physiological prototype of either of them actually exists, it has been possible for each pathologist to decide for him- self, individually, the grounds on which a distinction should be made between the sarcomas and carcinomas, and the essential characters of each. There are, therefore, several different definitions of both terms, and the words sar- coma and carcinoma do not carry with them a signification which is at once perceptible and intelligible, like that which belongs to the words chondroma, osteoma, or fibroma. Virchow makes the difference lie in difference of anato- mical structure, without reference to origin. Indeed, difference of origin is not admitted by Virchow, who holds that both sarcoma and carcinoma are derived from connective-tissue elements. He therefore considers the presence or absence of alveolar structure as the essential condition of distinction. If the distinction laid down by Virchow could be in all instances relied on, or if any other structural difference could be discovered which could be thoroughly 1 Krankhaften Geschwiilste. Berlin, 1863.