TRAUMATIC SPINAL MENINGITIS. 809 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., August 17, 1871, pp. 23, 24. the spinal column, crossing the carotid sheath externally, and just missing it. It appeared to have penetrated the spinal canal through the third intervertebral foramen, but it could not be found. The membranes of the cord and left hemisphere of the brain were extensively disorganized from inflammation. Plastic lymph, forming a continu- ous layer, was found effused on the inner surface of the theca vertebralis, throughout the entire length of the spinal cord. The subarachnoid space was distended with a pyoid serum, by which the cord was compressed and softened opposite the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. Here the theca vertebralis was ecchymosed and separated from the bone (by the missile). The layer of plastic exudation extended through the foramen magnum, and along the base of the brain as far forward as the optic commis- sure. In the anterior lobe of the left cerebral hemisphere, circumscribed softening was found, presenting the appearance of an abscess. The gray substance of this lobe was changed in color and consistence, in consequence of the inflammatory process; the medullary substance was injected ; the lateral ventricles were marked by radiating bloodvessels ; the corpora striata and optic thalami were injected.1 This soldier died very suddenly from traumatic inflammation of the spinal and cranial meninges, the symptoms of which first appeared on November 20, death by coma following on the 22d. The symptoms were rigors, pyrexia, headache, backache, stiffness of the posterior cervical muscles, and coma, death resulting from compression of the brain as well as from com- pression of the spinal cord, effected by the products of a meningeal inflam- mation which extended over the whole length of the spinal cord, and over the base of the brain up to the optic commissure. It is probable that hyper- aesthesia of the integuments and racliidian tenderness under pressure in the neck were also present at the outset. The anatomical changes wrought by meningeal inflammation are well described. There was a continuous layer of plastic lymph found on the inner surface of the dura mater, extending unbroken from the lower end of the spinal cord up to the optic commissure at the base of the brain. The meshes of the pia mater were also distended by a pyoid serum which lifted up the arachnoid. It is not improbable that this inflammatory attack was directly incited by the autumnal vicissitudes of atmospheric temperature, resulting from what is popularly called “ catch- ing cold.” But the history of the first four weeks of this man’s case is of ecpial, if not greater, interest to the thoughtful surgeon. The impact of the missile caused ecchymosis of the theca vertebralis, and separated it from the bone. It also bruised the spinal cord, from which lesion a very extensive paraplegia immediately resulted. Moreover, the bruising of the cord was followed by inflammation of the cord-substance, the symptoms of which were exaggerated reflex motion, particularly noted in the partially paralyzed left arm (for it exhibited spasmodic movements whenever he tried to use it), the sensation of cutaneous coldness without any apparent cause, the formation of a large gan- grenous eschar over the sacrum, and the threat of death from suffocation. Next, there occurred a most interesting feature of the case, namely, the great benefit which was derived from potassium iodide and ergot. Under these remedies the myelitis rapidly subsided, the respiration ceased to be diaphragmatic, the appetite and digestion improved, the bowels, etc., acted readily, the bed-sores became clean and appeared healthy, and the case began to look quite encour- aging ; the existence of the nerve-lesions was proved, after death, by the soft- ened state of the cord-substance which was found opposite the seat of the original injury. The next abstract presents a brief record of a very instructive case in which hypercesthesia was the most prominent symptom:—