220 INJURIES OF BONES. Brookes1 has published an account of a boy, aged eleven and a half years, “ who had his leg entangled in a wheel, and sustained a compound fracture of the femur, extending obliquely downward through the external condyle, which Avas movable with the lower portion, projecting through a wound in the popliteal space. The leg was twisted inward, much hemorrhage had taken place, and the patient was in a state of collapse. On further examina- tion, the capsular ligament was found to be lacerated, and synovia escaped—the wound in the popliteal space being as large as a five-shilling piece. There Avas also a simple fracture of the lower third of the same thigh-bone. Ampu- tation having been refused, the limb was put up in the straight position, with a splint extending from the hip to the ankle on the outer side, and a concave one on the inner side of the thigh. Complete union had occurred by the end of the sixth week.” At the time of the report the knee could be bent to a right angle, and the entire use of the limb had been recovered; there was no shortening perceptible. Three other cases are cited by Malgaigne:2 one seen by himself, another published by Gerdy, and a third, the specimen from which, without history, is found in the Musee Dupuytren. The inner condyle has been observed to be fractured in the following in- stances: Wells3 saAV a thick scale of bone detached from the inner part of the condyle, the tibia being at the same time luxated outward and backward; the patient could only state that he had fallen. Malgaigne quotes from Boyer4 * a case the account of which is too meagre to be of much interest. The internal condyle was separated, the line of fracture running only a short distance up- ward ; there was no displacement, but manifest mobility of the fragment. Consolidation took place without difficulty, and without apparent deformity. The patient could not Avalk for three months, and two months afterwards he still limped. Two other cases are cited in the same article,6 one seen by Mal- gaigne himself, and the other by Lisfranc. Curtis6 has published an account of a case seen by him, in which, from the statement made by the surgeon first called, the fragment was displaced backward, the outer side of the limb appearing normal; the joint could not be flexed by reason of the pain caused by bending it. Reduction was easily accomplished, and a good recovery ensued, the joint, hoAvever, remaining enlarged. Hamilton quotes a case reported to him by Dr. Riggs, in which, by the kick of a horse, “ the internal condyle of the right femur was broken off, carrying away more than half the articulating surface of the joint; the tibia and fibula were at the same time dislocated in- ward and upward, carrying with them the broken condyle and the patella. The displacement upward was about two inches, and the sharp point of the inner fragment had nearly penetrated the skin. There was no external wound.” Great difficulty was experienced in the reduction, but the case ultimately did well. Tavo instances are cited by Morris,7 as follows: “ M. Dubue has reported the case of a man aged sixty, who fell while ascending a ladder, and broke off very obliquely the whole of the internal condyle of the femur, and the supe- rior external angle of the patella. Prof. Verneuil had a case in which a large cube of bone, consisting of the inner condyle, was broken off by the falling of a quantity of earth upon a man aged tAventy-eight.” 1 London Med. Gazette, March 10, 1848. 2 Revue Med.-Chirurgicale, April, 1847. 5 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, May, 1832. 4 Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, tome iii. Paris, 1845. This case does not appear in the earlier editions of Boyer’s Treatise. 6 Revue Med.-Chirurgicale, April, 1847. 6 Am. Journal of the Medical Sciences, Oct. 1866. 7 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1023.