288 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. mitting, if necessary, thorough examination day by day; otherwise, accu- mulations of pus may very easily escape notice, or, if perchance found, can hardly be treated save by removing the splint, which is a painful and in- jurious process. The apparatus should be at once prepared, and as early as possible applied, when symptoms threatening suppuration have been recog- nized ; but if it be evident that pus has not yet formed, its production may sometimes be checked by using a strong revulsive, such as a very strong tincture of iodine (60 or 80 grains to the ounce of absolute alcohol), or the actual cautery. The resulting inconvenience, if this does not effect the desired object, causes me to recommend the method only in exceptional cases. A sharp degree of cold, amounting almost to congelation, is more advisable ; it may be obtained by either a bladder or bag containing powdered ice, alone,, or mixed with a little salt. The mere momentary application of such a remedy is valueless ; it must be maintained for a considerable time. Should we, on the contrary, find the joint fluctuating and tense, and yet be led to judge, by the character of the pain and by the amount of pyrexia, that the fluid is possibly not pus, subcutaneous incision (page 274) will give great relief, and is that treatment which is most likely to result in cure. Nor, even if the fluctuation be produced by pus, need we fear the effect of letting this liquid lie in the periarticular tissue: if the disease recede, it will be absorbed ; if it continue, an abscess outside is preferable to one inside the synovial sac. But it must be understood that in the last sentence I refer to cases not yet fully developed—to cases in which it may still be doubtful if pus have as yet formed. When, on the other hand, all the symptoms point to acute abscess within the joint cavity, if it be increasing and the surface veins strongly marked, more vigorous measures are safer. Incisions into the joint should at once be made,1 so freely as to give unobstructed exit to the pus ; this ought to be done in such a manner as to prevent putrefaction. For some months I have given up carbolic acid and the spray, the complicated dressings, etc., of Prof. Lister’s method, and have found that abundant syringing of the cavity with a 5-per-cent, solution of boroglyceride, and dressing with the same, is safer, and quite as efficacious. The choice of place for the incision or incisions may safely be left to the anatomical knowledge of the reader, and it must also be guided by observing the point of greatest fulness, and also by the position of the joint, for the opening should be as low as possible, so as to permit of the best drainage attainable. Having secured these great essentials of treatment, good position, entire rest, with support and thorough drainage, the rest of the treatment closely resembles that of any other deep abscess. The cavity must be syringed or irrigated, day by day, with a cleansing and antiseptic solution, and great care should be taken that the drainage tubes are free and pervious ; also, the joint must frequently be examined lest any fresh abscess form and, unsuspectedly accumulating, burrow up the limb. Especially careful must be the search, of course without disturbance or motion of the part, should the thermometer rise again. If the pus have been fully evacuated by the first incision into the cavity, the thermometer will fall from 102° or 104° to only a little above normal. If at any time it rise, not suddenly, but gradually for several days, there is in all probability retention of pus, which must be let out, even though it lie extremely deep. ' If the thermometer remain steady between 98° and 100°, pus is not likely to be forming afresh, but in all probability the joint is going through the various healing processes favorably and well; that is to say, the part which has suppurated, be it larger or smaller, or be it the whole joint, is getting repaired by the act of granulation, during which the surgeon must 1 This treatment had fallen into disuse since the times of its early advocates, Petit and after- wards Boyer ; it was revived hy Mr. Gay. (Med. Times and Gazette, vol. xxiv. p. 546.1