TUMORS. 646 cause less attention has been paid to them, and partly because they have been regarded merely as a variety of the squamous-celled carcinomas, and have been included under the common term epithelioma. They are found in the rectum, which is indeed their chief seat, the intestines, the uterus, the an- trum, and the sinuses of the nose, and in the ducts of some of the secreting glands, the pancreatic duct for example. They present the same characters of infiltration and absence of capsule as do the other carcinomas, and tend to early ulceration, like the epitheliomas. The surface of the tumor, too, is often papillary, or, as the processes are soft and long, it may more fitly be described as villous. The growth of the disease in connection with the sur- face-epithelium or superficial glands of mucous membranes, and its early ulceration, account for the association of this disease with squamous epithe- lioma. It produces, usually, a soft growth, which, however, feels indurated in comparison with the very soft surrounding structures. As in epithelioma, so in this disease, the tumor is often thrown in the shade by the size and importance of the ulcer. Allusion must be made to one important feature in the microscopic characters of this form of carcinoma, to the regularity, namely, of the epithelium, and to its arrangement as in the normal glands, in some of the more slowly growing specimens. The glandular arrangement is so perfect, or at least so little different from that observed in adenomatous polypi of the same part (as in the rectum), that, judging from the microscopic characters alone, it is sometimes impossible to distinguish between the colunmar-celled adenomas and carcinomas. The general characters of infil- tration and ulceration arc, however, distinctive of the carcinomas. The columnar-cclled carcinomas are not particularly liable to fatty or caseous degeneration; but they appear to be subject to colloid transformation. Cysts and cystoid cavities are rarely observed, yet cysts occasionally form by changes in the gland-like structures of which the tumor is composed. These tumors may affect the lymphatic glands, but do not necessarily do so. And they, more often perhaps than the squamous-celled carcinomas, are dissemi- nated, attacking the liver with especial frequency. Carcinoma of tiie Breast.—In illustrating the foregoing general account of carcinoma by short sketches of the carcinomas of special parts of the body the breast is naturally chosen to illustrate the spheroidal-celled carcinomas. But it must be borne in mind that the descriptions which have been given of hard and soft carcinoma apply nowhere so well as to the breast; that the remarks on the general and microscopic characters of the disease are in great measure dictated by our experience of carcinoma of the breast; that the statements respecting the limits of duration of cases of carcinoma are furnished in great measure by cases of carcinoma of the breast. I may now add that the breast is subject to spheroidal-celled and squamous-celled carcinoma, but to the former at least a hundred times as frequently as to the latter. The squa- mous-celled tumors are almost limited to the region of the nipple. The spheroidal-celled tumors attack every region of either breast almost without preference, but are, perhaps, a little more inclined to the upper and outer seg- ment than to any other. The disease may occur in women after the twenty- fifth year has been attained, but is rare before the age of thirty. It com- mences in the majority of instances during the period between forty and fifty-five years. The mode of onset is usually by an ill-defined swelling in the substance of the mammary gland, or rather by an ill-defined induration of a portion of the gland, which at first slowly, then more quickly, grows. But the tumor may, when first noticed, be as large as a hen’s egg, or may attain that size in the course of a month or six weeks. In some instances, soon after the first appearance of the tumor, small