155 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 3 Transactions, vol. xxii. 1871. 2 Op. cit., p. 433. joint, with occasionally the perceptible presence of the fragment, are to be looked for. Crepitus, if it exist at all, can be but slight. A tendency to luxation backward of the ulna may exist, but can hardly be marked unless some loosening of the attachments of the head of the radius has also occurred. The diagnosis may sometimes be very obscure, and only to be arrived at by exclusion. Separation of the articulating portion of the lower epiphysis of the humerus might induce symptoms almost identical with those ot this lesion, although in the former case it is probable that the interference with flexion alone would be less distinct. The treatment of fracture of the coronoid process consists simply in flexing the forearm upon the arm, at an angle of about 90° or less, and securing it in this position by means of an anterior angular splint. Pressure should also be made upon the olecranon by applying the middle of a strip of adhesive plaster around it, and carrying the ends forward to be secured to the splint over the forearm; in this way the tendency to displacement of the forearm backward may be overcome with more certainty than by the turns of the bandage, which may slip and become loosened. Especial care is to be taken in the treatment of cases in which the whole process is separated, as the action of the brachialis anticus will tend to draw the fragment up along the front of the arm, and permanent impairment of flexion must be expected. If the tip only is broken off, it will be subject to no such traction, and the fragment can only give trouble either by being entan- gled in the joint, or by adhering to the anterior face of the humerus just at its lower end. When the process is drawn up, it may be carefully coaxed down by the surgeon’s fingers, and perhaps the pressure of the splint may keep it in place ; or the forearm may be flexed at an acute angle so as to let the lower fragment follow the upper. Doubt must always exist, however, as to the efficiency of any treatment adopted, until the patient attempts to resume the use of the limb; and the prudent surgeon will be chary of giving assurances which the Tesult may not justify. Fractures of the head of the radius are very rare, unless along with other severe injuries of neighboring bones. Bryant’s case has already been mentioned, in which the coronoid process of the ulna was also broken off. Malgaigne could only cite two cases, in both of which there was also fracture of the coronoid, and backward luxation of the elbow. The head of each radius was split lon- gitudinally in Hulke’s case of fracture of both coronoid processes, referred to on a previous page. In the Warren Museum' there is a specimen (No. 1026) of “ one-third of the head of the radius broken off, with a comminuted fracture of the upper extremity of the ulna,” taken from a man who had fallen from the roof of a house. Another (No. 1031) is described as“ longitudinal fracture of the head of the radius, with fracture of the ulna from the coronoid process downward and further as “a clear and regular split, involving very nearly one-half of the head of the radius, and cleaving outward so as to extend no further than the neck of the bone.” Stimson1 2 saw a fracture of the outer half of the head of the radius, produced by direct violence and followed by suppurative arthritis, in a boy aged thirteen; the excision of the joint enabled him to establish the diagnosis. Adams exhibited to the Pathological Society of London3 a specimen in which several fissures radiated from a point just below the head of the radius upward to the articulating surface; the injury was the result of a fall from a height. 1 Catalogue, p. 172.