81 FRACTURES OF THE LARYNGEAL APPARATUS. Wales1 reports a case of fracture of the thyroid cartilage and lower jaw by a fragment of a shell; Hamilton gives one case2 of fracture of the thyroid and cricoid by a kick from a man, and another3 by the kick of a horse. I have myself met with a case4 of supposed fracture of the larynx (probably of the thyroid cartilage only) by the kick of a man. Hunt records5 an instance in which both the thyroid and cricoid were broken by a blow from a piece of wood thrown off from a circular saw. Per- haps the most remarkable case, however, is that reported by Sawyer,6 in which there was double fracture of the lower jaw, with fracture of the hyoid bone, thyroid cartilage, right radius, and left patella; tracheotomy was per- formed on the fifth day, having become urgently necessary; the patient ulti- mately made a good recovery. Instances have been reported by Maclean7 and Roe,8 in which the thyroid cartilage alone was broken by falls against resisting objects—a stump and the edge of a table. Sometimes the hyoid bone also suffers, as in a case recorded by Koch,9 and in Sawyer’s case above referred to; and sometimes, again, the cricoid is involved, as in the instance quoted by Malgaigne from Plenek. Fractures of the cricoid alone by hanging and throttling have already been spoken of; Stokes records10 an instance in which this lesion was the result of a kick. The mechanism of production of these lesions is sufficiently apparent.11 It does not seem that the rigidity of the cartilages has anything to do with their liability to fracture: Gibb12 mentions a number of cases occurring in young children. As to the symptoms, there is always more or less swelling of the parts, often increased by the occurrence of emphysema; in the case observed by me, there was a curious limitation of the emphysematous condition to the cervical region both anteriorly and posteriorly. Pain, increased by efforts at coughing or swallowing, is generally present, and is sometimes marked; there is always tenderness, and often the handling of the parts elicits crepitus. The voice is husky, perhaps almost extinct; breathing is difficult, and the face generally more or less livid, with an anxious expression. A very con- stant symptom is the expectoration of bloody, frothy mucus, with or without cough. From the presence of all or most of these phenomena, and the his- tory of the case, a diagnosis may be arrived at without much difficulty. The prognosis is a matter open to more doubt. In Plenck’s case death was instantaneous, as it was also in a case of throttling reported by Hamonetta ;13 but more frequently the patient dies gradually by suffocation, from hemor- rhage beneath the mucous membrane, inflammatory swelling, or oedema. Roe, in the article before quoted, speaks of fracture of the cricoid as “ almost invariably” fatal; and from the records it would seem as if he might have I Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 18G7. 8 Medical Record, Jan. 1, 18(17. 8 Fractures and Dislocations, 6th ed. p. 153. 4 Reported in Archives of Laryngology, March, 1880. 5 Am. Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1866. The reader may consult with advantage the table of 29 cases given at the close of Dr. Hunt’s article. 6 Ibid., Jan. 1856. 7 Canada Med. Journal, Sept. 1865. 8 Trans, of Am. Laryngological Association, 1880, p. 99. 9 Quoted by Roe, loc. cit. 10 Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, May, 1869. II In the Index Medicus for 1882 (p. 380), there is given a reference to a paper by R. Haume- der, “ Uber den Entstehungs-mechanismus der Verletzungen des Kehlkopfes und des Zungenbeins beim Erliangen,” in the Wiener med. Blatt, 1882, S. 810. This pyobably embodies the latest views on the subject. 12 Diseases of the Throat and Windpipe, etc., p. 436. 13 Ann. des Mai. de l’Oreille et du Larynx, Mai, 1879. VOL. IV.—6