EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 468 glenoid cavity, the joint should be opened, and the capsular ligament then carefully divided with the probe-pointed knife or with scissors. Fig. 696. Excision of the scapula. The mass having been removed, all bleeding vessels are to be secured, drainage tubes introduced, and the wound then closed with stitches. The arm may be placed upon a Stromeyer’s cushion,1 until the flaps have fairly united, and the arm afterwards simply supported in a sling. It may sometimes be necessary to remove, with the scapula, a portion of the clavicle, the head and neck of the humerus, or both. These additions to the operation of course greatly increase its gravity, and the parts in question should not be interfered with, if such a course can possibly be avoided. The acromion process or the spine of the scapula may readily be removed through a single transverse incision. The history and statistics of excision of the scapula were made the subject of special investigation by the late Dr. Stephen Rogers, of Xew York,2 and have been more recently studied by Prof. Adelmann, of Berlin,3 who, how- ever, has failed to make any distinction between excisions of the scapula proper, and operations in which the upper extremity has been removed at the same time, or amputations above the shoulder. The first case in which the entire scapula was extirpated, the arm being preserved, was that of Langenbeck, who, in 1855, thus removed the whole shoulder-blade with three inches of the clavicle. In the following tables I have arranged by the names of the operators, in alphabetical order, (1) 42 cases in which the whole scapula appears to have been excised, the arm being preserved, and (2) 14 cases in which total excision has been resorted to subsequent to amputation at the shoulder, but not at the same operation. The results in two cases of the first category have not been ascertained, leaving 40 determined cases with 32 recoveries and 8 deaths, a mortality of exactly 20 per cent. The 14 cases of the > See Vol. II. p. 158, Fig. 260. 2 Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, October, 1868, and New York Med. Journal, December, 1870. 3 Frag. Vierteljahrssclrrift, Bd. 144, 1879.