MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 924 its substance be exposed, or a deeper cavity in its interior be made manifest. Such are the main features of this caries fungosa. The mischief most usually would appear to commence at some little distance below the surface of the bone, but in certain instances the layer of compact bone next to the periosteum has been credited with exhibiting the earliest evidences of disease. Pos- sibly—as above remarked—the mischief may sometimes commence in the periosteum. The gross and visible result of the carious change, however, is this: Irregu- lar cavities are formed in thcYliseased vertebral bodies. There may be several cavities in the same centrum, or one only, and the situation of the loss of sub- stance may vary considerably. If the cavity forms deep down in the bony substance, it may continue to increase until nearly all the cancellous portions of the body are destroyed, and nothing is left but the outer shell of compact bone. This probably soon gives way, and the cavity opens upon the surface. In other cases the destructive action may early make its way towards the surface of the bone, and lead to an excavation in the bone that, while com- paratively small, is yet deep. It is remarkable that the carious process tends, with the very rarest possible exceptions, to progress towards the anterior sur- face of the bone, and not towards that surface that bounds the spinal canal. It will be seen that these cavities and excavations will vary greatly in appearance. There may be a cavity deeply hidden in the bone. There may be a cavity near the surface, whose walls are formed partly by bone, partly by thickened periosteum and ligament. In other cases the anterior surface of the bone is laid bare, and thus are exposed erosions varying in extent and depth, or deeper and more cavernous losses of substance. As long as the destructive process is in any way active or progressive, so long will the walls of these cavities be lined by the granulation-tissue just alluded to. The con- tents of the cavities vary greatly according to the duration, and perhaps according also to the nature of the morbid process. In recent cases the con- tents may lie laudable pus, or more usually curdy pus, made up of a thinnish opacpxe fluid, with flakes of a denser matter. Seldom, indeed, is the con- tained matter quite homogeneous. In less recent cases the contents may be thick or creamy, or still further inspissated so as to be caseous and firm. In any case there is usually mixed with the matter some bony debris that can be felt like grit when the contents of these cavities is passed between the finger and the thumb; and in certain instances this debris may appear as actual and visible sequestra. Lastly, with regard to the extent of the disease in the vertebral column, regarded as a whole, the utmost diversity exists. As already remarked, only one body may be diseased, although, as a rule, many are attacked. The extent to which the individual centra are involved varies greatly. There may be merely a small cavity or excavation in each of the diseased vertebrae, or several of these bodies may be entirely destroyed, and no trace be left of them other than is provided by the uudestroyed posterior segments. As a rule, the intervertebral cartilages are more or less extensively diseased, but cases are occasionally met with where extensive loss, of several contiguous vertebral bodies is associated with little or no appreciable destruction of the intervening disks. In the place of deep excavations in certain of the bones, there may be found a superficial erosion involving the anterior and lateral surfaces of a number of the bodies, and it is remarkable that when such erosions exist they are seldom limited to a small portion of the column. Some further observations will be made upon this subject in dealing with the deformity that forms so important a feature in the disease. Before leaving the matter of the osseous changes, it may be well to briefly discuss the nature of the process that leads to these changes. It is very gene-