674 INJURIES OF THE BACK. (1) The diagnosis as to what vessel is injured must be made by exploring the wound itself with a finger, ascertaining by the tactile sense the point whence the blood issues, and determining by the same means its anatomical relations. (2) The bleeding vessel must be brought into view by enlarging the wound without delay; and it must then be tied at the place of injury with two ligatures, one of them being applied on each side of the aperture in its walls, or to each end of the artery if it be severed. The artery should be divided midway between the two ligatures, for the purpose of allowing its ends to retract and contract, in all cases where it has not been severed by the original wound. (3) When one of the vertebral arteries is wounded in that part of its course which lies in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse pro- cesses of the six upper cervical vertebrae, the hemorrhage must be restrained by plugging the injured artery in the manner described above, because in this situation ligatures cannot be applied. (4) These wounds should be thoroughly cleansed with antiseptic lotions. Their lips should then be drawn together, and held in apposition, by means of interrupted sutures. Should the occurrence of deep-seated suppuration be probable, adequate drainage tubes should be inserted. Antiseptic dress- ings should be employed externally. (5) Inasmuch as there is great flexibility in the neck, fixing the head by means of a stiff collar, so as to secure quietude in the cervical muscles, will considerably expedite the recovery, and diminish the liability to secondary hemorrhage; and it should therefore always be employed in these cases. I have considered the flesh-wounds in the posterior cervical region which involve also the vertebral, the occipital, the deep cervical, or other arteries, at considerable length, because of the enormously high rate of mortality which has attended the reported examples of these lesions, amounting to fully 90 per cent.; and I believe that the principles of treatment enunciated above, when generally applied in practice, will greatly lessen this awful ratio, and correspondingly increase the chances of recovery from these exceedingly troublesome forms of injury. Incised or Punctured Flesh-wounds of the Back, received between the Shoulder-blades.—These wounds not unfrequently penetrate the thoracic cavity. The following example, taken from my note-book, affords a good illustration of this point:— A government teamster, middle-aged and robust, was stabbed in the back, at Wash- ington, August 15, 1861, in a brawl. He received a cut about three inches in length, extending up and down, between the base of the left scapula and the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, but rather nearer to the scapula than to the spinous processes. The muscles were divided down to the ribs, and the left pleural cavity was freely opened, so that air in large quantity was drawn into and expelled from that cavity by each respiratory movement. He was at once taken to the E Street Infirmary. When admitted, he was much prostrated from shock, and had considerable dyspnoea. As soon as the bleeding was completely stopped, which required a little time, the lips of the wound were brought into apposition and retained by three points of interrupted suture, and by strips of adhesive plaster. August 20. Most of the wound has united by the “ first intention,” and he has con- valesced thus far without even one unfavorable symptom. There has been no pain in the side nor any other sign of pleurisy. Subsequently he did well in every respect, and soon left the hospital entirely cured.