813 TRAUMATIC SPINAL MENINGITIS. A soldier, aged 37, received a gunshot wound of the back, Fig- 794, at the Wilderness, May 6, 1864; the ball entered over the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and lodged in the bone. He was sent to Washington ; and, on the next day, he was admitted to Mount Pleasant Hospital. On the loth, he was transferred to Jarvis Hospital, Baltimore, where he died on July 20, seventy-five days after the casualty, from spinal meningitis. Necroscopy—It was found that the ball had struck the body, and fractured the transverse process, of a dorsal vertebra. The injured bone was necrosed. The spinal membranes showed ulceration and unequivocal marks of intense inflammation, for two inches above and below the fracture. The spinal cord, opposite, was partially disor- ganized. The inflammatory lesions of the meninges are represented in the adjoining wood-cut (Fig. 794).1 It does not appear that the spinal cord and mem- branes, in this man’s case, received any direct injury from the blow struck by the missile upon his spinal column. Subsequently, however, the vitality of the bruised vertebra was destroyed by necrosis, and the inflammatory process spread therefrom to the contig- uous membranes and cord, when the traumatic spinal meningitis, thus excited, caused his death seventy-five days after infliction of the wound. The inflammatory process, when it is excited in the spinal membranes by traumatic causes, may be either diffuse or circumscribed in character. In several in- stances, related above, it was very diffuse, and not only involved the entire extent almost of the spinal membranes, but passed upward through the foramen magnum and attacked those of the cranium. In the last example, however, it was not diffuse, but con- fined to a space extending two inches above and below the place of injury. In the next case the menin also circumscribed and restricted to comparatively narrow limits:- Showing the effects of trau- matic spinal meningitis and myelitis, in the dorsal region. The membranes have been perforated by ulceration, and exhibit other inflammatory changes ; cord partially disor- ganized. (Spec. 3190, Sect. I, A. M. M.) geal inflammation was O Capt. Thomas II., 67th Regt. Indiana Vols., was wounded by a pistol-ball in the back, November 3, 1863, and entered a general hospital on the 9th. There was partial paralysis of the left thigh and extremity. The missile had entered about four inches to the right of the fourth dorsal vertebra, but its course could not be traced. The tract ot the spinal column, both above and below the wound, was equally sensitive. The paralysis, in the first week, invaded the right leg, the bladder, and the rectum ; and, by the end ot the third week, sensibility and voluntary motion had disappeared (that is, there was complete paraplegia) in all parts below the wound. The only noticeable instance of excito-motor action which remained was the peculiarity that tickling the glans penis produced a partial evacuation of the bladder; and this feature continued until the patient’s death, which resulted from acute pneumonia on December 19. Necroscopy showed that the ball had passed downward and inward, slightly wounding the costal pleura; had fractured the right transverse process of the seventh dorsal ver- tebra; and had lodged in the body thereof, producing a slight exfoliation from the inner side of the body into the spinal canal, which had caused inflammation of the spinal membranes and cord. Pus was found in the theca, that is, in the spinal pia mater. The right lung was far advanced in suppuration.2 This case is strictly analogous to those instances of traumatic meningitis and cerebritis which arise from exfoliations from the inner table of the skull, 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 439. 2 Ibid., p. 438.