CARCINOMA. 641 The germs of the secondary tumors are carried in most instances by the blood, and thus the lungs, whose capillaries are the first to receive the returning blood, are exposed above all organs to contagion. The blood from tumors of the alimentary canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, first passes through the capillaries of the liver, and to this cause the frequency with which secondary tumors of the liver occur is partly to be attributed. In connection with this point some singular facts deserve to be recorded. The blood from> a part in which a carcinoma is situated may be returned partly through the portal, partly through the general circulation. Facilities are thus afforded for the introduction of tumor-germs into both liver and lungs. But, while the former is abundantly inoculated, and becomes the seat of numerous growths, the latter are quite free from secondary tumors. An illustration of these conditions may be observed in squamous-celled carcinomas of the cardiac orifice of the stomach ; or, rather, of the termination of the oesophagus. It might be imagined that the liver was preferred in these cases on account of its; proximity to the cardia; but that it is not merely a question of proximity, may be assumed when it is found that squamous-celled carcinomas of the higher portions of the oesophagus scarcely ever produce secondary tumors in the lungs, and, in the few instances in which they do so, probably inoculate the lungs through the air-passages rather than through the bloodvessels. From a knowledge of this fact, it may lie argued that the tissue of the lungs does not afford a suitable nidus for the reception and growth of squamous- celled carcinoma originating in the oesophagus, unless, perhaps, under peculiar conditions—such, for example, as the introduction into them of an actual mass or lump, such as may be conveyed by the inspired air. It may, on the other hand, be argued that the tissue of the liver affords a favorable nidus, and that the disease seizes greedily on it through the opening which is offered by the portal circulation. If this be admitted, the further question may be asked, why germs which have passed through the capillaries of the lungs are not conveyed to the liver and other organs, whose tissues are better fitted to receive and mature them? Possibly they do pass through the pulmonary circulation; if so, it must be assumed that their vitality is destroyed, and that they are rendered incapable of development by changes effected in them on their passage. If they are arrested in the lungs, it must be assumed that they remain immature, or perish in consequence of the unsuitability of the nidus. From the foregoing considerations arise others equally interesting and im- portant,. Supposing, as appears probable, that secondary tumors are due to the conveyance by the blood of germs derived from the primary disease, why is the entrance of the germs into the blood deferred for months or even years, when, as we know full well, the vessels in the interior of a malignant tumor are, in most instances, very weak-walled and easily penetrated? Again, when the germs have certainly made their way into "the blood, and fresh germs may lie assumed to be continually entering the blood and circulating through the body, why is the dissemination in most cases so limited? Clauzel1 has shown that, in certain cases of melanosis, colored granules or molecules are easily detected in the blood, the urine, and the vomit, and that the presence of these bodies indicates the occurrence of dissemination. If we regard these bodies as the germs of the disease, we must acknowledge that they exist in large quantity throughout the body, while the dissemination may be limited to a single tissue or organ. In part answer to these inquiries, I think the fol- lowing propositions may be assumed: That germs of tumors are often present iu the blood long before dissemination takes place, but, either from defective vitality in themselves, or from too great vitality and consequent power of 1 Th6se de Paris, 1874. VOL. IV. —41