INJURIES OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. 863 « Ibid. 3 Ibid., p. 249. 2 Ibid. paraplegia. The catheter was introduced and the bladder relieved. The missile was searched for unsuccessfully. Opiates were then administered. He continued to sink and was perfectly unconscious. The pulse was 160.” He died May 15, that is, five days after the wound was indicted.1 The cause of death is not stated, but, judging from the symptoms as de- tailed above, it was traumatic peritonitis. At any rate, peritoneal inflam- mation must be a frequent consequence of shot wounds such as this. This case is doubly interesting because of the paralysis of the bladder and lower extremities which resulted from the injuries sustained by the sacral nerves. The following example is very instructive, as ivell as interesting, because of the peculiar form of paralysis, and the hsematuria, which resulted from the primary lesion Private Peter K., aged 32, having been wounded at the South Side Railroad, on April 1, 1865, was sent to Washington, and admitted to Douglas Hospital on the 6th. A conoidal musket-ball had entered the left buttock nearly on a level with the second vertebra of the sacrum, about four inches from the spinous process thereof, had passed through or across the sacral portion of the spinal canal, and had lodged in the right wing of the sacrum, near its junction with the ilium. There was complete paralysis of the bladder and rectum, with constant haematuria; but no paralysis of the lower extremities. On the 8th, the patient failed rapidly, and became partially insensible. He died on the 9th, from exhaustion, eight days after the casualty occurred.3 The specimen is repre- sented by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 804). The vesico-rectal paralysis observed in this case is easily accounted for; but what caused tfrfc haematuria? Did it arise from a neuropathic congestion of the kidneys, such as we have seen occurs not unfrequently Fig. 805. Showing a shot fracture of the sacrum. (Spec. 3001, A. M. M.) In the next case there was a complete transverse fracture observed:— Private P. McC., aged 20, was wounded at Carrion Crow Bayou, La., November 3, 1863. He was treated on the field until the 8th, when he was admitted to Univer- sity Hospital, New Orleans, where he died on the 22d, nineteen days after the infliction of the wound. The case is described as a gunshot fracture of the sacrum; “ the missile, passing obliquely from tbe left, entered near the median line at the junction of the second and third sacral vertebra, and escaped into the pelvis through the right portion of the second vertebra. The sacrum was completely fractured transversely at that point.” The specimen is represented by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 805).3 In the following example, traumatic spinal meningitis with tetanic spasms occurred:— Private W. M. R., aged 22, was wounded at Winchester, July 20, 1864, by a conoidal musket-ball, which penetrated the sacral region five inches above the anus, and one in cases of spinal injury ? Fig. 804 Showing the sacrum with a ball impacted at the left second intervertebral notch. (Spec. 2542, A. M. M.)