773 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. -nerves ; the paralysis of the corresponding arm was at first so complete that I considered the brachial plexus must have been torn by the bullet; but, gradually, sensation and motion almost fully returned. “ In a case of contusion of the cervical vertebrae by a similar shot, there has remained till this moment—a period of four months—stiffness and pain in the neck on motion. In all these cases small sequestra escaped.”1 In cases where the vertebrae are contused by gunshot missiles, the bodies are the portions thereof which are usually found to be affected. Indeed, I am not acquainted with any instance where this lesion was confined to the vertebral apophyses. The consequences of gunshot contusions of the vertebrae are: 1, necrosis of the bruised parts; 2, caries of the same; and 3, inflamma- tion of the injured bone, which may spread to the membranes and substance of the spinal cord. 1. As examples of necrosis, Stromeyer’s three cases just mentioned above, in each of which small sequestra escaped from the wound, may be appropriately cited. 2. As an instance of caries arising from this cause, the following abstract, together with the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 777), may be presented:— vertebrae caused by gunshot contusion. Private George A. A., 20th New York Volun- (Spec. 1867, Sec. i, A. m. m.) teers, aged 40, was wounded at Gettysburg, July 2, 1863, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the right lower jaw, struck the bodies of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras, and lodged. It is said that the missile was after- ward ejected by the patient from his mouth. But pyasmia supervened and caused death. It is stated that the patient had dyspnoea, but no paralysis; that he walked about until a few days before his death, which occurred on the 21st (nineteen days after the casualty occurred) ; that he had complained only of a slightly uneasy feeling in the neck when turning his head; and that the injury of the cervical vertebras was not sus- pected during life. Necroscopy show’ed that the bodies of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras were carious in the parts where they had been struck and bruised by the mis- sile (see Fig. 777), and that a fissured fracture extended through the body of the sixth vertebra. Pyasmic lesions, too, were found ; that is, the right lung was in a condition of recent pneumonia, and filled with a multitude of small abscesses, the presence of which fully accounted for the occurrence of dyspnoea. The oesophagus, the trachea, and the bronchial mucous membrane were inflamed.2 In this case, the contusion of the cortex or outer lamella of the body of the sixth cervical vertebra was complicated by a fissured fracture of the vertebral body; the body of the seventh cervical vertebra, however, was not fractured, but only bruised and carious. The carious condition of both vertebrae is well shown in Fig. 777. The specimen which it represents is pre- served in the Army Medical Museum. 3. The spreading of inflammation from the injured hone to the membranes and substances of the spinal cord, with a fatal result in consequence thereof, may be illustrated in a useful manner by presenting another example taken from Stromeyer :— “ In a case where a bullet, entering laterally, severely bruised the third and fourth cervical vertebrae, and was not extracted, death followed in consequence of the advance of inflammation into the spinal cord and brain ; there was at first palsy of the arm 1 Stromeyer on Gunshot Fractures, translated by S. F. Statham, pp. 37, 38. Am. ed. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 431. Fig. 777 Showing caries of the last two cervical