832 INJURIES OF THE BACK. I shall here take space to mention only two of them, namely: (1) Rapid diminution of the faradic contractility of the muscles, soon followed by an equably rapid atrophy of the muscles themselves, or acute muscular atrophy; and (2) A peculiar form of joint-disease inflammatory in character, or spinal arthropathy. It is, however, a remarkable fact, that while the spinal or neu- ropathic eschar, in cases where the cord is partly divided, appears on the side of the sacrum opposite the spinal injury, the arthropathy and the muscular atrophy are to he found in the limb belonging to the same side as the spinal injury. For example, in the case of a man who was admitted into Professor Nelaton’s ward with a sword-wound dividing the left half of the spinal cord (already twice mentioned), the symptoms showed rapid improvement up to the twelfth day after the casualty ; on that day it was remarked that, without apparent cause, the left leg, still more sensitive than normal, had increased in volume, and that a quantity of fluid had accumulated in the left knee-joint sufficient to float the patella half an inch above the condyles. Two or three days subsequently, an eschar was observed occupying the right lateral part of the sacrum and the right gluteal region.1 2 Another very instructive example, which occurred in one of Dr. Cusco’s patients, is related by M. Charcot, and I will present a brief abstract of it:— A man, aged 40, was stabbed with a poniard, in the night of February 15—16, 1871, at the third dorsal vertebra, and on the left side thereof. The weapon penetrated downward and toward the right, and divided the left half of the spinal cord. The left leg was immediately stricken with motor paralysis, while the right was not. He was at once brought to hospital. In the morning the following note was made: Left lower extremity, complete motor paralysis; limb perfectly flaccid ; no trace of contraction, nor of rigidity; no spasmodic movements, nor subsultus. But its sensibility is greatly exaggerated ; the least touch of the skin, especially near the foot, causes pain ; pressure has the same effect; a slight pinch or a tickle is followed by very painful sensations; the application of a cold body produces painful sensations which the patient compares to prickings. Right lower extremity, the voluntary motions are all perfectly normal, but the sensibility is almost completely destroyed ; complete analgesia; sensitiveness to touch almost null; the contact of a cold body causes an obscure, dull, prickling sensa- tion. The insensibility is not restricted to the lower limb ; it ascends to a level with the right nipple. The urine and feces passed involuntarily. On the 24th, it was noted that the left (motor-paralyzed) limb was warmer than the right; and that the patient complained of feeling constricted or compressed at the base of the thorax. On March 5th (seventeenth day), the patient complained of troubled sight: left pupil contracted more than right pupil; the vessels of left eye more numerous and volumi- nous than those of right eye. The evacuations, for the last two days, had again been voluntary. The state of the lower extremities remained unchanged. On the 13th (twenty-fifth day), the right buttock, since the day before, had been the seat of livid redness, and the epidermis had already fallen off from a part of the erythe- matous patch. On the 14th, the integuments on the right buttock, near the sacrum, were denuded to the extent of a crown-piece, and ecchymosed—that is, there was a spinal bed-sore. The left knee-joint was red and swollen, and likewise the seat of spontaneous pains, which were increased by moving tbe joint—that is, there was spinal arthropathy. On the 24th, an ulceration had occurred on the right buttock, on a level with the ecchymosed patch, which now was covered with granulations. The left knee was almost free from redness and swelling, as well as from pain.’ The following very instructive example of acute muscular atrophy, taken from Dr. W. Muller, is likewise presented by M. Charcot:—3 1 Brown-Sequard, Journal de la Physiologie, t. iii. p. 130. 2 Op. cit., p. 70. 3 Ibid., pp. 70, 71.