671 INCISED AND PUNCTURED FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. 2 American Medical Times, May 18, 1861, p. 320. 1 Ibid., p. 204. whereby the blood wTas perceived to issue from a point between two trans- verse processes, apparently the fifth and sixth, soon made the diagnosis clear. In Mobus’s case, which is mentioned by Dr. Kocher as the only instance of traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery, besides his own, which eventuated in recovery, there was a pulsating tumor below the occipital bone on the right side. It might have arisen from a wound of the occipital just as well as from a wound of the vertebral artery; but the pulsation was not arrested by com- pressing the occipital artery, and the tumefaction was not lessened by com- pressing the carotid, wherefore the vertebral was inferred to be the seat of - the lesion.1 Flesh-wounds in the posterior cervical region that also lay open one of the occipital arteries, have proved almost as deadly as similar wounds that lay open the vertebral arteries, mentioned above. The principal reason for these untoward results has been that surgeons, owing to difficulties real or fancied that they have met with in trying to tie the wounded occipital artery in the wound itself, have resorted to untrustworthy expedients, instead of persevering as they should have done until success had crowned their efforts to ligature the bleeding vessel on each side of the aperture in its walls. From the em- ployment of temporizing measures, it lias resulted that the hemorrhage, although restrained for a brief period, has burst forth afresh from day to day or from time to time, until, finally, the patient has perished miserably from anaemic exhaustion, or, in other words, has slowly Died to death, and that, too, beneath the surgeon’s very eyes. The following example well illustrates this subject. A young man, aged 22,3 received in an affray a stab-wound in the neck, two inches in length by one inch in depth, behind the left ear, and about two inches distant from the auditory meatus. Half an hour afterward the medical man found him pale and faint from loss of blood. The hemorrhage still continued in feeble jets ; but pressure ap- plied at the bottom of the wound with a finger readily suppressed it. On failing to grasp the wounded artery with forceps, it was resolved to treat the hemorrhage by com- pression. Thereupon the wound itself was stuffed with lint, and the lips thereof were drawn together over it, and secured in apposition with interrupted sutures. This pro- ceeding controlled the hemorrhage for five days, when slight bleeding recurred. On the sixth day there was more hemorrhage. On removing the dressing the bleeding was very profuse, and could not be entirely suppressed by pressure with a finger in the wound. The left common carotid artery was then tied, and the bleeding ceased. Three days afterward, however, a slight hemorrhage appeared in the original wound, and in twelve days more hemorrhage again occurred from the same wound, on opening which, the blood was found to issue from the occipital artery, at a point behind the mastoid process. Manual compression was now resorted to, but two days subsequently the patient died, having survived the wound twenty-three days, and the deligation of the common carotid artery seventeen days. An autopsy, made ten hours after death, showed that the knife had penetrated between the mastoid process of the left temporal bone and the transverse process of the atlas, and had opened the occipital artery in the occipital groove. The occlusion of the carotid was perfect. The brain was not diseased. Death appears to have resulted from anmmic convulsions and anaemic exhaustion, that were caused by the regurgitant hemorrhages from the wounded artery. Deligation of the common carotid in this case failed to control the hemor- rhage, because it did not control the circulation of blood in the wounded part of the occipital artery; and it did not control the circulation because of the great freedom with which the terminal branches of the two occipital arteries inosculate with each other across the median line, and with branches of the temporal and posterior auricular arteries in the scalp, and likewise by means