596 TUMORS. or that the pressure of the surrounding organs is beneficial, these dangerous events appear to be exceedingly rare. Symptoms of Non-arterial Ncevi.—The clinical characters of all non-arterial nsevi are usually very decided, unless the tumors are very deeply seated. The cutaneous nsevi appear as marks (mother’s marks), or plaques, or moles, of red color. The redness is always sharply circumscribed ; and, even when the growth is spreading, each dot, or loop, or line, is clearly defined; the color varies from the brightest scarlet to a dull-red or livid hue. Some naevi exhibit a uniform tint, but more commonly the coloring is unequal, and in many instances lines of vessels can be traced upon the surface; the surface, like the color, is liable to variation—it may be quite smooth and flat, or slightly rounded, or warty, like a papilloma. The disease may be very limited in extent, or may extend over half the head and face, producing the most serious disfigurement. The subcutaneous naevi form more definite tumors, often of round or oval shape, sometimes distinctly circumscribed, but in other instances ill-defined, and gradually shelving into the surrounding tissues; they feel soft and compressible, and are smooth, or only slightly lobed; the skin over them is seldom natural in color, but has a dull-blue or livid hue, very different from the color of the cutaneous growths, but very characteristic, nevertheless. Both the cutaneous and the subcutaneous naevi are compressible, and may be much lessened in bulk by a moment’s continuous pressure. But a more characteristic property is the power which some of them possess of rapid or sudden enlargement, the property of erectility, on account of which they have been sometimes termed erectile tumors. Pro- longed coughing or crying of the patient will often cause a naevus thus to swell; and it is stated that some of them will swell and become “erect” under the influence of irritation, like the physiological erectile tissues. But I think that the erectile power of these vascular tumors has been overrated, and that, as Paget has pointed out, they deserve the name erectile rather on account of the similarity of structure of many of them (the cavernous) to that of the erectile tissues, than because they imitate these tissues in erectile power. Diagnosis.—The decided characters of the more superficial naevi render the diagnosis usually very easy; and when, to these characters, the fact of their origin before or during early infancy is added, it is almost impossible to mistake them. Occasionally, a slight difficulty arises in distinguishing between the true vascular tumors and other tumors which are hypervascular; but the more solid feel of most of these growths, their limitation in most instances to the deeper structures, and the fact that they are not, like the naevi, proper to early infancy, must be taken into account in the diagnosis. A deeply-situated naevus may be taken for a congenital cystic tumor, especially when it grows in the region subject to these tumors. I have lately seen such a growth, deep down in the back of the neck and shoulder of a baby. The diagnosis was made by observing that the integuments over it, although it lay at some depth beneath them, were faintly discolored. Prognosis.—The prognosis of non-arterial naevi, as far as life is concerned, is favorable; indeed, the largest and most formidable of them rarely prove fatal. But they are often very difficult to cure, and disfigurement may result from their most successful treatment. The extensive discolorations termed port-wine marks are scarcely improved by treatment; for the discoloration can only be substituted, in the most successful case, by an extensive scar, equally disfiguring. It may be laid down, as a general axiom, that the cure of a cutaneous naevus by almost every known method entails the production of a scar equal in extent to the area of the naevus. The recognition of this fact, and the knowledge that naevi sometimes shrink and disappear, lead