EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 442 patient “ afterwards made several voyages to sea, in which he was able to go aloft with considerable agility, and to perform all the duties of a seaman,” and “ was twice shipwrecked, and suffered great hardships, without feeling any further complaint in that limb.”1 Mr. Park’s second case (1789) termi- nated less favorably, the patient dying between three and four months after the operation.2 Meanwhile, in France, the elder Moreau had independently conceived the idea of removing carious bones and joints by an operation less mutilating than amputation, and in August, 1782, had put his ideas in practice by cutting out “ a caries of considerable extent, from the lower end of the leg bones of a man called Lecheppe.”3 The operation was completely successful, and in the following year (1783) M. Moreau laid his views before the Academy of Surgery,4 definitely proposing the operation of complete exci- sion of diseased articulations. In 1786, the same surgeon communicated to the Academy the history of a case in which he had in that year successfully removed the whole shoulder-joint for disease—the first recorded case of com- plete shoulder-joint excision—but neither of these communications seems to have excited enough interest to have been thought worthy of publication. A third memoir, presented in 1789, met with almost universal disapproval and condemnation, the learned members of the Academy, as the younger Moreau tells us, finding it more convenient to deny, than to examine, the facts on which it was grounded;5 and except for the operations in military practice of the illustrious Percy, and certain isolated cases in the hands of the two Moreaus, the father’s pupil, Someillier, and a few others, the practice of excising diseased joints met with so little favor in France that even Vel- peau, writing in 1839, though deciding that, “upon the whole, the mass of the advantages of resection [excision]” was “ more considerable than that of its inconveniences,” yet averred that, as compared with amputation, the balance was so nearly even, that it might “ well be permitted to hesitate before absolutely sanctioning its utility.”6 In Great Britain, too, the operation was very slow in making its way into general surgical practice, the actual establishment of excision as a recognized procedure, when applied to the shoulder and elbow-joints, being fairly attri- butable to Mr. Syrne, of Edinburgh, in the years 1826 and 1828 respectively ; as regards the hip, knee, and wrist-joints, to Sir William Fergusson, in 1845, 1850) and 1851 respectively; and as regards the ankle-joint, to Mr. Hancock, also in 1851. Among the earliest American advocates of this operation may be particu- larly mentioned Drs. Ingalls, John C. Warren, and ITenry J. Bigelow, of Boston; Drs. Gurdon Buck and Lewis A. Sayre, of Hew York; Drs. Thomas Harris and Joseph Pancoast, of Philadelphia; Dr. B, A. Kinloch, of Charles- ton ; and Dr. Edmund Andrews, of Chicago. I do not intend to review here the controversies as to the propriety, par- ticularly of hip-joint and knee-joint excisions, which raged within the memory of the present generation of surgeons both in England and in this country. The conflict is yet too recent, the smoke of battle too thick, for the history of those controversies to be written without risk of giving unmeant offence, if ’ not of doing unintentional injustice. The victory has been won by the friends 1 Op. cit., pp. 18, 47. 2 Op. cit, pp. 48-52. 3 Park and Moreau, op. cit., p. 81. 1 Mr. Park:s case was not known in France till the next year (1784), when his observations were translated and published in that country by the celebrated Lassus. 5 Park and Moreau, op. cit., p. 84. 6 Nouveaux Elements de Medecine Operatoire, 2e edition, t. ii. pp. 681, 682.