FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 251 water, hot laudanum, or laudanum and lead-water. The fracture-box answers admirably in these cases, but my own practice is always to suspend it, not only because the patient is thus rendered more comfortable, but because the fragments are thus less likely to become displaced. At a later stage, when, as very generally happens, suppuration ensues, and especially if the discharge be profuse, the bran-dressing devised by the late Dr. J. R. Barton is of great value. It is applied by means of a fracture-box, in which is placed a lining of muslin on which the bran is heaped, making a bed for the limb, which is then covered over with more bran, and the sides of the box brought up. It is not always necessary to secure the foot to the foot-piece, but it is better to do so if suspension is to be used. At this stage patients are apt to have become accustomed to confinement, and to have learned to lie perfectly still. Bracketed splints of various forms, intended to control the limb while leaving the wound exposed for the purpose of changing the dressings, have been devised. Their value depends entirely upon the accuracy of their adaptation to the size and shape of the limb in each case; and it seems to me safer for most practitioners to rely upon simpler means. As soon as the wound has healed, or the fragments have been so covered up by granulations as to be no longer exposed to the atmosphere, the lesion assumes the character of a simple fracture, and much of the danger is set aside. In the former case, the side splints, moulded to the limb, or the im- movable apparatus, may be resorted to ; but care should always be taken lest *by undue or misplaced pressure the soft parts should be irritated, and fresh mischief ensue. Various circumstances may arise in the course of cases of this kind re- quiring special interference. Extreme swelling and tension of the soft parts sometimes come on within a few hours of the injury, and may be greatly relieved by free incisions. Hemorrhage may occur to an extent that demands the use of prompt and thorough means for its control. At a later period, there may be burrowing of pus along the limb; and counter-openings, drain- age, and properly applied pressure may be needed. Fractures of the tibia alone are, according to some observers, much less frequent than those of the fibula alone; but the statements of others are de- cidedly at variance with this, as may be seen by a glance at the table quoted from Gurlt on a preceding page. The widest difference exists between the figures given by Malgaigne, 29 of the tibia to 108 of the fibula, and those of Blasius, 30 of the tibia to 15 of the fibula. When the tibia is broken of itself, it is generally by direct violence, but sometimes by indirect. One instance has been recorded by Caspary,1 in which it was thought that the bone had yielded to muscular contraction, in a strong healthy man of twenty-six; but as he had had a venereal sore six years previously, and had complained of rheumatic pains for some time before the occurrence of the accident, it seems probable that the texture of the bone may have undergone pathological change. The fracture may be but slightly oblique; it is seldom as markedly so as when both bones give way. I have met with three recorded instances of incomplete fracture of the tibia. One, quoted by Malgaigne from Cam- paignac, was that of a girl, twelve years old, run over by a cabriolet; at her death the lesion just stated, with a curvature of the fibula, was ascertained by dissection. Gray2 reported to the Boston Society for Medical Improve- 1 Berl. klin. Wochenschrift, 28 Jan. 1867. 2 Am. Journal of tlie Med. Sciences, Oct. 1853.