EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 456 l Fig. 690. me, give sufficiently ready access to the deeper and central portions of the wound, in case of hemorrhage, and though it is still a favorite with Trench surgeons, it is, I think, inferior to that which was introduced and recommended by Sir ¥m. Fergus- son,and which I have always found perfectly satis- factory. Fergusson’s operation (Fig. 690) consists in divid- ing the upper lip in the mesial line, laying open the nostril corresponding to the side of the tumor, carrying the knife from the root of the ala, between the side of the nose and the cheek, as far as the nasal bone, and then cutting transversely, opposite the lower border of the orbit, to the zygomatic process of the malar bone. The flap thus marked out being dissected up, sufficient room is furnished for the removal of the largest tumor. All of the in- tegument covering the tumor should be scrupu- lously preserved, as if any “ button-hole” be made in the flap, the subsequent contraction will leave a fistulous opening. The tumor having been exposed, and the soft palate, if healthy, divided by a transverse incision, the bony attachments of the jaw may be severed with a chain-saw or small resection-saw, or, Incision for excision of the upper jaw by Fergusson’s method. Fig. 691. Excision of the upper jaw. which I think much better, with the strong cutting forceps known as Lis- ton’s.1 The lateral incisor tooth of the affected side ha ving been extracted, the blades of the forceps are made to cut a groove in the alveolus, and then one blade is applied in this groove and the other to the floor of the nostril, when, the handles being forced together, the hard palate is cut through at a single stroke. The malar bone is next cut across into the spheno-maxillary fis- sure; or, if this bone is itself involved in the disease, its frontal and orbital processes, and the zygoma, are similarly divided. Lastly, one blade of the for- ceps is introduced into the nostril at its upper part, and the other into the orbit (the eye and surrounding tissues being held out of the way with the handle of a knife or a retractor), and the inner angle of the orbit cut across. The mass may now be seized with the lion-jawed forceps of Fergusson, and firmly depressed, fracturing the pos- terior attachments of the jaw, when removal is readily completed with a few touches of the knife. (Fig. 691.) Hemorrhage having been checked by the ligation of the internal maxillary See Fig. 128, Yol. I. p. 573, and Fig. 006, supra.