DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 336 as the hypertrophied fringes have now become, are variously formed and constituted in different cases. They are branched and ramified in all direc- tions ; hut in some instances the twigs end in simple blunt points, in others they are bulbous, and in others beaded, giving the fringe a form like a bunch of currants. The bulbs or beads may be simply bags of fluid, or collections of fat, fibrous tissue, fibro-cartilage, true cartilage, or bone. The fringes, not remarkably vascular, contain each an artery and vein; the twigs are without such vessels, or possess only short branches, which terminate long before reaching their ends. Occasionally, in such cases, the fluid contains a variable, sometimes an immense number of free concretions—the hydatiform bodies of Dupuytren ; they are gelatiniform, yellow, and transparent, and, if numerous, very small— about the size of a pin’s head or less. If only few in number, they are gen- erally much larger. The synovial and perisynovial tissues, thickened, soft, and sodden, are sur- rounded by a tough, firm capsule, developed in consequence of the pressure from within. In old cases this is sometimes so firm that even after with- drawing the fluid, in anatomical examination, the empty sac does not collapse. Moreover, this tendon-like capsule may be in places distinctly cartilaginous, plates of cartilage having been developed in the fibrous substance, or almost the whole tissue having undergone such a metamorphosis. This latter form of disease is evidently related to cases of multiple false bodies in the joint-sac, and thereby to arthritis deformans; and we shall hereafter perceive that it is impossible to draw any sharp line of distinction to mark a point where the one malady may cease, or the other may begin. In many cases of hydrarthrus, after the fluid has been withdrawn, a number of these bodies may be felt; and again, in certain cases of single loose car- tilage, the accompanying hypersecretion ceases after removal of the loose body. Symptoms.—Hydrarthrus rarely affects youth, and is more common after than before forty-five years of age. Its history may be either that of a gra- dual, painless increase of size, or it may have begun with an injury, followed by acute synovitis, and by more or less painful sequelae. The histories being thus dissimilar, are of little aid to diagnosis, which, however, presents but slight difficulty, the essential feature of the disease being a large fluid effusion in the articular cavity, without any sign of inflammation, or at least of active inflammation. The signs and symptoms of fluid in the different joint-cavities have already been detailed (p. 267); but the greater quantity of fluid and its slow accumulation permit of more distension of opposing parts, and thus the locality of ligaments, tendons, etc., is little marked, while certain portions enlarge to an incommensurate degree. Thus at the knee (the most common site of this disease), the subcrural portion of the sac is more particularly dis- tended; this is most visible when the patient stands erect. There is also considerable enlargement on each side of the patellar tendon. The synovial membrane, too, often bulges into the popliteal space, which then is no longer hollow, but prominent. Very often, at the elbow, the membrane is protruded through one of the openings in the posterior ligament, forming a bursa-like enlargement, usually in the immediate vicinity of a condyle. The chief swelling is about the inner condyle, where the fluid in many eases produces a large ovoid protuberance; the part of the sac that underlies the triceps is also considerably enlarged. Hydrarthrus of the shoulder has been observed by M. Roux and by myself. In my case the patient had almost lost the power of lifting: the arm from the side; it measured, as it hung, half an inch more