779 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBIUE. 1 Ibid., p. 450. The left ankle and lower third of the femur were shattered, for which amputation of the thigh was performed. The only symptom, indicating that the spinal cord or spinal nerves were injured, was paralysis of the right leg. Necroscopy—The missile was found imbedded in the intervertebral substance between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, as shown in the adjacent wood-cut (Fig. 788), which represents the speci- men. There was very little pus in the wound.1 Prognosis.—Gunshot lesions of the spinal column are very serious injuries. They proved fatal in more than one-half of the instances which came under treatment during our late civil war; and many who sustained such injuries must have perished on the field before any treatment could be adopted. Six hundred and forty-two cases of gunshot injury of the vertebras were reported by our military surgeons during the late civil war. Of these, three hundred and forty-nine, or 55.5 per cent., proved fatal; one hundred and seventy-five soldiers were discharged from the service; one hundred and four were returned to duty ; while, in fourteen instances, the result is not known. Again, of these six hundred and forty-two cases, the cervical vertebras were injured in ninety-one, with a mortality of sixty-three, or 70 per cent.; the dorsal vertebrae, in one hundred and thirty-seven, with a mortality of eighty- seven, or 63.5 per cent.; the lumbar vertebrae, in one hundred and forty-nine, with a mortality of sixty-six, or 45.5 per cent.; the cervical and dorsal, in two instances, of which one proved fatal; and the dorsal and lumbar, in three instances, which all proved fatal. In two hundred and sixty cases, where the injured vertebrae were not specified, one hundred and twenty-nine, or 49.4 per cent., proved fatal. The percentage of mortality above stated is, for vertebral injuries in the cervical region, 70, for those in the dorsal region, 63.5, and for those in the lumbar region, 45.5. Other things being equal, the prognosis is less unfavor- able in cases where the dorsal vertebrae are wounded by gunshot missiles, than it is in cases where the cervical vertebrae are injured in this manner; and, in cases where the lumbar vertebrae are affected, it is much less unfavor- able than it is in cases where the dorsal vertebra! are involved, and very much less unfavorable than it is in cases where the cervical vertebrae are injured. Gunshot fractures of the cervical vertebrae, when attended by complete paraplegia, are almost always fatal; and, generally, death occurs before the fourth day in such cases. I had under my care at the battle of Fair Oaks, May 31 and June 1, 1862, two cases in which there were fractures of the lower cervical vertebra; caused by musket-balls. In both cases, the upper as well as the lower extremities, and all the parts and organs that were supplied with spinal nerves which issued from the spinal column at or below the seat of the lesions, were completely paralyzed in respect to both sensation and voluntary motion. There was retention of urine and feces, and catheterization had to be resorted to. The respiration was entirely diaphragmatic, for all the respiratory nerves, excepting the phrenic, were paralyzed. The inferior margin of the thorax was also drawn inward, whenever the diaphragm contracted, thus reducing the antero-pos- terior and lateral diameters of the chest, as well as increasing the vertical diameter thereof, at the end of every movement of inspiration. The muscular wall of the abdo- men was relaxed and flaccid till tympanites supervened, which added much to the respiratory embarrassment. Both patients died asphyxiated; one of them on the third, and the other on the fourth day after the injury was inflicted. The intellect was clear in both cases, and there were no head-symptoms whatever, until the stupor of asphyxia approaching a fatal termination appeared. No autopsies were held, from want of time to make them.