719 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRA!. Dislocation forward of the axis upon the third cervical vertebra, without frac- ture, carrying the atlas and the head forward with the axis, has been reported in a few instances. In the following example, where pure luxation of the second upon the third cervical vertebra wras found, partial paralysis of the left arm and forearm was noted, while the lower extremities and the bladder were entirely free from paralysis ; but death suddenly occurred on the fourth day:— The case was that of a man, aged 34.1 On the patient’s admission to hospital, there were observed paralysis of the left deltoid muscle, and impaired power of supination of the left forearm, showing involvement of the left circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. All the movements of the lower extremities, however, were perfect, and the patient had complete control over the bladder. But he became restless, and threw his limbs about; and died suddenly on the fourth day, while struggling and kicking. At the autopsy a dislocation of the second from the third cervical vertebra was found, with very extensive extravasation of blood behind the pharynx and oesophagus, uncomplicated with fracture. Mr. Erichsen remarks on the great rarity of the case. There were no head-symptoms, and there was also no general paralysis. Stress is laid on the absence of any hypersesthetic line during life, as indicating that the lesion was a dislocation rather than a fracture, because the broken sharp edges of bone in a fracture would irri- tate the spinal nerves in contact with them, and thus cause hypersesthesia in the tract supplied by the irritated nerve-fibres. It is not improbable that this man’s sudden death was caused by sudden compression of the spinal cord, resulting from a sudden increase in the dis- placement forward of the second cervical vertebra, which was occasioned by the restlessness and tossing of the patient himself. In treating such a case, confinement to bed in the recumbent posture from the outset, with a small, firm pillow placed under the neck, and a large, half-filled bag of dry sand moulded to each side of the head and neck, as recommended by Mr. Hilton in treating luxations of the upper cervical vertebrae from disease, would be of inestimable value, and would probably lead to the patient’s recovery as well as prevent the occurrence of sudden death. Another example of this accident may be briefly reported as follows:— A man, aged 50,2 fell backward from a fence and struck upon his head, sustaining thereby a dislocation of the second from the third cervical vertebra. His head was thrown back, and there was paralysis, but no pain. Attempts at reduction failed ; and, in forty-eight hours, he died. (Ashhurst.) Pure luxations at the juncture of the second and third cervical vertebrae are extremely rare; and I have found only the two examples just presented. One reason why these cases very seldom come under treatment, possibly is the fact that the vertebral displacement is very liable to cause instant death, at the time of the accident, by strongly compressing or crushing the spinal cord above the origin of the phrenic nerves. But, in the examples which do come under treatment, it may sometimes be a remedial measure of very great importance to effect a reduction of the displacement, especially if the paralysis be extending or threatening to become complete paraplegia. In such a case, the efforts at reduction should be persisted in until they achieve success. The next case is of interest mainly because it shows that death by hanging may be attended with luxation at the juncture of the second and third cervi- cal vertebrae, as well as with fracture of the second:— Mahon3 found in a female criminal, on whom the death-sentence had been executed by hanging, that the axis was fractured, and that the intervertebral cartilage between the axis and the third cervical vertebra was ruptured. (Ashhurst.) 1 Lancet, August 1, 1874. Some remarks thereon by Mr. Erichsen are also presented. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. x. 3 Med. L6gale, t. iii.