905 CONGENITAL SACRO-COCCYGBAL TUMORS. Such of these tumors as contain foetal remains, serve to connect this series of tumors with those dealt with in the previous paragraph. Progress, etc.—In many instances the children presenting these growths are born dead. A large number die within a day or so of birth. In those who survive, the tumor generally grows rapidly, and often very rapidly. The skin may give way in places, and the contents of the subjacent cysts be discharged. After such discharge the aperture may close, or further destructive changes may take place in the part. Bryant records a case where spontaneous cure followed upon the bursting of a cyst in this region.1 As the growth advances, death may follow from marasmus, or from inflammation and sloughing of the mass, or from extension of the inflammatory process to the cord or pelvic viscera. Treatment.—In the treatment of these tumors all partial measures are to be condemned. The practice of incising the mass is meaningless, useless, and pernicious. The tapping of a few of the cysts is equally futile. The excision of a part of the tumor only, leaves an inflamed and, perhaps, sloughing stump, from which fresh tumor-tissue will be produced should the child survive. In like manner, to ligature a portion only of the mass, is to do more harm than good, and the same criticism must apply to all attempts to destroy the tumor with caustics or the actual cautery. The mass should be removed entire, or left alone; and the most serious question involved in this matter of treatment is that concerned in the selection of proper cases for operation. The tumors best suited for operation are those in which a good pedicle exists, in which the base of the mass is comparatively narrow, and in which the tumor has neither extended into the pelvis nor is in communication with the spinal canal. Such cases are unfortunately quite the exception. Mr. Holmes has shown, how- ever, that tumors of this nature can be removed even when they involve the pelvis, and extend into that cavity for no little distance.2 The question there- fore for the surgeon to decide is whether he can remove the entire mass without inflicting such an injury upon the pelvic structures and viscera as no operation would justify. It is impossible to give definite data for the deci- sion of this question. Each case must be judged upon its own merits. It is very often difficult to make out the limits of the entire pelvic growth, although much may be learnt by a rectal examination. Apart from this matter of the pelvis, the possibility of the mass communicating with the spinal canal must be considered, although the evidence that will point to such communication is usually of the scantiest. Of the various methods available for the removal of these tumors, that of excision is undoubtedly the best, and is the operation that has given the most favorable results.3 Congenital Fatty, Fibrous, and Fibrocellular Tumors.—These growths are not common in this situation, although several examples of each kind have been recorded. They resemble in character the congenital tumors met with elsewhere, that are composed of fatty, fibrous, or fibrocellular tissue, and present the same features with regard to diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment. They may be tolerably superficial, but as a rule have a deep origin. Molk cites five cases of lipomata arising from the front or tip of the coccyx. Sometimes these congenital fatty tumors may be very large, and one case is recorded where such a tumor formed a pendulous mass that reached the calves. In another instance the fatty growth involved the pelvis, and reached such dimensions as to almost fill that cavity. ' Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. i. page 259. 1 British Med. Journ., March 23, 1867. 3 See Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. v. p. 802.