290 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. chief deposition has occurred either within the joint cavity or in the sur- rounding parts—especially in the tendinous sheaths1—rarely simultaneously in both places. If the joint cavity be the seat of deposition, the periarticular tissues and neighboring sheaths are more wet than usual with a serum that is generally a little turbid. When the secondary deposit is outside the joint, there is hardly more than the ordinary amount of synovia within that cavity, nor have I, as a rule, found it changed in quality ; sometimes it is inspissated like the fluid of ganglia, but quite bright; sometimes it is rather large in amount, rarely muddy. The pus of the secondary abscess is often in its macroscopic characters quite normal; it may, however, be already separated into turbid serum and sodden flocculi, or it may be thick and of a brownish color, sometimes uniformly, sometimes in streaks or blotches. The microscope shows that even in the apparently “laudable” samples the corpuscles are irregular and broken down, and tliis is still more the case in the abnormal varieties. Very frequently the fluid has a faint sweet smell, a slight exaggeration of the pysemic breath- odor; not unfrequently the taint is more decided, recalling the odor of putre- faction—or is exactly that detected during life in the patient’s wound or dis- charges. Occasionally, the tissues which are the seat of the deposit are a little pinker than usual, especially if the disease be of some standing. The pink colora- tion is seen in little scattered spots; these are usually, and this especially refers to the synovial linings of joints or sheaths, a little yellow, and are here and there softer and more fragile than in the normal state, their endothelial lining being sodden and loose. In the great majority of cases, and until the pus has been for some days in the part, there is no sign of inflammation, or, more strictly speaking, of inflammatory phenomena, such as liypersemia, thicken- ing, etc. From this it must be concluded that the pus is not produced by inflamma- tion of the tissues among which it is deposited; the contrary sequence of events may, however, occur, viz., that the pus deposit, after a time, pro- vokes inflammation in its immediate neighborhood.2 Nor must we, on the other hand, suppose that the materies morbi is taken up bodily from one part and deposited in that form in another; it appears rather that by certain matters (living or chemical contagium) received into the blood, that fluid is so changed that it consists chiefly of altered leucocytes and a not perfectly healthy serum; that these leucocytes have a great tendency to aggregate, hence to fall to the sides of the vessel, therefore to emigrate; that in this single act the process resembles one act of inflammation, but that the other factors of that state, viz., the condition of the blood, that of the vascular walls, and that of the tissues, are either absent or entirely different. Symptoms of Synovitis by Absoe,ption.—The general symptoms of the pysemic state do not concern us here; it need only be said that after a cer- tain duration of characteristic pyrexia and exhaustion, the patient complains of pain in one or more joints, or may simply, without complaint, cease to move a certain limb. On examination, the joint or joints will be found swollen, and, save in exceptional cases, other articulations will in a few days he similarly 1 This is more especially to be observed in such joints as the wrist or ankle, which are crossed by many tendons in synovial-lined sheaths. 2 I would call attention to the fact that, after death from severe but not too rapid pyeemia, the vessels of transparent tissues, for instance, those of certain parts of the peritoneum, of the lung- surface just beneath the pleura, and more especially of the pia mater, will be found in many areas, and through certain lengths of their course, to contain a yellowish fluid like very thin pus, amid which a central streak or dots of red will be found.