84 INJURIES OF BONES. it has been suggested that it may he reflex, from the irritation of the inter- costal nerves, which can scarcely fail to exist. Crepitus may often be elicited by merely placing the hand flat on the seat of injury, or by making alternate pressure on either side of it; or by placing the ear over the spot, and inducing the patient to take as long a breath as he can. Tenderness on pressure is a constant symptom. When the lung has been punctured by one of the fragments, emphysema is very generally the result, air escaping into the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Of this Hammick1 gives a very curious instance:— “ A man was brought in for fractured ribs from the Glory, then lying in Cawsand Bay, and when the sailors uncovered him, it being night and very dark, they were aston- ished, for when they quitted the ship, immediately after he had fallen, he was a thin person, but from the escape of air into the cellular membrane, he was blown up to a frightful size—the scrotum being as large as his head—the breathing so laborious, and the symptoms so urgent that, without waiting to put him into bed, with a scalpel I freely incised several parts, particularly the scrotum ; the escape of air was so great that it blew out a large candle held before it. By the next day there was only a little crackling feel in the neighborhood of the fractured ribs; he recovered finally from the injury, though it was many months before he could be discharged from the hospital.” The slight pleurisy, already mentioned as generally attendant upon frac- tured rib, may spread and assume such proportions as to endanger life; and pneumonia may be superadded to it. The prognosis is, of course, grave, if the injury is very extensive; yet Holmes2 says he has seen a young woman recover from fracture of every rib in the body, and comminuted fracture of the left clavicle involving such damage to the brachial plexus as to cause permanent paralysis of the arm. Inju ry to the vessels, or to the viscera, adds very greatly to the danger. Turner3 has recorded an instance in which a robust man, fencing with another in sport, was struck with a light cane over the eighth rib on the right side, and died from rupture of the intercostal artery, live pints of blood being found in the pleura. Wounds of the heart are not infrequent. Lonsdale4 gives an account of a man, aged 21, run over by a wagon-wheel, in whom the following condition was found after death :— “ Eight ribs of the left side were fractured at their posterior part, about an inch from their tubercles; and the four middle ones were broken at the anterior part as well, causing a double fracture. The pericardium was filled with blood, and a large quantity had escaped into the chest as well. The left auricle was found to be torn by the frac- tured ends of the ribs having been thrust against it.” Eve5 quotes from Lees a very singular case:— “ A brewer’s man had fallen under a dray, when it was heavily laden, which passed over his chest; he was lifted up and complained of pain and weakness, but was able to continue sitting on the side of the dray, driving the horse for nearly an hour, when being in the vicinity of the hospital he thought he might as well get himself examined; he walked in and lay on a bed, but on turning on his side he suddenly expired. On dissection it was found that the fifth rib was fractured, and that the extremity of one portion had penetrated the pericardium, but had freed itself from the heart; and this, as Mr. Wilkin observes, accounts for the sudden death of the man. For it is probable that the portion of rib had tilled up the wound of the heart, and thus prevented any hemorrhage until his arrival at the'hospital, when, on its coming out, the sudden effusion of blood into the pericardium caused death.” i Op. cit., p. 163. 2 Op. cit., p. 218. 3 Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 22, 1860. 4 Op. cit., p. 258. s Remarkable Cases in Surgery, p. 221.