760 INJURIES OF THE BACK. to separate from each other, the deformity is correspondingly increased and the sufferings are correspondingly aggravated, in cases where the spinous processes are fractured. Simple fracture of the lamincc, with displacement forward of the fragment embraced between the two lines of fracture, may be produced by a blow upon the spinous process which springs from them. This lesion is denoted by ecchymosis of the integuments, by local pain, stintless, and tenderness under pressure, by depression of the broken lamime themselves as well as of the spinous process attached to them, and by feeling the broken laminae move when the corresponding spinous process is moved from side to side. In such cases, the spinal cord is liable to be seriously injured by the depressed frag- ments of the broken laminae ; and, therefore, the symptoms of spinal paralysis are usually present whenever the laminae are fractured. In such cases, too, the patients themselves will feel the grating of the fragments, and will be likely to inform the surgeon to that eflect if inquiry be made concerning it. Moreover, the surgeon should be very careful in regard to making pressure upon the spinous processes and bending them from side to side, in such cases, lest he may himself crush the spinal cord, or do some other irreparable injury to it. Oftentimes, the spinal cord is severely injured by the accident itself, in such cases, as the following examples will show:— Dr. T. B. Ladd1 reports the case of a man, aged 30, whose neck was injured by being thrown in wrestling, etc. There were paralysis, pain, fever, and dyspnoea before death, which occurred thirty-six and one-half days after the injury. Dissection revealed a fracture of the arch of the fifth cervical vertebra; the spinal cord itself was com- pressed and disorganized. (Ashhurst.) The spinal cord appears to have been severely compressed by the fractured laminae, and disorganized by ascending myelitis. No doubt death was preceded by diaphragmatic breathing and paralysis of the respiratory muscles, in consequence of the respiratory centres being invaded by the myelitis. Likewise, Professor Hamilton mentions in his excellent Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, the case of a man, aged 40, injured by a balustrade striking on his neck and head. There was paralysis, pain, etc.; and, in thirty-six hours, death ensued. Dissection showed fracture of the arch of the sixth cervical vertebra; the cord was compressed. It is not improbable that, in this case, death was directly caused by acute ascending myelitis. Simple fractures of the bodies, pedicles, transverse, and articular processes of the vertebrae are more deeply covered up by muscles, fasciae, and integu- ments, than the fractures just discussed; and, therefore, are diagnosticated with much greater difficulty. Generally, they cannot be separated from each other with certainty during life. They are attended by the following symptoms: Impairment of function, pain, and tenderness under pressure at the seat of fracture, subtegumentary extravasation of blood, more or less displacement of the fragments (sometimes it is very slight), and crepitus. The last-mentioned is the most important of all the signs ; and, when distinctly felt, it removes all doubt as to the diagnosis of the fracture. But, while it is not allowable for surgeons to flex and extend, or to rotate and compress, the spinal columns of their patients merely for the purpose of ascertaining, by a manual exami- nation, whether there be crepitus, nevertheless, this point can generally be settled by asking the patients themselves whether they have felt the “grating” of broken bones in the injured part, and by applying a flexible stethoscope, or the hand, over the injured place, while the patient is being turned over in bed in order for the nurse to cleanse the private parts, or while he is being moved for any other necessary cause. Thus, the surgeon by watching for an opportunity to make a manual examination, can generally settle the 1 Boston Med. and Surgical Journal, 1852.