INJURIES OF BONES. 50 usefulness of either the upper or lower extremity. The effects of such de- formities, as well as the means of detecting and overcoming them, will be pointed out in connection with special fractures. General Treatment of Fractures. The broad principles of the treatment of fractures are very easily laid down: to restore the normal relation of the fragments as early and completely as possible, and to adopt the best means of keeping them so until their union shall have been accomplished. But in the application of these principles a vast number of details must he taken into account, and the circumstances may vary so widely as to make what would be good practice in one case wholly improper in another. Without attempting to enumerate all these details, or all the different conditions arising to modify treatment, I shall mention briefly such leading matters as concern the surgeon in dealing with this class of cases; in regard to those of minor importance, experience and common sense will be his best guides. First Attentions to tiie Patient.—Occasionally, when it is one of the bones of the upper extremity that is broken, the patient comes to the sur- geon’s office. More frequently, the latter is sent for after the sufferer has been taken home, or to the place where he is to be treated; and sometimes, especially if the injury is severe, or if it affects a lower extremity, the surgeon’s first services are rendered at the scene of the accident, or in some neighboring house. Circumstances must determine whether the exact character of the injury shall be ascertained at once, or after the patient has been removed to his room, perhaps to his bed. If there be much suffering, or shock, it may be better to adopt temporary measures for the relief of these conditions, espe- cially if the distance to be gone over is considerable. By a careful and gentle handling of the limb complained of, over the clothing, a general idea may be acquired of the seat and character of the injury ; but if there be a compound fracture a more thorough examination should be instituted, lest bleeding or some other complication demanding relief should be present. Perhaps it is unnecessary to say that the surgeon’s manner should be firm, calm, and reas- suring, and his manipulations carried on with a steady and gentle hand. Shock may be combated by stimulants sparingly but frequently given; pain generally subsides upon the application of proper temporary dressings. These may be made out of simple or even rude materials ; an old blanket and two or three shingles or barrel-staves, or even a mere truss of straw, may be so bound around a broken leg or thigh as to give it support and comfort until more suitable appliances can be had. The transportation should be arranged for by the surgeon, and, in bad cases, effected under his eye. If it is to be done by hand, it is best to have the bearers of about equal height, if possible, and, in lifting the patient on to the stretcher or other means of conveyance, the surgeon should himself take charge of the broken limb. The bearers should not keep step, as this results in a regular swaying motion, which sometimes gives great pain at the seat of fracture; they should, however, walk as evenly and steadily together as possible. The best form of wheeled vehicle, for fractures of the lower extremity, is a wagon, into which the stretcher can be lifted with the patient upon it. For cases affecting the arm, a carriage does as well; the injured limb should be carefully placed in a sling, and steadied with the patient’s other hand. Arrived at the place of destination, the surgeon should see the room in