HIP-DISEASE. 381 hypertemia of these parts must be very great, while the supply of blood to the epiphyseal head is simply by one long vessel—that in the round ligament. We accordingly find, at post-mortem examinations, or in moderately early resections, that while the synovial structures are not widely implicated, the bones are generally deeply diseased. The inflammation may attack primarily the acetabulum; a not very common, but a very bad form of hip-disease. It more frequently begins in the femur, either involving all the epiphyseal head, or commencing in, and for a long time confining itself to, the epiphyseal line. In the first case tumefaction and abscess form, not only within the acetabu- lum, but also on its inner wall; that is to say, within the pelvis, where they may occupy a large part of the true pelvic cavity, as was the case with the boy from whom the specimen here depicted was taken. The head of the femur is represented as turned back out of the cavity, which is perforated at its fundus, a bristle being pass- ed through the opening and into the abscess, which, as big as an egg, nearly filled the true pelvis. The more usual commencement, however, is in the femur ; and it may be well to remind the read- er here that the epiphysis does not compose the whole head of the bone, a certain portion at the lower anterior and posterior part being formed by the diaphysis. Epiphysitis is the most common form of hip-disease; it very soon manifests itself with distinct ar- ticular symptoms, because the epiphyseal junction is entirely within the synovial membrane. The result, when it runs its full course, is shedding of cartilage from the bone-surface, caries, and atrophy or wasting away of the head. Frequently the inflammation does not attack thus the whole epiphysis ; but primarily only the parts immediately adjoining the epiphyseal line, where, indeed, the formative process and consequent hypertemia are most strongly marked. Thence, as in the annexed wood-cut (Fig. 653), the resulting caries may spread inward and outward on the head and toward the neck. The carious ulceration, having been cleared of granulation-tissue, pus, and debris, is well shown as penetrating to a considerable depth, while the effect of osteitis in rendering soft and breaking up the round ligament (page 380) is in this case exemplified. But inflammation, beginning thus at the junction, may spread along the whole epiphyseal cartilage, as seen in Fig. 654. If this form of disease run its course, different terminations, according to the acuteness of the attack, will result. If, as is here represented, the inflammation be not very severe, and if it expend itself chiefly on the part adjoining the cartilage of union, the head will be separated, but gradually; it will have time, as in this case, to contract adhesions to the acetabulum, due to the synovial disease which the osteitis has set up. Such cases usually recover with diastasis—a subject which will be again referred to. Fig. 652. Intra-pelvic abscess from hip-disease. (Acetabular.)