642 TUMORS. resistance in tlie tissues, do not obtain a hold even in suitable soils; for it must be admitted that all soils are not equally suitable for the reception and development of the germs of tumors. Second, that the dissemination is not necessarily associated with great activity of the primary tumor, although the most active primary tumors are those which generally are earliest and most widely disseminated. For we occasionally meet with cases in which dissemination has occurred in connection with old and withered scirrhous car- cinomas, whose very existence has almost been forgotten, and which have exhibited no signs of renewed activity. There may, of course, be a revival of activity in the outlying parts of such a tumor, of small extent, and con- cealed in the depth of the tissues in which the tumor lies; but, if the case he judged on its apparent merits, the original tumor is perfectly quiescent. In all considerations relating to the occurrence of secondary tumors, the pos- sibility, nay, probability, must be borne in mind, that each secondary growth may be the parent of later secondary growths, and that therefore it is not necessary to trace back to the primary growth the origin of every secondary tumor. Thus, a primary tumor of the breast may be the source of secondary tumors in the lungs, and these in turn of secondary—or tertiary, in point of origin—tumors in the liver and the kidneys. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of carcinoma, that is of carcinoma of external or easily accessible parts, is in most instances easy. The comparatively rapid growth of the tumor, the manner and rapidity of its progress, the implica- tion of surrounding structures, the affection in many cases of the neighbor- ing glands, and in a few cases the dissemination of tumors, are signs sufficient to enable a surgeon to distinguish carcinoma from any of the innocent growths. The diagnosis between carcinoma and sarcoma is, of course, not so easy; in some instances, and more particularly in the tumors of certain parts, it may be impossible. Thus, between sarcoma and carcinoma of the testicle it may be quite impossible to distinguish, even after removal, unless the presence of cartilage proves the disease to be sarcoma. But in some parts which are liable to both diseases, the diagnosis is rendered much less difficult by certain peculiarities in the one tumor which are rarely exhibited by the other. In the breast, sarcoma is in the first instance, and sometimes till late in the dis- ease, usually much more movable than carcinoma; it frequently contains cysts; it forms a much more bulky tumor; it does not affect the axillary glands; and the ulceration from which it sometimes suffers differs widely from the ulceration of carcinoma. The characters of the ulcer in both dis- eases have been described and need not be repeated. Again, extreme diffi- culty is sometimes experienced in distinguishing between carcinoma and inflammatory swelling. Generally, the symptoms of inflammation are absent in cases of carcinoma. But they may be present certainly in as great measure as in some chronic inflammations, and the ill-defined tumor with the slight signs of inflammation renders the diagnosis very uncertain. The difficulty is made greater by two circumstances: first, a carcinoma may become actually inflamed, and suppurate ; second, an inflammation with or without suppura- tion may immediately precede the formation of a carcinoma. In the presence of these complications the diagnosis may be at first impossible, and in many cases can only be arrived at by careful watching of the case. It should be borne in mind that even the presence of enlarged glands is by no means incompatible with inflammation. The enlarged glands of inflammation are, however, gen- erally less hard and more tender than those of carcinoma. The diagnosis of carcinoma depends, in the large majority of cases, on several or many associated conditions. Thus, the age of the patient is always a matter of im- portance ; for, however closely a tumor in a child may resemble carcinoma,