699 SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 1 Ibid., p. 52. the case, a complete picture of the symptoms pertaining to the disorder in question is presented. So much, then, for the symptoms which are liable to result from traumatic spinal arthritis, when it becomes chronic and advances unchecked for some considerable time; or until caries of the bodies of the contiguous vertebrae ensues. Caries of the vertebrae, however, will not be specially discussed in this article, as it will be fully dealt with elsewhere. Inflammation of the verte- bral joints is here considered only in so far as it is a consequence of sprains and twists or wrenches of these joints, and in so far as it becomes necessary for surgeons to thoroughly understand the symptoms, final results, and treat- ment of these hurts, in order to recognize their importance, and take care of them in such a manner as to save patients from the great evils which, when neglected, they are liable to cause. To this end I have presented the fore- going examples and observations that illustrate these forms of injury, and the principles which should guide their treatment. It is necessary, still, to point out briefly some direful consequences of these lesions which have not yet been mentioned, and which are as follows: (1) The consecutive inflamma- tion may extend to and destroy the spinal nerves that are contiguous to the injured articulations, and thus cause permanent paralysis of the parts which they supply. (2) The consecutive inflammation may spread from the joints of the spine to the theca vertebralis, and thus induce spinal meningitis. What then is chiefly to be apprehended is, that the product of this meningeal inflammation, on being effused into the spinal arachnoid cavity, may com- press the spinal cord so as to arrest its functions, and thereby cause paraplegia, or even death. (3) The consecutive inflammation may spread still further toward the centre, and attack the spinal cord itself, thereby causing spinal myelitis, and, in this manner, paralysis with a fatal result. Happily, how- ever, there is not the same risk that an inflammation which involves the bones of the vertebral column will spread inward, and successively attack the spinal meninges and the spinal cord, as there is, in cases whore the cranial bones are inflamed, that the inflammatory process will spread inward and suc- cessively attack the cerebral meninges and the cerebral substance; for, in the head, the dura mater, being firmly adherent to the cranium, performs the office of an internal periosteum, whilst, in the spine, not only does each verte- bra possess a distinct periosteum, but the theca vertebralis, or spinal dura mater, is also comparatively free, being attached by a very loose connective tissue only to the walls of the spinal canal. Whilst the cranium, the cerebral meninges, and the brain itself, are formed in close connection with each other, the vertebral column, the spinal meninges, and spinal cord arc formed in loose array; and, therefore, an inflammation cannot extend itself from one structure to another, through contiguity, in the latter organs, with anything like the same facility that it can in the former. After long and wide experience, Mr. Hilton concludes: “I have generally found that almost all these diseases of the spine are the result of slight acci- dents overlooked.”1 It has been shown in the preceding pages, that slight falls upon the back, especially on the dorsal region thereof, and where the intervertebral substances and bodies of the vertebrae are situated in the line of extension, and the laminae, spinous processes, etc., in that of compression, may be attended by detachment (more or less extensive) of the intervertebral substances from the vertebral bodies, and that these lesions, if overlooked or maltreated, can lead to all the evil results that have been mentioned above. The importance of continuous rest in bed, as a remedial measure, in such cases, cannot be over-estimated, and must not be forgotten.