24 INJURIES OF BONES. operations of the accoucheur. Gibson1 says that lie has seen the clavicle give way from an ignorant midwife pulling at the arm. Malgaigne mentions a number of cases of epiphyseal disjunctions thus produced; in one, the lower epiphysis of the femur and the upper epiphysis of the tibia were separated at the same time by traction on the foot. In the use of the blunt hook such accidents sometimes occur, and cannot always he avoided even by the most dexterous and careful operators.2 Phenomena and Symptoms of Fracture. When a bone is broken, it loses more or less completely its value as a lever, and the muscles of the part, instead of acting upon it as a whole, act upon the fragments separately. The periosteum is torn, or, in rare cases, stretched. The surrounding soft parts, including capillary and other vessels and nerve fibres, are ruptured and lacerated to a greater or less degree, and pressed upon by the ends, jagged or pointed, of the fragments. Hence, the injury gives rise to a series of phenomena, or symptoms, which are now to be described. Sound.-—Occasionally, but very rarely, the patient hears a distinct sound attending the giving way of a bone; and sometimes it is even perceived by the bystanders. But under the circumstances of excitement usually attending an accident, a momentary and unlooked-for noise may readily escape notice, even if it were one which would, if expected, be plainly audible. Loss of Function.—Almost always there is immediate loss of power in the part where the fracture is situated. This does not mean that the muscles are paralyzed, although we often hear non-professional persons assert that an arm, for instance, cannot be broken, because the patient can move his fingers. But the value of the affected bone, as a lever, is destroyed; and hence the system of which it forms a part is useless. When, however, there are two bones, only one of which is broken, or when the injured bone is braced by tissues around it, there is sometimes so little disability, for a time at least, as to cast doubt upon the reality of the fracture. Thus, Hunt3 records the case of a man aged 26, struck by a falling girder, who walked next morning to a steam-train, got off at Philadelphia, and into a street-car at the station ; from the car he walked with a stick some two hundred and fifty yards to the Pennsylvania Hospital gate, and thence up into the ward in the third story. He died on the twenty-third day, from pelvic abscess and pyaemia, and it was found that “ the neck of the femur, immediately behind the head, was broken directly across, the line of fracture being immediately within the capsule of the joint.” In 1877, I saw an elderly lady who broke the neck of the femur by tripping in the carpet, and who yet walked up and down a flight of stairs several times a day during the following week. She died exhausted about two weeks subsequently, and there was found extensive fracture of the bone referred to. 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 255. 2 The reader, should he wish to pursue this subject further, will find valuable information in Bouchut’s Trait6 Pratique des Maladies des Nouveaux-Nes, etc., Paris ; also, in Delore’s article on Fractures in the Foetus, in the Dictionnaire Encyclopedique des Sciences Medicales; in Kuest- ner, Die typischen Verletzungen des Extrem.-knochen des Kindes durch den Gebiirtshelfen, Halle, 1877. He may also consult with advantage an article by Dr. Alex. Russell Simpson, “ On Diastases in the Bones of the Lower Extremity of the Foetus, produced by the Accoucheur,” in the Edinburgh Med. Journal for June, 1880; and one by Ruge, in the Zeitschrift fur Gebiirtsh. und Frauenkrankheiten, Berlin, 1876. 3 Philadelphia Medical Times, Oct. 26, 1872.