613 SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. Sarcomata of Bone.—The bones are subject to every one of the four sub- classes of sarcoma ; and, although each subclass preserves within certain limits its individuality, the whole disease is marvellously modified, not only by occurring in connection with the bones, but even by the particular hone and part of the bone which is affected. First, subperiosteal tumors are, other things being equal, very much more malignant than endosteal or central tumors. Second, tumors of bones more near the trunk are, with few excep- tions, more malignant than tumors of more distant bones; thus, tumors of the humerus are more malignant than tumors of the radius and ulna, and tumors of the femur than tumors of the fibula and tibia. An exception must be made for tumors of the tarsal bones, which appear much more malignant than those of the bones of the leg. Both the central and the subperiosteal tumors attack the long bones more frequently than those of other shapes, and the femur more frequently than any other bone. And both have a marked predilection for the ends of the bones, hut the predilection is much stronger in the central tumors. They affect the upper end of the humerus (Plate XXII.) and lower end of the radius and ulna; the lower end of the femur and upper end of the tibia and fibula. Both central and subperiosteal tumors attack the flat bones—the scapula, the sternum, and the calvaria. But the short bones are very seldom affected. The bones of children and old people may be the seat of sarcoma, hut the disease is much more common during middle adult life. As a general rule, central tumors attack older persons than subperiosteal tumors. Both sexes appear very nearly equally liable to sarcoma of the bones. Neither the cen- tral nor the subperiosteal tumors are usually surrounded by a capsule, but the former are for a long time inclosed in the expanded cortex of the bone, and, when that is broken through, in the periosteum; and the latter are com- pletely covered by the periosteum until they have attained a considerable size and have grown through it, when it may still be discerned as a curved line of tough fibrous tissue, sometimes ossified, traversing a section of the tumor. The macroscopic characters of both the central and subperiosteal tumors are variable within wide limits, the more so on account of the organizations and degenerations to which the subperiosteal growths, especially, are prone. Cys- toid cavities may be formed in both, and both may undergo fatty and mu- cous transformations; but chondrification, ossification, and calcification, are far more often observed in the subperiosteal tumors, undoubtedly by reason of the influence exercised by the presence of the periosteum. Sid>periosteal Sarcomata, of Bone.-—The clinical characters of the subperiosteal tumors are the situation they affect, their general tendency to assume a fusi- form or clavate shape, their unequal consistence, and often irregularity of surface. They seldom enlarge a bone equally in all directions, but more often produce great swelling on one aspect, little or none at all on the opposite side. They grow, for the most part quickly, often with astonishing rapidity, and the rapid growth is sometimes accompanied by well-marked signs of inflammation—heat, and even redness of the surface, with excessive pain and tenderness. The pain occasionally subsides, and recurs in paroxysms of great severity, during which the bodily temperature may be raised several degrees. However large the tumor, and however closely it approaches the neighboring joint, the joint itself is rarely invaded. The growth tends rather in the oppo- site direction, and may occupy, in course of time, half or two-thirds of the length of the affected bone. At the same time it gradually grows towards the surface, and may in time ulcerate and fungate, au occurrence never very frequent, and rare in sarcomas of the more deeply-seated bones. The diagnosis of the subperiosteal tumors is usually easy, by attention to the