724 INJURIES OF THE BACK. vertebrae was found to be ruptured. (Ashhurst.) A similar accident happened to a sailor, whose case is reported by J. Roux. He plunged head-foremost into the sea for the purpose of bathing, and was injured by striking against a sail which had been sunk to prevent the attack of sharks; on the fourth day he died. Tn both of these cases the dislocation was doubtless caused by forcibly bending the head and neck forward upon the chest. This summer (1882), while I write, several instances of cervical dislocation, caused by diving in shallow water and striking the head against the ground, have been reported at Coney Island, where, this season, multitudes greater than ever are said to bathe. Etiology.—The examples presented above, as well as many cases on record which have not been presented, show that symmetrical dislocations of the vertebrae, at the middle and lower part of the cervical region, are generally caused by powerful flexion of the neck upon the chest, from falling upon or striking against the hack of the head with great force, “ though traction and rotation conjoined have occasioned them.” There is also one case on record in which the mode of injury is said to have been a blow, struck upon the neck of a drunken man, aged 30, which caused him to fall. Reduction was effected by extension, under chloroform, on the tenth day, by Dr. Ayres, of Brooklyn, H. Y., and the patient recovered. Dupuytren, too, reports a fatal case, in which dislocation forward of the fifth cervical vertebra, with fracture of the sixth, was produced directly by a plank striking on the neck. Among the predisposing causes of dislocation in the cervical region are: (1) the remarkable mobility of the cervical vertebrae upon each other; (2) the obliquely horizontal position of their articular processes; and, (3) the nearly horizontal direction of their spinous processes. Moreover, these anatomical peculiarities likewise strongly favor the occurrence of dislocation, without fracture, in the cervical region. Fracture of the sternum is not unfrequently associated with the injuries of the spinal column which are caused by the forcible bending forward of the head. Mr. Bryant says that it was found in four instances among the fifty- six fatal cases of spinal dislocation and fracture which were observed at Guy’s Hospital. Diagnosis.—The symptoms and course of symmetrical or bilateral disloca- tions of the vertebra1, when they occur at the middle or lower part of the neck, are clearly set forth by the examples that have just been presented. 1. Whenever the bones which enter into the formation of the vertebral joints are dislocated, deformity ensues, for the same reason that it does when other bones are dislocated, for instance, those of the extremities; and although the cervical vertebrae are covered by thick layers of muscular tissue, etc., the deformity which results from a bilateral dislocation of these hones can always be perceived, if the examination he conducted with sufficient care and skill. Of course, the deformity will vary according to the direction and extent of the displacement of bone. But, generally, the displaced bone, together with all the vertebrae surmounting it, is thrown forward in such cases. Oftentimes the spinous process of the dislocated vertebra is separated from the spinous process of the next vertebra below it, or that from which it is dislocated, by a distance of one and a half or even two inches; and, in consequence of this separation, a wide gap, with a corresponding depression of the soft parts, may be felt between them. In such cases, the head is usually thrust forward, and the axis of the spinal column also bends abruptly forward at the place of injury. At the same time, the mobility of the vertebral joints that are in- volved is more or less completely destroyed, and all attempts to produce motion in them cause corresponding pains. Hot unfrequently, in cases where the cervical vertebrae are injured, it is concluded that certain joints belonging thereto are not luxated, from the fact that their mobility is not impaired; for