205 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. Fig. 620. may be by no means easy to determine the character of the lesion or the di- rection of the line of breakage: and this obscurity is apt to be the greater, the further the fracture is seated from the middle of the shaft, either upward or downward. In fractures of ancient date it may be extreme. A child about three years old was some time since brought to me on account of a lameness strongly resembling that of hip-joint disease ; but, on examination,! found that there had been, just below the trochanters, a fracture of the femur which had united firmly with the fragments at an angle of nearly 90°. The child had, in fact, been allowed to walk while the callus was yet plastic, and the lower fragment had tilted up the distal end of the upper. The course of uncomplicated cases of fracture of the shaft of the femur is generally favorable, union occurring in six or eight weeks in adults, and somewhat earlier in children. Heydenreich1 has reported a case in which union was firm in thirty-five days, and Henderson2 one in which an oblique fracture near the middle, in a woman eighty-nine years old, had united solidly on the forty-fourth day. Lee3 saw a case of union of a broken femur in a man aged ninety-eight. False joint or pseudarthrosis has been met with, and is difficult to manage on account of the great mass of muscle, making it very hard to keep the comparatively small ends of the broken bone together. Operative interference in these cases is attended with peculiar danger; but this subject has been already spoken of in the general part of this article. Williams4 has recorded a singular case, in which a man, aged seventy, sustained from direct violence a fracture in the upper part of the lower third of the femur, about half an inch above the point of entrance of the nutrient artery. Union took place with overlapping; the upper fragment was atro- phied and conical, the lower presented a good deal of callus, and was of full size. Union with deformity is of far more frequent occurrence, and, in fact, if all shortening, of what- ever degree, be considered as deformity, it may be said to be universal. When the fragments are kept Avholly apart, they may altogether fail to unite, but it very seldom, indeed, happens that such is the case. A much more general event is that part of the periosteum remains untorn, and bridges across the interval between the fragments, which thus be- come connected by means of an intermediate for- mation of callus. (Fig. 620.) It is astonishing how strong a bone is when united in this way, and how little inconvenience and deformity ensue, provided only that there is a parallelism of the long axes of the two fragments, and that there is no rotary dis- placement. Of course, however, exact coaptation is far preferable when it can be secured. I shall have to refer to this matter again in connection with the subject of treatment, and hence it need not „ be dwelt upon just now. a bridge of callU8. 1 Mgm. de la Soc. de Med. de Nancy, 1882. (Index Medicus.) 2 London Med. Gazette, Jan. 13, 1843. 3 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. iv., 1869. 4 Dublin Med. Press, April 17, 1844.