DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 356 the cancelli will he found stuffed with granulation-tissue, so tightly that it protrudes beyond and conceals the cut surface of the lamella*. These latter become softer and thinner, and may in some place, larger or smaller, dis- appear, leaving in the worst and most advanced cases, instead of the normal, spongy bone-tissue, a mere soft mass of granulations, permeated by thin tra- beculse of softened bone, the remains of the lamellte, deprived of lime-salts and rapidly disappearing.1 In the new substance thus produced, and, as it were, substituting itself for the bony structure, many degenerations occur, as, for instance, spots of caseation, which, especially where vascularity is de- ficient, surround groups of giant-cells, a sort of change considered by some to be tuberculous. Pat, too, is often present in large quantities in the cells them- selves, and lying diffused among them; pus also may be found, sometimes diffused, but more often gathered in little abscesses. The fat above alluded to results from a degeneration occurring in granula- tions that have persisted for some time; this must not be confounded with a sort of osteitis peculiar to infantile life, in which the fattiness is primary, appearing to arise simultaneously with the inflammation. This fatty osteitis is at present little understood. Often in making a section of an inflamed epi- physis, the saw, the knife, and the hands, all become covered with oil. In attempting to obtain a lamella or section for the microscope, one finds all ob- scured by oil-globules, and frequent boiling in ether will hardly remove this redundancy of fat, with which not only the granulations but the bone-sub- stance itself is soaked. In such conditions the cancellar plates are very thin, and are soft from deficiency of lime-salts, which I have no doubt have been dissolved slowly by oleic or margaric acid. Fatty osteitis appears to be some- what antagonistic to suppuration, until a rather late stage; nevertheless, one occasionally finds an abscess in the midst of such disease, and subsequently the whole part involved may break into diffuse suppuration; but neither is found, as a rule, until the bone is quite softened, and, as a bone, almost de- stroyed. The subject is extremely obscure, but I think we may state as a fact that fatty osteitis, though occurring in strumous children, is never tuber- culous, nor associated in any way with fatty degeneration, properly so called. It is singularly painless throughout its first stages ; when suppuration occurs, it is rather widely spread throughout the bone-end. If an osteitis, fatty or otherwise, of a short bone or of an epiphysis,2 results in abscess, the pus, with the debris of inflamed tissues, or perhaps also with a sequestrum, will sooner or later tend to make its way towards a surface. If an abscess lies near to, travels towards, and opens into the joint, very evil, perhaps disastrous, consequences may follow. If it passes towards a lateral surface, the result will he much controlled by the relationship between the epiphyseal line and the capsule. In case the synovial membrane extends beyond that line, pus coming that way will, as in the former case, penetrate the joint; whereas, if the point towards which the abscess tends he outside the capsule, the joint may escape with little damage. So, also, when the abscess lies near and intrudes on the epiphyseal junction itself, much depends on the above point of its anatomy ; but there is the additional possibility, if the pus 1 The mode in which the membrane lining the cancelli granulates, how the lacunar bone-cells, proliferate, how these products soften the bone-tissues, first dissolving out the lime-salts by- means, as I believe, of a fatty or, as Billroth thinks, of lactic acid, and afterwards permeating and absorbing into their substance the remaining fibrillated matrix, cannot properly be con- sidered in this article. The whole matter has been fully discussed by Virchow (Cellular Pa- tliologie), by Billroth (Chirurgische Patliologie und Therapie), by Volkmann (Sammlung kliniseher Vortrage, and Langenbeck’s Archiv, Bd. iv.), by myself (Diseases of the Joints), and by others. 2 I am here speaking only of epiphyses which are matured, that is, in which the bone has already entirely or very nearly occupied the cartilaginous matrix, and has become cancellar.