INDICATIONS FOR AND CONTRA-INDICATIONS TO EXCISION IN GENERAL. 445 Period of operation. Cases. Recoveries. Deaths. Undeter- mined. Mortality per cent, of determined cases. Primary ii 8 2 i 20.0 Intermediate .... 8 5 3 37.5 Secondary .... 9 5 4 44.4 Unknown. .... 5 4 i Aggregates .... 33 22 9 2 29.0 Joint Disease.—It is, however, in cases of destructive disease of the articu- lations, whether of traumatic or of non-traumatic origin, and whether of simple, inflammatory, or of scrofulous or tuberculous character, that the operation of excision finds its principal application. The indications and contra-indications which the surgeon should consider before deciding upon the propriety of excising a diseased joint, may be briefly stated as follows — Excision is indicated (1) when an articvlation is so much diseased that the recovery of the patient depends upon its removal; under such circumstances, the question is between excision and amputation, and the former operation should certainly be chosen whenever the circumstances of the particular case permit an option. In saying this I am not unmindful that a few surgeons may still be met with, who profess to believe that a stump with an artificial limb is better than a limb of flesh and blood ; but these will, I think, be gene- rally found to be gentlemen who have had little, if any, practical experience with the operation which they condemn. (2) Excision is occasionally proper in cases in which, while the extent of disease is not sufficient to justify an amputation, the length of time which would be necessary for the obtaining of a spontaneous cure would be such as of itself to warrant operative interference, or in which the result of a spontaneous cure, if obtained, would be less satisfactory as regards the use- fulness of the limb than the result of an operation. In the elbow, for in- stance, the movable joint afforded by a successful excision, is much prefer- able to the cure by anchylosis, which is commonly the best that can be hoped for by expectant treatment. Excision is, on the other hand, contra-indicated (lj by the extent of osseous dis- ease being so great that its entire removal would forbid the hope of retaining a useful member, under which circumstances amputation would be prefer- able. This rule is particularly applicable in the case of articulations of the lower extremity ; as regards the arm, provided that the hand lie preserved, the bones may be more freely dealt with, and large portions may often be removed without materially impairing the utility of the limb. (2) Excision is not ordinarily applicable to cases of acute disease of the articulations. If it be necessary to interfere at once, under such circum- stances, experience shows that an amputation is more apt to be well borne than an excision; an attempt should always be made,however, if the general condition of the patient permit it, to modify the acute course of the disease by appropriate treatment, both constitutional and local, when, if the severity of the symptoms be subdued, and the case assume a subacute or chronic character, exsection may be properly resorted to. (3) Very extensive disease of the soft tissues around a joint, and particularly the existence of peri-articular abscesses, and of long, suppurating sinuses, passing up and down between the muscular sheaths of the limb, undoubtedly