INJURIES OF THE BACK. 810 A cavalry soldier, aged 28, was accidentally wounded March 26, 1866, by a pistol- shot (conoidal, calibre, 36) which entered his loins near the posterior superior process of‘ the right ilium, some two inches from the spine, passed inward, forward, and upward, struck the spinal column, and finally lodged in the spinal canal opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra (Fig. 793). He instantly fell to the ground ; the lower limbs were paralyzed, and over the entire posterior part of the pelvis there was also complete loss of sensation. On the second day, he complained of much pain across the sacral region and in the thighs; could not change the position of the lower part of his body, and all attempts by others to move him gave great pain, especially across the lower part of his back; bowels torpid. He could micturate, but lacked expulsive power to do it readily. Afterward, he slowly im- proved. About the middle of April he was carried in an army-wagon, sixty miles, to the post-hospital at Austin, Texas, which he entered on April 18. He then looked emaciated and anxious, and was much exhausted by his journey. He com- plained of pain, especially in the right side of the sacrum, and of severe pain in the pos- terior muscles of his legs, aggravated by pressure. He could not stand without support, and made no attempt to walk. When lying on his side, he was able to slowly flex and extend his legs, but could not separate them ; bowels extremely torpid; urination frequent and very difficult; considerable thirst; but little appetite ; upper extremities not affected. Under dry cupping of the sacral region, enemata and laxatives, tonics, nutrients, and alcoholic stimulants, he improved somewhat, but made no attempt to walk. Under the use of strychnia, early in May, his bowels moved spontaneously, and the ability to move his legs was somewhat increased. This medicine, however, was soon discontinued, because it readily exhibited an unduly stimulating action, characterized by the production of diminished sensibility from the haunches downward, with severe pain in the posterior muscles of the legs ; appetite decreasing, and debility gradually in- creasing. During the second week in May and forepart of the third, the patient’s general tone diminished greatly; sensibility became lost almost entirely below the knees, but limited motor power still remained. The power to urinate was nearly lost; urine passed in drops, with continued painful desire to pass more (vesical hypermsthesia) ; introducing the catheter gave temporary relief, but he could not retain the instrument longer than a few minutes [in consequence of the urethral hypersesthesia]. From this symptom, bel- ladonna (gr. would, for a considerable period, give most decided relief. The patient lay chiefly on his back, with the knees drawn up ; stools passed involuntarily. The pain in the legs and in the sacral region was increased ; wet cups were applied over the lower part of the spine, daily, for four days, hut without any benefit whatever ; he was catheter- ized twice daily, and this was continued until the end. On May 24, he rejected all food. On the 25th, there was active delirium. On the 27th, the delirium still continued ; pulse 120; respiration 40, and performed almost entirely by the diaphragm; no sensation in legs, excepting under hard pressure, but he kept them flexed upon the thighs, and the thighs upon the pelvis ; complained of intense pain in the back part of the pelvis, abdo- men, and thorax, extending along the spine upward, making it difficult to rest his neck upon the pillow ; he described the pain as that of lying upon hot embers ; he continued to cry out in pain until a few moments before death, which occurred on the following morning (May 28). Autopsy, twenty-one hours after death The missile had grazed the right transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, imbedding some particles of lead therein ; then, glancing upward, had struck the spinous process of the third lumbar ver- tebra (its lower border), and had been deflected through the laminae into the spinal canal. Here, it had been deflected downward by the elastic action of the ligamenta subflava to which the upper border of the broken laminae remained attached, and had lodged (point downward) within the spinal foramen of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The missile rested within the leash of nerves forming the cauda equina, near the left angle of the spinal foramen (canal), its point reaching downward to the lower border of the fourth Fig. 793. Showing a pistol-hall lodged in the spinal foramen (canal) of the fourth lumbar ver- tebra, and causing meningitis. (Spec. 683, Sect. 1, A. M. M.)