704 INJURIES OF THE BACK. 3 Loc. cit., p. 362. symptom, unless the kidney is ruptured; as a rule, it disappears gradually, and no evidence remains that organic renal disease is ever the consequence.”1 Concerning the symptoms and prognosis when rupture of the kidney is pre- sent, Mr. Bryant also says : “ When not very severe, and uncomplicated with other injuries, such cases usually do well. It [that is, rupture of the kidney] is generally known by an attack of hsematuria and local pain following a blow on the lumbar region. The hsematuria may be but slight and passing, or not show itself until the second day. It may cease also after the lapse of two or three days, when it is probable that only a contusion of the kidney has taken place; for, in more severe injuries, the bleeding may last fifteen days or even more. At times clots will be passed, assuming the shape of the ure- ter, and I have before me the notes of some half dozen cases in which these symptoms were present, and from which recovery took place. These clots, however, at times give rise to retention of urine by blocking up the urethra. Retraction of the testicle is an occasional symptom, and so is pain in the course of the ureter.”2 This paragraph sums up so clearly and so tersely the symptoms, etc., of rupture of the kidney from contusions and strains, or wrenches, of the lumbar region, as they severally presented themselves in the examples related above, that I have quoted it in full. It should, however, be noted that in one of these examples (it was recorded by Professor Fayrer), although the hsematuria did not appear until the second day, and lasted only two days, the autopsy revealed a rupture at the upper end of the left kidney which extended into the hilus, instead of a renal con- tusion ; but it is probable that such a limitation of the hsematuria is rather exceptional than otherwise, in cases where the rupture is so extensive. In the last two of the illustrative cases presented above, the urinary dis- charge was observed to consist of pure or nearly pure blood. Nevertheless, the loss of blood from hsematuria, when caused by contusions and sprains of the back, is rarely so great as, per se, to endanger life. Mr. Shaw, however, relates one case where there was good reason for alarm:— The patient was a young man. Although the sprain was not very severe, the renal hemorrhage was uninterrupted, and unusually profuse, during the first four days; it nearly ceased for two days; then it returned, and continued for two days, with its former profusion ; it now ceased for one day; it appeared, however, on the next day, the tenth, in great quantity; but then it ceased permanently. The patient, meanwhile, had become blanched and excessively weak.3 In this case, the large quantity of blood that was discharged from the uri- nary organs, together with the rapid appearance of the signs of acute anae- mia, clearly indicated the danger. So, likewise, in all those rather infrequent cases of hsematuria where the prognosis is not favorable, the general symp- toms will sufficiently indicate the peril. The proofs of strong shock and great depression may present themselves. If the liver or spleen be also rup- tured extensively, there will, too, he unmistakable signs of internal hemor- rhage. Besides, the torn viscus may exhibit considerable tenderness under pressure. Wounds of the cortical or secretory portion of the kidney are represented to be less dangerous than wounds of the tubular or excretory portion of the gland. (Agnew.) It is probable that this proposition is also applicable to the lesions of the kidney which are caused by contusions and sprains of the back. Treatment.—Hsematuria, when very profuse, should be combated by admin- istering the fluid extract of ergot, in half-drachm doses, three or four times a 1 Practice of Surgery, p. 205, Am. ed. 1879. 2 Ibid., p. 432.