113 FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. fled. Thus Schneck1 reports an instance in which a little girl five years of age sustained, by the kick of a colt, a fracture of the clavicle near its middle, and of the humerus near the shoulder. Fox’s apparatus was applied, and a hollowed wooden splint along the outer side of the arm, with a girth sur- rounding this and the child’s body. The clavicle was united in two weeks, and the humerus in four, without perceptible shortening or deformity. Having blow passed in brief review the principal plans which have been proposed or employed in the treatment of fractures of the clavicle, it remains for me to sum up the subject by a few practical directions. And in the first place I would say that the secret of success lies not so much in the employ- ment of any special method of treatment, as in the recognition of the condi- tions to be met in each case, and in the adoption of means suited to them—in tact, judgment, and, above all, in careful attention. All fractures of the clavicle are not alike, nor can they all be treated in one way. When there is much inflammation about the shoulder, as occasionally hap- pens in fractures due to direct violence, the patient should be laid flat on the back, on a firm mattress, with his head low ; and local applications, such as dilute lead-water and laudanum, evaporating lotions, or simple fomentations of hot water, should be employed for a few days. After the inflammation has subsided, if there remain any malposition of the fragments, it should be carefully rectified as far as possible; and to main- tain reduction, I think Sayre’s plan will be found the most efficient means; but excellent results may be had with either Fox’s or Levis’s apparatus. Whichever is used must be carefully adapted to the exact requirements of each case. The forcing the elbow forward, so much insisted on by some authors a few years since, is in my opinion a mistake. Should compresses be required to push back the sternal fragment, I would recommend the use of a well-padded ring, neither too large nor too small, maintained accurately in place by means of the best procurable adhesive plaster. When an axillary pad is used, it should not be too thick, nor too strongly forced up into the armpit, lest undue pressure be made upon the large nerves. Hamilton mentions a number of instances in which harm was thus done. Having had no experience in any of the grave complications of fracture of the clavicle, I shall not discuss their treatment. Non-union would seem to be productive in most cases of so little inconvenience, that a resort to opera- tive measures need seldom be had; although the bone is so superficial as to bo easily reached, and, if the cervical fascia be not torn, there will be but little risk of deep-seated inflammation. Fracture of both clavicles would seem to me to be best treated by keeping the patient flat on his back, with an arrangement on the principle of a double truss, to keep the shoulders pressed gently backward. Of course the upper extremities should be kept at the most perfect rest. Fractures of the Scapula. The scapula is not often broken, partly by reason of its mobility, and partly because of the degree of protection afforded to its flat portions by the layers of muscle in which it is imbedded, while its spine, its neck, and the coracoid process, are but little exposed to violence. Of the recorded instances, the great majority were in male adults; about one in five were in women. Among the 316 cases of fracture before mentioned as treated at the Chil- 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1858. VOL. IV.—3