310 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Such an appearance, therefore, is of bad omen, and signifies considerable ten- dency to fatty and suppurative degeneration.1 Pain is, in the first stage of strumous synovitis, a very variable symptom. Tn many cases it is at first absent, and the disease may only be discovered by means of the swelling, or by some sign of lameness ; this appears to be pro- duced rather by some inaptitude in movement—an inability usually to quite straighten the joint—than by any pain. If at this period the surgeon endea- vor to straighten the limb, signs of pain will be elicited; but he may flex it, though perhaps not to the full extent of its normal movement, without causing any pain. When the disease has continued a certain time, the joint becomes somewhat painful, but throughout this stage not severely so, a dull aching, or a sense of distension or of gnawing, being alone complained of. In two eases, one observed in 1858, and one during the present year, 1882, a feeling of considerable cold in the joint was noticed. I am not inclined to attach importance to the sort of sensation experienced, but it should be noted that considerable suppuration occurred in both the instances last referred to. Another sort of pain, viz., tenderness, that is, sensitiveness to pressure,, must be especially noted. During the early part of the disease, the joint may be handled without producing any pain; but very soon a certain spot, pecu- liar to each joint, is found to be impatient of pressure, and in most joints this spot is that to which afterwards the chief shock of starting pains is referred. In the choice of treatment it is very important to be acquainted with these localities: they are:— At the slioidder, while the hand is lying on the anterior aspect of the trunk, at the front and outside; that is, in a line drawn straight down from the acromio-clavicular joint for about an inch. At the elbow, behind the joint, where the radius is articulated to the humerus. At the wrist, at the back, just outside the extensor indicis tendon. At the hip, if there be any pain at the commencement of the disease, it is at the inner side of the thigh, just behind the origin of the gracilis muscle; afterwards it shifts to a more constant place, behind the great trochanter. At the knee, the tender point is on the inner condyle, about half an inch from the edge of the patella. At the ankle, it is in front of the outer malleolus, about the place where the peroneus tertius muscle crosses the joint. These spots in their respective joints continue tender while the formative,, or rather the proliferating, processes are sufficiently active to be properly considered as inflammatory. When that activity has ceased, or has so abated as to remove the action from the inflammatory class—that is, when the tissue does little or nothing more than maintain its vitality—the tenderness of these localities ceases. Heat, either local or general, is in strumous synovitis absent; the surface- thermometer, applied to the joint, does not rise any part of a degree, nor is there in this stage any pyrexia. But the symptoms of the disease are not confined to the immediate vicinity of the joint; the limb is flexed, and the limb-segment above, and to a lesser extent that below, become wasted. Any attempt to straighten the joint gives pain, and causes the flexor muscles to start into strong relief; they may be felt tight and hard beneath the skin. Quite at first they feel like, and merely are, muscles actively contracted, but after a time they come gradually to resemble cords put on the stretch. As the disease goes on, the joint, 1 This marking of veins must not he mistaken for the more copious network of malignant disease.