407 ANCHYLOSIS. Elbow.—Method.—The patient lying on the back, the surgeon places his foot on a stool, so as to bring his knee on a level with the mattress. He receives the elbow in his hand, placed upon his knee, grasping with his other hand the forearm just above the wrist. While bending or straightening the elbow, he must press his thumb on the head of the radius, forcing it to follow the direction of either movement. When bending and straightening are sufficiently free, rotation must also be employed. When, but this is rare, it is necessary to divide the biceps tendon, the arm must be straightened as far as it will go, and the skin-puncture must be on the inner side. Caution.—The chief danger is luxation forward of the radius, if the arm be incautiously straightened ; when the biceps is contractured, the thumb must be used as indicated. Rotation must not be practised by grasping the pa- tient’s hand, lest the wrist be sprained ; but by grasping the carpus and lower end of the forearm. The biceps tendon must never be divided unless attempted extension cause it to start well forward, so as to permit its section without endangering the artery or nerve. Wrist and Fingers. — Me.th.od.—Inflammations of the wrist-joint that result in fixity, involve the fingers by thecal adhesions ; these should be dealt with first. The surgeon places his thumb on the front of the middle phalanx, so as to steady it, while with his index and middle fingers lie bends the stiff- ened ungual phalanx, his own and the patient’s fingers being at right angles to each other. He then goes through the same manoeuvre for the second phalanx; to move the first, it is best to grasp the bone at its condyles. The bend should be sudden and complete, applied at first to each finger separately, and then to them altogether, clenching the whole hand. Afterward, the meta- carpo-phalangeal joint must be circumducted. In dealing with the wrist, the surgeon grasps the lower end of the forearm in one hand, and the carpus and metacarpus with the other, using his thumbs to make pressure on any painful spots. After flexion and extension, rotation must also be made free. Caution.—At this joint, more than at any other, pressure on painful spots with the thumb, is essential, to prevent subluxation of a carpal bone. It is especially necessary to proceed at this joint by a succession of short, sharp jerks, after the fingers have been freed. Hip.—-Method..—The malposture of this joint is nearly always a combina- tion of flexion with adduction. The patient is first placed on the back ; the limb is grasped at the condyles, and by a series of jerks is bent up till the knee is not far from the mammary region ; then it is brought down, both feet being placed on the table with the heels near the ischial tuberosities, and the knees are separated as far as they will go; afterwards, the thigh, placed in me- dium extension (in a line with the axis of the trunk), is abducted; during this last movement, the adductors will resist; the adductor longus and gra- cilis, together with bands of the pubic part of the fascia lata, will start into strong relief; they may require division, of which hereafter. Afterwards, full extension is to be enforced.1 If the bands of adhesion, or the anchylosis, be very firm, it may not be possible to obtain the necessary power while the patient is on a bed or table; he may then be placed on a mattress on the ground, and the thigh may be manipulated as in Bigelow’s method of reducing dislocation. To obtain complete extension is often impossible while the pa- tient lies supine and at full length on the mattress ; he may then be drawn to the end of the table so that his ischia are at the edge, his sound leg being 1 By this term I mean a position such that the knee lies posterior to the lateral median plane of the body.