117 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. supposed to exhibit non-union after fracture of this process, are in fact merely examples of want of consolidation of the epiphysis. In regard to prognosis, it may be said that fractures of the scapula in general unite readily, and often without perceptible displacement; and that the functions of the arm are seldom permanently impaired. Very little can be done in the way of treatment of these injuries. The arm should be supported with a sling, in such a position as in each case may be found best adapted to obviate whatever displacement exists; and the shoulder should be confined by adhesive plaster applied so as to steady and control the fragments. In fractures of the neck of the bone, an axillary pad may be of service; but it should not be too large, lest it should aggravate, by pressure on the muscles, the very condition it is intended to relieve. Fractures of the Humerus. These injuries are by no means infrequent, but the testimony of those authors who have offered statistics on the subject is not uniform; and it is probable that the experience of different surgeons, or the records of different hospitals, would be found, as in other matters, to vary somewhat. Thus Gurlt, quoting those of the London hospitals, says that out of 22,616 frac- tures treated during twenty years, there were 1651, or 7.3 per cent, affecting the humerus. But Malgaigne, among 2358 fractures observed at the Hotel Dieu, found 317 of the humerus—over 13 per cent.; and of the 316 cases derived by me from reports of the Children’s Hospital in Philadelphia for seven years, there were 72, or about 22.6 per cent. I do not, however, pro- pose to dwell upon these statistical points, and mention them merely in illus- tration of the difficulty of arriving at conclusions in regard to questions of this kind. Very marked differences exist, between different portions of the humerus in their liability to fracture; but before discussing these, the anatomy of the bone must be briefly sketched. The head of the humerus, nearly hemispherical, looks upward, inward, and slightly backward; a very shallow constriction at its circumference, made apparently deeper by the prominence of the greater and lesser tuberosities, is called the anatomical neck. Just below this, beginning at the upper margin of the tuberosities, and extending to the insertion of the teres major muscle, is the surgical neck; the tapering of this portion of the bone from above downward should be specially noted. Below this is the shaft; cylindrical above, and flattening out at its lower part, it widens greatly towards the elbow. The lower end of the bone is turned somewhat forward, and presents the pulley-like surface on which the ulna plays, with a rounded eminence at the outer side of this for the head of the radius. Above the trochlea, at the inner margin of the bone, projects the process called the internal condyle or epitrochlea, and corresponding to it on the outer margin is a smaller promi- nence, the outer condyle, sometimes called the epicondyle. The upper epiphysis of the humerus, which unites with the shaft at about the twentieth year of life, is somewhat dome or cap-shaped, and comprises the head and tuberosities, developing from two centres. The lower epiphysis, having four centres, comprises the portion below the sigmoid cavity, and corresponds quite closely in extent with the articulating portion of the bone, although the epicondyles, internal and external, are on a slightly higher level on either side.