136 INJURIES OF BONES. in front of the lower. Occasionally, but very rarely, the lower fragment is found in front of the upper; this is probably due to the direction of the frac- turing force, driving the whole elbow forward. Malgaigne has figured a case of this kind. And in any case, unless the injury has been the result of great direct violence, there is a tendency to the tilting forward of the lower fragment, and thus to the formation of an angle, salient forward. Thus the antero-posterior diameter of the arm just above the elbow is increased in a marked degree. Along with this change in the bone there must be more or less shortening of the arm, although this is seldom sufficient to attract notice. I think, however, that I have observed one sign of this, in the wrinkling of the skin at the back of the arm, just above the olecranon; but this disappears, or at least becomes less distinct, as swelling takes place. Pain is nearly always present, and may be very severe; it is aggravated by the least motion of the elbow, so that the patient generally supports the arm and hand very carefully with the sound hand. There is, of course, total loss of power, involving the whole limb. In many of these cases the abnormal mobility is clearly perceptible, and it can almost always be detected upon careful examination. Sometimes, indeed, it is so free £is to be in itself puzzling, as in cases where from a transverse fracture there are two or more subordinate lines of breakage running down- ward into the elbow-joint. Here the sensation imparted to the touch, when the forearm is rotated on the arm, is that of a loose rattling; and, especially if swelling has already begun, it is difficult to get a starting point from which to measure the relations of the fragments. When, however, there is any lateral mobility of the elbow, the fact of frac- ture may be regarded as established. In the complexity of the movements performed by the hand, we are apt to lose sight of the simplicity of the parts of the system upon which they depend. At the elbow, in the normal state, there is absolutely no motion except the hinge-like flexion and extension of the ulna upon the humerus, and the rotation of the radius upon an axis pass- ing through the centre of its head, and thence downward through the ulnar border of its carpal articulating surface. When the forearm is semi-flexed on the arm, and the hand moved outward and inward, it seems as if there must be a lateral movement at the elbow, but this appearance will be found to be wholly due to rotation of the humerus around its long axis; the real motion is altogether confined to the shoulder. If the hand can be thus moved when the arm is grasped and held still, it is proof positive of the existence of frac- ture. Luxation does not free the elbow in any way. When the upper extremity hangs by the side, with the elbow extended and the hand in supination, it will be seen at once that the elbow forms a very obtuse angle, salient inward, and that the hand hangs out from the side. How, if without any rotation of the humerus at all, the forearm be fully flexed, it will be found that the hand comes up at the outer side of the shoulder, and that not even by the utmost pronation, with flexion of the wrist, can the end of the middle finger be brought opposite to the mouth. These facts are all accounted for by the outward slant of the trochlear por- tion of the lower articular end of the humerus, and are of great importance in the recognition, and especially in the treatment, of fractures in this region. I have already referred to the muscles by which deformity is produced or kept up in fractures of the lower half of the humerus, and need hardly urge that, the shorter the lever upon which they act, or, in other words, the lower the seat of fracture, the more direct and decided will be their influence. But it must be remembered that the line of separation of the bone is very seldom directly transverse; even when it runs almost directly across in front, as I have seen in a few specimens, there is apt to be irregularity somewhere in