266 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. either the cartilages and their bony substratum must disappear, or they must coalesce and become ossified ; such rapid dissolution of cartilage without sup- puration is most unusual, while the fusion together of two cartilages is hardly recognized as a pathological process. Yet I have known a joint to become completely ossified in three weeks (22 days) after the first attack of the disease. Another termination of dry synovitis, fortunately not a common one, is that after a fresh access of pain, probably a rigor, and a certain change in the character and type of fever, very acute suppuration will set in. The suppuration is very widespread, and appears to involve all the newly deposited fibrin; hence, according to the distance from the joint at which that deposit has occurred, the suppuration will involve periarticular and adjacent tissues, tendinous sheaths, and inter-muscular spaces. The character of the inflam- mation is severe, and quickly involves the vessels, thrombosis and blood poi- soning following very rapidly. Symptoms of Simple Synovitis.—It has been stated that synovitis of the serous, sero-sanguinolent, or purulent variety, may be produced by very various causes, and that certain differences in the symptoms depend upon the parti- cular cause concerned. These differences, much more easily pointed out at the bedside than described in writing, consist in modifications in the propor- tional intensity of different symptoms ; sometimes in additions or omissions from the general array of phenomena. The simplest picture of an ordinary synovitis may be drawn from that form of the disease which follows some injury, of a character not too severe. But before going on to the description of these various types, it will be well to lay especial stress upon the inferences to be drawn from the uniarticular or multarticular form of the malady. It certainly may happen that by some fall or accident more than one joint may be injured ; there may be multiple contusions or sprains just as there are multiple fractures; such an occurrence, however, could be easily verified, and the plain fact would lead to a ready conclusion. But when without a traumatism of this complicated description, a patient develops synovitis in several of his joints, we may come to the conclusion, or at least strongly suspect, that some constitutional condition has produced or originated the disease. The contrary does not hold good to quite the same extent, and especially cannot be assumed in chronic disease. Even when the case before us is acute or subacute, and at the time uniarticular, we must make sure of our ground; for, as we shall see hereafter, certain forms of malady begin with slight and transient, though very painful, manifestations in many joints, and end with more severe disease of one. The four cardinal symptoms of inflammation, redness, heat, pain, and swelling, are all present in synovitis; but redness is in simple cases imper- ceptible, simply because the inflammation, though present in the deep parts, does not affect the cutaneous surface of the joint. Heed is, except in trivial cases, always present, though often to so slight a degree that this cannot lie verified by the hand. Severe simple synovitis may cause a difference of 1.5° F., or as in one of my cases, 2.4° F., between the affected and unaffected sides.1 If synovitis produce a greater rise of temperature, a suspicion should be aroused either that it is suppurative, or that it depends on some constitutional cause, such as rheumatism, gout, etc. 1 I have not found thermometers for taking surface temperature trustworthy, the elasticity of the glass permitting a slight pressure to cause a considerable rise of the mercury, while the contrivances to prevent such an effect appear to reduce the sensitiveness of the instrument. My method is to apply the ordinary clinical thermometer for several minutes Under a thick layer of wadding.