INJURIES OF BONES. 94 2 Philadelphia Med. Times, February 11, 1882. Fracture of the coccyx is spoken of by authors; but the consolidation of the several pieces takes place only in advanced age, and without this a true fracture could scarcely occur. No unquestionable cases are upon record in which this bone alone has been broken, and the probability is that the lesion involved to the surrounding soft parts would be of far more importance. Should trouble arise in any such cases from inflammatory thickening and con- traction of the tissues, it would be proper to divide the latter with the knife ; and failing relief from this, excision of the bone might be practised, although the experience recorded by Mursick1 is not such as to warrant great expecta- tions of success. A case is reported2 in which the coccyx, “ fractured and standing at a right angle with the sacrum,” was removed by means of the “ surgical engine,” by Dri Garretson. The history given of the case is simply that the patient, a lady, had suffered from coccygodynia for thirteen years. The periosteum was incised and laid open so as to expose the bone, which was then drilled away. The ultimate result is not stated. Fracture of the Crista Ilii.—Fracture of the crest of the ilium is by no means uncommon. I have seen it caused by a fall from a horse, the patient striking on his hip against some railroad iron piled at the side of the street. At the Episcopal Hospital, in 1882, I had in the wards a man aged 21, who had fallen about twelve feet, striking on a rafter; the left crista ilii, from near the sacrum to a point near the anterior superior spinous process, was broken off. In this case there was, for some weeks, severe pain along the course of the anterior crural nerve; and it seemed probable that its trunk had been pinched or torn. A rarer form of fracture of the ilium is shown in Fig. 699, taken from a specimen (without history) in the Mutter Museum. The bone has been separated nearly vertically, and transversely as well, the two lines of fracture representing an inverted y. Hamilton states that he has seen about three inches of the ilium, in- cluding the anterior superior spinous process, torn off by muscular action ; the patient, a man aged 70, having merely risen from his seat in a railroad car, when he felt “ something wrong.” Riedinger3 claims that muscular action plays a much more important part in the production of fractures of the pelvis generally than has been ascribed to it by most writers. Fractures of the ischium alone are very rare, the six cases collected by Malgaigne being the only ones known. Three of them were due to violent falls on the buttocks, and all to direct violence. Malgaigne has devoted a special section to what he calls “ double vertical fracture of the pelvis.” This he defines as “ a combination of two vertical 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1876. 3 Arch, fur klin. Chirurgie, Bd. xx. Heft 2 ; American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1877 Fig. 599.