614 TUMORS. characters just described, but in some instances is exceedingly difficult, espe- cially the diagnosis from osteitis. The difficulty is now and then so great that it is only possible to make the distinction by frequent measurements, or by exploration. The continuous increase in circumference, which, in spite of rest, is proved by careful measurements at frequent intervals, is so signifi- cant of a malignant tumor that it may serve to turn the balance of opinion. The prognosis of subperiosteal sarcoma is never favorable, and, for tumors of the femur and the humerus, is most unhappy. Even when the disease is limited to the lower third of the former bone, and when amputation can be performed so far above it that there is little fear of local recurrence, there is yet a strong probability that the patient may die within a few months of dis- semination of the disease. And, although dissemination of tumors of the humerus is not so early or so absolute, the growth of the primary tumor along the bone is so rapid that amputation at the shoulder-joint at a very early period seldom suffices to avert local recurrence. Tumors of the bones of the forearm and leg are not so malignant. Their growth is not usually so rapid, nor is dissemination so frequently observed ; amputation may easily be performed so high above them that local recurrence need not be appre- hended. But these favorable conditions are not, by any means, invariably maintained, and a fatal issue from dissemination may occur within a year or eighteen months from the commencement of the disease. Subperiosteal tumors of the clavicle, the scapula, the pelvis, and the skull, are almost cer- tainly fatal; those of the two last bones can scarcely ever be removed, those of the first two bones recur after a very short interval. The lymphatic glands are not affected by subperiosteal sarcomas, unless the tumor grows directly into a lymphatic gland, or in some similar fashion obtains access to the lym- phatic system. Tumors of the more distant bones scarcely ever alfiect the glands ; and tumors of the bones more near the trunk only affect them when they grow in close proximity to the glands. In the general dissemination of the disease, the bones, the distant lymphatic glands, the skin and subcuta- neous tissue, and the lungs, are the parts most frequently attacked. The only treatment on which the slightest confidence can be reposed is the early and free removal by amputation of all tumors which are so situated as to admit of it. The amputation must be performed far above the disease, to insure safety from recurrence, and when a point, as far above as the middle of the thigh is above a sarcoma of the upper portion of the tibia, is chosen, no fear need be entertained of return of the disease in the stump. The scapula and clavicle may be excised for subperiosteal tumors, but with a very faint hope of ultimate success. I have seen attempts made to remove tumors of the pelvis and the skull, but in neither instance did the attempt succeed. The manner in which the sarcomas of the calvaria grow through the bone into the interior of the skull, is a sufficient explanation of the failure of attempts to remove them, and the fact that they are usually multiple is a sufficient reason to deter a prudent surgeon from interfering with them. Central Sarcomata of Bone.—The clinical characters of the central tumors are, the situation they affect (a circumstance of more importance than for the subperiosteal growths), their more globular shape, their more equal con- sistence where they are uncovered by the cortex of the bone, the occasional “ egg-shell crackling” where a thin layer of bone still exists, and the occa- sional pulsation, observed especially in connection with tumors of the femur, the tibia, the skull, and the pelvis. They grow more slowly than the sub- periosteal tumors, but much more quickly than the non-malignant tumors, and they are much less often the cause of inflammatory symptoms. They are usually the seat of pain, which may precede the appearance of the tumor