FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 167 Sometimes the lower fragment is split or fissured in various directions, so as to constitute two or more fragments of very irregular size and shape. Occa- sionally the fracture begins at the articular surface, and runs up into the substance of the bone to a greater or less distance; of this a notable example exists in the "Warren Museum,1 and another is mentioned by Dupuytren.2 In another specimen3 in the Warren Museum, there is a double fracture, the result of direct violence; it is described as “ comminuted fracture of the lower end of the radius, just above, and into the joint, and a second fracture, two and a half inches above the joint.” Dupuytren4 records another case, in which a woman, aged sixty-two, having rolled down about sixty steps, had “ one fracture about an inch above the joint, and the other an inch and a half higher up. The ulna, which was dislocated inward, protruded to the extent of more than an inch through the skin.”5 The Museum of the Hew York Hospital contains a specimen6 described as a fracture of the lower end of the radius “ obliquely upward and backward, from within a quarter of an inch of the palmar edge of the carpal joint. The fracture was transverse and incomplete; for a long narrow fragment passing up from the styloid process was still continuous with the shaft. This connecting bony bridge was slightly bent so as to permit the articular surface of the radius to be slightly rotated toward the dorsal surface of the forearm.” In the other forearm there was extensive comminution of the radius for the space of two inches, and the shaft “ is seen to be invaded by a longitudinal fissure running up from the fractured surface.” Occasionally there is a separation of a lateral portion of the articular extremity. A number of instances are on record in which the styloid pro- cess has been thus broken off. Such a specimen exists in the Wistar and Horner Museum, and another in the Warren Museum ;7 Callender8 speaks of two in museums in London, and Hamilton thinks that lie has made out the lesion twice in the living subject. One curious case is recorded by Butler,9 in which a boy of fourteen, by a fall from a height of thirty feet, had the styloid process broken off and drawn upward an inch and a half, where it became firmly united. In the Hew York Hospital Museum there is a specimen10 in which “ the only fracture of the radius consists in a chipping off of a small portion of the lower extremity, so as to separate the articular facet for the ulna from the rest of the bone. One of the carpal bones is also broken.” It is difficult to entertain any other theory of the mechanism of this lesion than that of direct violence. Gross11 records the following: “ In the case of a young man whom I attended along with Dr. Chenowith, the lower extremity of the radius was split in two by a transverse and an oblique fissure, the larger fragment being 1 Catalogue, p. 174, No. 1035. 2 Injuries and Diseases of Bones, p. 126. 3 Catalogue, p. 174, No. 1038. 4 Op. cit., p. 127. 6 I am tempted to refer here to an instance reported by Mr. Gtodlee (Med. Times and Gazette, 1883), in w4iich a man, aged twenty, by a fall backward on his hands, sustained a compound fracture of the left radius at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, with displacement for- ward of the lower end of the ulna, which projected beneath the skin. “An incision was made, and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which had slipped behind the bone, was raised up with a blunt hook ; but the ulna could not be replaced until first the styloid process and then the end of the bone had been sawed off.” The mechanism of this injury seems to me to have been clearly the same as that in Dupuytren’s case above mentioned, in which the removal of the end of the ulna was also practised, but not with so complete a restoration of the functions of the limb. 6 Catalogue, p. 80, No. 130. 7 No. 4631. (Mentioned in a letter from Dr. Hodges.) 8 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1865. 9 New York Medical Journal, 1867. 10 Catalogue, p. 79, No. 128. » Op. cit., vol. i. p. 970.