826 INJURIES OF THE BACK. 1 American Medical Times, June 15, 1861, pp. 379-381. without any convulsions at seven o’clock the same evening, six days and some hours after the accident, apparently in consequence of septicaemia. Autopsy There was a considerable quantity of extravasated blood on each side of the spinal column, in the vicinity of the last rib. The body of the last dorsal vertebra was found crushed, and a little piece of bone from the laminae of the first lumbar ver- tebra had cut the spinal cord entirely off. The blisters on the inner sides of the thighs were found to be the results of mortification. The internal organs were all healthy. No statement is reported as to the presence of a sacro-gluteal eschar, but without doubt there was a large one formed by Saturday, when it was noted that the patient was not doing so well. It is mentioned that there was but little disturbance of the pulse, notwithstanding that mortification was occurring in the lower extremities. The textural condition of the spinal cord, aside from its complete division by a fracture- splinter, is not described. The gangrenous inflammation of the thighs was thought to be due to “ injury of the sympathetic ganglia situated at the angles of the last two ribs.” But, inasmuch as in other cases belonging to the same category, similar eschars have appeared when vaso-motor paralysis has been completely wanting, it is only fair to infer that in this case the gangrenous lesions of the thighs arose from morbid excita- tion of the spinal cord, which is merely another name for traumatic myelitis, at least in this particular instance. Again, in the following example of chronic myelitis arising from concussion of the spinal cord, at the lower part thereof, where the resultant paraplegia was very far short of being complete, an ulcer or slough of large size pre- sented itself in the integuments over the sacrum, although there had been no absolute confinement to bed at any time:— Professor Wm. A. Hammond1 relates the case of an originally healthy married wo- man, aged 22, admitted into the Baltimore Infirmary, on March 14, with chronic myelitis, the result of an injury. She was a sober, intelligent young woman, by occu- pation a weaver, four years married, and the mother of a child then three years old. She had always been healthy until her present illness, excepting that in girlhood she had been affected to some extent with rheumatism and occasional epistaxis. Eleven months before admission, whilst in a somnambulistic state, she fell from a second-story window, and struck the hand-rail of a porch in her descent, injuring her back about the junction of the lumbar vertebrae with the sacrum. The immediate consequences were pain in that region, soreness across the abdomen, and the passage of bloody urine. For seven months catheterization was necessary, after which time the bladder in a measure recovered its contractility, but soon lost it again, the sphinc- ter also becoming paralyzed. Severe cough likewise ensued; and the catamenia, heretofore quite regular, entirely ceased. There was slight paralysis of the lower ex- tremities from the time of the accident, which gradually increased until considerable difficulty was experienced in walking, or even in standing. There was also deficient sensibility in both lower extremities, and likewise over the sacral region. Soon after the accident, the sphincter ani lost its power. From the first, she experienced more or less numbness and spasm in her lower extremities. She had been treated by cupping the lumbar and sacral regions, and by strychnia. At the time of admission, there was complete paralysis of the sphincters of the bladder and rectum. Her urine was constantly flowing from her, and the moment her feces entered the rectum it was evacuated. Upon introducing a finger into the bowel, it was found to be entirely relaxed ; and, in fact, three or four fingers could be inserted with ease. Her lower extremities were partially paralyzed. Although she could still walk, she did so with difficulty. Frequent cramps and almost constant formication were present, and there were occasional startings of the limbs without her being aware of them. There was a good deal of pain in the sacral region ; and, as is usual in such cases, a large ulcer existed in the same locality. On applying the aesthesiometer to the anterior surface of her legs and thighs, to those parts which are supplied by branches of the lumbar plexus of nerves, there was no diminution of sensibility found. She appreciated the two points when separated only