755 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. as well as in cases where the hones forming the atlo-axoid articulations have been broken ; and, generally, it denotes that either the atlas, or the axis, or both of these bones are fractured.1 “ Latent Fracture of the Spine” as Mr. Simon has denominated an important lesion of the spinal column which occasionally presents itself to surgeons, must also be considered in connection with those fractures of the vertebral which are attended by but little or no displacement of the fragments. In the examples of so-called latent fracture of the vertebra1, the spinal cord is not at all affected by concussion, nor by contusion, nor is it compressed by displaced bone, nor by extravasated blood. The breach, in these cases, usually consists of a linear fracture through the body of a cervical or a dorsal vertebra. On the withdrawal of the force which fissures the bone, the fragments at once spring back into place again. The patient complains only of pain, soreness, and stiffness in the injured part of the spine, for some days; and, perhaps, having returned to work, continues at the same until the symptoms of sup- purative inflammation present themselves at the seat of the fracture, and until an abscess forms in the spinal canal between the theca vertebralis and the bone, as well as external to the bone, in the same locality. These cases are strictly analogous to those of circumscribed abscess occurring between the dura mater and the bone, in consequence of a linear fracture of the skull, which have often been observed in latent injuries of the head. As subcra- nial abscesses not unfrequently cause death, per se, by compressing the brain, even so these cases may terminate in death by compression of the spinal cord, without the occurrence of that diffused traumatic spinal meningitis or myelitis which often supervenes, as we have already shown, in cases of vertebral frac- ture or dislocation. Mr. Simon2 relates an instructive example of the spinal lesion in question:— A girl, aged 18, injured her neck by falling, in the dark, about twelve feet down an embankment. At first she was stunned. Afterward she walked home, a distance of about three miles. She resumed work, and remained thereat for eleven days. She entered St. Thomas’s Hospital on the fifteenth day after the accident, on account of severe pain in her neck, with fever, etc. No displacement nor irregularity of the spine could be detected. There was no anaesthesia nor paralysis. Her complaints of pain and tenderness were vague. She chiefly spoke of suffering between the shoulders ; turning over into a prone position in bed was accomplished slowly, stiffly, and with cries. Early on the sixteenth day, she complained of numbness and twitching in her limbs, particu- larly in the lower ; in the evening, voluntary motion was lost completely in the legs, and nearly in the arms; sensibility was likewise very much impaired in both. Delirium, “jumping of the legs,” and tympanitic distension of the abdomen, as well as high fever now appeared. On the eighteenth day she died. Autopsy, 30 hours after death—“ A horizontal line of fracture was found traversing the body of the seventh cervical vertebra, just above its inferior surface. Beyond a very little gaping in front, which would allow the edge of a scalpel to be insinuated flatly between the fragments, there was not the slightest displacement; and the posterior common ligament was untorn. The spinal canal contained between the osseous walls and the dura mater [theca vertebralis] a large quantity of pus, which, from two inches below the foramen magnum, descended the whole length of the cord. At the several intervertebral holes it had crept somewhat along the issuing nerve-sheaths, and, between the first and second dorsal vertebras had 1 But fracture of the axis unattended by any notable displacement may prove quickly fatal, by causing hemorrhage into the spinal canal, and compression of the spinal cord therefrom, as happened in the following instance: Arnott (Lancet, 1851) reported the case of a man, aged 74, injured in the neck by falling down stairs. There was paralysis of the upper extremities, but not of the lower. In one hour death ensued. Dissection showed fracture of the spinous pro- cess of the axis ; the fragment was wedged in between the axis and the third vertebra. There was effusion of blood in the vertebral canal. (Ashhurst.) e Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. vi. p. 42.