391 IIIP-DISEASE. pass into the breach in the capsule, for, as already mentioned, the two aper- tures rarely correspond, and hence the instrument often does not afford any information. In a certain number of cases, luxation undoubtedly occurs. I think, even, that some writers insist too strongly on its rarity. When it takes place, it brings with it a considerable abatement of the painful symptoms, which is sometimes complete and permanent, sometimes very transitory. Any sudden cessation of pain should lead to a careful examination. That luxation may occur gradually, has already been pointed out. I have more than once, during resection, found the head of the femur resting on the brim of the acetabulum, and scored by the evident impress of the acetabular margin. Clinically, too, I have learned to regard certain symptoms as indicative of this condition. When a child, suffering the ordinary pain of a chronic but pretty severe hip- disease, is suddenly affected by pain, evidently of a very severe character, holds the limb persistently in his hands, cries violently, and on the approach of any attendant screams with apprehension, or gives signs of severe pain when the bed is shaken; if we learn that since this access of pain first came on, the limb has been more drawn up; if, too, with these symptoms, are combined neither the local signs nor the temperature of suppuration, we are warranted in concluding that some disturbance of relationship between the head of the bone and the socket may have occurred—such disturbance is, in all probabil- ity, subluxation, which, if left to itself, will become complete. I was first led to this conclusion, in a case such as I have described, by observing, when, with the aid of anaesthesia, I endeavored to restore the limb to a proper pos- ture, a certain unmistakable snap, such as only occurs on the replacement of dislocated joint-surfaces. Since then, other like cases have occurred to me— in all of them this snap has been felt, in some it has also beeu heard. Splints having been at once applied, the children awoke comparatively free from pain. Occasionally it happens that diastasis takes place (page 381), and this also is accompanied by an apparent amelioration, which is persistent or not, accord- ing as the epiphyseal head left in the socket has contracted nutritive con- nections with the acetabulum, or, not having done so, simply remains as a sequestrum (see page 382). Hot unfrequently, diagnosis or prognosis requires that a definite idea as to the state of the joint should be formulated. We want, namely, to discover if the abscess be intra-articular, if the bone be luxated, or if the epiphysis be separated. All these points may be investigated at one examination, assisted by anaesthesia. In diastasis there is very considerable shortening,1 and the limb is movable; sometimes very movable, and always more so than in hip-joint disease with- out such complication. Moreover, the shortness may be made to vary without changing the position of the pelvis. By pushing the knee upward toward the trunk, the limb may be reduced to its extreme of shortness; by dragging it down, it may be brought to its normal length, or even elongated. In car- rying out these manoeuvres, there occurs at a certain level, both in pushing and traction, a jerk or hitch, due, I suppose, to the truncated neck catching around the rim of the acetabulum. All this, to be of value, must take place without movement of the pelvis ; indeed, it is better for the surgeon to let an assistant carry out these manoeuvres while lie himself steadies that part; he will then feel the trochanter gliding up and down upon the haunch. The diagnosis of real luxation from mere change about the acetabulum and femoral neck, although not difficult, requires some nicety. It has been said that these changes produce a certain real shortening; but this never 1 The amount of shortening increases with the duration of the diastasis.