STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. 307 turn causes a more violent contraction. Starting pains, therefore, are the product of unregulated reflex acts, and of joint tenderness. Subchrondric hypenemia causes additional contraction of the flexors, and thereby a spinal and muscular irritability which renders them liable to twitch with such un- usual violence as the morbidly sensitive joint cannot bear. The third stage of strumous synovitis embraces two processes: the one of consolidation and further organization of the granulations, the other of de- generation and destruction. It is, of course, to be understood that either of these, but chiefly the reparative process, may set in without intervention of the second stage; in other words, a strumous synovitis may be cured without ulceration of cartilages. We must also understand that in some cases destructive action will take place at one part, and reparative action at other parts of the same joint. Process of Repair.—The consolidation of the granulations and their subse- quent transformation into fibrous tissue is the same process as that which takes place in the healing of an ulcer, or in the filling up of any gaping wound. This is effected by that gradual change of embryonic granulation-cells into caudate and connective-tissue cells (placoids of Klein), then into spindle-cells, and lastly into cicatricial fibrous tissue.1 By this means, if the process go on pari passu throughout the whole region of the inflamed joint, the condition of things is changed: the bones, which were formerly separated rather than united by the soft granulations, are now bound together by a firm fibrous tissue which springs, as the granulations sprung, from all the cancelli and from their opened cavities, as well as from the outer case of the bone and from the joint capsule; thus the bones may be said to terminate in a short, thick rope which binds them together, and of which the soft parts around (all that were involved in the disease) form the outer parts; this is termed “ false” or ■“fibrous anchylosis.” If, at a later period, this cord ossify, the anchylosis becomes “ true.” Or, on the other hand, if cure take place before ulceration of the cartilages and destruction of the bone surfaces has occurred, the result- ing cicatricial tissue forms a hollow or tubular fibrous bond of variable thickness and strength, according to the amount of previous disease; this “ thickening” may be a considerable impediment to motion. Sometimes a por- tion of the joint surface near the edge of the cartilage may have been destroyed, and then a process of the fibrous tissue intrudes a certain way into the joint, projecting like a pilaster from a wall. Such processes, which are not very properly called “ adhesions,” generally impede mobility very considerably.2 Process of Degeneration.—Although strumous synovitis is a very slow dis- ease, and the tissue product very indolent, yet this is not very durable; some change must take place, and if in a given time repair do not set in, a destruc- tive process must inevitably commence; caseation is not very common, and occurs only at small points; fatty degeneration of the cells and suppuration are more usual. These two are always somewhat commingled, but very often certain tracts or spots of the tissue may break down into abscesses, with but little pathological change; wide or large suppurations, on the contrary, are, as a very general rule, preceded by much fatty degeneration, which in bad cases invades the tissues almost suddenly. This condition is marked at its commencement by a greenish coloration of the granulation-tissue, and after- 1 A fuller account of tliis process than is desirable here, will be found in this Encyclopaedia, Vol. II. pp. 16-20. 2 I prefer to call these “ fibrous bonds true adhesions between joint surfaces, comparable to adhesions of the pLeura, are excessively rare.