DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 388 liar manner, so that the middle line, which runs from the centre of the pubes over the umbilicus and xiphoid cartilage to the supra-sternal notch, instead of being straight, is very much curved, with its convexity towards the side of lengthening. If the disease be, as far as this stage is concerned, advanced, it will be found impossible to put the body and limbs in a straight line. When having to do with a child or boy, it is convenient to go to the bottom of the couch, take a foot in each hand, and, looking between, move them to the right or left, until the four points above named of the trunk are seen to be, if pos- sible, in a straight line. In older girls the same end may be attained, with less exposure, by passing a cord under some light garment on the lower part of the abdomen, letting one end be held on the centre of the epistemal notch, and the other between the malleoli, the pelvis or the feet being shifted from side to side as required. When the body and limbs have thus been placed in as straight a line as possible, the relative level of the malleoli must be com- pared.1 But in most cases, especially in young children, it is impossible to get the xiphoid cartilage, umbilicus, and pubic junction to lie under this cord, or in a straight line; they persistently remain on one side of it (diseased side). Now, if a finger of each hand be placed on the anterior iliac spines, and a line between them be imagined, or if, from one to the other, a second cord be stretched, it will not intersect the former string at right angles; the two angles which lie below the transverse line will be respectively acute and ob- tuse, the former being on the lengthened side; and the iliac spine of that side will be seen to lie considerably lower than the other. I would caution the surgeon to beware of drawing any conclusion from measuring the length of the limbs with a tape, for instance, from the spine of the ilium to the knee or malleolus, and also against comparing the relative position of the knees in sitting. No person with hip-disease, and, therefore, with fixity of the thigh, can bend that limb at right angles to the trunk ; there- fore none can sit straight and evenly, but must, of necessity, take some twisted posture, which will render any such comparison inaccurate and misleading. Besides this posture-symptom, the second stage is accompanied by swelling. The post-trochanteric fossa has been described as rendered shallow by flae- cidity of the gluteus. It now may be obliterated by tumefaction, which, however, is not very perceptible either to sight or to touch. Nevertheless, deep palpation, and careful comparison between the two sides, may reveal a fluid or semi-solid enlargement behind the neck of the bone. A fluid swelling from synovial distension will likewise show itself in front, a little below the fold of the groin, and opposite to its middle. There exist two sorts of swelling at this place. One is produced by effusion into the synovial membrane; it is characterized by round, soft enlargement, in which fluctua- tion can occasionally be detected ; less often, yet in certain cases, the fluid- wave may be felt between this place and back of the trochanter. But the points most often and most useful to be remarked are, that the inguinal glands, still retaining their normal size, are pushed forward, and feel like small movable beads just beneath the skin. The femoral artery is also pressed towards the surface, so that its beat may be felt with unusual ease, and very superficial below the body of the pubis; at a point, therefore, where its pulsation is in the normal state of parts not very readily distinguished. The other form of inguinal swelling is entirely different. It is mainly produced by enlarge- ment of the glands themselves, which may be felt swollen and big beneath 1 It is well to point out that some persons have one limb (generally the right) longer than the other ; hut this does not produce fixity of the thigh, nor, in recumbency, obliquity of the pelvis. Coincidence of unilateral growth and of liip-disease might lead to a little embarrassment.-