561 CLASSIFICATION AND NOMENCLATURE OF TUMORS. depended on, it would be correct to make the difference between sarcoma and carcinoma solely structural, and thus preserve the uniformity of the anatomi- cal classification. But, unfortunately, although Virchow’s structural distinc- tion serves in the large majority of instances to distinguish between sar- coma and carcinoma, it fails in certain cases, partly because the anatomical characters of the disease are indistinct—as it were blurred—partly because sar- comas occasionally present the structure which has been assigned to carci- nomas. The untrustworthiness of the anatomical distinction, and the discovery by Waldeyer1 of the epithelial origin of carcinoma, led to the adoption of dif- ference of origin as a basis of distinction between the two classes. Carcinomas are tumors of epithelial origin; sarcomas are tumors of connective-tissue origin. This is the basis of division on which it appears safest to rely. Most of the tumors can easily be distinguished and classed by examination of their structure, but the difference in their origin serves to supplement and correct the diagnosis. And this does not involve a serious strain of the whole system of classification, for the various classes of tumors are arranged first according to the physiological prototype of each, and also in large divisions according as the prototypes belong to the connective tissue or the epithelial series. Sarcoma thus falls naturally within the one, carcinoma within the other division. It is not, I believe, yet possible to trace back the origin of the two classes in question to the layers of the blastoderm, to derive sarcoma from the mesoblast, carcinoma from the epiblast. An attempt to do this would tend to much confusion, perhaps because our knowledge of embryology is not yet sufficiently reliable. Two examples will suffice to illustrate the confusion to which the attempt would lead. Glioma, a round-celled tumor originating in the connective tissue of the nervous cen- tres, is at present classed among the sarcomas, and the position assigned to it seems justified by its structure and its origin in connective tissue; but the con- nective tissue of the great nerve-centres is derived from the epiblast, and, as a consequence, glioma would be removed from its present position and classed among the carcinomas. Again, spheroidal-celled (soft) carcinoma of the tes- ticle is derived from the epithelium of the testicle, sarcoma from its connec- tive tissue. The difference in their origin and structure is generally suffi- ciently evident, and the former tumor is classed among the carcinomas, the latter among the sarcomas. But the entire testis is derived from the meso- blast, and in consequence all malignant tumors of the testis, whether they originated in the epithelium or in the connective tissue, would be classed among the sarcomas as mesoblastic tumors. It will be evident from these two illustrations that the time has not yet arrived for employing the embryo- nic theory in the classification of tumors, and that it is far more safe and useful, for the present at least, to look for the essential difference between sarcoma and carcinoma in their origin, respectively, from what are generally described and regarded as connective tissue and epithelium. A difficulty in classification is likely to arise, has indeed already arisen, in connection with the tumors which grow from endothelium. It seems scarcely certain whether the endothelia should be regarded as a separate class of tissues, or whether they should be placed as formerly among the epithelia, or as at present among the connective tissues. For the present, it appears more desirable to consider them as connective-tissue structures, on account of their intimate relation with the connective tissues, the distance at which they often lie from any epithelium, and the great differences which exist between them and the various forms of epithelium. Tumors, therefore, which arise from the endothelia may be regarded as tumors of connective-tissue 1 Sammlung klinischer Vortrage, No. 33, 1872. vol. iv.—36