488 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. This procedure, the advantages of which can be best understood by a refer- ence to the annexed diagram (Fig. 713), requires two incisions, one on the Fig. 713. radial and one on the ulnar side of the joint. The radial incision begins about the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius, on a level with the styloid process, and extends down- wards and outwards toward the inner side of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb, but, on reaching the line of the radial border of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, diverges at an obtuse angle and passes longitudinally downwards for half the length of that bone. The ulnar incision be- gins two inches above the end of the ulna, and immediately in front of it, extends down- wards between the ulna and the flexor carpi ulnaris, and ends at the middle of the palmar aspect of the fifth metacarpal. The only tendons necessarily severed in this operation are the extensors of the carpus itself. The trapezium is to be separated from the other carpal bones by cutting with the bone-forceps before the ulnar incision is made, but is not to be removed until a later stage of the ope- ration ; in like manner, the pisiform bone is to be separated and left attached to the flexor carpi ulnaris, while the hook of the unciform bone is also cut through and left attached to the annular ligament. The tendons are next raised both in front of and behind the wrist, when the anterior ligaments of the joint are divided, and the cutting pliers then introduced, first between the carpus and radius, and afterwards between the carpus and metacarpus. Its connections having been thus severed, the entire carpus, with the exception of the trapezium and pisiform bones, can be pulled out with a strong pair of forceps. The articulating extremi- ties of the radius and ulna are next made to protrude through the ulnar incision, and as much sawn off as may seem necessary; the ulna should be sawn obliquely so as to leave the styloid process, the retention of which serves to diminish the tendency to subsequent displacement. The articulating ends of the metacarpal bones are next brought out and resected, and the operation is then finished by carefully dissecting out the trapezium, and by removing the articulating surface of the thumb, and as much of the pisiform and hook- like process of the unciform as may be thought desirable. Free drainage must be secured by leaving the ulnar wound partly open, or by the introduction of drainage-tubes, and the hand may then be placed upon such a splint as is shown in Fig. 633 (page 286), or, which would probably answer as well, an ordinary Bond’s splint. (Fig. 613, page 175.) Mr. Butcher, and more recently Mr. W. R. Williams, have urged very strongly that the trapezium should be preserved in this operation, believing that the future utility of the thumb depends greatly upon its retention; the last-named surgeon has found, as did Sir W. Fergusson, that it is feasible to remove the carpus through a single longitudinal incision, on the ulnar side. Partial excisions of the carpus have been practised, but, I think, have not usually proved very satisfactory; in a good many instances, destructive in- Excision of wrist by Lister’s method.—A. Radial artery. B. Tendon of extensor secundi internodii pollicis. C. Indicator. D. Exten- sor communis digitorum. E. Extensor minimi digiti. F. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. G. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. H. Ex- tensor carpi radialis longior. I. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. K. Extensor carpi ulnaris. L L. Line of radial incision. (After Lister.)