02-2 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. portion between the strength of the column and the weight it maintains, or by undue pressure exercised upon some especial part of the vertebral segments. Lastly, if traumatism were so essential a feature in Pott’s disease, it would not be unreasonable to expect that some definite relation should exist, other things being equal, between the injury and the consequent disease. But no such relation exists. A severe, extensive, and acute form of spinal caries may occur with the absence of a history of any definite lesion, while, on the other hand, a severe injury to the back may be attended with no ill results other than those immediately connected with the accident. Considered generally, the etiology of Pott’s malady bears a very striking resemblance to the etiology of “white swelling,” or strumous joint disease, and there is an almost complete identity between the various opinions that have been advanced as to the causes of the two complaints. Pathological Anatomy.—The morbid change that constitutes the essential feature of Pott's disease is, with some slight reservation, a caries or molecular disintegration of the vertebral bodies. This change may attack any part of the column, but i> more commonly met with in the lower dorsal region than elsewhere. In some rare cases, two distant parts of the spine may be involved at the same time, or may be attacked independently at different periods. An example of this latter circumstance is recorded by Shaw.1 2 Although the disease may be limited to a single vertebra, such an occurrence is rare, and in most instances many of these bones are involved, and often in very varying degrees. Bryant* reports a case where no less than twelve vertebrae were in- volved. The morbid process nearly always commences in the bone; it may, however, commence in an intervertebral fibro-cartilage, and there are some who assert that the earliest change may take place in the periosteum, or in the spinal ligaments. There docs not appear to be any positive evidence to support the theory of the origin of this disease from the two last-named structures. The whole pathological process in Pott’s disease may be divided into two distinct periods or phases : first, the period of destruction or softening; and, secondly, the period of repair. The changes themselves can be best con- sidered (1) as they affect the bone, and (2) as they affect the intervertebral cartilage. I. Period of Destruction or Softening.3—(1) Changes in the Bones.—These changes consist in a caries that has some few peculiarities. The morbid action is singularly limited to the anterior segments or bodies of the vertebrae. The body may be extensively and even entirely destroyed, yet will the morbid action have little or no tendency to extend to the posterior segment of the bone, to the laminae, the pedicles, and the various processes; seldom, indeed, does it extend as far posteriorly as the articular processes and intervertebral joints, although, as a somewhat rare occurrence, these parts of the bone may be involved. The disease may commence in any part of the body of the vertebra, or at several parts at one and the same time. Most usually the earliest changes would appear to be in the anterior part of the bone, not far from the anterior surface. Another common spot for the commence- ment of the disease is that part of the body of a vertebra nearest to the inter- vertebral disk. It must be remembered that this part of the centrum is an epiphysis, and the disease would appear in many cases to begin as an epiphy- 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iv. p. 112. London, 1870. 2 Manual for the Practice of Surgery,vol. i. p. 277. 3 After describing the process as it affects the bones and cartilages it will be well to include under this heading an account of the “deformity ” and the “ abscess.”