FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 141 far more easily effected at once than at any later period ; but its discussion belongs more appropriately elsewhere. As a general rule, fractures in this region resemble luxations in the abnor- mal projection backward of the olecranon; in fact, the two lesions are often undistinguishable from one another by the mere appearance of the parts. (In botlq the elbow is slightly flexed; although some authors have represented it as fixed, or nearly so, at a right angle, when luxated. The former has been the position in the eight cases of children and boys which have come under my own observation, and this experience is confirmed by that of Mal- gaigne1 and Hamilton. In adults I have seen the elbow quite rigid, and semi-flexed; but the other condition obtains sometimes in them also.) But in case of fracture, if the surgeon places his thumbs in front of the projection of the humerus, he can with his fingers press the olecranon forward into its normal place, and keep it so until he relaxes its hold. Dislocations, I need hardly say, are often very difficult to reduce, and are very unapt to recur. Dislocation having been set aside, the surgeon’s attention should be directed to the allaying of the inflammation by the usual means, the limb being kept in the most comfortable posture; and as soon as possible the attempt to esta- blish an accurate diagnosis should be renewed. Either before the occurrence of inflammatory swelling, or after it has sub- sided, the eye may detect certain abnormities in the shape of the limb. One of the most important of these is the increase of its antero-posterior diameter either at or just above the elbow. Another is the change in the relative directions of the axes of the arm and forearm. Still another is a widening of the arm transversely at the elbow. But when either or all of these signs are present, they need to be interpreted by means of further investigation. If, upon applying the fingers to the bend of the elbow, or perhaps a little above it, the more or less sharp and ragged edge of the upper fragment is felt, the fact of fracture is established; in case of luxation, the rounded articular surface of the lower end of the bone would present itself. The processes commonly known as the condyles, but more correctly as the epi- condyle and epitrochlea, should now be found—as they often can be even where the parts are swollen—and pressure made through them across the bone. If pain be thus caused, a fracture running into the joint may be sus- pected; if crepitus, it may be regarded as certain. Unless swelling have occurred, it may be possible to grasp the epicondyle or the epitrochlea be- tween the thumb and finger, and determine its mobility or fixedness upon the rest of the bone. The attempt may be made also to sway the forearm from side to side, which ought not to be possible. In so doing, crepitus may be elicited. Upon making passive motion, flexing and extending the elbow, and pro- nating and supinating the hand, it will be found, if there be fracture, that in one or •more of these movements there is crepitation. If this occur in flexion only, or in flexion and extension, it may be that the humerus is simply broken across ; but if every motion develop it, the probability is that the joint itself is involved. Measurement may now be made of the breadth of the joint, from the epi- condyle to the epitrochlea, and it may be compared with that of the sound limb. The best means of doing this is of course a pair of callipers; but as these are not likely to be at hand, resort may be had to other methods, the simplest being to apply the back of the elbow to a plane surface, on which a sheet of paper has been placed, and then to put a book on either side of it, standing edgewise on the paper. The distance between the lower edges of 1 Op. cit., tome ii. p. 576.