434 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. As Prof. Billroth nowhere mentions cancer of hone, save to deny the ex- istence of primary epithelioma of that structure, it would seem that he re- gards all malignant growths of bone as sarcomata; hut a great number of excellent authorities—-Virchow, Foerster, Volkmann, Paget, and others— speak of encephaloid cancer as springing from, or originating in, hone. My own observation leads me to the conclusion that many of these tumors are certainly carcinomatous, though most of those which are distinctly encapsuled must be regarded as sarcomata. The ends of the long bones, and more especially the head of the tibia, the condyles of the femur, and the upper extremity of the humerus, are not very unfrequently the seat of sarcomata. They occasionally follow injury, after the method to which I last year gave the name of “ acute traumatic malignancy,”1 but more often appear to arise spontaneously, although even here the possibility of some apparently unimportant and probably forgotten injury must not be overlooked. They are affections of early life, rarely occur- ring after thirty years of age, and being most frequent between the fourteenth amt the twentieth year, and occasionally arising even in infancy.2 They mostly spring from the periosteum, but occasionally from the cancellous structure of the bone. Their microscopic characters, as in the above quotation Billroth has stated, may have any of the sarcomatous characteristics, but the most frequent varieties are the giant-celled, the round-celled, and the oat-celled (spindle-celled). The capsule which surrounds the structure is very thin in most parts, and in spots imperfect, probably having been absorbed or rup- tured by the pressure of the rapidly growing mass. The clinical appearances and symptoms of these growths are, when they have reached a considerable size, easy of recognition ; but unfortunately, while they are still quite small, when diagnosis would be very important, it is also very difficult. The periosteal sarcoma begins, either after or without some traumatism, as a very slightly painful enlargement, and there will be a certain difficulty and restraint of movement, according to the situation, rather than the nature of the tumor. The tenderness is but slight, nor are there any inflammatory symptoms; the tumor itself is rounded or ovoid, rarely nodulated, and moves in flexion or extension with the hone, though if situated on a bone that can be rotated, it moves to a much slighter extent; it is, unless quite at first, soft and doughy. The patient’s health as a rule is good, nor are any evi- dences of cachexia to be observed. These appearances, although obscure, should always arouse suspicion. An almost painless, non-inflammatory, ovoid tumor, sessile, but not rigidly so in the neighborhood of an epiphyseal junc- tion, is of no good augury ; no such growth should be allowed to remain unwatched. The sarcoma which springs from the interior of a bone, often before any swelling is perceptible, gives rise to a dull, aching pain, analogous to and often mistaken for rheumatism; then some enlargement of the bone itself appears, and, in its turn, may be mistaken for ordinary osteitis, or for central abscess. After a little while, a great portion of the osseous walls being ab- sorbed, only a thin shell is left, which very frequently crackles. After- wards a certain portion of this bony cortex gives way, so that it may be traced on the side of the tumor, but the apex presents mere soft tissue. At this time it is impossible to distinguish between medullary sarcoma and soft cancer. These central, soft tumors of bone, when they have thus emerged outwards, very often pulsate, even though the growth itself may not be very • British Medical Journal, February 11, 1882, p. 187. 2 I amputated an arm at the shoulder-joint of a hoy aged eleven, and I have twice seen malig- nant growth at the knee in young children ; before the end of the first year in one, and at two years and three months in the other case.