73 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. * Op. cit., p. 5. 1 System of Practical Surgery, p. 457. London, 1870. of resistance. Malgaigne quotes from Houzelot a case in which, the patient having been killed by a fall from a height, it was found that he had sustained fractures of the symphysis, of the neck of each condyle, and of both coronoid processes. Sir W. Fergusson1 mentions an almost similar case, in which, however, only one coronoid process was broken. Heath2 describes a speci- men in the Museum of King’s College, in which the body of the bone is frac- tured on either side, with the necks of both condyles. The probability is that in all these cases the force was received on the symphysis, and that the frac- tures were produced simultaneously, the bone yielding at all its weakest points. Another specimen mentioned by Heath will serve to illustrate multiple fracture, due, it may be supposed, to lateral compression:— “ One fracture runs obliquely forward in front of the first molar tooth into the men- tal foramen. A second fracture runs vertically between the right incisor teeth. A third fracture runs very obliquely from the last molar on the right side down to the lower border of the bone opposite the canine tooth. This is met by a fourth fracture running obliquely backward in front of the first molar tooth of the same side. The lower border of the bone in the mental region is broken off and comminuted into numer- ous fragments, one of which contains the mental foramen of the right side. The left condyle is also broken off obliquely.” Still another is described by Heath as follows:— “ A fracture extends obliquely backward between the second and third molar teeth of the left side, the external and internal plates of the bone being equally involved. There is also an oblique (downward and backward) fracture of the neck of the right condyle.” Fig. 594. Fractures of the body of the jaw-bone are almost always compound, by lace- ration or rupture of the mucous membrane and underlying tissues, so that the air within the mouth gets access to the broken ends. Hence there is very apt to be suppuration, and the breath and secre- tions of the mouth are generally offensive from the decomposition which ensues. The annexed sketch (Fig. 594) from a specimen in the Mutter Museum of the Philadelphia College of Physicians, shows a comminuted fracture, one portion of which, extending backward, is a mere fis- sure. Malgaigne quotes from Gariel an instance in which he “ proved by an autopsy the existence of a fissure on a level with the dental canal, involving but part of the thickness of the bonethe patient had fallen from a height. When there is double fracture of the body of the jaw, the "two lines of separation may be on the same side, or on opposite sides, of the symphysis. In the former case the intermediate fragment will not be as greatly displaced, or as hard to control, as in the latter. Peirson3 has recorded an instance of double fracture of the jaw by the passage of a wagon-wheel, in which the middle fragment of bone, with the tongue, “ was forced down the throat, so as nearly to occasion suffocation. The accident occurred in the night, but fortunately near a house whose inhabitants were awake ; and the patient obtained the loan of an iron spoon, with which he contrived to drag the tongue for- ward, and prevent the impending suffocation, till I was enabled to secure the fragments * Remarks on Fractures. Boston, 1840.