338 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Treatment.—Unless very unmistakable signs of vicious diathesis be pre- sent, any systemic treatment of hydrarthrus is nugatory ; no amount of purg- ing or diuresis will, in any appreciable degree, affect the disease. Rest in bed often lias a marked effect in reducing the swelling, especially if the case be recent, and if the patient has previously been freely walking about. In all cases, especially if pain exist, the limb should be splinted. Also, in recent attacks, pressure, by means of an elastic-webbing bandage, is benefi- cial, and may even be curative; the parts below must be supported by a firm linen or cotton bandage, to prevent swelling. Iodide of potassium or of lead may be applied under the bandage, and I believe myself to have seen good effects from such treatment. It must always be remembered that these milder methods may appear while the patient remains in bed to have been perfectly successful; but the surgeon must be careful not to encourage false hopes, for it not unfrequently happens that as soon as movement recommences the dis- ease returns. Evacuation by puncture or aspiration is a most valuable resource. Care must be taken to avoid the entrance of air, as already described (see page 274.) As soon as all the fluid has been drawn off, an elastic-webbing band should be firmly applied, the limb being supported on a splint. In more than one case —notably that of a medical man, who had been for five years almost incapaci- tated from going about—I have succeeded in curing the disease by these simple means. Sometimes it happens that the fluid will not flow through the fine canula used for evacuation, but sometimes, in spite of such failure, the subsequent pressure has been quite successful; I suppose because the fluid has been slowly squeezed out into the surrounding tissues. If this result do not occur, or even at once, when no flow takes place, a tenotome may be passed into the same opening, and a large incision made beneath the skin in the synovial membrane. If the tumefaction be great, this may be practised on both sides of the joint, and afterwards the pressure applied ; in doing which it is well to endeavor to get one edge of the divided synovial membrane to overlap the other. If evacuation thi’ougli the trocar have been practised with temporary suc- cess, but with subsequent recurrence of the disease, injection of some irritant substance may be employed. The best of these is doubtless iodine; one or even two fluidrachms of the tincture of iodine in the fluidounce of distilled water may be employed. The fluid from the joint should be measured, and, all appurtenances being at hand, a like amount of the solution should be mixed, and at once gently injected through the canula; a little force may, towards the termination of the injection, be used to induce the full quantity of fluid to enter, but sometimes this is impossible. When the injection is com- pleted, the joint may be gently kneaded (the canula being occluded), and the limb raised and turned on the side, but without moving the joint, to insure, as far as possible, contact of the liquid with all parts of the cavity. As soon as a certain sense of heat in the part, together with a dull aching up the limb, is experienced, the canula-mouth should be opened and the solution allowed to flow ; it should then be gently pressed out of the cavity, either by the hand or, better still, by an clastic bandage. Free incision appears a very heroic method, but by proper precautions, using either carbolic acid or boro-glyceride, is in reality very safe, and is no doubt exceedingly efficacious, especially when fringe-hypertrophy or melon- seed bodies exist. But the incision must be really free, not a mere little cut. If it have been made over a place where the silken crepitus gives evi- dence of fringe-hypertrophy, one or more of the growths will probably float out, and may be removed, which is best done by twisting. I have on more than one occasion passed my finger into the joint, brought enlarged fringes