843 DISORDERS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. mucous membrane are stimulated, and an impression is conveyed along the sensory nerves to tlie reflex centres for the detrusor and sphincter muscles in the spinal cord, and to the sensorium. 2. As a result of the sensory impres- sion conveyed to the brain, the desire to urinate is experienced. 3. As a result of the impulse carried to the reflex motor centres in the spinal cord, the action of the detrusor centre is excited, while the action of the sphincter centre is inhibited. If the circumstances for urination be favorable, an impulse is sent from the brain by the will to the tonic centre for the sphincter, inhibiting its action, and causing the sphincter muscle to relax; also to the centre for the detrusor urinse, strengthening the excitation of that muscle to contract, which has already been aroused by the reflex impulse from the bladder. In health, all these processes are simultaneously accom- plished, and the result is micturition. When, however, the circumstances are not convenient for performing the act, it can be delayed or prevented (a) by voluntarily inhibiting the motor centre for the detrusor urinse; (b) by causing the urethral muscles at the neck of the bladder to contract, likewise by an effort of the will; and, (c) possibly, by strengthening the tonic centre for the sphincter vesicse, in the same manner, and at the same time. (Bram- well.) Thus it will be perceived that three distinct sets of nerves are always concerned in the act of voluntary micturition, namely, (1) a set by which the detrusor urine muscle is automatically operated; (2) a set by which the sphincter vesicte is also operated automatically ; and (3) the conducting fibres of the spinal cord through which the sentient being is enabled to perceive the need of micturating, and to send the mandate of the will down to mic- turate at once or to postpone the act, as circumstances may determine. Moreover, these physiological data can all be usefully employed in diagnos- ticating the injuries and diseases of the spinal cord and spinal column. There are two forms of retention of urine which arise from lesions of the spinal cord. In one of them, the conducting paths in the cord alone are at fault, for the reflex motor centres which determine the action of the vesical muscles are not affected. In such a case, the patient cannot micturate volun- tarily, because the mandates of the will are not conveyed by the conducting fibres of the cord down to the motor centres for the vesical muscles. In such a case, too, the bladder will continue to empty itself automatically from time to time; that is, as soon as the quantity of urine collected in the viseus becomes sufficient to excite reflex contraction of the detrusor uriuse muscle, with inhibition of the sphincter muscle’s tonic centre, evacuation of the viseus ensues. Examples of this form of urinary retention are not unfre- quently afforded by lesions of the spinal cord occurring in the cervical or dorsal regions, when the nerve-injury is restricted to the site of the lesions themselves, and when, consequently, the reflex motor centres for the vesical muscles are unaffected. In such cases, the act of urination usually occurs without the patient’s knowledge, as well as without his consent. In the other form of urinary retention, the difficulty arises from the fact that the reflex motor centre for the detrusor uriuse has ceased to act, while the tonic centre for the sphincter still continues to work, that is, from the fact that the detrusor muscle is paralyzed while the sphincter is not paralyzed. In exam- ples of the first-mentioned form of urinary retention, catheterization may be unnecessary, and it is perhaps from his experience with this class of cases that Mr. Hutchinson1 has been led to think that catheterization is unnecessary in albcases of spinal injury above the loins, unless vesical hyperesthesia be also present. In the other form of urinary retention, however, that in which the detrusor muscle is paralyzed while the sphincter continues in a state of tonic 1 London Hospital Reports, vol. iii. 1866.