ANCHYLOSIS. 415 which the neck of the femur is greatly altered—sometimes almost entirely absorbed (see page 385). There is, after the operation, considerable difficulty in bringing the limb down, and it would appear that in some cases very con- siderable division of the soft parts is necessary. My operation is modified considerably from Sayre’s, both in the shape of the external incision and in the direction of dividing the bone, which is obliquely upwards and outwards. I have performed it three times; Mr. Cantlie once. The limbs in the successful cases became very useful, and by keeping them well abducted during the after-treatment, they were, though shortened by actual measurement, but little shortened in appearance when the patients stood. The operation is by no means severe. The statistics of several of these operations are as follows:— Cases. Deaths. Barton’s and Rodgers’s operations 15 6 Sayre’s operation ........ 2 1 Adams’s operation1 * 33 3 Barwell’s operation 4 1* True Anchylosis of Ivnee.—When a true anchylosis of the knee occurs in a straight line, or indeed at any angle more than 145°, it should prob- ably be let alone; but if the angle be more acute, that is about 135° or less, the inconvenience is very considerable; moreover, the position in walking and standing is so bad that in young persons scoliosis is pretty sure to be produced. The choice of procedure ordinarily lies between two methods, for I assume that the plan practised by Dr. Gurdon Buck, of New York, and by Sir Win. Fergusson, of excising a large wedge of bone from the angle, would now not be employed, or even come into question, save in exceptional cases; and a like observation may be made concerning Rhea Barton’s method of sawing a wedge of bone from the front of the femur a short distance above the condyles; both operations are unnecessarily severe. Brainard’s suggestion (1854) of boring through the femur several times with a drill,3 and fracturing the bone, was in Pancoast’s and Aguew’s cases followed by severe suppuration. Brainard, in 1860, modified this proceeding, by perforating the femoral condyles themselves. These piercing and frac- turing operations have been performed, as far as I can gather, seven times, with one death, but suppuration was frequent. In 1861, Professor Gross, of Philadelphia, extended the use of the drill to the anehylosing bone-substance itself, using a perforator one-sixth of an inch in breadth, and coming to a triangular or diamond-shaped point. This weapon he passes in different directions into the interval between the femur and the tibia, breaking down the intervening bone-tissue, or, if this be too firm, completing the section with a narrow chis.el or Adams’s saw. Seven cases, five of which were his own, have done well under this treatment, and in only one was the traumatic fever somewhat alarming.4 Dr. Gross points out that the operation is dangerous unless there is complete true anchylosis. In 1875, I was, I believe, the first surgeon to use simple osteotomy above the condyles for the relief of angular, true anchylosis of the knee. Whenever 1 Some of these with much suppuration and prolonged convalescence. 8 My fatal case was that of a girl aged 14; a small portion of the lower segment became ne- crosed ; the sequestrum could easily have been removed, but her nearest relative (uncle) declined to have anything done, would not even allow a resultant abscess to be opened, encouraged the child in recalcitrance, resistance to being dressed, etc. Her death is only attributable to obsti- nacy and indocility. 3 The use of a chisel and mallet to the anchylosed joint had been previously suggested by Malgaigne. 4 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 1099.