AXGEIOMA OE VASCULAR TUMOR. 595 rhage. Rarely, sloughing occurs. From one or other of these causes the disease may be spontaneously cured; for the tumor may be completely de- stroyed by gangrene or ulceration, and inflammation alone may suffice to induce thrombosis of the vessels with subsequent shrinking of the tissues. Cavernous Ncevi.—Before discussing the clinical characters, diagnosis, and treatment of the venous and capillary angeiomas, it will be well to describe the cavernous ntevi, the exact position of which is not quite clear, and to point out the anatomical differences which have caused them to be considered, especially by the German pathologists, apart from the venous and capillary tumors. They contain a large number of cavities, sometimes very small, sometimes as large as cherry-stones.1 Between these cavities there is such free communication that an injected fluid thrown into one passes instantly into the others. They are lined with endothelium, and are separated by a variable quantity of intervening tissue, the structure of which is chiefly white fibrous tissue, intimately mingled with yellow elastic tissue, and con- taining almost invariably organic muscular fibres. When the tumor is removed, blood runs out from all the spaces, and the mass shrinks to less than half its former volume, presenting the appearance of a mesh-work, the fibres and partitions of which are white and tough. The characters of the tissue are those of the erectile tissues, that of the penis for example. Occasionally phlebolites are noticed in the cavities. Arteries, sometimes of normal cali- bre, sometimes dilated, open into the cavities, and veins convey the blood directly away from them. They therefore appear to occupy the position, in the circulation, of the capillaries, or of the capillaries and smallest veins. The larger and older tumors are usually inclosed in a fibrous capsule, a rare con- dition in venous and capillary angeiomas; through the capsule the vessels pass into and out of the tumor. The development of the cavernous an- geiomas is probably by the development and dilatation of vessels which become sacculated, and which, by pressure, produce absorption of the sur- rounding textures. Their walls thus come immediately in contact, and, by the continuation of the pressure, are absorbed at certain points, so that the vessels or vascular channels communicate through many openings. Their original tubular nature is by this means destroyed and replaced by the system of anastomosing cavities which forms the essential feature of the cavernous angeiomas. The separation of these tumors from the venous and capillary ntevi has not been generally adopted by English and American surgeons, nor does there appear, if the history of their development be correct, a sufficient reason for the separation. They occur, like the other non-arterial ntevi, in the subcu- taneous tissue, the muscles, and the tongue ; but their seat of election is the liver, where they commonly form growths as large as an English walnut. The tumors of the head and face have a special predilection for the region of the foetal fissures—about the ear, the lips, and orbit; this tendency is so marked that these tumors have been termed jissural angeiomas. Other organs are liable to be attacked besides the liver—the kidneys, spleen, and uterus- The vascular tumors of the internal organs, though they sometimes attain a large size, seldom or never produce any disastrous effects. Yet, from the liability of the superficial tumors to ulcerate and bleed, it might be expected that the superficial ntevi of the organs would sometimes pursue a similar dangerous course. But, whether it be that they are far better protected from violence, 1 In one tumor which I saw many years ago, and of which there is a drawing at the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, London, some of the spaces were as large as a walnut. The patient was an infant only a few days old ; the tumor was situated on the buttock.