159 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. persons, and particularly in men, who, according to Malgaigne, contribute four-fifths of the subjects of this injury. Of the ditferent portions of the bone, it would seem from the statistics given by Hamilton, as well as from those of Agnew, that the middle third is somewhat more frequently affected than either the upper or the lower; and the reason of this may be readily perceived. In the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital there is a specimen1 of double fracture of the ulna, the forearm having been bent around a revolving shaft. “ The upper fracture is near the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and is somewhat oblique. The lower fracture is in the lower third, and is trans- verse. At the time of removal the fractures were not complete, the fibres of the bone which remained unbroken being much bent.” The patient was a boy aged fifteen. When the ulna is broken by direct violence, the fracturing force will obviously tend almost invariably to drive one or both of the fragments toward the radius, and thus to diminish the interosseous space. The upper fragment, from the nature of its connection with the humerus, is not as movable, laterally, as the lower, which is moreover acted upon, in some degree at least, by the pronator quadratus muscle. But the upper fragment may be tilted either forward or backward, as indeed the lower may be also; and thus will result a deformity and change of relation between the bones, by which, if uncorrected, the pronation and supination of the hand would be almost altogether prevented. For the production of this unfortunate effect, it is not necessary that either fragment should be very markedly displaced; a very slight change of angle is sufficient to destroy the parallelism of the two bones, and thus to impair the efficiency of their mechanism. Hamilton says that there is no other long bone the fractures of which are so often complicated as are those of the ulna; and Agnew makes nearly the same statement. The former author saw, in 12 cases out of 36, the radius dislocated forward, or forward and outward, and in one a backward luxation of both radius and ulna, while in four cases the fracture was compound. The rationale of the displacement of the head of the radius, after the support of the sound ulna is lost, is not difficult to comprehend. A curious specimen exists in the Warren Museum,2 which has been already noticed on account of the lesion of the radius; that of the ulna is thus described: “The fracture of the shaft of the ulna is very oblique, commenc- ing at the depression of the articular surface, marking the separation of the coronoid proces.s and the olecranon, extending almost longitudinally 3^ inches downward, and detaching from the shaft that portion of the bone to which the olecranon was attached.” A somewhat similar case, but extending down- ward ordy two inches, and followed by non-union, was reported by Brainard.3 Very generally the fractures of the ulna present but a slight degree of obliquity. The symptoms are pain and loss of power in the forearm and hand, swelling, ecchymosis, and tenderness at the seat of fracture. Sometimes the fingers of the surgeon, passed along the edge of the forearm, perceive a depression or angle, and crepitus is elicited on pressure. Occasionally, in order to develop this latter sign, it is necessary to grasp the upper and lower portions, of the forearm, and make a slight effort as if to rotate the lower upon the upper. Care must be taken, however, to avoid any manipulation which might cause displacement, or increase it if it already exists. . The diagnosis is not often difficult, the subcutaneous position of the bone giving a fair opportunity for its thorough examination. The possibility of ' Catalogue, p. 23, No. 1005. 3 Catalogue, p. 173, No. 1031. 3 Transactions of the Aru. Med. Association, vol. vii. 1854.