539 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. which it is attached by adhesive straps. This splint should be well padded with cotton-batting or lint, and covered with gutta-percha tissue. The man- ner of applying this apparatus is as follows: I shall describe the method pursued in our hospital, which differs in some minor points from that described by Dr. Watson. I have been in the habit of using paraffine, and find that it is quite sufficient to give support, and I think it superior in many respects to the plaster of Paris as recommended by Watson. Fig. 759. Back splint without outside piece. The bones are carefully adjusted, and, while the limb is held in position by an assistant, a light fiannel bandage is applied from the toes to just below' the -wound. A similar bandage is applied to the thigh, from above the wound to as high as the groin. This is done for the double purpose of giving support to the circulation, and also of protecting the limb from the effects of the hot paraffine. The posterior splint is now applied with a gauze bandage soaked in the hot paraffine. This gives considerable firmness, but, before the paraffine consolidates, the position of the bones should be ascertained, and, if they are in the least degree out of position, the disarrangement must be remedied. The anterior splint should now be applied, and retained in posi- tion by gauze bandages, soaked in the same way as before. When these are sufficiently consolidated, the edges of the wound are brought together by inter- rupted wire-sutures with intermediate sutures of carbolized catgut. A large- sized drainage tube is introduced at each angle of the wound, passing in sufficiently far to insure free discharge. If, as is sometimes the case, oozing goes on, a large soft sponge may be placed over the wound, and retained in position by a bandage of antiseptic gauze. Two strips of lint soaked in paraffine, and allowed to cool, are now placed around the edge of the splint, close to the exposed skin, so as to prevent blood or discharge of any kind from passing beneath the splint. The wound is then dressed after the man- ner of Lister, the eight-ply dressing completely encircling the limb and splint, passing beneath the arch of steel, and extending above and below the wound to about a hand’s breadth on either side. The operation and subsequent application of the splint should be conducted under the spray. In all the last fifteen cases treated, the splint was not re- moved until the soft parts had united, and in some not before complete and satisfactory bony union had been obtained. In the subsequent dressings, the spray should also be used. In several of the cases here alluded to, union of the soft parts progressed without any suppuration, and in some the amount of pus was inconsiderable. The great, object is to maintain perfect and absolute rest; by this I mean absolute fixity of the bones, and but slight disturbance of the soft parts—not more than occurs in passing a sponge over the face of the wound, to remove any discharge that may be there. For the first few days the dressings may require to lie changed frequently. It is seldom that they demand removal before the end of 24 hours, but if the oozing of blood and serum be very great, and the dressings become soaked, they should be changed sooner. The apparatus being applied with gauze bandages and paraffine, and a good layer of paraffine covering all, the discharge has no