SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. 827 to the extent of half an inch. But, on applying the instrument to the posterior surface of her legs and thighs, to the parts which are supplied by the sacral plexus, she was conscious of but one impression. Even when the points were separated to the extent of five inches, but one impression was perceived ; and, over the gluteal and sacral regions, she could not feel them at all. It was therefore evident that the disease affected the portion of the spinal cord from which the sacral plexus arose—namely, the lower portion. In addition, it was found that the sphincters of the bladder and rectum, which likewise derive their nerve-filaments from the same plexus, had lost their contractile power. There was a sense of constriction also present, and the urine was strongly alkaline. The diagnosis of chronic myelitis was founded on the fact that for a long time the pa- tient had experienced constant pain at the point where the healthy and diseased portions of the cord united; that there was a sense of constriction also present there; that there was a feeling of numbness almost constantly present in the paralyzed portions of her body; and, frequently, other morbid sensations, such as coldness, burning, formication, etc.; that there were oftentimes reflex-motor spasms in the lower extremities ; that there was well-marked anaesthesia in the portions of cutaneous surface supplied by nerves issuing from the diseased part of the spinal cord; that the sphincters of the anus and bladder were paralyzed ; that the normal movements of the lower extremities were consider- ably impaired; that there was a large slough over the sacrum; and that the urine was strongly alkaline. The treatment consisted in administering ergot in moderate doses by the mouth, and belladonna by the skin, by applying thereto a large plaster made of that remedy ; fresh air, moderate exercise, and a good, nutritious diet were also enjoined. The sacral slough was treated by the method recommended by M. Brown-S^quard (which will presently be described), and by applying galvanism. May 16. The patient has recovered full control over the bladder, the rectum, and the extremities ; her ability to walk is also very much improved. The slough over the sacrum has been entirely cured. The pain has almost entirely departed from the cord, and she is no longer troubled with cramps or numbness in the lower extremities. This highly beneficial plan of treatment is to be continued until the cure is complete. The history of this exceedingly instructive case I have presented as briefly as seemed consistent with elucidating in a satisfactory manner the symptoms, the diagnosis, and the therapeusis of this sometimes obscure and often very troublesome disorder of the spinal cord ; and by so doing I have really saved the use of many words and even para- graphs in the way of abstract description, which ultimately would have been required. Thus I have presented two important examples in which the patient’s “ decu- bitus” had no part whatever in the production of the eschars in question, and in the latter of them the eschar was not even “ acute.” It is, therefore, quite evident that the term “ decubitus acutus” is not at all appropriate for such, instances, as well as not particularly appropriate for any instance of the lesion under consideration; and with a view to indicate at the first glance the ner- vous origin of these sloughs, I have ventured to call them neuropathic eschars, that is, eschars which arise mainly in consequence of morbid excitation or disease of the spinal cord itself, or of the spinal nerves that supply the parts on which the eschars are formed. Symptoms of Neuropathic Eschars.—The)first sign of this disorder is an ery- thematous patch on which vesicuhe and bullae are rapidly developed; morti- fication of this patch of the skin and subjacent tissues very often ensues. When this disorder appears in consequence of a lesion of the spinal cord, it usually presents itself in the sacral region. Here it is bisected vertically by the median line; and it extends itself symmetrically, on either side, into the adjacent integuments. (Fig. 795.) But it may likewise appear on almost any part of the trunk or the members that may be subjected, by posture, to a somewhat continuous pressure. In certain eases, a very slight and a very short pressure suffices to determine its appearance. Finally, there are some