80 INJURIES OF BONES. Grander, T. Wood), and in three cases the lesion was ascribed to muscular contraction (Ollivier d’Angers, Obre,1 La Roe2). Ollivier’s case was that of a woman, aged 56, who made a false step and fell, her head being thrown forcibly backward. “At the same moment she heard a very distinct crack at the upper part of the left side of the neck; there was a fracture of the greater cornu of the hyoid.” La Roe’s patient sustained the injury in yawning. From the few recorded cases, the symptoms of this fracture would seem to be: sharp, sticking pain; sometimes spitting of blood; swelling, and embarrassment in speaking or swallowing ; and, when the fragments remain in contact, crepitation. Upon examination with one finger in the mouth and one outside, the fragments can be felt, and perhaps pushed into place. In Grunder’s case, the only uncomplicated one which proved fatal, the broken cornu wTas found “jammed between the epiglottis and the rima glot- tidis.” In all the other instances, there was union by means of callus; and this had taken place in two specimens, one without history,3 and the other taken from a woman who several years before her death had received a blow on the neck by a heavy boot falling on her as she lay asleep.4 As to the treatment, the first point must of course be to remedy any dis- placement of the fragments, by manipulation; next to allay inflammation, by suitable local applications; to enjoin upon the patient perfect quiet, and to provide for his due nourishment, should swallowing be difficult or impossi- ble, by means of nutrient enemata. A stomach-tube has been used in some cases, but at some risk of disturbing the fracture. Fractures of the Laryngeal Cartilages.—The laryngeal cartilages are from their situation exposed to the same causes of fracture as the hyoid bone—compression by hanging or throttling, falls, and blotvs—but they are less under the shelter of the lower jaw, and hence more frequently suffer. Casper6 says that he has never yet seen fractures of the larynx in cases of hanging; but instances are recorded by Weiss and Cazauvieilh, and in the Warren Anatomical Museum, in Boston, there is a specimen of fracture of the right upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage from a Sandwich Islander, who took his own life in this way. A case in which the cricoid was broken by hanging is also recorded by Porter.6 (In the official report1 of the autopsy on the assassin Guiteau, it is stated that the thyro-hyoid membrane was ruptured, and that the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage were widely separated.) Mor- gagni8 says: “That the larynx is sometimes broken from that cause [hanging], I have seen, together with Valsalva.” ... “A hanged man had the sterno- thyroidei and hyo-thyroidei muscles torn, so that only a membranous sub- stance remained in their place about the annular cartilage. And this very cartilage was also broken asunder.” . . . “ The celebrated Professor Weissius found, in a soldier who had been hanged, the annular cartilage broken asunder into many pieces, and the inferior part of the trachea entirely torn away from the larynx.” Malgaigne quotes cases of fracture of the thyroid cartilage, by the grasp of a hand, from Ladoz and Marjolin. Fractures of the cricoid cartilage alone, produced in the same way, have been reported by Fredet9 and Pemberton.10 1 Gibb, op. cit. 2 Medical Record, April 15, 1882. * Gibb, Trans, of the Pathol. Society of London, 1862. 4 Gurlt, op. cit., Bd. i. S. 327. 5 Op. cit. 6 Archives of Laryngology, June 30, 1880. 7 Medical News, July 8, 1882. 8 De Sedibus et Causis Morborum, Lib. ii. Epist. xix. 9 Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, Jan. 1869. 10 Lancet, May 22, 1869. Mr. Pemberton refers also to papers on Manual Strangulation, by Wilson and Keiller, in the Edinburgh Med. Journal for 1855 and 1856.