262 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. syndesmitis, supposing that such affections could exist, are unknown. The pathologist never sees, and the surgeon never has reason to suspect the exist- ence of, such diseases. It may then be taken as assured that the only maladies with which we have to do, arise either in the synovial membranes or in the bones of joints ; some which, like the so-called loose bodies of joints, are results of disease rather than disease itself, originate sometimes in one structure, sometimes in another; while certain other maladies may perhaps begin simultaneously in both structures—involving rapidly the more passive parts—so that all after a short time go pari passu through the various phases of disease. Such con- ditions must stand over for future consideration, since they will be better understood when the phenomena of synovial and of osteal disease have been fully explained. Synovitis may primarily be divided into acute, subacute, and chronic. Probably no diseases in the whole range of pathology arise from so many causes as acute and subacute synovitis; thus violence, wounds, over-fatigue, exposure to cold, rheumatism, gout, syphilis, and the absorption of morbid poisons, all give rise to synovial inflammation, and bestow qualifying names on the disease. Moreover, these causes impress upon the symptoms certain characters which the surgeon should clearly recognize. For instance, certain of them are causes which affect the whole system, and then we find that the disease attacks several joints, or is “ multarticular.”1 The distinction must be borne in mind: “uniarticular,” acute or subacute disease is local; “mult- articular” maladies are constitutional. The least complex forms of synovitis are those that follow some injury without open wound, but even in them certain distinctions are made. Simple Synovitis.—Simple synovitis is also termed sero-synovitis, because the liquid in the joint, though excessive in amount, is not markedly changed in quality; it is a moderately clear, usually a rather thin synovia. But if the hurt have been more severe, and this applies especially to direct violence, as by falls or blows, this fluid is very likely to be mixed with and more or less deeply stained with blood; indeed, sometimes hemorrhage into the sac has been sufficient to cause the fluid to appear like unmixed blood, and so little is it diluted that in this sanguinolent synovitis the fibrin often coagu- lates out of the blood and floats in the cavity or falls upon its walls as shreddy flocculi. Again, in other cases, the cells cast off from the surface of the membrane—from the proliferating tissue2—and no doubt also a certain number of emigrated leucocytes, become sufficient in quantity to render a blood- less synovia opalescent, turbid, milky, even creamy; the fluid in the latter stage is indistinguishable from pus ; but it is a surfacejpus, rather resulting from perversion of an excessive secretion than from any inflammatory tissue- disintegration; thus, for instance, an ordinary leucorrhoea may become muco- purulent or frankly purulent, yet without any deeper suppuration, wdiich, did it occur, would probably he called pelvic cellulitis or parametritis. Volk- mann terms3 this form of disease catarrhal; I have termed it purulent syno- vitis, in contra-distinction to suppurative synovitis—the much graver malady in which inflammatory pus is produced not merely on the surface, but in the sub- stance of synovial and peri-synovial tissues, and even in the bones, by absolute 1 Such diseases, although they may, after a certain time, implicate only one joint, always be- gin by attacking several others simultaneously, or in rapid succession. 2 See, upon this point, Prof. Strieker’s article in this Encyclopaedia, Vol. I. pp. 26-30. 3 Die Krankheiten der Bewegungsorgane. Pitha und Billroth, Handbuch der Chirurgie, Band ii. Abtheilung ii. S. 493.