659 SPECIAL VARIETIES OF CYST. A solid tumor may be formed within a cyst by outgrowth, or rather in- growth, of its walls. Such growths are often papillary, derived from the epithelial lining of the sac; or the connective tissue, either of the sac itself or of the parts immediately beyond the sac, may commence to grow unduly, and, experiencing least resistance in the direction of the cyst, may intrude upon its cavity, thrusting before it the lining membrane of the cyst. The papillary growths may he met with in such simple cysts as the sebaceous, and may in time entirely occupy the sac to the exclusion of the material which previously tilled it. The second form of intracystic growth is much more frequently observed in tumors partly cystic and partly solid, those of the mam- mary gland for instance (sero-cystic disease), in which the cysts are often occupied by connective-tissue growth, rarely by epithelial. Cysts may develop within a solid tumor by almost any of the methods which have been described. Thus, they may be formed from previously existing ducts and acini, as in the cystic tumors of the breast; or hv the grow- ing together of papillary processes, as in tumors of the breast and ovary; or hv condensation around blood or other morbid material; or by the expansion and fusion of the areolae of connective tissue ; or by changes in cells, or groups of cells. Many of the cavities which are found in tumors are produced by liquefaction of some of the solid structures of the tumor, and are rather cystoid than cystic. Some of the cystoid cavities are furnished with per- fectly smooth walls or sacs, hut many of them are irregularly shaped spaces with ragged walls. Every kind and degree of cystoid cavity may be observed in soft, sarcomatous tumors, or, better still, in large tumors partly chondritied. The cartilage of such tumors often softens down into a clear viscid fluid, which forms the contents ot the cystic cavity. The cysts in solid tumors may he again filled up in whole or part by intra- cystic growths, in or about which a second series of cysts may he formed. By a succession of such changes are produced the singular characters pre- sented by certain of the cystic tumors of the breast. " Special Varieties of Cyst. Most of the cysts will he described in other parts of this work, in the sections devoted to the diseases of the organs in which they commonly occur—the breast, the ovary, etc.—hut some of them may he more fitly considered in this place. Sebaceous Cysts.—These may occur in any part of the body in which sebaceous glands naturally exist, hut are more frequently found in the scalp than elsewhere. Several of them may he found in the same patient. They are far more common in adults than in children. The characters they present are generally very decided: a rounded or oval shape; a soft, sometimes fluc- tuating, sometimes doughy consistence ; an indolent course. They are seated chiefly in the subcutaneous tissue, hut are attached so closely to the skin that they cannot he separated from it. The skin covering them is sometimes un- changed, hut, in the scalp, is generally smooth, and bald, and white, and in other parts, when the cyst is large, is often reddened, and marked by ramify- ing vessels ; on the summit of many of the cysts may he found a tiny depres- sion marked by a dark speck, corresponding with the obstructed duct of the gland from which the cyst has been developed. If not interfered with, they may remain during many years unaltered, neither increasing nor diminish- ing in size, or they may slowly increase and attain the size of an ordinary orange, but seldom a larger hulk than this. Their characters are, however,