INJURIES OF THE BACK. 742 have sustained similar lesions ; and, as a rule, the further the seat of injury is removed from the respiratory centres, the more favorable is the prognosis. In dorsal and lumbar dislocations and fractures, without intra-spinal hemorrhage, the chief sources of danger to life are the occurrence of spinal meningitis, of ascending myelitis, of trophic lesions such as sacral and gluteal eschars or bed-sores, and of vesical or renal inflammation. The appearance of either of these complications greatly increases the gravity of every case. There are some symptoms, however, which are especially bad prognostics. Among them may be mentioned persistent elevation or depression of the body-tem- perature, flushing of the face, great frequency or infrequency of the pulse, early appearing and rapidly spreading sacral or gluteal eschars or acute bed- sores, incontinence of urine and feces succeeding retention, enlargement of the paralyzed area in an upward direction and increase of the paralytic symptoms, especially when they are progressive, diaphragmatic breathing, and dyspnoea. Incontinence of feces and urine succeeds retention in these cases, because the sphincter muscles have become paralyzed; and this circum- stance denotes that the nerve centres upon which their action depends have become affected. Progressive, upward extension and deepening of the para- lysis, generally indicate progressive, upward disorganization of the cord. Diaphragmatic breathing coming on some days after the accident, is a most unfavorable symptom, and generally denotes that the compression or disor- ganization of the spinal cord has attained so high a point that the diaphragm alone of all the respiratory muscles remains unparalyzed. Dyspnoea occurring in this connection usually indicates that the aeration of the blood is quite imperfect, and that the induction of fatal coma in consequence thereof may be at hand. Priapism is generally a dangerous symptom, but not necessarily a fatal one; for there are cases on record of recovery from spinal injury where this symptom had existed. The progressive diminution of paralysis, in these cases, is a most favorable symptom. The return of motor power is not unfrequently attended by in- voluntary contractions and twitchings of the muscles; these symptoms, however, are not to be considered unfavorable at this stage, although they are supposed by Brodie, and probably with justice, to indicate compression or mechanical irritation of the spinal cord when they attend an earlier stage. Treatment.—In no case of dislocation of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae, however clear the symptoms of the dislocation may be, can it be asserted with absolute certainty during life that no fracture is present. While pure dislo- cations of these vertebrae are quite rare, dislocations combined with fracture are quite common in the dorsal and lumbar regions; but the treatment of both forms of injury should be conducted on substantially the same plan. The want of a strictly exact diagnosis in this regard is, therefore, not as essen- tiahto the therapeusis of dorsal and lumbar dislocations as it is in those of the cervical region. The condition of the injured parts in dorsal and lumbar dislocations, as well as in cervical, is usually as follows: The muscular and connective tissue around the displacement is extensively lacerated and infiltrated with blood; the intervertebral disk or ligament is torn through at the seat of displacement, so as to allow the body of the upper vertebra to be thrown forward from that of the lower; the anterior and posterior common ligaments are much stretched and extensively detached; the ligamenta subtlava and the capsular ligaments are lacerated; the laminae, or certain of the vertebral processes, are fractured; the theca vertebralis is stained with blood, bruised, stretched, and perhaps somewhat torn; the spinal canal contains more or less blood; while the spinal cord is ecchymosed and abruptly bent, and sometimes presents a compressed