EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 502 Cases of Amputation subsequent to Excision of the Hip-joint for Hip- disease. Ho. Operator. Result. 1 Alexander Recovered 2 Id. ... < < 3 Armstrong . Died 4 Barwell Recovered 5 Id. Died 6 Bellamy Recovered 7 Bruns .... Died 8 Davy .... Recovered 9 Dawson Undetermined 10 Elkington Recovered 11 Garden.... “ 12 Gay .... U 13 Gould .... Died 14 Heyfelder ( ( 15 Holmes 16 Id. l ( No. Operator. Result. 17 Holmes Died 18 Hulke Undetermined 19 Jackson Recovered 20 Lucas .... Undetermined 21 Lyon .... Recovered 22 Marshall Died 23 Id. Recovered 24 Id. ... “ 25 Murbach ll 26 Parker .... l < 27 Smyth .... 28 Spence .... i l 29 Swain .... Undetermined 30 Teale .... Recovered 31 Whitehead . Died Frosch has collected statistics of hip-joint excisions done with antiseptic precautions, and finds that one hundred and sixty-six cases gave seventy-six recoveries and forty-four deaths, the result in the remaining forty-six not having been ascertained. The mortality of terminated cases, according to these figures, was, therefore, 36.6 per cent., or 5 per cent, more than that in my own list of cases, in which no attempt was made to adopt Listerian measures. The fact is that the mortality after this operation is almost exclu- sively due to constitutional conditions, and very little dependent upon the management of the wound. Resection of the Femur.—Excision in the continuity of the femur is an operation seldom called for or justified. In cases of compound fracture, the choice should rather be between pure expectancy (with removal of loose frag- ments, etc.) and amputation, and in cases of necrosis, when anything more than extraction of sequestra is necessary, ablation of the limb should be resorted to. Resection may be practised for the relief of ununited fracture, but in this part of the body is both a doubtful and a dangerous remedy, and, should milder measures fail to secure union, the patient will, as a rule, do well to be satisfied with the adoption of some mechanical means of support, such as that devised by Professor II. H. Smith, of Philadelphia,1 rather than undergo the risks of a resection. Excision of a wedge-shaped portion of bone, as originally practised by Barton for bony anchylosis of the knee, has been probably more successful than any other form of resection in this situa- tion, but is a less desirable operation than simple osteotomy, as recommended by Mr. Barwell,2 and I must say the same of the operations for removing a disk of bone practised by Rodgers, Sayre, and Volkmann, in cases of bony anchylosis of the hip.3 Resection of one femur, to compensate for shortening in the other, was proposed and practised by Meyer, of Wurzburg, and his example has been occasionally imitated by other operators—a reckless form of surgery which seems to me quite without justification. If the operation of femoral resection is to be done at all, it may be accom- plished by making a longitudinal incision on the outer side of the limb, ex- posing the bone, and then removing as much of the latter as may be thought desirable, with a chain-saw. 1 See p. 59, fig. 588. 2 See p. 415. 8 See pp. 412, 413.