EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 492 Prof. Sayre, who lays great stress upon the importance of a sub-periosteal excision, divides the periosteum transversely with a strong-bladed knife, somewhat like an “ oyster-knife,” separates the membrane with an elevator, and saws through the bone in situ with a straight saw, before disarticulating; but my own experience leads me to think, with Mr. Holmes, that the sub- Fig. 717. Excision of the hip-joint. periosteal method presents no particular advantages in this situation, and I believe that it is safer to effect disarticulation before applying the saw, in the way above described. In some cases, however, where there is firm anchy- losis, this cannot be accomplished, and it may then be necessary to use the straight saw, and afterwards clear away the head and neck of the femur from the acetabulum with gouge and mallet. The great trochanter should, I think, always be removed, even if it be not itself diseased, as it is apt to become so subsequently, and may interfere with the healing of the wound by protruding between its lips. The lesser trochan- ter may also be cut away with bone forceps, if it seem very prominent, and it is well to trim the edges of the truncated shaft so as to round it off, and give it somewhat the form of the natural head of the femur. Care must be taken, in pushing up the caput femoris through the wound, not to fracture the shaft; this accident, which has occurred twice within my own knowl- edge, does no particular harm, as the bone reunites without difficulty, but it adds an inconvenient complication to the after-treatment. The femur having been resected, the acetabulum and other exposed por- tions of the os innominatum are to be carefully examined, and any portions that are found carious or necrosed freely dealt with, loose fragments being extracted, and parts that are diseased but not loose removed with gouge or gouge-forceps, osteotrite, trephine, or small saw. Surgeons formerly thought that, interference with the pelvic bones was unjustifiable, and that extensive pelvic disease therefore forbade the hope of successful excision; but Hancock, Erichsen, and others have shown that the acetabular form of hip-disease is almost as amenable to operative treatment as the femoral, and the whole bony floor of the acetabulum, and even large portions of the ischium and