430 DISEASES OF TIIE JOINTS. by the friction of one part on another, and to obviate as far as possible dis- location and fracture. Both these objects can only be furthered by rest, more or less complete.1 Light splints, bandaged on the limb, may be used for this purpose. The initial tumefaction may also be combated by judicious bandag- ing, but only lightly applied, lest more severe pressure should augment the tendency to bony absorption. Ball recommends a succession of blisters, but he gives no example of their benefit, and it is not easy to pei’ceive what could be hoped from their application. When dislocation has occurred, a case of leather, adapted to the deformed limb, should be applied. When fracture takes place, it must be treated on ordinary principles, the tendency to deformity being specially borne in mind. The whole local management must be subordinated to the condition and treatment of the neuropathy. Tumors of Joints. Tumors of joints are neoplasms originating in or upon the articular ends of bones.2 The common connective tissues surrounding the joints may, like those tissues in other parts, be the site of tumors, but in point of fact they rarely are so affected; and any neoplasm so placed has no especial relation to the joint as a mechanism or organ. The tumors with which we have to do here are: (1) exostosis; (2) chondroma; (3) sarcoma; (4) carcinoma; (5) angeioma; (6) aneurism of bone; and (7) echinococcus of bone. The three last are excessively rare. Fibroid tumors, which are common enough about the bones inclosing the mouth and nares, where they are commonly called nasopharyngeal polypi, are very rare in the neighborhood of joints; while cystic tumors proper, in- fest almost exclusively the jaw-bones. Exostosis is to be distinguished from hyperostosis, in that the former has a distinct and well-defined stalk from which the bulk of the tumor grows, but which itself does not increase. Hyperostosis has no defined or limited stalk, but is rather a conical, slightly elevated outgrowth from a broad, in- definite basis ; its increase takes place, not by augmentation of the elevation, but of the base; it is, indeed, a local hypertrophy rather than a tumor, and resembles the thickening which results from chronic osteitis. Exostoses are more especially accustomed to grow from the immediate neighborhood of epiphyseal junctions, and are therefore more common in youthful than in later life. Their favorite seats are: (1) The lower end of the femur; (2) the upper end of the tibia; (3) the upper end of the humerus, particularly from either edge of the bicipital groove. The exostoses that thus grow from limb-bones all belong to the cancellous variety—that is to say, their interior consists of cancellous or spongy bone, coated by an outer layer of more compact, but still soft, osseous tissue ; and this is often covered by a layer of cartilage, which probably is the element of increase, ossify- ing on the attached, and growing on the free surface. Any portion of that surface which produces friction on superjacent structures, is very commonly covered by a bursa. In shape, exostoses assume two varieties; they are either smaller at their tip than at their base, and curved so as somewhat to resemble the spur of a cock—these are chiefly such as grow from or near 1 See Weir Mitchell, The Influence of Rest in Locomotor Ataxy. American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1873. 2 False bodies within joints are not to be considered as tumors of joints.