FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 153 Compound fracture of the olecranon is occasionally met with. Its gravity must depend, in a measure, upon the possible admission of air into the joint, or the effusion of blood into that cavity, either of which occurrences would be of serious import as to the prognosis and treatment of the case, by reason of the inflammation likely to ensue. When the synovial membrane remains intact, the wound must be closed, and the fracture dealt with as in ordinary cases; when the joint is laid open, it ought to be carefully cleansed with carbolized water, and all inflammation allayed by appropriate means before splints are applied. Anchylosis is very apt to ensue under such circumstances. Fracture of the coronoid process ot the ulna is a lesion usually described as very rare, and it has certainly been very seldom recognized as occurring by itself. It may, however, be questioned whether it does not sometimes attend backward luxations of the forearm, as in a case reported by Sayre.1 The first published observation of this lesion, according to Malgaigne, was that of Brassard, in 1811. The patient had fallen, three months pre- viously, on his outstretched hand ; the motions of the forearm were all free and painless, except flexion, which was limited. “ In front of the ulna, between it and the end of the humerus, was found a hard body, somewhat movable, against which the ulna was arrested when the attempt to flex the forearm was made.” Dorsey,2 in 1813, says:— “ The coronoid process of the ulna, Dr. Physick has once seen broken. The symp- toms resembled a dislocation of the humerus forward, or rather of the forearm back- ward, except that when the reduction was effected the dislocation was repeated, and by careful examination the crepitation was discovered.” Hulke3 mentions the case “ of a man killed by a fall from the roof of St. George’s Hospital, in whom the coronoid processes were found to be frac- tured, and the two bones of the forearm dislocated backward, on both sides.” Bradford4 has reported the case of a man, aged twenty-four, who fell a dis- tance of forty feet, and died of his injuries, among which was a fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, part of the trochlea of the humerus being also chipped off*. The main symptom is stated to have been constantly recur- ring dislocation backward. Sir Astley Cooper’s two cases,5 one of which was verified by dissection, are well known. In the account of the latter, it is stated that the coronoid process “ had been broken oft' within the joint,” which is obviously an anatomical impossibility, although the fracture must of course have entered the joint. Another very often quoted case is that of Liston, in which a boy aged eight sustained the injury by hanging by his hand from the top of a high wall, afraid to drop down. Fahnestock6 reported the case of a boy who “ fell from the haymow, and received the whole weight of his body on the back part of the palm of' the left hand, whilst the arm was extended forward, by which impulse the coro- noid process of the ulna was displaced ;” the limb presented the appearance of one in which the forearm was dislocated backward, but on being reduced the deformity recurred, and the recurrence was attended by an evident crepi- tation. It is stated that the boy “ recovered very speedily,” but the degree to which the power of flexion was restored is not noted. Duel-7 saw a boy, aged six, who, seven weeks before, had fallen from a haymow and dislocated the forearm backward. The displacement still existed, “ and the arm being some- what flexed, the detached portion of the coronoid process lying in front of the 1 Transactions of Med. Soc. of State of New York, 1871. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d edit. vol. i. p. 162. 4 Boston Med. and Surg. journal, July 17, 1883. 6 Ain. Journal of the Med. Sciences, May, 1830. 2 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 152. 6 Op. cit., p. 469. i Ibid., Oct. 1863.