184 INJURIES OF BONES. rapidly, when the diagnosis is a matter of more difficulty. Such an instance has been placed on record by Townsend.1 Occurring, as they do for the most part, among people of the rougher class, these fractures are apt to be less carefully looked after than those of greater apparent importance; and hence persistent deformity is often seen, and non-union is occasionally met with. Serious interference with the function of the hand is very rare. Hamilton, however, saw a case in which, the metacarpal bone of the index finger having been broken in striking a blow, suppuration followed, and four months after the injury “there existed complete anchylosis at the wrist-joint, and partial anchylosis in the fingers. The hand was deflected forcibly to tbc radial side. At the point of fracture the fragments were salient backward and quite prominent, but firmly united.” It would seem that here there had beer, thecal abscess, involving the joints secondarily; but such lesions often occur quite independently of any fracture. The treatment consists in restoring the shape of the bone, by filling up the cavity of the palm with some firm body, such as a ball or a mass of tow, and confining it in place by means of a roller or adhesive plaster. Agnew advises a splint, to extend along the palmar surface from the elbow to the ends of the fingers, with a wad of tow in the palm. I think that the ordinary Bond’s splint, with the block cut away into an oval shape, would answer as well. Malgaigne, in one case, found two small transverse splints, well padded, effectual. Non-union would in most cases be productive of so little real inconvenience, that it would not be justifiable to resort to any operative procedure to remedy it. Possibly, if the metacarpal bone of the index finger were the one con- cerned, some of the less severe measures might be adopted; but it would be very unfortunate if the result should be thecal abscess, and a great aggrava- tion of the disability. Fractures of tiie phalanges are not very uncommon; the bones of the thumb are more rarely broken than those of the fingers. Of the latter, I think the index and middle fingers are most liable to fracture, but the others are by no means exempt; the experience of different surgeons varies in this respect. The distal phalanges would seem to be less apt to suffer than the proximal, and the intermediate ones less than either. These injuries have been met with at all ages, and in both sexes, although men are much more exposed than women to the direct violence which is their usual cause. They are very apt to occur to machinists, masons, etc., and are not unfrequent in base- ball players. One case of fracture of the proximal extremity of the index- finger by muscular action, has been recorded by Bellamy.2 The patient, a man aged fifty-five, made a miss in striking a back-handed blow. It must be obvious that force sufficient to break one of these bones would be very likely to comminute it, and to inflict serious damage upon the soft parts also; hence these fractures are very often compound. I once saw a separation of the palmar margin of the articular face of the first phalanx of the index finger, in a young lady, caused by a blow against the sharp edge of a bedstead; the fragment was plainly to be felt. No serious inflammation followed, and union took place favorably. Most of these injuries are much more grave. A year or two since I was called into the street late at night to see a gentleman who, in going home, had slipped upon the icy pavement, and catching at a spiked railing, had impaled his middle-finger upon one of the points, splitting the first phalanx from end to 1 Philadelphia Medical Times, Oct. 16, 1871. 2 British Med. Journal, March 28, 1874.