930 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. very ably described by Mr. Shaw.1 “When the abscess,” he writes, “has perforated the diaphragm and gained its abdominal side, it comes into relation with the heads of the psoas muscle. That muscle arises by one set of fibres from the sides of the bodies of the vertebra, by another from the roots of the transverse processes; and stretched across both orifices in front are the liga- menta arcuata. As the abscess, therefore, travels downwards, it has to pass through a narrow strait; it is prevented from enlarging on the forepart by the resistance of the ligamenta arcuata, and at the back by that of the spine and lowest rib ; hence, in order to proceed, it has to force its way in the line of the psoas muscle. That, however, can only be done by penetrating into its interior. It accomplishes this, in the first place, by inserting its most advanced part, like a wedge, between the two orifices; it then splits and distends the fibres, so as to form a cavity for the reception of the pus; the muscular fibres become incorporated with the walls of the abscess, and the psoas at length is con- verted, more or less thoroughly, into an abscess. But the muscle, charged with pus, does not expand equally in every direction. The fascia iliaca forms a kind of sheath for it; and this being particularly strong on the inner side, and united firmly to the brim of the true pelvis, prevents the growth of the abscess inwardly. On the outer side, however, the connections are loose; and there enlargement takes place freely. The abscess now chiefly occu- pies the hollow Detween the united fibres of the iliacus interims and psoas muscles on the inside, and the crest of the ilium on the outside. When the advanced part reaches the level of Poupart’s ligament, a certain retardation occurs; and then a bulging will be observed along the line of the flexure of the groin. The abscess now perforates the abdominal walls and the opening is invariably at one place, namely, behind Poupart’s ligament, between the united tendons of the iliacus and psoas muscles and the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium. The situation corresponds to the point of junction of the outer with the middle third of Poupart’s ligament.” The abscess then descends a certain way down the thigh, and opens usually about the insertion of the psoas. By this process, the entire psoas muscle may be destroyed and converted into a mere bag of pus, but, no matter how complete the destruction, the branches of the lumbar plexus that traverse the muscle remain intact, and lie, dissected out, across the purulent cavity. This cavity is generally very irregular in its dimensions. Where it passes the diaphragm and the abdo- minal walls, it is usually narrowed into a small “ neck,” and there are many eases where the continuity between parts of the abscess-cavity has been destroyed by a temporary or permanent closure of the “ neck” situate at the abdominal parietes. The part of the abscess-cyst just above the perforation in the parietes is usually of considerable dimensions, and like dimensions may also be attained by the abscess in the thigh. On reaching the limb, the pus may leave the psoas, and extend indefinitely about the front of the thigh, forming a large collection of matter, or it may proceed down the limb and point at almost any part of the extremity. Erichsen, indeed, cites a case where an abscess, which took origin in disease of the dorsal vertebra, opened by the side of the tendo Achillis.2 Sometimes the abscess cavity bifurcates high up, and the pus descends in both psoas muscles, forming a double psoas abscess ; and the same condition may be met with where two abscesses form, one on either side, and descend independently towards the pelvis. Pus from disease of the lumbar vertebra may enter the psoas muscle at any part of its length, and lead to the forma- tion of a definite psoas abscess. 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iv. page 119. 2 Science and Art of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. 242.