INJURIES OF BONES. 252 ment the case of a boy of six, who “ was standing on an iron rail fence, and in trying to jump down was caught by the heel and left hanging in that position the subsequent deformity, without crepitus, and the straightening of the limb by means of splints, seemed to warrant the diagnosis given, which, however, could not be absolutely verified, as the patient recovered. The third case was observed by Menzel,1 of Trieste, in a man aged forty-eight, who was run over. There was some elastic mobility of the bone; the patient died of pyaemia, and “ the left tibia was found partially fractured between the inferior and middle thirds ; about seven-eighths of its substance was divided transversely ; the remainder presented not even a trace of fissure.” Sometimes, although the main line of fracture is nearly transverse, there are subordinate breakages, making a comminution of the bone. James2 has recorded a case of longitudinal and transverse fracture of the tibia, with extensive extravasation of blood into the tissues of the leg. Epiphyseal disjunctions have been observed in the tibia: Madame Lacha- pelle’s case, in which the lower epiphysis of the femur and the upper of the tibia were detached in the delivery of a child, has been already mentioned, as has one of separation of the lower epiphysis of the tibia, quoted by Holmes from R. W. Smith. Stimson3 has reported to the Hew York Surgical Society the case of a child, aged eighteen months, run over by a horse-car, in whom the upper epiphysis of the tibia was cleanly separated ; the upper end of the shaft was denuded of periosteum, which was adherent to the epiphyseal fragment. A specimen of separation of the upper epiphysis of the tibia, from a crusli of the leg which required amputation, is figured by Ashhurst.4 * The original is in the Museum of the Episcopal Hospital. Another case, in a boy of seventeen, has been placed on record by Quain ;6 the lower epiphysis was detached, the boy falling with his foot doubled under him. Martin6 reports a case of compound separation of the lower epiphysis of the tibia, which may be mentioned here, although the fibula was also fractured about four inches above. The patient, a German boy, eleven years old, fell from about half the height of a telegraph pole. “ The distal end of the shaft of the tibia had been separated from the epiphysis, and was protruding through the integuments. It had been thrust into the hard frozen earth, friction with which had stripped the periosteal covering of the bone from its entire external surface for the space of at least one and three-quarter inches. The peculiar stellate radiations of the extremity of the shaft where it joins the epiphysis were found to be perfect, when the dirt which had been packed into them had been removed.” The boy recovered perfectly in two months. Reference has already been made, in the early part of this article,7 to “ sprain fractures.” Besides the instances there mentioned, a very instructive account is quoted by Hulke8 from Dr. Hutton, with a representation of the specimen, of detachment of the spine and central portion of the head of the tibia, with part of its left articular surface, the fragment remaining adherent to the anterior crucial ligament. The injury was sustained in wrestling. The symptoms of fracture of the tibia are not always very marked. Although ,, the uninjured fibula is not strong enough to sustain the weight of the body, it is sufficiently so to prevent any great separation between the fragments of 1 London Med. Record, May 27, 1874; from Gazz. Med. Ital. Lomb., 28 Marzo. 2 Australian Med. Journal, 1882 ; quoted in Index Medicus for May, 1883. 8 Med. Record, July 15, 1882. 4 Principles and Practice of Surgery, 3d ed. page 269, Figs. 132, 133. Philadelphia, 1882. 6 British Med. Journal, Aug. 31, 1867 ; Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol i. p. 1039. 6 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Sept. 27, 1877. 7 See page 19. 8 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1039 ; the original account is in the Dublin Hospital Gazette for 1846.