ARTHROPATHIES FROM INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 429 became united, apparently without difficulty, but in a most clumsy manner, the left radius and ulna being luted together by ill-formed callus. The left femur was so shortened that it was found, after death, to measure only 19 centimetres (71 inches), while the right measured 50 centimetres (19 J inches).1 The patient died, about a year or sixteen months after admission to the Hotel Dieu, of ruptured aortic aneurism. In other cases, the bone after fracture has become very thin and twisted.2 The absence of pain in both dislocations and fractures is very important in a diagnostic point of view, as is also the peculiarly loose, mobile condition of the displaced bone—quite unlike any other luxation; for instance, in one of Dr. Buzzard’s patients, it is said that “ on removing the leather casing from the right knee, the joint seemed to fall abroad.” The patient herself could replace the bones, and said that when she put on the casing she had to take the bones, put them straight in their places, and tie them together with a bandage, to keep them together while she put on the splint. The joint could be twisted about and the bones knocked together audibly without causing pain. Manipulation gave a feeling as of disappearance of all ligamentous connections, the bones seeming only held together by muscular and cutaneous tissues.3 Such a condition may well be believed to have existed in the knee and shoulder of a patient (represented in Fig. 676), who, for many years, was in the Salpetriere, one of M. Charcot’s favorite examples of this disease. Fig. 67(j. Tabetic arthropathy. (After Charcot.) All the conditions of this disease, viz., presence of lightning pains, sudden advent, painlessness, extreme mobility, and absence of nodosities, mark it so distinctly from arthritis deformans, that it hardly appears desirable to con- trast special points for differential diagnosis. Treatment.—All that the surgeon can do for a disease depending, as this does, on a deep central lesion, is to retard the wearing away of bony surfaces 1 This shortening appeared to he due to the friction of the two fragments causing atrophy of the upper one. 1 Talamon, Revue Mensuelle de Medecine, 1878. 3 Path. Trans, vol. xxxi. p. 201.