INJURIES OF BONES. 240 almost exactly transverse fracture in this region have come under my obser- vation. Tillaux says that one reason why the tibia is apt to break below the middle, is that it has there its least diameter; another, that it there assumes a cylindrical instead of a triangular form ; and he mentions a third, “ a pecu- liar arrangement of the bony tissue, pointed out by MM. Fay el and Duret; the cancellous structure of the tibia is, according to these authors, disposed in two independent systems of vertical columns; the one occupies the upper two-thirds, and the other the lower third, so that the minimum of resistance corresponds to the junction of the two systems.” In the middle, or indeed anywhere in the extent of the actual shaft of the bone, if force is applied to the tibia sufficient to break it, and especially if it be indirect, the fibula can scarcely escape: the exceptions being perhaps slight torsion, and such force as the kick of a horse, or any pressure brought sud- denly to bear upon the tibia, for an instant only; in such cases the elasticity of the fibula may allow it to yield, and to spring back into shape. Some- times, indeed, the slenderness of the fibula may exempt it from direct force which breaks the tibia. If the leg is strongly bent between the knee and the foot, both bones may give way at once, or the tibia may be first broken, and the fibula may yield secondarily from the stress put upon it when it is no longer supported by the larger bone. Holmes1 figures a specimen in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, show- ing “ the lower epiphyses of the femur and tibia, and both epiphyses of the fibula, separated in the same injury ; the shaft of the tibia is also fractured.” He quotes also Prof. R. W. Smith’s account of a case of separation of the lower epiphysis of the tibia, observed in a boy, aged sixteen, who recovered. The symptoms of this injury are often very distinct. As a general rule, there is immediate loss of power, and the patient falls ; but to this there have been noted numerous exceptions. Ormerod2 mentions the case of a man aged thirty-two, admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in 1843, who had sus- tained, by the kick of a horse, a transverse fracture of the right tibia a little below the middle, with fracture of the fibula in its lower third. He had walked to the hospital, consuming about four hours in so doing, with a crutch about the length of a walking stick ; his leg was very crooked at the time of his admission. Bryant says, “ I have seen more than one patient walk upon the fractured limb directly after the accident, and in one case a man went up a whole flight of stairs to his ward with hut a slight limp. In another, under care in 1874, a woman with a fractured tibia and fibula went about for a week.” A case is recorded3 of a patient walking about for twelve days after sustaining a fracture of the leg. Pain is very seldom absent, and may be very severe; there is always ten- derness over the seat of injury, or if the limb is grasped above and below, and stress put upon the fractured portion. The deformity is sometimes very slight, but may be extremely marked; its character depends chiefly upon the fracturing force. When this has been great, the limb may be wrenched entirely out of shape, bent, twisted, and perhaps shortened.' But, as will be further detailed hereafter, in some very grave fractures there may be scarcely any change of form. Preternatural mobility is another symptom which varies greatly in degree in different cases. Sometimes the lower part of the limb dangles in the loosest way, but sometimes the fragments are held together by interdigita- tions, so that there is very little movement between them. 1 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, 1st ed. p. 259. 2 Clinical Collections and Cases in Surgery, p. 50. London, 1846. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Scienoes, Oct. 1845, from Recueil de Mem. de Med., de Chir., et de Phar. Militaires.