15 MECHANISM OF THE PRODUCTION OF FRACTURES. afford the greatest possible strength. Sections, vertical or transverse, of the bodies of the vertebrae, of the astragalus, of the carpal or tarsal bones, or even of the articular ends of the phalanges, will show this law ; and it will be fur- ther noticed that, in any of these cases, if the surface to receive pressure is concave, the shell of bone is thickened accordingly.1 If now the lines of muscular traction be considered, the further fact will appear that it is invariably exerted so as to bear in the length of these columns of bony tissue, whether of the shafts or of the extremities of the long hones, or of the mass of those more or less cubical in shape. The ribs, pulled upon by the intercostal muscles at their upper and lower margins, are tilled from end to end with cancellous tissue, so arranged as to take the strain thus imposed, while other lamellae, placed transversely, meet the effect of pressure; hence these bones, although long in shape, are analogous to the so-called thick or round bones in structure. In looking at the relations of the ribs to muscles, it must not be forgotten that very powerful strain is brought upon these bones by some of the muscles acting on the upper extremity ; but it will be found that in this respect also the same law as to the distribution of stress is carried out, so as to reduce it to a minimum for each portion of each bone. The lines of tension of the muscles always form more or less acute angles with the axes of strength of the bones acted upon by them; and this rule is more close and definite in proportion to the length and power of the muscu- lar masses concerned. From what has now been said, it will probably be apparent that the arrange- ment of the bony material is such as to adequately provide for meeting all the stress to which it is normally exposed. Let it be recalled, however, that each bone is but a member of a mechanical system of levers, and hence that the force brought to bear upon it may be vastly increased, as well as changed in direction, so as to take it at a disadvantage. Under these circumstances, its texture gives way to what is called in mechanics a“ cross-breaking strain.” The obliquity of most fractures with regard to the long axis of the portion of bone involved, to be presently noticed as almost if not altogether univer- sal, is an additional proof of the correctness of this view. Now the prevalence of this mechanism, together with the systemic rela- tion of each hone, above recalled, may serve to explain in great degree the existence of the dominant lines of breakage to which reference has been made, and which will be further spoken of in connection with special fractures. A bone being broken across, it will easily be seen how in very many in- stances one of its fragments may engage in the other, and act as a wedge to split it into two or more smaller fragments. The natural curves of the long hones, and the slight twist which is pre- sented by the longitudinal axes of many of them, although of advantage in their normal function, may render their fracture easier under certain circum- stances. Of all these mechanical conditions, instances will present themselves in connection with special fractures ; and the general statements now made may suffice for the present. 1 The reader will find this subject well set forth and illustrated in Wagstaffe’s Student’s Guide to Human Osteology, London, 1875 ; and by Wyman, Trans. Am. Med. Assoc, for 1850. It has been almost wholly overlooked by systematic writers on anatomy.