6G0 TUMORS. subject to modification from several different causes. The contents of the cyst, which usually form a soft, semi-solid, whitish, paste-Jike or grumous material, often very offensive, may become calcified, and the cyst may acquire a stony hardness and an irregular outline; or, the normal contents may be replaced by a solid growth from the lining membrane of the cyst; or, and this is far more common, the cyst may become inflamed. The surface and the surrounding parts become red, and the local signs of inflammation are complete. Suppuration may take place, and, the cyst being opened and the pus discharged, a cure may be effected. Even sloughing may occur from the severity of the inflammation. Suppuration does not necessarily end in cure of the disease. An intractable ulcer may remain after the destruction of the cyst, and, with its unhealthy-looking surface and raised everted edges, may resemble a malignant ulcer. The diagnosis of a sebaceous cyst, as may be gathered from the description of its character, is generally very easy. The only diseases for which it is likely to be mistaken are a fatty tumor and a chronic abscess. The former is easily recognized by the firmer feel, the presence of lobes, and the more fat- tened shape; the latter by the more distinct fluctuation, the less rounded shape, and less mobility of the tumor. Even a dermoid cyst, closely related as it is to a sebaceous cyst, and closely as it resembles it in some respects, may usually be distinguished without difficulty by its situation in one of the seats of election of dermoid cysts, the temporal or orbital regions, and by the early age of the patients who are subject to it. An inflamed sebaceous cyst may, in most instances, be diagnosed by the presence of a definite tumor in the centre of the inflamed area, and by the intensity of the inflammation. And aii ulcerated cyst, which looks like a malignant ulcer, may be known for what it is by the history of the case, the absence of deep-seated infiltration, and the character of a scraping of the surface of the ulcer, examined micro- scopically. The treatment of sebaceous cysts may be by several different methods. When they produce no inconvenience, and are not so placed that they are unsightly, they may be left untouched; and, provided that they are not irri- tated, may remain without change during many years. The small sebaceous tumors of the scalp, especially when there are several of them, are often left untreated for long periods of years, and would be left still longer were it not that, when they have attained a certain size, though still small, the}7 are liable to be caught and torn by the comb. Small cysts may be cured by the applica- tion of the strongest nitric acid, or some other caustic, which may require to be applied on two or more occasions before complete destruction or removal of the cyst is accomplished. Caustics are, however, recommended only for those cases in which, either on the part of the patient or the surgeon, there is a special objection to the use of the knife. Some of the smaller sebaceous cysts may be cured by the following simple means. The tiny central depression which marks the exit of the obstructed duct on the summit of the tumor, having been found, is opened and distended rapidly by the introduction of probes, until it is sufficiently large to allow the thick white contents of the sac to be squeezed out. If this be thoroughly performed, and the surfaces of the sac be rubbed together, the latter may shrivel, and not refill. Eor the large majority of cases, removal with the knife is the proper treat- ment. The cyst may be dissected out through a simple incision ; but, since it often adheres closely to the surrounding tissues, the safest general rules to be observed in the removal are, freely to open the cyst-—by transfixion, if it be lar°;e—turn out its contents, seize the floor of the sac with a pair of toothed forceps, and drag it out. Ulcerated cysts generally require removal. Sebaceous cysts should never be removed at the time when they are inflamed,