INJURIES OF BONES. 86 inward, two compresses may be employed, at such points as to tilt up the ends and take oil' the pressure upon the parts within. Operative interference for the purpose of prying up a fragment by means of the finger, a lever, or a blunt hook, inserted through an incision of the skin, has been suggested. Malgaigne mentions “ removal of a piece of rib” as having been resorted to by Soranus and by Rossi; but these, I believe, are the only known cases of the kind. lie proposes the use of a hook curved like a tenaculum, inserted over the upper border of the bone; and if the hook were blunt this could readily be done without wounding the pleura. Such a procedure could, how- ever, very rarely be called for. Should the fracture involve several ribs, I believe advantage would be gained by the use of a short, thin slip of wood, properly covered, and applied across the posterior portions of the ribs, so as to act as a splint as well as a compress, pushing the fragments outward, away from the pleura and lung. It might of course be held in place by adhesive plaster, put on in the manner above directed. When a bandage is used, it is best made of flannel, about three inches wide ; if cut obliquely, or “ bias,” it will be much more elastic than if torn lengthwise of the piece. One or two turns round the shoulders will prevent it slipping downward, and a few strips of adhesive plaster across it on either side (not in front), running down as far as the pelvis, will keep it from slip- ping upward. Emphysema generally disappears of itself, without treatment. As to com- plications from intra-thoracic inflammation, they must be dealt with on the principles laid down in works on the practice of medicine. I may, however, say that leeches, applied just at the seat of injury, or cups in its immediate neighborhood, have sometimes seemed to me to be of great service. General bleeding I have never had occasion to employ in cases of this kind. Internal hemorrhage, in the recorded cases, has usually been speedily fatal, and it is seldom, if ever, amenable to treatment. Should opportunity be given for the employment of remedies, ergot and acetate of lead would be indicated, and advantage might be derived from the external application of cold. In any case of injury of the chest, when fracture of one or more ribs is suspected, but cannot be clearly made out, it is safer to adopt the same course that would be followed if the bone were proved to have given way. The enforced rest will be beneficial if there is mere contusion, and still more so if there is really an undetected fracture. Fractures of the costal cartilages are very rare, and not always easily distinguishable from separations at the junction of the cartilages with the ribs. They are apt to be nearly transverse, and are generally due to direct violence. Reed 1 has reported the case of a man, kicked by a mule, in whom there was separa- tion of the sternum at the junction of the first and second pieces, witli fractures of the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs on the right side, as well as of those of the second, third, and fourth ribs of the left side. The pleural cavities were filled with blood. The right clavicle was also fractured. This extensive injury produced no sign until tympany came on (from rupture of the spleen), and the respiration became of necessity thoracic, with crepitus and displacement of the fragments. A man was brought to the Pennsylvania Hospital in 1855, who had fallen from a wharf, striking his chest on the edge of a boat. After his death from peritonitis (the colon having been ruptured), it was found that the sixth and seventh cartilages 1 Proceedings of Path. Society of Philadelphia, vol. ii. p. 47.