255 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. twisted, with a well-adjusted pad or long wedge-shaped compress to push the foot outward or inward as the case may be. Fractures of the Bones of the Foot. Fractures of the tarsal bones are not of very common occurrence. Those of the astragalus and calcaneum are the only ones which need be considered separately, although the other bones may be crushed, as in cases of railroad accident, or of other very great violence applied to the ankle—the fall of a heavy stone upon it, for instance. Such fractures are very apt to be compound, or to be attended with so much damage to the soft parts that amputation is inevitable. Fractures of the astragalus are very possibly more frequent than has been suspected, since they may easily escape recognition, and be regarded simply as severe sprains. Lonsdale1 mentions a case in which the patient jumped from a height, alighting on his feet; there was no deformity, and the ankle was supposed to be badly sprained. Inflammation of the joint ensued, and the man died on the twelfth day, when, on dissection, the astragalus was found to be split in two or three directions. Here it seems to me that the violence was direct, although exerted through the medium of the os calcis. In a case recorded by Croly,2 the fracture was due to the patient catching his foot in the stirrup as he fell from a horse; and here the force was probably indirect. Sheppard3 observed, in the dissecting-room, four specimens of frac- ture affecting the outer projecting edge of the groove for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis; in three the detached piece was connected by fibrous tissue with the rest of the bone, and in one osseous union had taken place. These specimens were without history ; it would seem proper to place them in the category of “sprain-fractures.” Neill4 * has recorded an instance in which the posterior extremity of the bone was broken off, and remained un- united. Displacement of the broken portion sometimes takes place. Bryant says, “ I have recently removed from the inner aspect of the ankle of a man the upper half of the astragalus, that had been fractured six months previously, and displaced so as to present its upper articular facet inward.” This case had been previously supposed by the surgeon in attendance to be a fracture of the tibia and fibula. Vollmar6 reports an instance of fracture of the head of the astragalus, in a stout countryman who fell from a height of eight or nine feet, and presented a bony prominence in the arch of the left foot." “ In front of the articulating extremity of the tibia and fibula there lay, under the raised integuments, a bony swelling, separated by a deep depression from the outer malleolus.” No hollow could be detected. Replacement was effected by extension, and in four weeks the patient was able to walk about. MacCormac6 has reported a fracture of the neck of the bone, the posterior portion only being dislocated, so that- the trochlear surface was directed in- ward and slightly backward; the inner malleolus was aDo detached. lie refers to a similar case seen by LeGros Clark. Other cases of fracture with dislocation have been recorded by Norris7 and John Ashhurst, Jr.8 Goyder9 1 Op. cit., p. 531. 2 British Med. Journal, March 18, 1882. 3 Medical News, Aug. 5, 1882 ; from Lancet, July 1. 4 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1849. 6 Med. Times and Gazette, Jan. 27, 1855 ; from Zeitschrift fiir Chirurgio und Geburtsk., 1854. 6 Trans, of Path. Society of London, vol. xxvi. 1875. 7 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, August, 1837. 8 Ibid., April, 1862. 0 Med. Times and Gazette, Oct. 15, 1882.