309 STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. are accompanied, and perhaps in great part produced, by considerable deteri- oration of the general health. As with, or previous to, any reparative changes, marked anielioration of the general condition may be verified, so, on the con trary, the commencement of degeneration or suppuration may often be inferred from a rapid deterioration of general health. Indeed, it may be taken as true that an ill state of health, or defective hygienic arrangements, will prolong this form of joint-disease, and conduce to its most untoward terminations. The patients are strumous, certain of them having a tendency to, or being actually affected with tuberculosis, and many a child who first comes under care with some articular malady, will soon after require to be treated for phthisis, or will succumb to tubercular meningitis. Symptoms of Strumous Synovitis. (First Stage.)—Strumous synovitis is far more frequent in persons below twelve years of age than later in life. When it does attack older persons, it most commonly affects one of the smaller joints, while in children it chooses one of the larger articulations; the nu- merical order of their proneness to this form of disease is as follows: the knee, the hip,1 the ankle and elbow (equal); the least often afiected of the large joints is the shoulder. various conditions may be found immediately preceding this form of joint-affection; for instance, measles, or other exanthem, with slow recovery, ill-defined and apparently causeless loss of health, and traumatism, are so frequently mentioned as occurring just before, that they all appear in differ- ent cases to act as exciting causes of joint-disease; but a certain number of patients are in the best health (save as regards diatheses), rosy, plump, with excellent appetite, etc. If injury produce the malady, the symptoms of an acute or subacute syno- vitis—if measles or scarlatina have caused it, those of exanthematous syno- vitis—may precede the characteristic symptoms of the strumous disease. One of these, perhaps the chief, is the sort and character of the swelling, which is shapeless, uniform, and rounded. It is not like that of an acute synovitis, most evident where fibrous investment of the joint is weakest, nor is it marked by the passage over it of tendons, nor by the constricting force of ligaments. It is simply a swelling, not merely void of any special form of its own, but covering and concealing the form of parts beneath—the bones, their pro- cesses and depressions, the insertions of tendons and of ligaments, etc. The consistence of this tumefaction is soft and doughy, not very elastic, and not pitting; it does not fiuctuate, though by the uneducated finger it might be held to do so in certain rather softer parts, for some portions are softer, others a little harder, than the general mass;2 the harder are not de- fined from the softer portions by any distinct edge, but any particularly soft spot is usually pretty definitely marked oft' from the rest. The skin is by no means of that red typical color given as a symptom of inflammation; on the contrary, it is either the same as that of the neighbor- hood, or is white—whence Wiseman’s name of “ white swelling.” In the worst cases, a few veins, flattened against the skin by the pressure from be- neath, are plainly marked by blue, tortuous lines; they are oidy found when the granulation-tissue has grown with unusual rapidity, and in such cases the swelling is soft, having greater likeness than in other cases to fluctuation. 1 I believe this to vary somewhat at different ages, and that in very young life the hip is more frequently diseased than the knee. 2 I desire here to lay especial stress on the way this swelling covers up and conceals the mark- ings of the bones ; it is by this peculiarity, more especially, that the synovial is distinguishable from the osseous joint-disease.