INJURIES OF BONES. 280 upper fragment, and tlie middle of a strip of bandage laid over it, the ends of the bandage may be gently drawn upon, and secured to pegs or nails at either side of the splint, at such points that the tension shall be exactly in the direc- tion desired. The aim of most of the inventors of appliances for the treatment of these fractures has been to act on both fragments, forcing them together. But, in fact, the lower one is not displaced, unless by the shortening of the ligamen- tum patellae, before spoken of; and it is very doubtful wdiether this is not actually promoted by pressure brought to bear upon it in some methods. Various devices for circular pressure were used at a very early date; Mal- gaigne speaks of splints perforated in the centre, and kept in place by a ban- dage (the patella being received into the opening, by the edges of which the fragments w?ere held together), as knowm to Albucasis, Guy de Chauliac, and others. This plan, he says, was still employed at the Hotel Dieu in the latter part of the last century. Another development of the same idea was the ring or cap, which has been revived in modern times by Knight,1 Gibson,2 Eve,3 Blackman,4 and perhaps others. Its simplicity is its only recommendation, and although it may answer well where there is little or no gap between the fragments, and wdiere mere support is required, it is not likely to take the place of appliances which admit of greater adaptation to the circumstances of each easo. A positive objection may be made to it on the ground of its interfering with the nutrition of the bone. Gross5 quotes Manning as having “ observed by dissection that the vascular arch of the upper fragment is situated at the precise spot where the greatest amount of pressure is usually made by the retentive apparatus ; and that the lower fragment experiences a similar fate when, as not unfrequently happens, the internal superior and inferior arteries arise from a common trunk.” By Thomas,6 also, the importance of non- interference with the circulation of the patella is urged. By a great many surgeons, the use of pressure by bands, with or without compresses, and arranged in various ways, has been relied upon. Thus Dor- sey used a back-splint, with tapes fastened to it, which were brought up above and below the broken bone, so that they should draw the fragments into place ; the lower one passing above, and the upper one below7, crossing one another at each side. A somewhat similar arrangement, but with pegs for tightening the bands, is recommended by Aguew.7 Perhaps it need hardly be pointed out that by changing the points of attachment of the tapes or bands, the traction may be brought more or less parallel with the long axis of the limb; and that the further apart they are, the more directly will the fragments be drawn together. Hamilton uses a moulded trough, and figure-of-8 turns of a roller. Sir A. Cooper laid tapes along the limb on either side of the fractured patella, and then applied a roller, leaving the patella uncovered. By drawing up the ends of the tapes, and tying the corresponding ones together, the turns of the roller above and below the knee were approximated, and with them the fragments. The obvious objection to this plan is the circular constriction which it of necessity involves. Gerdy’s method was somewhat similar to this. A much better device, but still subject to the same inconvenience, was afterward used by Cooper;8 it was a leathern band buckled round the thigh just above ' Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1860. 2 St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal, Oct. 1866. This author claims to have obtained bony union by means of the ring. 3 Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery, Feb. 1867. 4 Western Journal of Medicine, May, 1868. 5 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 999. 6 Med. Press, and Circular, Oct. 11, 1882. i Op. cit., vol. i. p. 974. s Op. cit., p. 229.