785 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. words, than any disquisition on the subject could do. Moreover, this opera- tion has been repeated many times, without success. Professor Ashhurst has collected and tabulated 41 cases in which it has been performed. Of the whole number of patients, 30 died, 3 were relieved, and 3 received no benefit, while of 5 cases the result is unknown. There is no example of a cure achieved by it on record. Surely the general results in these cases would have been much better if the operation had not been performed. It is not improbable that even the few who were apparently relieved by it would have done better without it. The operation of resection or trephining the vertebrae is unjusti- fiable, because it does not offer a reasonable prospect of improving the patient’s condition in any case, while, on the other hand, there is always reason to fear that it may increase the chances of a fatal termination. M. Louis’s operation, which was performed in 1762, is sometimes referred to as the first instance in which the spinal column was resected, but it was not a resection at all. It consisted merely in extracting some loose fragments of bone, on the fifth day, in a case of gunshot fracture involving a dorsal vertebra. The patient improved, but, twelve years later, still had to walk with a cane, as has already been stated above. Moreover, the same operation was performed in twenty-four instances during our civil war, and with quite satis- factory results. But resection of the vertebrae is not admissible in gunshot in- juries of the spine. Mr. G uthrie1 mentions a patient who had received a pistol- shot which lodged in the last dorsal or upper lumbar vertebra, and caused complete paralysis of both limbs, and who searched London and Paris, in vain, to find a surgeon willing to operate on him. Professor Paul F. Eve, of Nashville, Tenn., however, once did attempt to perform such an operation,2 in the case of a Confederate soldier, who had been wounded by a pistol-ball that entered to the left of the spinal column, about one inch from the spinous process of the sixth dorsal vertebra, in the cavity of which, or of the seventh, it was supposed to be lodged. Paraplegia immediately ensued, and the para- lysis proved to be permanent. Concerning the operation of resecting the dorsal vertebra?, which was attempted, Prof. Eve says: “After due prepara- tion, a free incision was made through the cicatrix, and an attempt made to follow this into the vertebral cavity ; but so deep was the vertebral groove down to the transverse processes, so indistinct the track of the missile— indeed, we could not trace it—so deceptive the intervertebral foramina, etc., but, above all, so great the risk of exciting inflammation by wounding the sheath of the spinal cord, that we concluded, after using one crown of the trephine, of medium size, over what all believed to be the hole made by the bullet, to desist from further application of it. I am satisfied,” he continues, “ that this operation, in the dorsal vertebrae, if not almost impracticable, is certainly one of the most difficult in surgery.” That the operation of trephining the spinal column or resecting the verte- brae will not relieve the spinal cord from compression, when it is exerted by the extravasation of blood, is proved by the case of a derrick-man, aged 41, in whom the laminae of the tenth dorsal vertebra were resected, at Bellevue Hospital, by Dr. Stephen Smith; for, notwithstanding that from 8 to 12 ounces of extravasated blood, having a dark color, escaped from the spinal canal after the depressed bone had been extracted, the compression of the cord from extravasated blood, and the paraplegia, steadily crept upward, and finally caused death by asphyxia.3 1 Commentaries, etc., p. 541, Am. ed. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1868, p. 106. 3 New York Journal of Medicine, 1859, pp. 87, 88. VOL. IV.—50