INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. 79- 6 Observations on Injuries of the Spine and Thigh-bene processes in which two fingers could be laid; no corresponding abrasion or ecchymosis visible. A free administration of stimulants, with an anodyne and catherization, were ordered. On the 13th, A. M., pulse 112; respiration 26, and mainly abdominal ; temperature of trunk and lower extremities exalted. The anaesthesia had progressed upward, having risen to the fifth rib. The pain and numbness of the neck and arms had decidedly in- creased. The penis was not erect, but it was easily excited on irritating the spine. P. M., sloughs had commenced upon the heel and upon the ball of the great toe of the left foot, and over the external malleolus of the right ankle. A consultation was held, and resection of the depressed dorsal lamina} was agreed upon, and at once performed under chloroform. An incision six inches in length, made in the line of the spinous processes, showed a depression of the arch upon the right side of one of the lower dorsal vertebras. After some difficulty, the arch was divided on the opposite side, and then the depressed laminas were pulled out by a duck-billed forceps. Through the opening thus made, from six to twelve ounces of dark-colored, extravasated blood flowed out of the spinal canal. No benefit resulted from the operation, and death occurred soon afterward, apparently from compression of the spinal cord. The autopsy revealed fracture of the body of the tenth dorsal vertebra upon the right side, extending from the base of the transverse process half way to the mesial line an- teriorly, without displacement; fracture of the arch of this vertebra upon the right side, with depression ; extravasation of blood within the theca vertebralis to a large amount, and extending from the lower cervical vertebra} to the sacrum. From the increasing paralysis it was inferred that this extravasation was still extending upward when the patient died.1 This man’s accident showed so many things clinically and experimentally, that the history of it is well worth the space consumed. It illustrated compression of the spinal cord, with ascending paralysis from intra-vertebral effusion of blood ; it proved that neuropathic sphacelus may simultaneously appear at several different points in the extremities within twenty-four hours after the injury to the spinal cord ; it illustrated the inutility of vertebral resection ; and it proved that the operation of trephining the spine will not relieve the cord from compression arising from blood effused upon it. (5) J. Jardine Murray2 reports the case of a woman, aged 62, thrown from a car- riage. There were paralysis and retention of urine, and next day coma ; in twenty-four hours death occurred. The autopsy showed fractures of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae; spinal canal filled with clotted blood; cord unhurt. (Ashhurst.) (6) Ch. D. Doig3 relates the case of a porter, aged 37, who fell into the hold of a steamboat, and hurt his neck. There were pain, paralysis, dyspnoea and dysphagia, retention of urine and feces, and insomnia ; in four days, death ensued. The autopsy revealed fracture and dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra ; clotted blood effused on the spinal cord ; cord itself unhurt. (Ashhurst.) (7) W. T. King4 reports the case of a laborer, aged 25, thrown from a cart with his neck across a hamper. There were paralysis, etc.; death occurred in fifty hours. The autopsy showed dislocation forward of the sixth cervical vertebra; no fracture; and blood extravasated around the spinal cord. (Ashhurst.) (8) Holt5 records the case of a man, aged 45, injured by a horse falling upon him. Paralysis came on in the following night; but no cerebral symptoms. In seven days death ensued. The autopsy revealed fracture of the fifth, sixth", and1 seventh cervical vertebrae; blood effused into the spinal canal, and had fallen tp the bottom of it; spi- nal cord uninjured ; a tumor in the cerebellum. (Ashhurst.) (9) Charles Bell6 mentions the case of a man who fell from a barge into the Thames, at low water. His head stuck in the mud, and he died instantly. Subluxation of the 1 New York Journal of Medicine, January, 1859, pp. 87, 88. 2 Edinburgh Medical Journal, N. S., vol. vii. 3 Ibid., vol. ix. 4 Lancet, 1849. s ibid. 1850.