895 SPINA BIFIDA. cation. The complication of hydrocephalus tends to render the symptoms of communication much more distinct. Spina bitida is very commonly associated with some gross nerve disturbance, due to injury or defect in the cord or great nerves at the seat of the deform- ity. Thus talipes is very frequent, and especially talipes equino-varus. There may be a loss of power in the lower limbs that may present any grade from mere muscular weakness to absolute paraplegia. With this paraplegia there may be paralysis of the sphincters, although this latter symptom may exist independently of paraplegia. With the loss of movement in the lower limbs, more or less loss of sensation may be associated, and, as a rule, both move- ment and sensation are impaired together, the impairment of motion, how- ever, being the more marked of the two. According to Foil in and Duplay, there may be loss of sensation oidy in the lower limbs, but such a condition must be quite uncommon. In some equally rare instances the affected limbs are hypersesthetic. Launay1 has recorded a case where there was loss of both motion and sensation in the right lower limb, with loss of movement only in the left. Hydrocephalus is commonly associated with spina bifida, and in the course of any case convulsions are not infrequent. It is difficult to say positively, in all cases, whether the cord is or is not in the sac of the spina bifida. It may be safe to suspect its presence in the tumor, unless there are indications to the contrary. The larger the. opening into the spinal canal, the more probably will the cord be found in the sac, whereas such a complication is but little to be suspected when the bony opening is small and the pedicle long and narrow. In those cases that are associated with hydrocephalus, the cord, or at least some part of it or of its main nerves, are very usually to be found in the cyst of the spina bifida. The existence of talipes, or of paralysis, the occurrence of convulsions, the readiness with which nerve symptoms are produced by pressure, are all in favor of cord tissue being associated with the protrusion. Folliti and Duplay have pointed out that when the termination of the cord is adherent to the posterior wall of the sac, the site of the adhesion is often indicated by a depression on the surface of the tumor in the middle line. In many cases also where the cord is adherent to the sac, its position is indicated by undue thickness of the cyst wall at one part, and possibly also by some loss of translucency. A vascular and reddened condition of the skin is said by some to indicate adhesion to the parts beneath. It is probable that complete paraplegia will in all cases depend upon hydrorachis interna. The diagnosis of spina bifida is rarely a matter of difficulty. The disease has been confused with certain tumors that have occupied the middle line, and have been congenital; but in such growths the laminae and spinous processes of the vertebrae have been felt intact beneath the tumor, and it has been possible to demonstrate the absence of any adhesion between the tumor and the bone. In such cases, moreover, there has been an absence of those symptoms that indicate a communication between the tumor and the spinal canal. Some- times the sac of a spina bitida becomes cut off from all communication with the vertebral canal, and then the diagnosis between such a cyst and a con- genital cystic growth in the middle line is practically impossible. Not only is the diagnosis often impossible in such cases, but it is also quite unim- portant, inasmuch as the treatment in the two affections is identical. The points of difference between spina bifida and certain congenital growths in the regions common to spina bifida, will be dealt with hereafter. 1 Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1859, page 342.