ANCHYLOSIS. 403 from the bone; from every eancellar wall a fasciculus of fibres appears to spring, and to advance into the midst of the granulations, the separate bundles diverging a little. In the interspaces formed by this divergence, may still be seen collections of granulation-cells—round in certain parts; spindle-shaped, or already becoming distinct fibre-cells, in others. Wherever the tissue is more advanced, no such structures remain; the whole mass has become fibrous. In the mean time, the granulating synovial tissues likewise cicatrize in the same way ; yet it does not appear that fibrillization spreads thence much towards the central parts of the new tissue, but rather outwards, into as much of the periarticular tissue as was previously inflamed. Now, in all cases, as in every cicatrix, this new tissue has a great tendency to contract; hence, unless prevented, the bones will become, for a certain time after fibrifieation is completed, more tightly bound together, and the circumference of the part, no longer deserving the name of a joint, will diminish. Any sinus-mouths that remain will from the same cause be drawn inward, and become depressed cicatrices. But a further step in organization is often taken ; the fibres be- come bony, ossification creeping along them from the eancellar plates towards the centre, forming, since the fibres are interlaced* a bony network, which afterwards is fashioned into properly-formed cancelli, while the outer layer becomes a cortex of solid osseous tissue; so that ultimately a section through both bones will not exhibit any line of junction. Before me now are two such sections, one of the hip and one of the elbow; in neither is it possible to trace where the one bone begins and the other leaves off, neither can any inter- mediate uniting material be found. The process, as thus described, is a slow one, such as may follow chronic disease ; and, indeed, when anchylosis results from acute malady, the production of its false form is generally, of the true form is always, slow. But there are certain diseases, as for instance dry syno- vitis and some forms of absorption-disease, which seem to result in a very rapid, true anchylosis. The process whereby such a result can be so quickly achieved is very difficult to understand; it is probably, however, much the same as, only much more rapid than, that above described. We know that there is such a thing as an acute ulcer of cartilage, with clean-cut edges; there is therefore no difficulty in that direction, but the rapidity of bone-formation is not easily comprehensible.1 Every stiffened joint, however, does not owe its immobility to anchylosis; for, as we have seen, synovial disease may expend its chief activity on the surroundings of the joint; or, again, a synovitis may have been cured at a stage when only a part, at the periphery of the articular cartilages, has been destroyed, the cavity having been encroached upon but not filled up by inflammatory products. In the former case, the loss of mobility is due to periarticular impediments; in the latter, to what are often termed bands of adhesion. These bands run from bone to bone, attached to points whence the cartilages have disappeared, and projecting from the thickened synovial membrane into the cavity, as the column* carnete of the heart project from the wall into the lumen* of the ventricle. Their ill effect on the function of the joint depends upon their brevity and upon their position. As a matter of fact, these two causes of joint stiffness are usually combined; bands of adhesion probably never occur without periarticular impediments, though the latter may occur alone. To complete this view of joint-stiffness, we must add yet another cause, namely, muscular contracture, the pathology of which has already been examined. With this is frequently combined fascial shortening, sometimes 1 Patients with the diseases in question suffer great pain, or are very ill; so that the affected joint is likely to escape examination, and there may in these cases be some error of observation.