763 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. Like sprains or wrenches, they are attended by local pain and tenderness under pressure, by tumefaction, by ecchymosis, and by impaired function of the injured part. There are, however, some important differences: 1. In the cases of spinal fracture the tenderness is usually restricted to one or two ver- tebrae, whilst in the cases of sprain it is diffused over the joints of several contiguous vertebrae which have suffered almost alike. 2. The functions of the spinal column, as an instrument for mechanically supporting the body, are usually affected to a much greater extent by latent fractures than by sprains. In an instance of the former, which came under my own observation, there was utter inability on the part of the patient to sit upright in a chair or bed without assistance, although there was no paralysis. Had the case been merely a sprain, and not a fracture of the spinal column, the patient would have been able to sit upright, unaided, when placed in a chair or raised up in bed. In a case of Abernethy’s, mentioned above, the patient could not raise himself in bed, and there was no reason apparent for this inability until the fracture was revealed by the autopsy. By attending to these two points, then, latent fractures can sometimes be distinguished from sprains or wrenches of the vertebral column. Prognosis.—In cases of vertebral fracture the prognosis is never favorable, unless the lesion chance to be restricted to the spinous processes, as already stated. But fractures occurring in the cervical region are more dangerous than those in the dorsal region, and these in turn are more hazardous than those occurring in the lumbar region. Generally, the nearer the broken vertebra is to the roots of the phrenic nerves, the greater the danger becomes. In like manner, fractures of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae, attended by dis- placement of the fragments and injury of the spinal cord, with paraplegia, are less speedily fatal than those of the cervical vertebrae. Moreover, in all parts of the spinal column, fractures of the vertebrae which are not complicated with injury of the spinal cord, are less dangerous than those which are attended by such injury. The proximate causes of death in fractures of the spinal column, aside from pithing the spinal cord by the odontoid process, or by some fragment of the first three vertebrae, are the following: (1) intra-thecal extravasation of blood ; (2) spinal meningitis; (3) ascending myelitis; (4)intra-spinal abscess, that is, an accumulation of purulent matter formed between the theca vertebralis and the bone ; and (5) trophic disorders of the paralyzed parts, for example, gluteal eschars or acute bed-sores, with vesical and renal inflammations. These tro- phic disorders arise quite as much, perhaps even more, from the inflammatory disorganizations of the spinal cord which result from vertebral injuries, than from the traumatic lesions of the cord itself. Now, the gravity of the prog- nosis is always increased by the appearance of any signs of these various com- plications or accidents which constitute the proximate causes of death in the cases of vertebral fracture which end badly. Hence, the appearance of spi- nal paralysis in cases where it did not attend the original injury, or the pass- age of a partial paralysis into a complete paraplegia, but, particularly, the creeping steadily upward of a spinal paralysis that began in the legs, until the sensibility as well as the voluntary motility is destroyed as far as the nip- ples, or even the root of the neck, are all signs of extreme danger to life. The persistence of an abnormally high or low degree of body-temperature, and the flushing of the face which results from vaso-motor paralysis, espe- cially if it be combined with dyspnoea, are fatal symptoms, and they likewise denote that the end is nigh. Priapism is an unfavorable symptom, but not always a fatal one. On the other hand, the prognosis becomes less unfavorable when the symp- toms of spinal paralysis grow less strongly marked, when the patient recovers