FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. 71 Concussion of the brain is sometimes produced by the severity of the blow, but it seems very unlikely that the force can be transmitted through the nasal bones; it is more probable that it bears also upon the neighboring portions of the walls of the cranium. Hamilton gives several cases of injury of the nose in children, in which the nasal processes of the upper maxillary bones were spread outwards; one of these was in a child only three weeks old, upon whose face a block of wood fell as she lay asleep. Such an occurrence could hardly take place in an adult. The history of the injury, and the deformity, generally point to the diag- nosis, which is nearly always rendered certain by the detection of crepitus. Other symptoms apt to be present are: severe pain and headache, hemorrhage from one or both nostrils, and sometimes emphysema in the surrounding areolar tissue. Swelling takes place so rapidly as often not only to make the exact seat and direction of the fracture obscure, but to interfere seriously with attempts to correct the displacement. In many of these cases, especially if the violence inflicted has been very great, the bones are comminuted; and this adds notably to the difficulty of exact diagnosis as well as of treatment. The mere detection is easier, as well as the reduction, hut the latter is hard to maintain. Treatment.—Fractures of the nasal hones usually unite very readily, and this fact makes it very desirable that the displacement should he carefully corrected at the earliest possible moment. Hence the surgeon should at once press the fragments into their proper relation by means of an inflexible probe or director passed into the nostril, first on the one side and then on the other, moulding them at the same time with the fingers of his other hand applied on the outside. Another good plan is to use a pair of forceps. In many cases this will be sufficient; the deformity, once reduced, does not recur, and all that is needful is to keep down inflammation. Hemorrhage may be arrested by gently introducing a slender bit of ice, or by making the patient snuff up into the nose, water as hot as he can bear. Emphysema will subside of itself. Should the fragments be so loose as to fall out of place, the attempt may he made to support them from within by means of pieces of thick soft-rubber catheters, with adhesive plaster externally; or the plan suggested by Dr. L. D. Mason1 may be adopted. This consists in pushing through the base of the nose a strong pin (gilt or nickel-plated), and bringing a strip of rubber or adhesive plaster across from one end to the other so as to support and compress the parts. For the treatment of deflections of the septum it is impossible to give any rules which shall apply to the more difficult cases, since they may require judicious modifications of operative procedures. Usually, in the simpler cases, properly applied pressure will suffice to ovei’come them. Sometimes, when the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone is involved, there may be violence inflicted on the lachrymal duct. From this may arise stoppage of the duct and fistula lachrymalis; it is obvious that such a case would present unusual difficulties. Malgaigne quotes from Duverney a case in which the ultimate result of an injury of this kind was a cancer, which destroyed the patient’s life. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—-The lower jaw presents the figure of a more or less pointed arch, bent upward near each buttress. Its body, com- prising all in front of the angles, is thick and strong, and especially dense at Annals of Anatomy and Surgery. Brooklyn, 1880.