955 DISEASE OF THE ATLO-AXOID REGION. If the opening be m the loins or hack, or in any part that would be covered or interfered with by any jacket or mechanical apparatus, then should such appliances be discontinued, and the recumbent position be insisted on. When the discharge has diminished, a jacket may be applied with a hole in such part ol it as corresponds to the sinus. This aperture may still be dressed antiseptically, and the patient allowed to get up. Disease of the Atlo-axoid Region. Diseases of the hones and joints in this region, although they differ in no way pathologically from like diseases in other parts of the column, are yet conveniently considered apart on account of the distinctive clinical features which they present. The special features of disease in this part depend upon the peculiar structure and outline of the bones themselves as compared with the other vertebrae, upon the peculiarity of the joints between them, the free and elaborate movements in those joints, and the very close proximity of that most important part of the cerebro-spinal system, the medulla oblongata. Pathological Anatomy.—The parts concerned in this region are the atlas, the axis, and the condyles of the occipital bone, together with the atlo-axoid and occipito-atloid joints. The disease in these parts may assume very vari- able aspects. As a rule, it consists essentially of an arthritis of one or other of the joints just named. This arthritis is nearly always associated with gross bone-mischief, and may be attended with very extensive necrosis or caries, of either the atlas or the axis, or both. There are cases where a caries or a necrosis of these bones has appeared to exist independently of any joint- mischief, and that such a condition may occur, is a matter beyond doubt. But such cases are not common. Such is the arrangement of the articula- tions in this region that external bone-disease is scarcely possible independent of joint-mischief, and in any case where a fairly extensive necrosis or caries exists, it may be safely concluded that some one or other of the neighboring articulations is involved. In any case the mischief most usually com- mences in the joint, but it may commence in the bone, and this especially applies to cases where the anterior portions of the atlas or axis are carious or necrosed. There is nothing peculiar about the bone-affection or joint-affection as it appears in this region. The caries and the necrosis are of the same nature and disposition as caries and necrosis elsewhere. The joint-malady usually assumes the form known elsewhere as “ white swelling.” It is nearly always chronic, is apt to lead to “ pulpy degeneration” of the soft parts involved, is prone to in- duce extensive mischief in the cartilages and bones, and is usually associated with suppuration. Deformity of the affected joint from partial dislocation is common, as is also extension of the suppuration and the formation of sinuses ; and lastly, the malady may end in a more or less complete anchylosis. In- deed, in all their features—not excluding their etiology—a large number of the joint-affections in this part are identical in their general pathological features with the white swellings or strumous joint-diseases of other regions. Sometimes the disease in this segment of the column may follow upon injury alone, and then the pathology of the articular or osseous changes is identical with that of like changes elsewhere that depend upon a like cause. The same remark applies to those instances of atlo-axoid disease that are considered to be due to syphilis; of the two joints mentioned, the atlo-axoid articulation would appear to be more frequently involved than that between the atlas and occiput, but on this point there are some differences of opinion.