46 INJURIES OF BONES. 2 Op. cit., p. 21. 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 929. described by Gross.1 In neither of these instances was there any apparent cause for the destruction of the bone. As far as can be judged from the observations published, the removal of the constitutional disorder, when it can be effected, is followed by a renewal of the process of repair of the fracture, which ultimately becomes thoroughly united. Fibrous Union of Fractured Bones.—The cases of fibrous union differ from those already described, in that the fragments become closed in at their ends by a rounded shell of bone, sometimes very thin, but more generally thick, hard, and dense ; while between them and connecting them there exist fibrous bands resembling interosseous ligaments. These bands may attach the frag- ments end to end, in which case there has probably been absorption of some portion of bone, perhaps separated as a splinter at the time of injury; or, when there is overlapping of the fragments, the fibrous bands may bridge over the interspace between them. It seems highly probable that in some cases these bands may be in reality remnants of interosseous membrane or of intermuscular septa. Sometimes a condition of this kind is not easy to distinguish clinically from that of false-joint, properly so called, to be presently described. But there is generally, from the length of the bands and the comparative free- dom of the fragments, an even greater degree of mobility ; the limb hangs like a flail, and is useless except for such actions as involve merely a straight pull on the part of the muscles. Most of the systematic writers are at pains to assure us that results such as these have never ensued in cases treated by them ; and in the majority of the instances on record, the patients have been sailors, who met with their frac- tures while at sea, and who were thus unavoidably deprived of the benefits of treatment until a long while—weeks or even months—had elapsed. From this fact, as well as from the general tenor of the other evidence in regard to the matter, it seems to me as if fibrous union were due much more generally to local causes than to any constitutional disorder. This view, which wras maintained by Stanley, Callender, and others, has been opposed by some re- spectable authorities, but I think partly because the just distinction has not been drawn between these cases and those of mere delayed union. Fibrous union is very often the only form attainable in certain bones—the patella and the olecranon, for example; and here, if it is close enough, the functions of the limb may in time be almost completely resumed. But it may also occur in any of the long bones, especially in fractures of both bones of the forearm, and in those of the cervix femoris. The amenability of these cases to treatment is generally in inverse ratio to the time of their existence ; if seen and recognized early, they may be dealt with far more readily, and the chance of success from mild measures is much greater, than if the condition above described has become thoroughly estab- lished. In the latter state of things, there is very little hope of amendment except from operative procedures, often difficult, and by no means free from danger. Sometimes, by means of prothetic apparatus, the limb may be so far stiffened as to enable the patient to use it to a certain extent. The other plans of treatment will be presently described. Complete separation of the fragments is very rarely met with, and is probably always the result of atrophy of one or both portions. ISTorris2 speaks of these cases; and I think that I have seen such a condition in the humerus,