INJURIES OF THE BACK. 722 fractures, blood is often extravasated in large quantity between the theca and the cord, and that such extravasation proves to be the proximate cause of death by compressing the cord. A case with many points of resemblance to the foregoing was treated some years ago by myself:— A robust man, aged about 30, while driving a peddler’s wagon having a very high seat, into a carriage-house having a rather low door, struck the back of his head with great force against a beam at the top of the doorway, which crushed him down into the seat. He instantly became helpless and was carried into the house. Two hours after- ward I saw him ; he then lay in bed on his back, with his neck bent forward and stiff, and he seemed to dread lest an attempt to raise his head should be made; he could, how- ever, roll his head freely from side to side. His lower extremities, body, and upper extremities were completely paralyzed, both as to sensation and motion. His mind was clear, and he said he was free from suffering. He was breathing by the diaphragm alone, for all the other respiratory muscles were paralyzed. By turning his body on to the left side I was enabled to examine the back of his neck, which was thick, mus- cular, and somewhat swollen. The spinous processes of the fifth and sixth, or sixth and seventh cervical vertebra (I was not quite sure which) were widely separated from each other, and the vertebra above the point of separation were thrown forward. The abrupt bending of his neck forward, above mentioned, resulted from the wide separa- tion of the spinous processes and laminae behind, and the thrusting forward of the body of the dislocated vertebra and those above it. I took it for granted that some fracture was also present, but it seemed to be the dislocation alone which caused the deformity, the displacement of bone, and the compression of the spinal cord. I catheterized him, and then noticed that he had partial erection of the penis, or priapism. He was placed in a soft bed and a milk-diet allowed. The attendants were cautioned against injuring his neck while giving him food or drink. The accident happened in the afternoon. The next morning it was observed that sensibility had partially returned to his arms, but the paralysis as to motion was still complete ; in other respects his condition was unchanged. The urine was now drawn off with a catheter, and again in the evening. The following day did not bring any signs of improvement. The urine had a strong ammoniacal odor. The bowels bad not moved. The abdomen was swollen by gases in the intestines. A terebinthinate enema was administered. Catheterization twice a day was continued. On the third morning he was much worse. His respiration was difficult, the move- ments being much increased in frequency, and accompanied by moist rales. His lips were becoming blue; he was tympanitic; he sank rapidly, and died asphyxiated, seventy hours after the accident. An autopsy could not be obtained. Another case, almost the exact counterpart of the last, I once saw in con- sultation with the late Dr. Jenks S. Sprague, formerly president of the New York State Medical Society :— A healthy, middle-aged farmer fell backward from the top of a loaded hay-wagon, and struck the ground with the back of his head and neck, the whole weight of his body being superimposed. He was instantly deprived of the use of all his limbs. He was picked up, in a helpless state, and carried to his home, where the writer saw him as consultant, as stated above, a few hours afterward. He was completely paralyzed both as to sensation and voluntary motion, up to the root of the neck. The head and neck were considerably inclined forward, the latter being stiff. The spinous processes and laminae of the last two cervical vertebra were widely separated from each other, and the sixth vertebra was dislocated forward, so far that its laminae strongly com- pressed the spinal cord against the body of the seventh. The presence of fracture was suspected, although no crepitus nor movable fragments of bone could be detected. The head rotated well at the ailo-axoid articulation. He lay on his back and breathed by means of the diaphragm alone. Catheterization was necessary. There was priapism. His intellect was not disturbed, and he said that he was free from pain. The symptoms and progress of this case bore so close a resemblance to those attend-