INJUBIES OF THE BACK. 838 at tlie base of the encephalon, as likewise in the fourth ventricle, in the aque- duct of Sylvius, and even in the lateral ventricles. At all these points in such cases, the cerebral substance is discolored on its surface and to a certain depth, acquiring a slaty-bluish tint, which is a product of imbibition, mace- ration, and dyeing. (Charcot.) When ichorous cerebral meningitis has a sacral bed-sore for its starting-point, the slaty hue, but more pronounced, is found over the whole extent of the spinal cord, and it grows more strongly marked as one approaches the bed-sore which has opened the sacral canal. Simple, purulent, ascending meningitis, however, is not attended with this peculiar discoloration; but it is unnecessary to dwell longer on this point, although it is by no means an unimportant one. Pathogeny.—From the foregoing exposition of whatever facts are known concerning the variety of sphacelus in question (that is, concerning the acute sacral eschar, etc.), it is evident that the patient’s position, or pressure, is never the chief cause of its production, and that in some cases pressure does not assist at all in originating it. It also appears that its causation in no way depends upon paralysis of sensation and voluntary motion ; for, in a case where the first lumbar ver- tebra was fractured (it is related on page 836), a sacral eschar appeared early and progressed steadily until it produced fatal exhaustion, although there was no paralysis whatever of sensation and voluntary motion. Other exam- ples of similar import have likewise been mentioned in the foregoing pages. Furthermore, it appears that the acute bed-sore does not arise from vaso- motor paralysis (that is, from paralysis of the bloodvessels); for, in the hemi- paraplegia which ensues when one lateral half of the spinal cord is divided, the eschar never appears on the side of the sacrum, or in the lower extre- mity, where the vaso-motor paralysis is to be found, but on the side of the sacrum, or in the lower extremity, where vaso-motor paralysis does not exist. The inference is, of course, conclusive. Finally, the kind of sphacelus in question does not result from the mere absence of nerve-action ; for, in several cases of shot and other fractures of the vertebrae (related above), in which the spinal cord was partially or com- pletely divided, no bed-sores appeared, although the patients survived their injuries several, and, in some instances, many days. The soldier whose verte- bral fracture is represented by Fig. 784 (p. 777), survived a complete division of the spinal cord for twenty-nine days, and yet no bed-sore presented itself. Hutin’s patient lived fourteen years—although the right half of the cauda equina had been divided by a small-arm missile near its commencement, the left half' displaced by it, and its substance much disorganized—and ultimately died of Bright’s disease. But examples almost without number can readily be adduced to show that the spinal cord may be divided, either partially or completely, without the supervention of bed-sores, however long the survival be protracted. On the other hand, in perusing the cases of spinal injury where acute bed- sores, or analogous sphacelations, did appear, and where the condition of the cord revealed by post-mortem examination is described with sufficient minute- ness, we generally find it distinctly stated, either that the cord was suffering from active mechanical irritation effected by the displaced and fractured ver- tebrae, or by the extravasation of blood, or that the cord-substance had under- gone certain changes which we know result from the inflammatory process, or that the spinal membranes were inflamed. Thus, in the case of shot-fracture of the spinal column, represented by Fig. 783 (p. 777), in which the missile divided the spinal cord and lodged in the spinal canal opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra, a sacral eschar appeared; two weeks afterwards “ sloughing of the