FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 243 The ankle-joint is a hinge, with no other motion except a very slight pos- sible rotation of the foot in extreme extension. The astragalus is keyed or mortised between the malleoli, and if the foot is fixed, the leverage which may be exerted from above through the leg is very powerful. According to circumstances not easy to define, the stress may be brought to bear either upon both bones just above the ankle, or upon the inner malleolus and the lower part of the fibula. The outer malleolus sometimes suffers, as will be shown in speaking of fractures of the fibula alone. Supra-malleolar fractures may be due to direct violence, or to a wrenching by outward or inward movement of the knee when the foot is fixed, or, as 1 believe, in some cases to extreme extension or flexion of the ankle, the foot being fixed. I have several times seen, in persons who had fallen from heights, alighting on the feet, fractures which seemed to be explicable in the latter way alone. Fracture of the inner malleolus, with fracture of the fibula at some point generally about three inches above the ankle, is commonly known as Pott’s fracture, having been first described with accuracy by the distinguished sur- geon of that name. It had previously been regarded either as a sprain or as a dislocation. Although, as I shall presently further show, this lesion varies greatly in different cases, there are certain features which always belong to it and dis- tinctly characterize it. There are two ways in which it may be produced. When the foot is strongly everted, so that the sole looks outward, the internal lateral ligament is put upon the stretch, and a cross-breaking strain is brought to bear upon the inner malleolus, which gives way. As soon as this happens, the astragalus and calcaneum are forced up against the end of the fibula, which bends and breaks, generally at a point some three inches above. On the other hand, if the foot is strongly inverted, so that the sole looks inward, the inner malleolus may be, as it were, pushed off, while the outer malleolus is drawn inward, and the fibula gives way to stress tending to bend it outward. In either case, the force is brought to bear across the columns of the can- cellous tissue of the inner malleolus, while the point at which the fibula generally gives way is where it is slenderest and least able to resist. By way of illustrating the differences presented by the lesions in these cases, I may simply quote the descriptions of three specimens in the Patho- logical Cabinet of the Hew York Hospital.1 In one, taken from a man aged thirty, injured by the caving in of a bank of earth, “the fibula is seen to be fractured transversely two inches above the joint; the internal malleolus is torn off, and the posterior margin of the articular surface of the tibia is broken into three pieces.” In another, “ the internal malleolus is broken off, and the fibula is fractured obliquely one inch above its lower end.” Ho history of the case is given. In the third, taken from a man aged fifty-three, who made a mis-step and fell upon the pavement, “there was a fracture of the fibula, commencing at the level of the ankle-joint, and running so obliquely upward and backward as to leave a fragment nearly three inches long connected with the astragalus. The internal malleolus was torn off, and the whole of the posterior third of the articulating surface of the tibia was comminuted and broken oft' by a fracture running upward and backward from within the joint, thus leaving several large fragments still attached to the astragalus below.” Occasionally the portion detached from the tibia is very small, consisting merely of the tip of the malleolus; and the lesion may then be properly ranked among “ sprain-fractures.” Ibe symptoms of the fractures now described are placed together here by 1 Catalogue, p. 119; Nos. 233, 234, and 235.