FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 233 Mr. Royes Bell,1 I do not know of any distinct statement of damage done by this plan of treatment; and if the obtaining of very close apposition of the frag- ments were the only condition of restoring the usefulness of the limb, I should regard the employment of the hooks as not only justifiable, but an imperative duty. Such, however, is not the case; very many patients, as has been before stated, are able to walk, climb, and run, with the fragments connected by fibrous bands of considerable length ; and it seems to me that the question is, therefore, one which maybe left to the individual judgment of each surgeon. Those who use the instrument are not to be adjudged foolhardy, and those who abstain from employing it are not necessarily timid or over-cautious. Trelat is said by Stimson2 to have applied the hooks through the medium of plates of gutta-percha, moulded to the anterior aspect of the limb above and below the knee; thus avoiding the wounding of the skin, and, of course, placing the joint beyond all risk of harm. Similar plans have been advo- cated by Spence3 and by Gant.4 But whether the instrument is not deprived of its efliciency by this change, may be seriously questioned. Of late years, even bolder procedures have been advocated and practised, with a view to securing apposition of the fragments in transverse fractures of the patella. Operations similar to those mentioned in the early part of this article5 as performed in cases of non-union of other bones, the exposure and wiring together of the broken portions, have been resorted to, and in many cases with success, notwithstanding the unavoidable risks from the neighborhood of so large a joint as that of the knee. The idea is not altogether a new one. Hamilton6 says: “ Severinus, an Italian, proposed to make an incision into the joint, exposing the fragments, and then to freshen the broken surfaces and bring them together. This was nearly three hun- dred years ago, when surgeons did not pretend to have any specific for pre- venting inflammation after wounds of large joints, such as Mr. Lister thinks we possess to-day.” Malgaigne also refers to this proposal, but only to con- demn it. According to Byrd,7 Dr. George McClellan, of Philadelphia, adopted such a course many years ago, in one instance, and as an experiment, which is said to have proved successful; but no account of this case was ever pub- lished, and it certainly seems as if more would have been known of so bold a procedure, and as if the surgeon would have had imitators, if the result had been favorable. It was also among the achievements of Prof. Cooper,8 of San F rancisco. As has been before remarked, the gravity of fractures of the patella depends in no small degree upon the involvement of the knee-joint; and the same may be said of these operations. By the advocates of Listerism, it is claimed that “ antiseptic precautions” diminish the risk of opening the joint-cavity.9 Rose10 reported to the Medical Society of London, two cases of fracture of the patella 1 Lancet, April 29, 1882. 2 Op. cit., p. 561. 3 Practitioner, March, 1875 ; Med. Times and Gazette, Aug. 21, 1875. 4 Lancet, April 29, 1882. 5 See pp. 62 et seq. 6 Clinical Lecture in the Med. News and Abstract, April, 1881. 7 New York Medical Journal, May, 1876. 8 As claimed in a letter from him, quoted in the Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 2, 1861. The original report I have been unable to find. 9 Lister himself is reported (Lancet, Nov. 22, 1879) to have said that “the risk a patient incurs in having his knee-joint opened antiseptically is not greater or so great as that attending the removal of an ordinary fatty tumor without antiseptic treatment.” I have no hesitation in saying that such a claim is unsupported by the experience of the profession at large. Perhaps I may say here that there is often a confusion between safety and impunity. The fact that an operation has been done with success, does not by any means show that it did not involve great risk. Persons have fallen from great heights, sustaining only slight injuries ; but they certainly were in most imminent danger. 59 Lancet, Jan. 22, 1879.