632 TUMORS. tongue; but they occur much more abundantly in epithelioma, and usually attain a larger size than under other circumstances. Cylindrical-celled or columnar-celled carcinomas are derived from the columnar epithelium covering surfaces, or lining glands or tubes. (Plate XX. Fig. 19.) Those of them which grow more slowly present a structure closely resembling that of the tubular crypts or glands ; but those which grow more quickly exhibit a confused appearance of irregularly shaped cavities or spaces, lined with blurred and ill-formed epithelium. Although there is often an alveolar structure, the alveoli are usually lined, not tilled, with epithelium. These tumors have been generally classed with the squamous-celled carcino- mas, as a variety of epithelioma, but they bear no closer relation to the squamous-celled than to the spheroidal-celled carcinomas. Several varieties of the subclasses of carcinoma are observed. The most important are the following:— Colloid carcinoma, which has usually been described as one of the primary subclasses, but which appears to be a modified form of the spheroidal-celled carcinoma. The alveolar structure is very strongly expressed, but the alveoli contain usually, in addition to cells or groups of cells, a quantity of clear, colloid material, sometimes marked with faint lines or dots parallel with the ■walls of the alveoli. (Plate XXI. Fig. 26.) Drops of the same colloid mate- rial may sometimes be detected in the interior of the cells, whence the theory that this material is produced by a transformation of, or deposit in, the sub- stance of the cells. Colloid carcinoma is known also by the names of gelati- niform cancer and alveolar cancer. It is probable that sarcomas sometimes undergo a colloid change. Melanotic Carcinoma.—Although pigmentation is not as common in carci- noma as in sarcoma, melanotic carcinomas are occasionally observed. The pigment is deposited either in the cells or in the fibrous stroma. Villous carcinoma may be mentioned, merely to point out how very rarely carcinoma exhibits a villous or dendritic form of growth ; some examples of squamous-celled and columnar-celled carcinoma present a papillary surface, but most of the true villous growths are papillomas or sarcomas. The reasons for the foregoing classification of the carcinomas have been set forth on a preceding page, and need not be repeated here. Localities of Carcinomata.—Carcinomas may grow primarily from any epithelial structure. They occur in the skin and mucous membranes, the secreting glands and their ducts, the eve and the lung; but they exhibit a great preference for certain parts of the skin and membranes, and for certain glands. Thus, they grow where the skin joins the mucous membrane at the entrance of the mouth, the anus, the vulva, and the glans penis; they affect the commencement of the alimentary canal, the tongue and the oesophagus, and the termination, the rectum, more often than the intervening portions. They attack the narrower or constricted portions of canals or tubes more fre- quently than the wider parts—the cardiac and pyloric orifices of the stomach, for example, the glottis, and the mouth and neck of the uterus. The preference for these parts of the skin and mucous surfaces is one of the arguments which Virchow has employed in favor of the theory that tumors, especially carci- nomas, are produced by frequent injuries or irritation. And, certainly, very strong evidence can be adduced to support this view. The irritation of the lower lip by an ill-finished pipe, the irritation of the tongue by rough and carious teeth, the irritation of the penis by the collection of dirt and discharge