314 DISEASES OE THE JOINTS. the color of the skin, and the position of the two first-named glands, should he carefully investigated from time to time.1 Treatment of Strumous Synovitis.—Struma, as a constitutional condition,, must be treated according to the type which in each case it assumes; the delicate, thin-skinned type requires the use of tonics, such as iron, quinine, inaltine, and cod-liver oil, while if iodine in any form be given, it must be used cautiously'and ill combination with the other remedies. But the other form, that with thick connective tissues, is not benefited by the administration of the nutritive tonics. Cod-liver oil is especially, in my experience, useless,, if not injurious in these cases, but occasional purging,2 and the use of iodine, the mineral acids, and vegetable bitters, are indicated. But this is hardly the place to describe the treatment of such constitutional conditions ; I wish, however, to give a broad outline of those methods which appear to me most suitable. The local treatment of a commencing strumous synovitis consists chiefly in rest, care being taken that the limb is in good position. In a very early stage of the disease, there is no difficulty in securing these desiderata. Upon the limb, held by an assistant in the proper posture, a flannel or Domett bandage may first be applied, and over this may be moulded a poro-plastic or leather splint; or if it be preferable, as it is in some cases, a plaster-of-Paris bandage may be employed. But it must be pointed out that as cases even in their earliest stages differ, so there are decided reasons for choosing one or the other of these appliances. If the disease have commenced in a slow, painless enlargement, and if the swelling be soft and the signs of struma strongly marked, the local disease is likely to be of a bad type. Hence, as probably some local treatment will be necessary, I should prefer in these cases a re- movable apparatus; while when the disease has begun more rapidly, perhaps following some traumatism, and when the signs of struma are not strongly marked, we may, especially if the tumefaction be moderately hard, use an immovable appliance, trusting to mere rest as a curative measure. But here again we are confronted by another difference. There is no doubt that the child’s condition is not improved by confinement to bed; if the disease be in an upper limb, this subject presents no difficulty, but if in a lower, we must combine perfect rest of the diseased joint with bodily exercise. To American surgeons is, I believe, due the first idea of putting a patten or high shoe on the sound limb, giving the child a pair of crutches, and letting him get about with the foot of the unsound leg carried some inches from the ground. These appliances and aids are those which I use in the early stage of strumous synovitis, and whether I apply a double case of leather or felt, or a starched bandage, I always let my patients get about at the earliest possible period; never confining them to bed if the disease be in an upper limb, and only for a few days if "it be in a lower. The rest afforded by properly made appli- ances of this description is perfect; nor have I ever found any difficulty in the details. But if the surgeon be called to the case when already contraction of muscles has produced a certain amount of fixed flexion, he must adopt measures to reduce the limb to a proper posture. This may be done either sud- denly or gradually. The former plan may be most advantageously employed at almost every joint, with the exception of, in some cases, the knee and the hip. It simply consists in giving to the patient an anaesthetic, and with the 1 For further considerations regarding pulmonary or cerebral tuberculosis and lardaceous disease, see p. 360 et seq. 2 In this oondition the intestinal canal is frequently clogged with viscid mucus.