FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 135 fifth year, and in the external one not until between the thirteenth and four- teenth years. About the sixteenth or seventeenth year, the outer condyle and both portions of the articulating surface, having already joined, unite with the shaft; at eighteen years, the inner condyle becomes joined.” (The reader will note that in this description the term “ internal condyle” is equivalent to “epitrochlea,” and the term “external condyle” to “epieondyle.”) The im- portance of these facts consists in their bearing, not as much upon the separa- tion of the epiphysis as a whole, as upon disjunctions of portions of it, which I have no doubt are more frequent than they are generally supposed to be. Another matter of great moment in this connection is the anatomy of the elbow-joint. The trochlea, upon which the ulna moves as upon a hinge, drops at its inner margin considerably below the level of any other part of the joint, and thus locks in the articulating extremity of the latter bone. Hence, lever- age through the ulna is often brought to bear most powerfully upon the lower end of the humerus, tending to twist it oft’; and if the epiphysis is yet ununited to the shaft by bone, its disjunction may ensue, while if it has already become consolidated, a fracture may be produced above. The radius,although it shares in the flexion and extension of the forearm, rotates freely upon an axis passing through the centre of its head, and hence is far less likely either to be itself broken, or to be the means of breaking the corresponding portion of the humerus. As has been already stated, fractures occurring near the lower end of the humerus very often run into the joint; but even when this is not the case, the near neighborhood of the joint constitutes a complication of all these injuries, as its extensive synovial membrane inflames with extreme readiness, and the swelling from effusion into its cavity not only greatly increases the difficulty of recognizing the exact nature of the lesion, but also embarrasses its treatment. In front of the joint, the median and the musculo-spiral or radial nerve, and behind it the ulnar, are in very close relation with the bone; so that either by actual pressure upon these nerves by the fragments, or by their injury or displacement, special symptoms, of no small importance, are not unfrequently induced. The causes of fracture of the lower part of the humerus are very generally falls on the hand or on the elbow ; they are in the former case due to indirect violence, in the latter to direct. Often, however, it is impossible to arrive at any certainty as to the way in which the hurt has been received, from the youth of the subject, or from the confusion and terror induced by the accident. It is highly probable that the tension of the muscles, in the effort to avoid fall- ing, may have something to do with the production of the fracture, or at least with determining its seat and direction. As a general rule, even if in the act of falling the forearm is fully extended upon the arm, it becomes flexed to some degree when the hand strikes the ground ; the ulna is forced against the humerus, and held there by the muscles before mentioned, so that there is a combination of leverage and muscular action, to which it is not surprising that the bone should yield. Still another condition favoring fracture is the irregular way in which the force is suddenly brought to bear, so that the stress comes, not in the axis of the humerus, but at an angle to it, as a “ cross- breaking strain.” The symptoms in these cases, to be appreciated, must be observed at a very early stage, as otherwise the swelling which rapidly comes on, especially if the elbow-joint be directly involved, makes everything obscure, except the fact of fracture. By the direction of the fracturing force, as well as by the muscular action already repeatedly mentioned, the upper fragment generally presents itself, in fractures just above the condyles (to use Malgaigne’a term)