322 DISEASES OP THE JOINTS. the fluid effusion may not be absorbed, or if it be so reappears very soon, and then continues to increase; this constitutes one species of hydrarthrus. We will study a little more closely the former of these conditions. At first there is hypersecretion into the joint, but afterwards the by no means considerable swelling is hard and elastic, and evidently fibrinous. Those mere physical acts of inflammation which consist in emigration of leucocytes and proliferation of tissue-cells, are the same in all forms of the process; the diathe- sis, or the species of inflammation, determines the after-fate and development of that cell-growth. Rheumatic, parenchymatous inflammation tends to pro- duce from the cell-tissue fibrinous material, and that hurriedly. The joint and its surroundings are occupied by a coarse fibrous tissue, formed by closely compacted fibre-cells this is of a light reddish-brown or fawn color; it is of variable thickness at different points, according in part to duration of dis- ease ; it may closely approach the skin, and encroach more or less on the joint- cavity, transforming its inner surface into a series of rugae, which run in a direction around the joint; these are separated by deep, narrow fissures ; the tissue is thickest where normally the membrane is most lax. There are no dendritic, hypertrophied fringes; indeed, the fringes themselves are included in or engulfed by this new formation, which is most developed where the membrane is normally most lax, but especially in the bursa-like prolongations, as in that which at the elbow lies behind the humerus, or in the subcrural bursa of the knee; indeed, I have seen this latter entirely filled up by the inflammatory growth. The tendinous thecae in the immediate neighbor- hood are also frequently occupied by the same material, the tendons becoming adherent to their sheaths. In some cases very close fibrous anchylosis, rapidly becoming bony, is left after a short attack of severely painful inflam- mation. After a certain time, the cartilages become inflamed in spots commencing on the free surface and extending gradually deeper; the action is a super- abundant cell-growth, whereby the hyaline substance becomes split up into coarse fibres. In other points the structures lose their opalescent appearance and assume a light red color, becoming at the same time very thin. If a sec- tion be made, it is found that the thinning does not depend upon wear or loss of surface, but upon encroachment of ossification upon the deep layers. In some places, when the case has been of long duration, this ossification extends all through the thickness of the cartilage, so that next to the joint- cavity lies bone which is bright and polished, usually having a reddish tinge, from vascularity. The bone itself is found on section to be much condensed, every plate of the cancellous structure being abnormally thick, and every cavity small (osteosclerosis). Moreover, the inflammation spreads from the synovial membrane to the periosteum, and produces, by reason of its organizing quality, a number of irregular outgrowths from the bony surface—osteo- phytes—which considerably deform the neighborhood of the joint, and occa- sionally present considerable obstacles to movement. The surface of the bone, where not studded with osteophytes, has an unmistakable appearance: the natural elevations and depressions, without any describable alteration in shape, are exaggerated, and the small openings and grooves for vessels are increased, so that the bone, though condensed and heavy, appears porous, especially at those parts where vessels pass. In some cases, a peculiar length- wise marking gives to the bone a surface looking almost fibrous. Of the other forms, the second appears but a slight and intermittent form of the first; a > I would call especial attention to the characteristic manner in which this tissue, while young, tears in strips with well-marked striation ; it is like the sort of tear which takes place in the white matter of a brain that has been a long time in spirit.