MOVABLE BODIES IN JOINTS. 343 nor Unless it can be induced to hide itself under some recognizable anatomical part; as, for instance, under the patella, the tendon of the rectus, a lateral ligament, or the ligamentum patellte. I do not think it possible to make out whether a body in the joint he car- tilaginous or bon}-, or a mixture of both cartilage and bone ; the softness of a lipomatous body1 will generally enable the surgeon to distinguish it from other varieties. The shape of the body can generally be roughly made out; but being felt through a considerable layer of soft parts, it commonly appears larger than it really is. Treatment.—We may divide the treatment into palliative and curative; to the former belong all the methods that have been devised for retaining the false body in some harmless part of the joint-sac. Among these are various forms of bandage or plaster. The simplest, and by no means the least efficacious arrangement, is to cut a hole, of a size a little larger than the loose body, in a piece of adhesive plaster, and having manoeuvered the body into some such advantageous position as on the lateral surface of either condyle, to apply the plaster in such a way that the body lies well within the hole. The same sort of arrangement may be carried out with an elastic or other bandage, or with a knee-cap, having an opening at the side corresponding to a part of the joint into which the body can be easily propelled. In certain cases, the use of a knee-cap stiffened behind by a steel splint, is the best treat- ment, and this more especially applies to joints which contain a large number of false bodies, for, as we have seen, such a condition is but a symptom or a consequence of disease, not merely of the synovial membrane, but of the whole joint-apparatus. Such a state could not be benefited by removal of the growths, which would only rapidly recur, but might, in all probability, be aggravated by the operation. But if dealing with one or two loose bodies, the surgeon will avoid disappointing his patient by at once informing him that any form of bandage can give but temporary and unreliable security, since sooner or later the body will escape from its control. Another device is to fix the body in some desirable locality by means of a serre-fine, or by passing through it and through a fold of skin a hare-lip pin or wire suture, leaving this in situ until the resultant inflammation has glued the substance to the synovial membrane, or necessitates removing the instru- ment. This method cannot be very highly commended ; it is by no means free from danger, since it is impossible to be sure that the inflammation produced by such a wound will reach the point intended and go no farther. Moreover, even if all go well—if the body adhere and inflammation subside—the move- ments of the joint are apt very soon to loosen or bieak down the new adhe- sions, when all the troubles recur. This accident we may endeavor to pre- vent, or at least to postpone, by using one of the bandages above described; but even with all possible precautions, recurrence of trouble is so common that it is well to warn the patient of its possibility. The only real cure for the disease is by removal of the loose body. The operation may be performed in one of two ways—the direct and the indirect —the latter being sometimes called the subcutaneous method. The direct method was the earlier in priority, but was then almost superseded by the indirect, which again has given place to its older rival. The reason of this oscillation is as follows: Some twenty-five or thirty years ago, surgery, plenti- fully skiliul and brilliant, was at the same time somewhat slovenly, not 1 I have compared the sensation imparted to the hand by one of these bodies to the feel of an oyster squeezed between the finger and thumb till it slips away.