931 pott’s disease of the spine. Pus may leave the psoas muscle at almost any point, and lead to abscess in some other situation. Lumbar Abscess.—This abscess usually has its origin from some disease of the lumbar spine. The pus, guided by the fasciae of the part, passes along the posterior abdominal wall, in front of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and having reached the edge of that muscle, becomes superficial in the space bounded by the external oblique and latissimus dorsi muscles, the iliac crest, and the last rib; or the pus may pierce the quadratus, or proceed along its inner parts, and ultimately point behind, at the outer edge of the sacro-1 um- balis muscle. A lumbar abscess may, however, be but an oft’shoot from a psoas abscess, or it may proceed from disease in the dorsal spine where the purulent collection has avoided the psoas entirely, and has proceeded direct to the lumbar region. Pus in this region also may avoid the fasciae, and, escaping into the loose subperitoneal connective tissue, may set up a peri- nephritic or a pericaecal abscess. The term iliac abscess is applied to a purulent collection in the iliac fossa, and such an abscess may be due to disease in either the lumbar or the dorsal spine. It may be merely an offshoot from a psoas abscess, or a psoas abscess may leave the muscle at the pelvic brim, and, entering the iliac fossa, con- tinue to develop there. In other cases the pus may be directed to the iliac region by the aorta and common and external iliac arteries, or, in the case of lumbar disease, the matter may gravitate directly to this region. Gluteal abscess is not common, and pus may reach this region in many ways. An iliac abscess may increase considerably, and in time mount up over the crest of the ilium, and so reach the gluteal region. Or pus may be conducted to the great sacro-sciatic notch by the common and internal iliac arteries, and may escape from that notch, either above or below the pyriformis muscle. In other cases, the matter may appear to simply gravitate to the floor of the pelvis and escape at any convenient spot. It may especially follow the great sciatic nerve, and, pursuing the course of that nerve, the abscess may reach as far even as the ham.1 Lastly, the matter may pass towards the middle line, and may point in the perineum or ischio-rectal fossa. Some idea of the relative frequency of these abscesses in spinal disease, may be gained from the following table by M. Michel:—2 He gives the following as the result of an examination of 48 cases of Pott’s disease accompanied by abscess :— In 39 of the cases the abscess was about the pelvis. In 6 it was in the neck, and in 3 it was found in the dorsal region. Of the 39 abscesses about the pelvis— 13 were about the groin, 14 occupied the iliac fossae and the upper and inner, or outer, part of the corresponding thigh, 1 appeared by the anterior superior spine of the ilium, 7 were in the lumbar region, 3 in the gluteal region, and 1 in the perineum. Of the 6 about the neck— 1 was in the supra-clavicular fossa. 3 presented at the sides of the neck, and 2 were post-pharyngeal. The 3 abscesses in the dorsal region appeared near the middle line, and by the sides of the diseased vertebrae. 1 Follin and Duplay, op. cit., tome iii. p. 666. 1868-9. 2 Diet. Encyclop. des Sc. Med., Art. Rachis. Paris, 1874.