EXCISION OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 501 cases seen in hospital practice—recover under expectant treatment; they are carried from one hospital to another, and at last die worn out by suppuration or visceral disease, or are carried off from a life of pain and weariness by some intercurrent affection. Thus, twelve cases, observed by Gibert at the Hospital “ Sainte-Eugenie,” furnished eight deaths, three “ not cured,” and only one recovery. Ho one, probably, at the present day, would think it proper to amputate in any case of hip-disease in which excision was at all applicable; and, indeed, not to speak of the mutilation necessarily caused by hip-joint amputation, the mortality after this operation is not inconsider- able, at least nine out of thirty-four recorded cases of primary amputation for hip-disease having proved fatal; so that excision is, in a good many instances, the only available resource, and, as such, the surgeon should employ it without hesitation. In this respect excision of the liip-joint may be said to differ from that of any other articulation, and, as justly remarked by Mr. Holmes, “ in cases which show a decided tendency to get worse, we may pretty confidently reckon all the recoveries after the operation as a clear gain.” As may be seen by the table of cases under my own care, the after-treat- ment of hip-joint excision is sometimes greatly protracted. As long as the patient does well, and, if not gaining, is at least not losing ground, the surgeon must not despair, but should persevere with careful dressing and judicious constitutional and hygienic treatment, by the aid of which an ulti- mate cure may be hoped for. If, however, the discharge increase, and it be evident that caries has recurred, and is too extensive for spontaneous recovery, a re-excision may sometimes be practised with advantage; or, if, with the same local condition, the patient’s general health begin to fail, consecutive arnj)utation may he still looked to as a last resource, and may be practised with a reasonable hope of benefit, thirty-one recorded cases of this kind having given at least seventeen favorable results. The following tables embrace thirty-four cases of primary and thirty-one of consecutive amputation at the hip-joint for hip-disease:— Cases of Primary Amputation at the TIip-joint for Hip-disease. No. Operator. Result. No. Operator. Result. 1 Alexander Recovered 18 Lee .... Recovered 2 Allen .... it 19 Mack .... “ 3 Baffos .... Died 20 Macnamara . 11 4 Bceckel Recovered 21 Maisonneuve 5 Cowell .... 22 Marshall i C 6 Camming 11 23 Mason .... “ 7 Curling Died 24 Richardson . 8 Id Recovered 25 Rivington “ 9 Davy .... 26 id. Died 10 Duffee .... “ 27 Secourgeon . “ 11 Foulis .... H 28 Spofforth Recovered 12 Hughes Undetermined 29 Stokes .... l C 13 Hutchinson . Recovered 30 Stout .... 11 14 Id. ... i l 31 Tay .... “ 15 Id. Died 32 Thompson Died 16 Id. ... U 33 Wheatcroft . U 17 Kerr .... U 34 Young . . . . Recovered