495 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. threat deal of his weight on the atfected limb, and could walk with one crutch, or the hand of an attendant. The power of flexion and extension of the limb was to a considerable degree restored, and the shortening of the thigh, by measurement, was but an inch and a half, although the amount of bone removed was quite two and a half inches in length. The child, six years old, was fat and hearty, and entirely free from all pain and suffer- ing. He left the hospital on April 3, 1868. I have seen this patient since, at long intervals, and about four years after the opera- tion obtained the photograph from which the annexed wood-cut is taken. (Fig. 720.) His sinuses were then all soundly healed, and he walked briskly without assistance from my office to the photographer’s. The last visit that I have had from him was about three years since—between thirteen and fourteen years, therefore, after the opera- tion when he told me that he was earning a livelihood as an operative in a mill, was in excellent health, and, except that he knew that one leg was shorter than the other, felt no difference between them ; he engaged in all the active amusements and sports of his fellows, and, to use his own expression, could “ walk with any one, run with any one, skate with any one, and swim with any one.” In the next case, although the patient was benefited, and his life probably prolonged, by the operation, the ultimate result of the case was unfavorable, the patient dying from tuberculous disease nearly a year after the date of excision :— Excision for Hip-Disease of two years’ standing; Recovery from Operation; Death from Visceral Disease more than eleven months subsequently T. M., aged nine years, came under my care at the Children’s Hospital in the autumn of 1870. He was suffer- ing from hip-disease of the left side, the malady having reached the third stage, and two sinuses, which communicated with the joint, discharging, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior surface of the thigh. The duration of the disease had been two years, and that of the abscess eighteen months. The patient’s health was failing. On October 14, 1870, I removed the upper extremity of the femur by Heyfelder’s incision, dividing the bone just below the trochanter with a chain-saw, and then gouged the carious rim of the acetabulum, which was the only part of the peh is affected. The head of the femur had almost wholly disappeared, and the long-continued inflamma- tory action had caused a marked change in the direction of the neck of the bone. (Fig. 721.) No ligatures were needed ; the wound was dressed with oiled lint, and the weight and sand-bags applied in the manner already described. Convalescence was slow, but by January, 1871, the patient was walking with crutches, and a month afterwards with a single crutch and high-soled shoe. Everything went well until the next June, when the patient was attacked with diarrhoea of an exhausting character. In August, he was removed from the hospital by his parents, contrary to advice, and was evidently neglected by them in a shameful manner, for he was brought back the next month in a most deplorable condi- tion, with the wound reopened and the bone protruding. Bone removed in hip-joint excision, He died September, 27, 1871, and an autopsy showed, showing change in cervix femoris. besides some roughness of the os innoininatum, tubercle in both lungs and in the right kidney, with fatty and amyloid degeneration of the liver. In the following case, while the local condition was that of advanced hip- disease, there was no visceral complication, and the result of the operation was everything that could be wished for:— Excision of Hip for Coxalgia of nearly two years standing; Recovery with per- fect Use of Limb—A. II., aged fourteen, was admitted under my care, at the Children’s Hospital, on September 15, 1875. He was suffering from hip-disease of the left side,