723 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAE. ing the last, that it is not worth while to describe them. He also died, asphyxiated, on the fourth day; autopsy not allowed. In both of my cases, the wide gap or interval which marked the separation of the spinous processes of the two vertebrae particularly injured, the dis- placement forward of the upper one, and the abrupt bend in the axis of the spinal column, forward, at the point of separation between these two vertebrae, with the stiffness of the neck, denoted that the first bone above that point, together with all the cervical vertebrae resting upon it, was dislocated forward, while the rest of the spinal column remained fixed or unmoved. Although no crepitus nor fragments of broken bone could be detected, it still was sup- posed that some degree of fracture, perhaps but slight, was also present, inasmuch as dislocations of the cervical vertebrae are complicated by fracture in a large majority of instances. Nevertheless, it is quite possible that both dislocations were uncomplicated or pure. However this may be, it is quite clear that, in each instance, the compression of the spinal cord was caused by the displacement forward of the dislocated vertebra; and that the indication for treatment, if the cases had not been regarded as almost hopeless, would have been to free the cord from compression by putting the dislocated bone back into its natural place. In reflecting upon these cases, I have often regretted that I did not make trial of reducing the dislocation, under anaesthesia, at least in the case of the peddler, the improvement in whose symptoms on the second day indicated that the cord was not irreparably injured. On the next day, however, his symptoms were all worse, and the prognosis hopeless. Had I this case now to treat, I should, as soon as it became clear that the man would not recover under an expectant plan of treatment, that is, on the second morning after the accident, relax his muscles completely by administering an anaesthetic, and then, by carefully made extension and rotation, etc., proceed to restore the dislocated bone to its normal position. In pursuing such a course, I would be guided by the following considerations: (1) The almost absolute certainty of a fatal termination in this class of cases, within two or three days, if an expectant plan of treatment be followed. Of 36 perfectly analogous cases treated at Guy's Hospital, all died within seventy-two hours. (2) The fact that some strictly analogous cases have undoubtedly been saved by reducing the dislocation. Three examples of recovery, by means of reduc- tion, from symmetrical dislocations occurring among the last five cervical vertebrae, that were apparently hopeless, are mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables. It is stated that, in one of them, the patient, a woman, was already unconscious, and her heart had nearly stopped ; and, that in another, where reduction was effected forty hours after the accident, by extension, the patient had been unconscious for half an hour, that there was dyspnoea, and that death was imminent; the success of the manoeuvre was indicated by an audible “ snap. (3) 1 he effort to.reduce the dislocation should be made as affording the sole, and, at the same time, a not unreasonable prospect of saving the patients life. I therefore would delay the attempt at reduction, in such extreme cases, until the symptoms denoted that the patient was rapidly going from bad to worse, as intimated above. Dislocation of some one of the last five cervical vertebrae may be caused while bathing, by striking the back of the head upon the ground in diving, as happened in the following instances:— A soldier, aged 25,1 struck his head in this manner while bathing. Paralysis, etc., appeared, and dislocation ot a cervical vertebra was diagnosticated. Death ensued in twenty-three days. The posterior ligament between the third and fourth cervical 1 Am. Medical Times, vol. vii.