REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 37 external to the wall of the bone is not exclusively, or even as if with preference, placed between the bone and the periosteum, but rather in the tissue of the periosteum, or indifferently either in it, beneath it, or external to it.” He, however, admits that in the ribs, and occasionally in the clavicle and humerus, an ensheathing callus may occur, in consequence of unrestrained movement of the fragments, just as it does, as a rule, in animals. Yet, even in the latter, the ultimate result may be a much more complete restoration of the normal form of the hone than would be expected. Mr. Crisp exhibited to the Pathological Society of London1 a specimen of oblique fracture of the humerus of a gorilla, united without deformity; and stated that this was only one out of many, in animals and birds, in which union was as perfect and the limb as useful as if splints had been applied. We occasionally meet with cases, as has been already said, of voluminous formation of callus, much beyond the needs of the mere reparative process. Such a deposit, about a fracture of the shaft of the femur, is represented in the annexed diagram (Fig. 585). But in by far the largest number of cases, upon the subsidence of the inflammatory swelling immediately following the fracture, there is left merely enough new material to bridge over the in- terval between the fragments (for if they are not in exact apposition there will be a triangular or wedge-shaped gap of greater or less size on either side), and thus restore as nearly as may be the nor- mal shape of the bone. When the fragments are wholly separated and driven apart, and the periosteum torn entirely asun- der—an occurrence which is very rare, even when the ends of the fragments overlap one another in a marked degree—each fragment may, like the end of the bone in a stump after amputation, become closed in by a rounded shell of compact bone. Such is the case in some instances of ununited frac- ture, as will be presently more particularly de- scribed. But often when the fragments are sepa- rated, there is still a bond between them in the shape of the bridge of periosteum before spoken of; and in the space defined by this bridge there will be developed a mass of callus which, becoming ossified, connects the two fragments permanently, and may even acquii’e the cancellous structure proper to the medullary cavity, as well as the com- pact wall, of the shaft of the normal bone. I believe it may be stated, without any exception whatever, that the periosteum is thickened and swollen in the neighborhood of a fracture. By some by Ollier,2 this membrane has been described as endowed with the power of promoting the formation of bone in adjacent plasma, and even in the soft tis- sues if transplanted among them. That it has such a power, exercised in the original development of tire skeleton, cannot be doubted ; and from the state- ments just made as to the usual condition of the periosteum in cases of frac- ture, and as to the relation of the callus to the broken ends, the inference is * Transactions, vol. xxvii. 1876, p. 340. 2 Traits Experimental et Clinique de la Regeneration des Os, etc. Paris, 1867. Fig. 585. Voluminous callus in fractured femur. writers, and especially