FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 225 there is no displacement, as occasionally happens by reason of the fibrous envelop and lateral ligaments remaining intact, this fibrous band may be exceedingly short, so that the fragments are very close together. But cases are upon record in which the separation, at first only slight, has been in- creased upon the use of the limb being resumed; and it is, I think, the rule that in every case some such increase takes place, unless the fragments have been united by bone. Bor bony union does sometimes occur; there are several specimens of it in the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, and one is figured by Malgaigne; several are mentioned by Mr. PI. Morris.1 In such cases the usual rule obtains, that on the articular face of the bone there is rather a loss of substance than a deposit of callus, so that the line of fracture is marked by a shallow groove. T. C. Smith has re- corded2 a case of fracture of the patella by a fall on the knee, the outer con- dyle of the femur being also broken oft'. There was no separation ; firm osseous union ensued in about six weeks, and no observable deformity was left from either fracture. Sometimes, as in a specimen figured by Morris,3 it seems unquestionable that there has been a new formation of fibrous tissue, developed from a plasma, just as in some instances of like union between other bones; but this is not always the case, for there may be only an expansion of pre-existing ligamentous substance. When the fragments have been tilted, the attach- ment of these fibres may be somewhat changed, as in another example given by Morris.4 Kirkbride5 has reported a case in which the fragments had be- come united at their inner part by a round fibrous cord, the remainder of their extent being unconnected ; with the knee in the straight position, they were two inches apart at the outer side and one and a half at the inner, while on flexion of the knee the distances were increased to three and three-fourths and two and a half inches. The patient had good use of the limb, and walked without any perceptible limp. Irregular pressure by apparatus, or perhaps the unequal yielding of dif- ferent portions of the ligamentous structures, may give rise to lateral tilting of the fragments, so that the gap between the latter is wider on one side than on the other. And sometimes there are irregular deposits of bone in the uniting medium, showing an effort at the establishment of bony union. Both these points are illustrated in a preparation in the museum of the Penn- sylvania Hospital :6 “ The fracture has been transverse, about the middle of the bone; the fragments are covered by a thick membrane; a broad, fibrous layer, an inch and a quarter wide, unites the two fragments, being attached to their anterior surface. There is also a strong but thin band passing between their posterior surfaces. At the outer side of the patella there are two bony nodules springing from each fractured surface; these are evidently new-formed bone, and are almost in contact with each other, though no bony union has occurred between them; they were, however, firmly bound together by ligament. The degree of separation at the outside of the joint is not more than half an inch; at the inside it amounts to fully an inch.” This speci- men was taken from the body of an old negro, who had sustained the fracture eleven years previously. Hamilton7 makes the extraordinary statement that in the case of a young man of nineteen, with a transverse fracture caused apparently by a direct 1 Loc- cit. 2 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1873. 3 Loc. cit., p. 1031 ; fig. 175. « Ibid., fig. 176. 6 Amer. Journal of the Medical Sciences, May, 1835. 6 Catalogue, p. 35 ; No. 1145. 7 Treatise on Fractures, etc., 6tli edition, p. 502. VOL. IV.—15