17 VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. Fig. 582. is only in very rare instances that the immediate closure of the wound can be effected. It is in compound fractures, more frequently than in any other class of injuries, that the question of amputation is raised. For the discussion of the conditions requiring it, the reader is referred to the article on Amputation.1 The treatment of compound fractures not calling for the removal of the limb, will be considered in con- nection with that of fractures generally. Multiple, Comminuted, and Impacted Fractures —When there are two or more distinct breakages, whether of the same bone or of different bones, the case is said to be one of multiple fracture. When there are several fragments, the fracture is said to be comminuted. (Fig. 582.) Sometimes there is one main line of breakage, and the end of one or of both fragments is split or shattered into several smaller ones. (See Fig. 583, d.) Impacted fracture is said to exist when one of the fragments penetrates the other, and is so wedged into it as to limit or prevent their mobility upon one another. Usually there is first a partial separation, and then either by external force or by muscular contraction the wall of one fragment is driven into the cancellous structure of the other. Multiple fractures are generally produced by very great violence, such as railroad or machinery accidents, or falls from heights; forces being exerted either at the same moment, or successively, upon different portions of a limb or of the body. They derive their gravity either from the amount of injury inflicted, and the consequent shock to the system, or from the difficulty involved in the application of proper dressings. Some years ago a man was brought to the Episcopal Hospital, who, while drunk, had been run over by a “dummy” engine as he was stooping down to hunt for his pipe on the ground. Almost all the bones in his body seemed to he broken, except those of the head; his ribs were smashed; his pelvis ground up so that it felt like a mass of loose stones, and his extremities could he twisted about in any direction. He died about an hour after the alleged time of the accident. In December, 1881, a colored man, aged 32, was brought to the Episcopal Hospital, having been injured by a derrick falling upon him. He presented but slight symptoms of shock, but died in about two hours. On examination it was found that eight ribs on the left side were broken, and seven on the right; on the left side the pleura was wounded, and the eighth intercostal artery was divided by a spiculum of bone; on the right side four of the ribs bad injured the pleura, and two had penetrated the lung also. In each pleural cavity there were a number of spicula of bone. Fractures of the spinous and transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebra?, and on the left side division of two lumbar arteries by spicula, causing large hemorrhage into the areolar tissue, were noted. There were also oblique fractures of the right femur in its lower third, and of the left fibula in its upper third, with rupture of the internal lateral ligament of the knee. Gross2 speaks of an old woman, who, by a fall from a third story window, sustained no less than eighty-three fractures. • Vol. 1. p. 560. VOL. IV.—2 2 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 898.