514 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. summer of 1875 (nearly twenty months after the operation), previous to which she was presented at a meeting of the College of Physicians, and a photograph was secured, from which the annexed illustration (Fig. 742) is taken. The case which follows is an example of that form of disease for which I have ventured to propose the name of Gelatinous Arthritis, and by its long duration, and long period of convalescence after operation, per- mits us to see one reason why so many surgeons have, in these joint affections, preferred the ready method of amputation to the more conservative but more tedious mode of treatment by excision. Gelatinous Arthritis of three years' duration; Excision; Recovery w ith Useful Limb; Recontraction after several years; Re-excision; Second recovery with Usef ul Limb Rose U., eight years of age, was admitted to the Episcopal Hospital on March 25, 1874, suffering from gelatinous arthritis of the right knee, the disease having existed since her fifth year. She had been for a time a patient in the Orthopaedic Hospital. Exci- sion by the usual transverse incision was performed on March 30, no trace whatever being found of the semilunar cartilages, and the synovial structures being found in a “ gelatiniform” condition, though the bones, in spite of the long duration of the disease, were but slightly affected. Three vessels were secured with ligatures, the wound was closed with lead wire sutures and dressed with oiled lint, and the limb was placed on the custom- ary splint. By the system of rotation which prevails in the Episcopal Hospital, the patient passed out of my hands shortly after the operation, and I did not see her again, except casually, until I resumed the care of the wards in January, 1875. At that time the excision wound had cicatrized, and the resected bones were firmly united, but a number of sinuses surrounded the limb, the soft parts were much thickened and infiltrated, and the scar presented a remarkable, prominent, keloid-like appearance. On January 4, I removed the bracketed splint, upon which the limb had hitherto been kept, and substituted a moulded, pasteboard gutter, covering the site of the ex- sected joint with compound iodine ointment, and a soap-plaster and firm bandage. Under this treatment the swelling rapidly subsided, and the keloid-like appearance of the cicatrix disappeared, and by the middle of the month the patient walked readily with crutches. In April both splint and crutches were dispensed with, and from that time Rose walked, and even ran, without any artificial assistance. She was kept in Ho«mtal some months longer, as a few sinuses persisted, but was ultimately discharged with apparently firm bony union, and a perfectly straight leg. I now lost sight of this patient for over seven years, but in October, 1882, she applied to me at the University Hospital, with her knee contracted to a right angle, and immovable. The contraction she said had been coming on for about two years. Shortly after this date I operated again, by sawing out a wedge-shaped block from the angle of the limb, as in Dr. Gurdon Buck’s method. The result of the re-excision was favorable, and Rose has now again (October, 1883), a straight and firm limb, and walks without artificial aid. In my next case, which was also one of gelatinous arthritis, the operation was followed by profuse secondary hemorrhage on the thirteenth day; not- withstanding which the patient made an excellent and even rapid recovery. Excision of Knee-Joint for Gelatinous Arthritis; Secondary Hemorrhage; Recovery with Useful Limb James M., six years of age, entered the Episcopal Hospital on May 7, 1875, suffering from gelatinous arthritis of the left knee, following an injury Fig. 742. Result of knee-joint exci- sion ; slight motion pre- served.