299 STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. A shred or fine section of this material shows it to be composed of a mass of cells, round and spindle-shaped, together with hare nuclei, the whole held together by ground-substance, granulated or delicately fibrillated, and of very soft consistence.1 The area pervaded by this material is not equally thick in all parts; in one spot it may hardly encroach beyond the immediate neigh- borhood of the cavity, in another it may be much thicker, while in a third place it may send out a prolongation extending a considerable distance. Wherever it exists, it invades any intervening structures; it grows in the interstices of ligaments, and gradually separates or transforms their fibres; that is, the cells of the areolar tissue which pervades those structures, forms by proliferation this sort of material. This substance is granulation-tissue, exactly like that which forms the floor of ulcers, and produced in a precisely similar manner; the act of granulation is not confined to strumous joint-disease, it occurs also in ordinary chronic syno- vitis, such, for instance, as is left after an acute attack; and though in the strumous disease the granulation-tissue is unusually soft, the action itself is not peculiar to that malady ; it is the after-behavior of the granulation-tissue which individualizes the disease. Thus, in the chronic stage of an acute synovitis, the granulations develop rapidly into a fibrous form of cicatricial tissue, and this tendency is, as we shall see, still more strongly marked in chronic rheu- matic synovitis. But in the malady which we are now considering, the new tissue has little or no tendency to cicatrization or fibrillation ; it remains, or at least tends to remain, for an indefinite time, the same unformed or embry- onic material; and, then, without further organization, is apt to undergo either fatty or purulent degeneration.2 There remains yet another degenerative process which must be noticed— the tuberculous. For very many years past, the possibility or probability that the extreme obstinacy of strumous synovitis, such as just described, might be due to tuberculosis of the synovial membrane, has been constantly borne in mind; I myself have not only been prepared for the reception of evidence to prove the fact, but have also been aware that old and indolent granula- tions—tuberculoid nodules—consisting in great part of giant-cells, could be found in these cases. Within the last two years, however, the subject has reached another phase. In 1880, Dr. Max Schuller published his well-known account3 * * * * 8 of experi- ments on a number of animals which he had rendered diseased by the injection of tuberculous matter, and in which he had at the same time, or at least during the same day, as a rule, injured the right knee-joint. With these experiments, and with the inferences drawn therefrom, is intimately mixed up the doctrine of a special living organism as the cause and origin of 1 The cells are evidently produced almost entirely by the proliferation of the connective-tissue cells, emigration-corpuscles playing but a very small part in their formation. 2 The anatomical condition above described is that which Sir B. Brodie called “A Morbid Change of Structure of the Synovial Membrane.” The disease is what Wiseman called “White Swelling,” a term which afterwards was extended to many forms of joint-disease. Bonnet (Maladies des Articulations) and Ricliet (Maladies des Articulations) term it “ fon- gueuse.” Volkmann (loc. cit.) names thedisease “ FungciseGelenkentziindung.” Hueter (Klinik der Gelenkkranlieiten, Bd. i. S. 77) would make distinctions among all those chronic forms of synovitis in which considerable thickening or hyperplasia takes place, naming them respectively synovitis hyperplastica, with the adjuncts la-vis or pannosa, granulosa or fungosa, tuberosa or papil- laris; but these somewhat grandiose names indicate no real pathological differences ; indeed, he confesses “that in the same joint these different forms of hyperplastic inflammation coexist.” They are, indeed, mere variations, according to the degree and stage of the disease, according as the granulations tend more or less to advanced development. 8 Experimentelle und histologische Untersucliungen liber die Entstelien und Ursachen der skrophulosen und tuberkuldsen Gelenkleiden, u. s. w.