253 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. the tibia, and the deformity is hence limited. Some projection of the edge of one or the other fragment, generally the upper, can be felt on passing the lingers along the hone, and this is apt to be more marked, the nearer the fracture is to either end of the hone. Hays, however, has reported1 a case of fracture of the internal malleolus, clearly defined, without any displace- ment. The pain is for the most part severe enough to forbid attempts at standing or walking. Crepitus may be felt, and decidedly, although the fragments may be but slightly movable upon one another. Swelling and ecchymosis are apt to ensue, just as in fractures of both bones; and even although the fibula is not broken, it may be bruised, so that this symptom will present itself on the outer side of the leg as well as in the neighborhood of the more serious injury. The diagnosis may be made out clearly enough as regards the fracture of the tibia, but it is by no means always easy to determine whether or not the fibula has also given way. On this point it will be better for the surgeon to restrain his curiosity; if mobility be not at once detected, it should not be vigorously or persistently sought for. In any case of doubt, the prudent course is to assume the probability of fracture. When the tibia alone is broken, the treatment is essentially the same as that of fracture of both bones, and need not be again detailed. Non-union is very rare in these cases, by reason of the support, slight as it would seem to be, afforded by the unbroken fibula; yet Schuller has reported2 an instance in which this condition was due to the interposition of the tibialis anticus ten- don between the fragments; the patient, a healthy German woman, aged forty, had been run over by a wagon ; subperiosteal resection was performed, and afterward the periosteum was sutured, with the result of obtaining com- plete bony union, with very little shortening, in four months. Sometimes consolidation takes place very rapidly. Schweich3 relates the case of a peasant, aged forty, whose tibia was fractured transversely at about its middle, pro- ducing obvious displacement. A starched bandage was applied, and the re- porter ceased his attendance on the sixth day. The patient walked in his room on the twelfth day, and returned to his work on the fourteenth. On the twenty-fifth he called on his surgeon, and exhibited a well-formed callus. Fracture of the fibula alone may be produced by direct violence, at any point; when due to indirect force, it is generally seated within two or three inches of the external malleolus. In the former class of cases the mechanism is sufficiently obvious; in the latter it admits of some question, which is, however, not of serious importance. It may simply be said here, that it is probable that sometimes, as when the foot is brought very forcibly into abduction, so that the sole is turned outward, the tarsal bones are pushed against the malleolus so as to bend the fibula toward the tibia, and cause it to break at its weakest point. On the other hand, when the foot is violently adducted, so as to turn the sole inward, the stress upon the external lateral ligament may be such as to bow the fibula outward, and cause it to yield in the opposite direction, but at the same point—possibly a little lower down. Wagstafi’e4 has reported two cases in which, by a twisting movement, the lower end of the fibula was split longitudinally, and a fragment detached which became rotated and wedged against the tibia so firmly that its replace- ment was found impossible. In one, recovery took place, though walking 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Aug. 1837. 2 Quoted in the London Med. Record, Dec. 15, 1878, from the Gaz. Hebdomadaire, 12 Juillet. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Oct. 1848 ; from Caspar’s Wochensclnift. 4 St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi.