645 CARCINOMA. unquestionably extends up into the antrum through the alveolar process of the jaw, from the mucous membrane of which it originates. Although a few of tiie epitheliomas produce soft tumors resembling the typical medullary can- cer, the tendency of epithelioma may be said to be, not to produce a tumor. Scarcely has a lump formed, when its superficial portions, always closely con- nected with the skin or mucous membrane, ulcerate, and the appearance of the disease thenceforth is that of a foul and often ragged ulcer, with an indurated base and edges. The induration is in many cases so narrow that the tumor is lost sight of in the ulcer. In the microscopic structure, it must be pointed out that tlie alveolar structure is more often absent than present. The surface- epithelium can be seen dipping down in columns or masses into the subjacent tissues, and, as the deeper structures are reached, the epithelium advances into them in cords or cylinders of cells, always continuous, but pursuing an irregular course, now narrower, now wider, now putting forth knobs or buds, and always anastomosing at short intervals. The intervening space is occu- pied by the natural tissues, infiltrated with cells resembling leucocytes. The impression produced by the appearance of these cylinders of epithelial cells, is that they are formed and contained within some definite channels—an impression very likely to be true. The epitheliomas are liable to fatty and caseous degeneration, but rarely to the same extent as the spheroidal-celled carcinomas. The central cells of the characteristic cell-nests or epithelial globes are prone to colloid transformation. Wasting, such as happens to the spheroidal-celled tumors, is very rare. The surface of an epithelioma is, not infrequently, papillary, for, with the tendency to grow downwards into the subjacent tissues, which is the essen- tial feature of the disease, there is a simultaneous tendency to the putting forth of papillary outgrowths from the surface. These usually perish with the progress of the ulceration. Cysts are scarcely ever formed, and even cystoid cavities are rare. Multiple, primary epitheliomas, like multiple, pri- mary carcinomas of every variety, are very rare. But after the primary disease has existed for a certain period, it is not unusual in some situations, as in the oesophagus, to observe a few, or even many nodules in the neigh- borhood of the primary epithelioma, or even extending a considerable dis- tance beyond it. The lymphatic glands are liable to be affected by epithelioma, but the liability depends on the situation of the primary disease. Epithe- lioma may become generalized, but wide-spread dissemination is of rare occurrence, and it is not unusual for this disease to terminate without the formation of any secondary tumors. The liver and lungs are, perhaps, more frequently affected than other organs, but the kidneys and the heart may be the seat of secondary epithelioma, and growths may form in the bones and other tissues. The diagnosis of epithelioma, in all parts in which it can be reached, deserves especial notice. It is, for the most part, easy: the foul ulcer with its irregular surface and absence of granulations; the induration of the base and edges, often extending far beyond the ulcer; the spreading of the disease; its situation—these and other features in individual cases are quite sufficient to decide the nature of the malady. But it sometimes hap- pens that great difficulty is experienced in making a diagnosis between epithelioma and syphilitic or tubercular ulcers. In such cases, the doubt may be dispelled by examining with the microscope a scraping of the surface of the ulcer, as recommended on a preceding page. The number and diver- sity of the epithelial cells, the mother-cells, and the occasional presence of epithelial globes or cell-nests, serve to establish the identity of epithelioma. The general pathology of the cylindrical-cellcd or columnar-celled carcinomas is less intimately known than that of either of the preceding forms, partly be-