132 INJURIES OF BONES. Hamilton mentions that a plan, first suggested and tried by Clark of St. Louis, has been found satisfactory, viz., the attachment of a weight to the lower part of the arm by means of adhesive strips. Without questioning the statements in favor of this method, I must say that it seems to me to present certain practical difficulties in its carrying out, which are not easily met. The humerus must, of course, either be kept vertical, or the weight must pull it out of shape, and when the patient lies down the weight must be sus- pended over a pulley; but a slight change of posture would interfere with its action, or cause it to make traction out of the proper line. A very complicated contrivance has recently been described1 by Dr. Hubbell, of Colorado, having a crutch-head for the axilla, a screw for extension, a splint for the forearm, and a hand-rest; short splints are added if the fracture is not compound. It serves as an instance of the revival of old ideas in a slightly modified shape. Dr. Hamilton has suggested a method of dressing these fractures, with a view of preventing or curing non-union, which is certainly original, and which can hardly be passed over, although I cannot say that it commends itself to my judgment. After referring to the peculiar tilting motion apt to be impressed upon the lower fragment, he proposes straightening the elbow, and applying a firm, straight splint from the top of the shoulder to the hand, making it fast with rollers. Not only would such a posture be awkward and inconve- nient, but the tendency would, I think, be to tilt the upper end of the lower fragment forward, and thus to give rise to deformity. In fractures near the lower part of the shaft of the humerus, the portion wdiere the bone begins to widen out, there is apt to be a displacement of very marked character from muscular action. The flexors, pronators, and exten- sors all tend to pull the lower fragment forward, and, as it yields, its upper end must, of course, tilt in this direction; the triceps draws the olecranon upward, and anteriorly the biceps and brachialis anticus do the same. Hence the combined effect of all these forces is to tilt the lower fragment at an angle with the upper, as in Fig. 607. If union takes place under such circum- stances, it must be clear that when flexion of the forearm upon the arm is attempted, it will be checked as soon as the coronoid process of the ulna comes in contact with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the humerus, and that in the changed position of the lower fragment the power of full flexion of the elbow must be lost. In order to obviate the tendency to this condition of Fig. 607. Fig. 608. Diagram illustrating tilting of lower fragment in fracture of humerus near elbow. Splint of binder’s board for fracture of lower part of humerus. 1 Therapeutic Gazette (Detroit), May, 1883.