pott’s disease of the spine. 939 Medical Journal, vol. i. page 913. 1881. spinal nerves, they are liable to become inflamed on account of their proximity to the seat of disease. They are liable to irritation from the near presence of fragments of bone, or displaced portions of the column. They are susceptible, also, to varying degrees of injury from pressure. When many vertebrae are lost, the corresponding intervertebral foramina are usually more or less in- volved, and in such instances Michel observes that it is common for many successive spinal nerves to issue from one huge and irregular intervertebral foramen produced by the disease. It is extremely difficult to say in what cases cord and nerve symptoms are to be expected, and in what cases they are not apt to occur. They may appear early in quite slight cases, or they may be entirely absent in the most severe examples of the disease. As to the relation between the cord-symptoms and the local condition in the vertebral column, these few points can alone be mentioned: Cord-symptoms are more apt to occur in cases where the disease progresses rapidly, and the de- formity is sooner produced than in cases where the opposite conditions obtain. Cord-symptoms are more apt to occur in cases associated with deformity than in those unattended with deviation of the column. According to Bouvier’s statistics on this point, out of 64 cases of Pott’s disease with deformity, par- alysis occurred in 33 instances; whereas only 8 examples of paralysis were met with in 32 cases of the disease unassociated with deformity. Allowing for many exceptions, cord-symptoms are more apt to occur in severe forms of the disease, in cases associated with much muscular weakness, in cases where undue movement has been allowed or no treatment adopted, and in cases where accident has suddenly added to the extent of the deformity. The various symptoms may most conveniently be considered under two heads—first, disturbances of sensation, and secondly, disturbances of the motor system. Disturbances of Sensation.—Pain transmitted along a certain nerve or nerves is very often the first symptom of disturbance of the great nerve-structures. This pain is probably due to irritation of some of the spinal nerves as they issue from the intervertebral foramina, although it may in some cases be due to a disturbance in the medulla spinalis itself. The seat of the pain varies— as Mr. Howard Marsh has well pointed out—with the locality of the bone- mischief. In caries of the lower cervical region, the pain is apt to radiate over the shoulders and down the arms, or over the upper part of the front of the chest. In dorsal disease, the pain follows the intercostal nerves, and may be felt at the sides, or in front of the trunk, about the middle line. When the malady attacks the lumbar spine, the pain tends to radiate about the loins and pelvis, or to run down the limbs and to extend even to the feet.1 The characters of this pain are tolerably distinctive. It is sometimes severe, usu- ally sharp and paroxysmal, rather than continuous. It is indeed a neuralgic pain. It is often limited to one side of the body, or even to one nerve. For ex- ample, in cases of dorsal disease, intercostal neuralgia of a single space is by no means uncommon. The pain may be associated with hypersesthesia of the part supplied by the affected nerve, or of a part supplied by some adjacent trunk. But such a complication is not common. The pain is very usually made worse by exercise and violent movement, and a sudden jarring of the column may render it, for the moment, almost agonizing; on the other hand, the pa- tient is easier when in the recumbent posture, and often the painful sensation will entirely disappear when a little extension is applied to the column. 1 The Diagnosis of Caries of the Spine in the Stage preceding Angular Curvature. British