INJURIES OF THE BACK. 820 Moreover, in occasional, perhaps in frequent instances of traumatic myelitis, the inflammatory process does not involve the whole thickness of the cord ; it may he restricted to the central gray matter; and, possibly, to one of the columns. An instance in point is given by Anstie:—1 A woman, aged 38, fell thirty feet from a window, and came under Mr. Holt’s care. There was a scalp wound, with “concussion;” paralysis and delirium. In eight days death supervened. The autopsy showed fractures of the sixth cervical vertebra and skull; red softening of the central gray matter of the cord ; antero-lateral columns healthy. (Ashhurst.) Another instance in point is given by Genest:—2 A woman, aged 40, received a blow on her back. Six weeks afterwards she felt pain starting from the right foot. Gradually the pain extended to various parts of the limb ; and, after a month, it was accompanied by spasmodic contractions, and by diminished voluntary motion. She walked with great difficulty, even with the help of a stick. There was no alteration in the temperature of this limb. The convulsions extended to the other limbs and to the head, and the patient died. Autopsy Brain normal; cerebellum a little softened; no meningitis; spinal cord healthy, excepting at the swell- ing for the lower limbs, which, for an extent of eighteen lines and a depth of one line, on its posterior aspect, was softened, and looked like cream, somewhat rose-colored. The softening in this case was obviously inflammatory, and was restricted to the poste- rior columns. This circumstance is also instructive as well as interesting, because the morbid action was engendered by concussion (contusion) of the cord substance. To briefly enumerate the morbid appearances which result from traumatic myelitis : they are (1) red softening ; (2) purulent infiltration of the reddened and softened rachidian substance ; (3) collections of purulent matter (abscesses) surrounded by areolae of red softening, one or two lines thick, in the rachidian substance; (4) more or less complete liquefaction of the cord, but without well-defined margins. The morbid appearances usually extend through the whole thickness of the cord, and some considerable distance in a longitudinal direction, but mostly upward; occasionally, however, they are restricted to the central gray matter, or to the columns. Etiology.—Traumatic inflammation of the spinal cord may arise from any wound which penetrates the spinal canal. It is often caused by simple frac- tures and dislocations of the spinal column, as well as by those that are com- pound. It is not unfrequently produced by concussions of the spinal cord, especially those that are attended by ecchymosis of the cord-substance; in such cases, the inflammatory process is apt to be subacute and to pursue a chronic course. Dr. Nairne,3 however, has recorded an acute case occurring in a lad, aged 17, in whom it was caused by severe jolting in a cart. Next day he was unable to walk, from para- lysis ; he rapidly grew worse ; and, after ten days, he died. On autopsy, the spinal veins were found to be greatly congested ; and a portion of the spinal marrow opposite the third and fourth dorsal vertebrae, at least one inch in length, was thoroughly disor- ganized and reduced to a semi-fluid state. Occasionally, traumatic myelitis results from violent strains of the spinal column, although the bones and ligaments are apparently uninjured. Sir W. Gull4 relates the case of a man, aged 25, employed as a laborer in the com- mercial dock, who felt a sudden pain in the back after lifting some deals, on November 22. He walked to his home (about a mile and a half) ; was apparently well on the 1 Trans. Lond. Path. Society, vol. x. s Brown-Sequard, op. cit., p. 72 ; quoted from Gazette Medicale de Paris, 1831, p. 34. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxxiv. p. 37. 4 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1858, pp. 189, 190.