396 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. extension by applying plaster to the skin ; but the instrument, extending from above the great trochanter, is let into the heel of a well-fitting boot, and, being provided with a slide and ratchet, can be lengthened until sufficient pressure on the perineal strap shows that weight thrown on the foot will, in a great measure, be transmitted to that strap, and not to the joint. Additional secu- rity is given by providing the upper part of the appliance with a pelvic and two perineal bands. Dr. Andrews, of Chicago, I believe, first hit on the idea of providing the top of these instruments with a sort of crutch-handle, well padded, and fitting the rami of the ischium and pubis. The upright lies only on the inner side of the limb, and is hitched into the heel of the shoe. These splints, it is to be observed, all permit of very considerable mobility of the hip-joint; and, indeed, Dr. Jos. C. Hutchison goes further and applies no retentive apparatus whatever to the diseased limb, but, merely supplying the patient with a high-soled shoe for the foot of the sound side, and a pair of crutches, allows him to go about at his own will and pleasure, not even taking the precaution to confine the limb at night. Dr. Hutchison points out, what, indeed, is quite true, that “ immobility is secured by reflex con- traction of the periarticular muscles, aided by intracapsular effusion, and the voluntary effort to keep the joint at rest on account of the pain which motion produces but I would remark, that any extraneous aids for fixing the joint are valuable, according to their power of superseding and preventing those reflex and voluntary contractions which so powerfully press together the articular facets, and thereby certainly add to the pain of joint-disease, as well as aggravate the dis- ease itself.1 Mr. Thomas, of Liverpool, starting with a different view, desires to secure complete im- mobility of the hip-joint, by means of a pos- terior splint with a longer bearing, and entirely devoid of any hinge-joint. The appliance, made of soft iron, consists of an upright, long enough to reach from the level of the angle of the scapula to below the middle of the calf; this must be rather over an inch broad, and thick enough to resist mere muscular force, but not too thick to be bent with wrenches. It must be thus bent or moulded, so as to fit, not very closely, the incurvation of the loins, but much more nearly the nates and its fold; below that last point it may be straight. This portion of the apparatus bears three cross- pieces of weaker and narrower iron, the first of which encircles the thorax, and is provided with a strap and buckle to keep it somewhat loosely applied, while the second encircles the thigh a little above the knee, and the third embraces the leg. These must both be so long that their ends overlap each other in front, to permit which they are placed on the upright with a very slight obliquity. The whole is 1 I shall have to show immediately that this method, like the use of Thomas’s splint, gives no security, except the will of the patient, against placing weight very frequently on the diseased limb. Fig. 668.