894 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. pass through the bony opening, and, entering the sac, become adherent to its inner wall. In such eases the termination of the medulla spinalis is often indicated by the point of its adhesion to the protruded sac; and this adhesion is, in some cases, marked by a depression on the outer surface of the cyst. Sometimes the cord-structure is found spread out as a thin coating of nerve- tissue over the inner surface of the cyst, a condition depending upon great accumulation of fluid in the central canal of the cord. In other instances the cord may be fairly sound, and the cauda equina may be spread out as a lining to the cyst, wall; or the extremity of the cord may be, as it were, dissected up into bundles, and thus be made to represent an unduly large and coarse cauda equina. Sometimes only a few nerves are to be found in the sac, scattered about its posterior wall, or hanging loosely in the fluid with which it is tilled. Speaking generally, the nerve-structures, when they occupy the sac, tend to observe, for the most part, the middle line and the posterior aspect of the tumor; and it may be said that the larger the opening in the bones, the more probable is it that a large amount of nerve-tissue will be found in the cyst, and vice versa. In spina bifida not only may the cord be defective, or its parts disturbed in the manner just indicated, but the great nerves concerned in the deformity may also show certain deficiencies. Thus, Dr. Fisher1 found in two cases of spina bifida that he examined, a fusion of two or more ot the sacral ganglia, and observed that the corresponding nerves passed through the spinal membranes in one bundle. South,2 * commenting upon this observation, says that he has himself verified it in a case which he examined after death following puncture. Some few, rare instances have been recorded where the sac contained, in addition to cerebro-spinal fluid and some cord or nerve-struc- tures, a certain amount of fibrous and fatty tissue.5 Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The tumor in spina bifida is congenital, is always in the middle line, and always closely and distinctly connected to the subjacent bone. In many cases the detect in the bone can be felt when the tumor is drawn away from its attachments. The tumor is round or oval, and usually of regular outline. It feels tense and elastic, and, as a rule, presents very distinct fluctuation. If the coverings of the cyst be thin, the mass may be as translucent as a hydrocele. The integument over the tumor may be normal, or may present any of the conditions that have already been described. The mass is generally constricted at its base, if not distinctly pedunculated. Careful attention must be paid to those symptoms that mark the connection of the cyst with the interior of the spinal canal. Chief among these symp- toms are the following: The size and tenseness of the mass can be diminished by pressure. Such pressure will often cause evident pain or convulsions, or limited muscular spasms, and if continued may induce a state of coma in many instances. When hydrocephalus exists at the same time, pressure upon the tumor causes increased tension at the anterior fontanelle; and, in like manner, pressure at the anterior fontanelle produces some increase in the sac of the spina bifida. These mutual pressure-effects cannot be seen unless the head is hydrocephalic. If the pelvis be raised above the head, the tumor becomes softer, while its tension is increased during the act of crying. These evidences of a communication between the sac and the spinal canal arc more marked in large tumors than in small, and in those without a pedicle than in those possessed of one. It will be obvious that the smaller the orifice between the sac and the canal, the less marked will be the evidences of the communi- 1 London and Edinburgh Philosph. Mag., vol. x. p. 316. 1837. * Chelius’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 466. 1847. 8 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol v. p. 804.