pott’s disease of the spine. 921 ings, or other strumous malady. A few do show these complications, while the majority do not; and the condition of these latter is, I think, to be ex- plained by that antagonism that appears to, exist between the various stru- mous disorders, and that does not favor the appearance upon the same patient, and at the same time, of more than one gross manifestation of the disease. In the book just alluded to, I have endeavored to fully demonstrate this antagonism. While then, I would not for one moment insist that all the victims of Pott’s disease are of necessity scrofulous, I would urge that the majority of such patients present reasonable evidences of this diathesis. I have, for example, met with several instances of this spine-affection in chil- dren who have appeared in perfect health as regards their general condition, and who have moreover presented no suspicion of struma in their families ; but such instances are exceptional. Lastly, I believe it will be very gene- rally allowed that Pott’s disease is more common among the poor than among the rich, or well to do, and that it is most common in association with those general conditions which are the most favorable to the production of struma. Some few writers have maintained that angular deformity may be due to rheumatism or gout, but there would appear to be little or no foundation for this statement. On still scantier grounds has masturbation being assigned as a cause of this disease.1 Injury.—There can be no doubt that injury bears an important part in the etiology of Pott’s malady. In those cases in which the disease attacks children who are apparently in robust health, and who present no constitutional taint of any kind, I believe that an injury is to be assigned as the actual cause of the mischief in the spine. In those cases, moreover, in adults who appear to be in all other respects in perfect health, a history of injury, distinct and grave, is seldom, if ever, absent. The frequency with which the disease would appear to commence about the junction of a vertebra with its interarticular libro-cartilage, supports the theory of an injury as an essential cause. For it is well known that the point of junction of a rigid with an elastic segment of a column is a point of weakness. Allowing, then, that an injury is, in certain cases, an essential cause of angular deformity, I doubt if the majority of sur- geons would go further, and assert with Dr. Sayre that this disease “is almost always, if not always, produced through some injury to the bone or car- tilage.”2 There must be very few children who reach the age of ten years without having met with some accident, trifling although it may be, in which the back has been, directly or indirectly, involved. Any inquirer who starts with a bias in favor of injury as an essential cause of Pott’s disease, will not lack material to support his opinion. The only question is as to the value of that material. Of how many children at the age of ten, could it not be probably said that “ so many months ago it fell and hurt its back,” or “ had a bad tumble,” or “ had something strike it in the back ?” Those who maintain the importance of injury in this disease, must also accept the onus of explaining why Pott's disease is not more common than it is, and why a given injury will produce the malady in one child, while it has no permanent effect upon another. In scrofulous children, in children already predisposed by heredity or acquired defects to certain phases ot chronic inflammation, it is easy to understand that a very slight lesion may excite a carious action in the vertebrae. Whether such a lesion is essential, or not, it is difficult to sa}T, and still more difficult to prove. There is the further question as to whether this lesion must of necessity be “ an injury” in the usual meaning of that word, or whether it may not be caused by undue use of the part, by dispro- 1 See, for example, South’s edition of Chelius’s Surgery, vol. i. page 280. 2 Spinal Disease and Spinal Curvature, p. 2. London, 1877.