DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 412 efforts at restoration have failed, the patient should have the option of under- going a larger operation, such as that of partial excision. True anchylosis of either hip or knee may occur in such a flexed position as to cause the limb to be very useless, and the patient to be exceedingly lame; a contrary condition at the elbow, viz., a straight anchylosis, renders the limb of very little value. Thus the question as to treating a true anchy- losis must depend upon the amount of inconvenience produced. It must be remembered that a movable joint cannot be secured ;* the question is only that of placing a motionless one in a better posture. True Anchylosis of Elbow.—An elbow anchylosed in a straight position may be placed rectangularly by dividing the humerus just above the joint; the part of the bone which lies between the olecranon and coronoid fossae is very thin; all that is needed is to divide the two divergent pillars of bone that adjoin these fossae on either side, but, owing to the position of the ves- sels and nerves, the operation requires some little care; it is best effected through two incisions, just large enough to admit a chisel one-third of an inch broad. The outer incision is made upon and a little behind the condyloid ridge, the chisel being driven inwards and a little forwards. The inner open- ing is made upon and rather in front of the internal condyloid ridge, and the chisel is directed outward and a little backward. The bone on each side is cut to about the depth of three-fourths of an inch, when the rest is easily snapped. The arm is now, while extension is kept up, to be bent to a right angle; to the outer aspect of the upper arm and to the back of the forearm, are to be secured, by plaster-of-Paris bandages, two gutters of metal, short enough to leave between them at the elbow a considerable interval which is. bridged over by brackets standing well away from the limb, so as to allow of separate dressing of the wounds, without disturbing the position. The arm with this appliance is to be slung by pulley and counterpoise. The wounds: should be healed in about a week, and the union should be fairly firm in a month ; but a light retentive splint should be retained for some time longer. [Excision of the elbow has been occasionally practised in these cases with the view of obtaining a movable joint. P. II. Watson and Annandale prefer par- tial to complete excision, and remove merely the lower part of the humerus.] True Anchylosis of Hip.-—When the thigh is bent at the hip-joint at an angle of 135°, and a fortiori at a less angle, the greatest inconvenience and lameness are produced, for the relief of which several operations have been devised and practised. To Dr. J. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, belongs the honor of the first attempt to rectify by osteotomy, in 1826, an angular, true anchylosis of the hip-joint; he sawed through the femur between the trochan- ters, bringing the limb into a straight position, and giving his patient a joint which continued movable for several years. Dr. J. Kearney Rodgers, of JSTew York, modified this operation in 1830, by removing from between the tro- chanters a disk of bone. In 1862,' Dr. Lewis A. Sayre divided the femur above the small trochanter, and removed a semi-globular piece of bone, with the intention of forming a new socket in which the truncated shaft might play.2 In 1869, Mr. Adams sawed through the neck of the femur.3 In 1872, Mr. • if ever such an event has occurred, it is so very exceptional as hardly to affect the question of practical prognosis ; the advantage, too, could only be very doubtful, since muscular attach- ments are only planned for movement in a certain locality, and movement elsewhere would be more or less out of control. 2 Lectures on Orthopedic Surgery, etc., p. 423. 3 A New Operation for Bony Anchylosis of the Hip-Joint, 1871.