441 HISTORY OF EXCISION AND RESECTION. compound fracture in which the bone protruded from the soft parts, appears to have been occasionally remembered and acted upon in subsequent ages, while his similar recommendation as regarded compound dislocations, was quite forgotten. Thus Salmon,1 speaking “ of a fracture with a wound, the bone sticking out,” says, “ But if this Reposition cannot be easily done, or not, without pain and violence, then of two evils, the lesser is indeed to be chosen ; and therefore that the Reduction may be made, the end of the longer bone is to be cut oft' with a cutting File, or with a sharp, tine saw, or some other Instrument,that it may be made a little shorter;” but in his account of dislocations,2 has no further suggestion, “ when the Joint or Bone cannot be reduced,” than that the part should be comfortably supported, and care taken “for Universals and Diet.” Wiseman, too,3 speaks of resection in compound fractures, and narrates a case in which he successfully employed the opera- tion, but makes no reference to it in connection with the treatment of dislocations. The first record which we have, in modern times, of an excision for com- pound dislocation, is Mr. Gooch’s statement,4 that, “ many years ago,” Mr. Cooper, late of Bungay, sawed oft’ the ends of the tibia and fibula, instead of amputating, in a case of compound luxation of the ankle in an elderly man, with the happy result that the preserved limb was so useful “that the poor man walked and wrought for his bread many years after.” Mr. Cooper was afterwards equally successful in a compound dislocation of the wrist, in which the radius protruded, and Mr. Gooch himself successfully employed a similar operation in the treatment of a compound dislocation of the thumb. Mr. Wainman, of Shripton, successfully excised the lower part of the humerus for compound luxation of the elbow, in 1759,5 while on August 23, 1762, Mr. Filkin, of Norwich, performed the first recorded excision for disease, in a case of long standing caries of the knee.6 To Mr. Park himself belongs the credit of having first formally recom- mended excision as a substitute for amputation in cases of incurable arthritis, or, as it was commonly called, “ white swelling,” though he was anticipated in the actual performance of the operation by Filkin, of Norwich, as above mentioned, in the case of the knee; by Bent,7 of New Castle, and Lentin8 (1771), and Orred,9 of Chester (1778), in the case of the shoulder; and by Justamond,10 of London (1775), in the case of the elbow.11 Park’s first ope- ration was performed on July 2,1781, on Hector McCaghen, “a strong, robust, Scotch sailor, aged thirty-three,” who was suffering from disease of the knee- joint of ten years’ standing. The operation resulted so successfully that the 1 Ars Cliirnrgica, Book vi. chap. viii. (vol. ii. p. 1222). London, 1698. 2 Ibid, Book vii. chap. iv. (p. 1303). 3 Eight Chirurgical Treatises, sixth edition, vol. ii. pp. 258, 259. London, 1734. 4 Cases and Practical Remarks in Surgery, etc., second edition, vol. ii. p. 323. Norwich, 1767. 5 Park’s letter to Mr. Percival Pott. Cases of the Excision of Carious Joints, by H. Park and P. F. Moreau, with Observations by James Jeffray, M.D., p. 10. Glasgow, 1806. Mr. Park’s letter is dated September 18, 1782, and he says that Mr. Wainman’s operation was done “ twenty- three years ago.” 6 Park’s letter to Dr. Simmons. Ibid. pp. 52—55. 7 Philosophical Transactions (London), vol. lxiv. p. 353. (Hodges.) 8 0. Heyfelder, Traitfi des Resections, trad, par le Dr. E. Boeckel, p. 163. Strasbourg et Paris, 1863. 6 ’ 9 Philosophical Transactions (London), vol. lxix. p. 6. (Hodges.) 10 London Medical Journal, vol. iv. p. 282; Park, op. cit., p. 55. All of the above (except Filkin’s) seem to have been partial operations. C. White’s case (1768), usually regarded as the first example of shoulder-joint excision, appears to have been actually a resection in the shaft of the bone, the caput humeri having been allowed to remain attached to the glenoid cavity, and the same may be said of the similar operation performed by Vigaroux, of Montpellier. See upon this point Dr. It. M. Hodges’s well-known and admirable prize-essay on the Excision of Joints, Boston, 1861 (page 22).