EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 510 ligatures, the edges of the wound were brought together with numerous points of the interrupted wire suture, and, the resected bones having been carefully adjusted, the limb was lirmly fixed upon a well-padded, posterior, bracketed splint, the wound lightly dressed, and the patient restored to bed. But little need be said as to the subsequent progress of the case ; the wound was dressed daily, but the limb was not taken from the splint until cleanliness required its removal, and then the parts were firmly held by an assistant until the padding of the Fig. 732. Fig. 733. Articulating surfaces of femur and tibia removed by excision of the knee-joint. Fig. 734. Fig. 735. splint had been renewed, when everything was readjusted as before. When the union of the resected portions was sufficiently advanced, the bracketed splint was exchanged for a simple, moulded, pasteboard gutter, and this in turn was ultimately replaced by a soap plaster and bandage. The greater part of the wound healed by adhesion, and on August 18, 1870 (nearly five months from the date of operation), the patient was quite well, his leg firmly united at a slight angle, and able to walk without crutch, cane, or other assistance, and with no pain. The shortening of the limb was noted as two and three-quarters inches, but part of this was the result of a fracture of the thigh which had been received some years before. The appearances of the excised portions of bone, showing ulceration of the articular cartilages with erosion of the subjacent osseous tissue, may be seen in Figs. 732 and 733. The condition of the patient before and after operation is shown in Figs. 734 and 735. The above case is a fair example of a large number met with in practice, particularly amid the class of patients by whom our hospitals are chiefly filled. A stiff knee-joint, by itself, can seldom be thought to require so serious an operation as excision, the deformity being usually remediable by milder measures. But when im- perfect anchylosis, in a bad position, is complicated by the frequent recurrence of arthritis, the case (provided that there be no contra-indication in the age and general condition of the patient) is one in which little or no benefit can Partial anchylosis and recurrent arthritis of knee. Before operation. The same patient. Re- sult of excision of knee- joint.