886 INJURIES OF THE BACK. white columns, the posterior were exclusively the seat of disease. These columns were darker, browner, denser, and more opaque than the antero-lateral; and when they were examined, botli transversely and longitudinally, in their preparations under the micro- scope, this appearance was found to be due to a multitude of compound granular cor- puscles, and isolated granules, and to an exuberance of wavy fibrous tissue disposed in a longitudinal direction. It was very evident that many of the nerve-fibres had been replaced by this tissue, and that at certain spots or tracts, which were more transparent than others, especially along the sides of the posterior median fissures, they had wholly disappeared. Corpora amylacea also were thickly interspersed through the same columns, particularly near the central line. The extremities of the posterior horns contained an abundance of isolated granules like those in the columns, and in some sec- tions the transverse commissure was somewhat damaged by disintegration. The anterior cornua were decidedly smaller than natural, and altered in shape, but no change in structure was observed.”1 Dr. Clarke remarked that the alterations in appearance pre- sented by the cord, in this instance, bore a striking resemblance, in the limitation of the principal lesions to the posterior columns, to what is met with in locomotor ataxy. The post-mortem examination of this case also revealed traces of chronic inflammation in the cranial arachnoid membrane, and in the cortical substance of the brain. From the foregoing account of this case, it appears that the injuries caused by the railway-collision eventuated in chronic hypersemia and chronic in- flammation of the spinal arachnoid membrane and spinal cord-substance, especially the posterior columns thereof, which slowly spread upward until Anally the morbid process involved the encephalic arachnoid membrane, and the cortical substance of the brain. Moreover, there is good reason to believe that when the inflammatory process attacks other portions of the spinal cord in cases belonging to this category, it is capable of producing progressive muscular atrophy, and other important consequences, which have been men- tioned above. "Brief mention must here be made of some rather important complications which present themselves with great frequency in cases where spinal injuries have been produced by railway-collisions without luxation or fracture. (1) Impairment of Vision.—One of the most frequent and troublesome among the remote effects arising from in juries of the spine, especially those received in railway-collisions, is diminution of the eye-sight. As a rule, this compli- cation is met with only in cases where there is traumatic inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes, which pursues a chronic course. For in- stance, it presented itself some considerable time after the accident in the case of Mrs. J. C. F., which has been related above. On examination, I found lier eyeballs sunken, flattened, watery, and dull in appearance, and looking like the eyeballs of a much older person. The pupils were contracted to one- half the normal size, and were also sluggish. She complained that her eye- sight had become weak and dim. There was no diplopia, but objects appeared to her to be enveloped by mist or fog. At one time, she had black spots floating in the field of vision. The veins of the eyeballs were dark-purple, and distended with blood. Her vision was much better on some days than on others ; for example, it was much better on bright than on dull days. She could not see except in a good light. This subject has been carefully investigated by Mr. Wharton Jones and Dr. Clifford Allbutt. The former states that the pupils are usually half- closed, the eyes sunken, dull, and watery, and the veins of the eyeball con- gested, which abnormal appearances were all noted in the case recorded by myself. He also states that the movements of the pupils are sometimes 1 Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. xvii. p. 21.