MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 962 from asphyxia, owing to an inability to cough or expectorate. The escape of pus into the larynx from a post-pharyngeal abscess has caused death by a like means. The rigidly retained recumbent posture has led to fatal hypostatic congestion of the lungs ; and other patients have died of marasmus, or of some of the evils that attend upon suppuration and discharging sinuses. The least serious form of paralysis is that which involves the upper extremity, espe- cially when it implicates but one limb, or but a part of one ; the most grave form appears as equal paralysis of both lower extremities, or of the entire body. It is well, however, to remember that even the most severe forms of paralysis may be recovered from in this malady. Thus Shaw cites the case of a man aged 48, with disease of the atlo-axoid articulation, who was, for six months, entirely paralyzed “ from the head to the toes,” and who, never- theless, made a perfect recovery. It is obvious that age influences the prog- nosis considerably, and that the younger the patient the more probable is a good result, other things being equal. As the cure is by anchylosis, any deformity that has developed must persist, as must also a considerable defect in the range of movement. Cases have, however, been recorded here and there, where a good deal of movement has been recovered after extensive disease that has involved the bones rather than the joints. Thus, in a case where nearly the entire anterior arch of the atlas came away as a sequestrum, the patient recovered with the rotatory movements of the head “ almost perfect,” and with but incomplete limitation of the nodding movements.1 Treatment.—The general treatment of these cases of spinal disease needs no comment. The local treatment should be such as to insure absolute rest to the part, and to prevent displacement of the bones. These ends can only be properly secured by a rigidly maintained recumbent posture. The patient should be placed absolutely flat upon his back, upon a firm and level mattress. Beneath the nape of the neck, a small, firm cushion should be placed; and the occiput may rest either upon a very slight, soft pillow, or upon a circular pad, so hollowed in the centre as to relieve the more promi- nent "part of the occiput from any injurious pressure. The importance of the small, hard cushion beneath the nape of the neck—as first advised by Mr. Hilton—cannot be over-estimated. Without such a support, the recumbent position becomes almost useless. Mr. Hilton has shown by a reference to anatomical facts, and by experiment upon the dead body, that this little cushion supports the axis and tends to lift it up. By this means the gliding forward of the atlas upon this bone is rendered impossible, compression of the cord is thus avoided, and the slight flexure given to the spine acts by way of slight extension upon the diseased parts. The head should be kept fixed in the position indicated, by two large sand-bags, placed one on either side of the head and neck. In cases where the patient is restless and apt to move the head, immobility may be secured by a linen cap that comes well forward on to the forehead, and is secured under the chin and around the neck. To the front of this cap, linen bands are attached transversely, and secured to the sand-bags. By these means the head may be kept secured to the bed, and none but the most trifling movement permitted. This position should be main- tained strictly for as many months as may be required. From three to six months will be sufficient in the bulk of cases. The recumbent posture rigidly maintained in the manner just indicated, is the only safe position for a patient with active disease about the atlo-axoid region. Hilton records the case of a little girl, aged 5, who presented very severe symptoms in connection with 1 Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxii. page 64.