CHRONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. 1 British Med. Journal, vol. ii. 1882. 3G7 accurate knowledge of infantile anatomy—to miss the nucleus and the seat of tension. But if general swelling of the epiphysis, with the other signs of tension, be unaccompanied by any distinctive change in the condition of the skin, operation is the more imperative; since the disease is, in all probability, extending either towards the joint or towards the epiphyseal junction, the former direction being the more usual. Having determined to operate, the surgeon, bearing well in mind the line of attachment of the synovial membrane, makes beyond that territory a crucial or T incision down to the bone, from which he peels the periosteum with a raspatory. (This, however, if the part be still cartilaginous, is usually impossible.) The flaps being retracted, he introduces the head of a small trephine, and removes to such depth as he may consider sufficient, a plug of the bone, which is carefully to be examined for any softening, induration, or such new surface as may be the wall of an abscess cavity. The opening, too, must be carefully watched for any outflow of pus; if this come freely, the cavity, although it probably has been sufficiently opened, should be examined, since another cavity may exist, or since a sequestrum may require removal. If only an oozing of pus or serum occur, a probe should be used to find the situation and direction of any channel. If no morbid fluid escape, explora- tion must be carried further. I have found the best instrument for this pur- pose to be a rather fine and well-tempered brad-awl, which may be used with simply a thrust, or, if necessary, in the usual way by rotation. It may be passed from the original perforation in various directions, being carefully watched for signs of pus, and from time to time withdrawn, that the fluids adhering to it may be examined; any abnormally hard part of bone is to be suspected, since localized abscess is very usually surrounded by osteo-sclerosis. Any softened portion must be gouged away, or otherwise removed. If the epiphysis be still quite immature, the best instrument for perfor- ating the cartilage is a gouge of suitable size, whose side edge also is sharp for J or | an inch; a plug of the cartilage down to the osseous kernel is easily removed with this instrument. The condition of the escaping fluid, if any, must be noted; the nucleus is to be examined with the probe, ana any softened or otherwise diseased portion removed; sometimes even it is necessary to take away a very considerable part, and occasionally I have removed the whole as a sequestrum. Mr. Eve, indeed, recommends that in all cases the inner parts of considerably-inflamed epiphyses should be removed after the manner called “ evidement des os,” leaving, that is to say, only the outer shell.1 I have not found this to be necessary, unless the whole be either necrosed or carious; removal of the parts which are in that condition, together with relief of tension, is sufficient to allow the rest to recover. After the operation the wound is to be well mopped out and cleansed with an antiseptic—boroglyceride is preferable to carbolic acid, which is too irri- tating, and is of itself enough to set up some osteitis—when a drainage-tube, big enough to fill the perforation, is introduced to the depths of the wound and there retained. I prefer to syringe through it, and leave it in situ until it is pushed out by the granulations which in a few days arise in the bone, and which, if the disease have been efficiently removed, fill the cavity in from a fortnight to six weeks, according to its size. While wishing to avoid any exaggeration, I must be allowed to state from my experience that many cases thus treated get well, which, if left alone, would, according to all appearances, result in very severe disease, with all its dangers and evil consequences. But a certain number of cases, although undoubtedly osteitic, do not show