672 INJURIES OF THE BACK. of the arteria princeps cervicis with the profunda cervieis in the deep part of the neck. In consequence of the great freedom of this arterial intercom- munication, the closure of the common carotid was not attended with such a stoppage of the blood-flow in the wounded part- of the occipital artery as is requisite for the formation of blood-clots which can permanently close the aperture in the arterial tunics, and thus effectually restrain the hemorrhage. Wherefore it happened, that, as soon as the blood-pressure rose again after the operation of tying the common carotid was performed, the occluding clots were driven out of the aperture in the arterial tunics, and the bleeding started afresh from the distal as well as from the proximal portion of the wounded artery. Thus it is shown that the only procedure which might have saved this patient would have consisted in tying the injured artery in the wound itself with two ligatures, one of them being applied on each side of the aper- ture in its walls, so as to prevent the regurgitant as well as the direct hemor- rhage ; and had this operation been promptly performed by the physician who first saw the patient, there is good reason to believe that he would have promptly recovered. In treating flesh-wounds of the posterior cervical region which open any bloodvessel of importance, the first and the most important indication consists in suppressing the hemorrhage, without delay, by applying two ligatures to the injured vessel in the wound itself, placing one of them on each side of the bleeding aperture in its walls. To fulfil this indication it will be necessary to bring the bleeding orifice or ends of the vessel distinctly into view ; and, to this end, whenever the wound is not large enough to allow the bleeding point or points to be seen and secured with ligatures, the surgeon, having first introduced a finger of his left hand into the wound, and placed the tip of it on the spot whence the blood issues from the vessel, so as to control the hemorrhage for the time being, should enlarge the wound with a bistouiy, held in his right hand, until the source of bleeding is fairly brought into view, bearing in mind, of course, the anatomical structure of the parts in- volved, and carefully avoiding all nerves and other organs of importance. Then he must ligature the distal as well as the proximal end of the wounded artery, in order to repress the regurgitant as well as the direct hemorrhage; and, in cases where the artery is not already completely divided, it is well to finish the operation by completing the division of the arterial tube with a bistoury, applied midway between the two ligatures, so that the ends of the vessel may be allowed to retract and contract. However great the obstacles in such cases may be, the surgeon must persevere until he has overcome them, and has suppressed the hemorrhage in this radical manner; otherwise he will pretty certainly be annoyed and mortified by seeing his patient slowly bleed to death, in spite of all that he has done, as happened in the case just related. The application of a distal as well as a proximal ligature to the vertebral artery, when wounded, is quite as necessary as it is in the case of the occipital, or the profunda cervicis; for the two vertebrals unite together to form the basilar artery, and, therefore, the blood is capable of regurgitating in either of them with great force. But a large part of the course of each vertebral artery is occupied by its passage through the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebra, together with the spaces intervening between the transverse processes of these six cervical vertebra. Now, the vertebral artery is not unfrequently wounded in this part of its course, and here, because of its anatomical relations, ligatures cannot be applied. What, then, is to be done in such cases in order to stanch the hemorrhage ? Happily this problem has been solved by Dr. Ivocher, who has presented us with a success- ful example, already several times referred to above. Ilis plan of treatment I shall now proceed to describe:—