679 LACERATED FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. Concerning the occurrence of contusions of the back in the Crimean War, Staff-surgeon T. P. Matthews writes: “Very many wounds of this region were inflicted by shell, and the position uniformly adopted as safest while awaiting a shell explosion, viz., lying on the face, accounts for this. The contusions were often large and serious, and, when not immediately fatal, enormous masses of tissue often sloughed out, and the patient died exhausted and worn out by profuse suppuration, or, if recovery took place, the wound healed by the granulating process.”1 2 Hennen reports the following case of contusion of the back from a spent cannon-ball, which proved fatal:— A gallant artillery officer received a contusion from a spent round-sliot, at the battle of Vittoria, which struck him exactly between the scapula?, barely leaving a discolora- tion of the skin, and a slight stiffness of the parts. To this he was advised to apply cloths wet in a saturnine solution, which he gradually increased in strength. He derived, however, very little benefit from this mode of treatment; the stiffness still continued, the discoloration increased, and he was advised by some casual visitor to apply a blister to the part. In an evil hour this advice was acceded to; and in a very few days the whole back, down to the lumbar region, was covered with a dusky erysi- pelatous inflammation. Sloughing abscesses speedily formed in the injured part, which were attended with a horribly offensive discharge; and, in a few weeks, death closed the scene.* Ilennen also justly remarks concerning this case: “ To apply strong satur- nine solutions, or leeches, to a part under these circumstances, is extremely injurious, because they tend to depress st:il more the powers of life; to over- stimulate by blisters is equally destructive oi the vitality of the parts, and more hurtful to the general constitution.”3 As to the treatment of contusions of the back when caused by the explosion of shells or the impact of spent cannon-balls, there are three points to be most carefully attended to in managing these cases: First, the lotions applied as discutients should not be purely sedative, nor powerfully exciting, but of a mildly stimulating nature. Secondly, when effusions of blood (hsematomata), or formations of purulent matter (abscesses), are clearly diagnosed, and require removal, they should be evacuated through small valvular apertures, and the admission of air should be avoided, as far as possible. Thirdly, the dressings should be antiseptic in their nature; for instance, a two-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid in water already containing ten per cent, of alcohol, or a four- per-cent. solution of carbolic acid in camphorated oil, should constitute an important element of the dressings. Furthermore, a nourishing diet should generally be allowed in these cases, and, not unfrequently, alcoholic stimu- lants also. Lacerated Flesh-wounds of the Back. Hippocrates, in the twenty-third section of his work on wounds, treats briefly of wounds of the back, and directs attention almost exclusively to those inflicted by the lash, that is, to certain forms of lacerated wound occurring in this region. For the cure of these injuries he recommends the application, at first, of cataplasms, consisting of boiled onions or of squills ; and, subse- quently, of an ointment made of goat’s fat or fresh lard, together with oil, resin, and salt of copper—a preparation upon the whole not unlike the cera- tum resinte of the modern pharmacopoeia (a most useful dressing for slowly 1 Med. and Surg. History of the British Army in the Crimea, vol. ii. p. 336. 2 Op. cit., pp. 92, 93. 8 Ibid., p. 93.