SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 021 Pi-ognosis.—The course of the disease is towards a fatal termination; it extends into the sinuses of the ethmoid and sphenoid bones; it ulcerates and discharges abundantly; but it does not usually become disseminated, nor does it affect the lymphatic glands. It is, therefore, in most instances a local malady, sometimes, indeed, very extensive, and not infrequently so diffused and so situated that it cannot entirely be removed. But, when it is of short duration and limited in extent—when, for example, it has not penetrated into the structures around the antrum—its strictly local character should be carefully borne in mind, and the treatment he devised on this assumption. The only treatment to be recommended is complete removal of the upper jaw at the earliest possible period; and, if the disease has spread beyond the jaw, removal of the affected and suspicious tissues as widely as may he prac- ticable. Xo consideration of sparing tissues or organs because of their im- portance, provided that they can be removed with safety, should seduce the operator into allowing tissues to remain which he may suppose to be affected even in the slightest degree. The prognosis of the result of operation would be much more favorable than it is, if the patients came under notice at an earlier period. But the first stages of the disease are often very insidious, and cause so little distress that its gravity is underrated. Sarcomata of the Foot.—Several cases of sarcoma of the sole of the foot have come under my observation, and, as their progress up to a certain point has been very uniform, the disease seems worthy of notice here. The tumor begins in the skin or subcutaneous tissue of some part of the sole, usually near the middle of the forepart. At first it feels like a corn, and as it in- creases in size a sore may form over it, or a bleb, which hursts and fills again. If the tumor be dissected out, it is found to extend from the skin to the plantar fascia, and to be quite circumscribed, hut not encapsuled. It may he tolerably firm, or soft and juicy ; in either ease it looks more like sarcoma than carcinoma. At the time of removal, when the tumor has existed for perhaps a year, it may be no larger than a walnut. The disease usually occurs in persons about the middle period of life ; it appears to them a trivial matter, and even to the surgeon not of grave importance. But in the course of a few months an induration appears in close proximity to the scar, or several little nodules in the skin or subcutaneous tissue. And, about the same time, the femoral glands become enlarged; and, either then or later, tumors form in the skin and subcutaneous tissue of other regions of the body. By this time the disease is past all hope of treatment by operation, and usually the end is not far distant. In the only case of which I have seen a post- mortem examination, there was very extensive visceral disease in addition to the widely spread dissemination in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The disease in this case was round-celled sarcoma, which is apparently the variety met with in most of these plantar tumors. With the experience of so few cases, it is not possible to speak very strongly on the questions of diagnosis and of treatment. A definite tumor, however, in the sole of the foot of a person over forty years of age, of six months’ or a year’s duration, is probably a sarcoma. Incision into it will clearly expose its character. In view of the prognosis which the cases hitherto observed afford, it may well be asked, whether it would not be wiser to amputate at the ankle-joint than merely to remove the tumor. It would he easy to multiply instances of sarcomas of organs and tissues, to show how the course and character, and, with them, the treatment of the disease, are influenced by the nature and situation of the part which is affected. But the instances which have been given suffice to prove this as