INJURIES OF THE BACK. 730 Incomplete luxation with fracture of a cervical vertebra was found. It had been re- duced, but the displacement had been reproduced, as the autopsy showed. Mention should not be omitted of a recent case, reported by Dr. Landon Carter Gray, of Brooklyn, jST. Y., in which a dislocated third cervical vertebra was successfully reduced, after four months’ malposition:— A boy, aged 15,1 injured his neck by falling on his head in a vain attempt to turn a somersault. For thirteen weeks after the dislocation, there was only a difficulty in deglutition. Then, the phenomena came fast and many. First, a vesical paresis; next, a numbness of the upper extremity; then, a numbness of the right leg; then, a motor paralysis of both upper and lower extremities ; and finally, when he came under treatment, there was found, though the relative dates of the appearance could not be ascertained, a paresis of the left face, tactile anesthesia of the left upper and lower extremities, an occasional tremor, exaggerated tendon-reflex (although there had been no hasty micturition), and contractures of certain muscles of the neck and shoulders. On the back of the neck, over the third vertebra, a projection about as large as a pigeon’s egg was found. Pressure upon it caused some pain around the point of pressure, but none was felt at the front or side of the neck. The spinous process of the third vertebra deviated markedly to the right. By inserting a finger into the mouth, hori- zontally backward on a level with the upper surface of the tongue, a distinct depression could be felt in the posterior pharyngeal wall, corresponding to the third cervical verte- bra. In order to effect reduction, the boy was laid flat on his back on the table, and etherized until all his muscles were well relaxed. Grasping the head by one hand placed upon the occiput and the other on the brow, both hands being covered by those of an assistant, and counter-extension being firmly maintained, extension was steadily made upward to what was deemed a proper degree, and then the head was slowly and cautiously rotated from left to right. It was necessary to make this rotation three several times before the bone went into place, each rotation, however, effecting evident improvement, although no tendinous snap was heard at any time. But go into place it did, and without the manifestation of any dangerous symptom. All the morbid phenomena immediately disappeared; and although they returned somewhat after a reluxation following violent emotion, a second reduction caused a permanent cure. The formidable nature of the Spinal lesion, and the happy issue of the oper- ative treatment, render this case a very instructive one to the surgical student; and the clearness and brevity with which the symptoms and the operative procedures are set forth, must prove equally attractive. Moreover, this case shows that dislocations of the cervical vertebrae, even when the displacement of bone is not sufficient to seriously compress the spinal cord, are always acci- dents of considerable importance, because of the deformity and debility of the injured part which always result; hut, more especially, because of the morbid action, not unfrequently inflammatory, in the spinal meninges and in the spinal cord itself, which may ensue. An ascending myelitis sometimes, perhaps often, has this origin. Several additional cases of symmetrical luxation of the cervical vertebras, more or less complete, which have been successfully treated by reduction, also require brief mention in this place : (1) The late Dr. James R. Wood, of New York,2 had a case of partial dislocation of a cervical vertebra, occurring in a child; reduction was effected, and recovery followed. (Ashburst.) (2) A sailor, aged 46,3 fell forward on the right side of his head, and sustained a dislocation of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae [with fracture ?]. There was pain, crepitus, and partial paralysis. The luxation was reduced by extension and rotation, and the paralysis instantly disappeared. (Ashburst.) 1 Annals of Anat. and Surg., February, 1882; Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, April, 1882, pp. 590, 591. 2 Gross’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. 3 Eve, Surgical Cases.