819 TRAUMATIC MYELITIS. verse sections of the encephalitic foci (reel softening), hardened in preservative fluids, we find these vessels girdled by a relatively wide areola of pus-cells; and by dint of careful management, we may even pull vessels coated with pus—furnished with regular sheaths of pus-corpuscles—out of the recent specimen. Finally, we may also see in the transverse sections that the pus has actually pushed the extravasated, but still fluid, blood away from the vessels, the blood-corpuscles forming a ring around the pus, instead of a globular drop. This would lead us to infer that the pus was generated by the adventitia, or furnished by the emigration of leucocytes. Nevertheless, I am loth to refuse the power of generating pus to the neuroglia; I am quite sure that it is capable of producing corpuscular elements (solitary tubercles, gliomata); and, although I regard the results of my inquiries, just given, as trustworthy so far as they go, yet I do not consider them exhaus- tive.”1 The purulent matter, then, in such cases, (1) arises from the emi- gration of leucocytes; (2) is generated by the adventitia; and (3) is probably produced also by the neuroglia; but, whatever be its origin, it destroys and takes the place of the inflamed substance of the cord. Thus suppurative inflammation of its substance may demolish the structure of the spinal cord, not only through and through, but upward as well as downward for a con- siderable distance in its continuity. Thus come to pass the disorganized and liquefied conditions of the spinal cord revealed by necroscopy in cases of vertebral fracture or dislocation, where death has occurred some days or weeks after the accident, many examples of which have been mentioned in the foregoing pages. To emphasize this important point, a few brief abstracts will here be added:— (1) Zambaco 2 mentions the case of a man having fracture and luxation of the third dorsal vertebra. The compression of the spinal cord was not constant; it could be relieved by pressure. However, death ensued eighteen days after the injury, through the lungs ; that is, from asphyxia. (Ashhurst.) No doubt, the injury of the cord in this case caused ascending myelitis which disorganized the cord in the upper dorsal and lower cervical regions, paralyzed the respiratory nerves and muscles thereby, and thus completely arrested the respiratory movements. (2) Luke3 reports the case of a man who had fracture of the seventh dorsal vertebra. The displacement was corrected by making extension, and reduction was accompanied by an audible sound. Death from erysipelas supervened seven days after the accident. On autopsy, the spinal cord was found to be softened and disorganized, and to contain purulent matter. (Ashhurst.) (3) Dupuytren4 mentions the case of a man injured by jumping from a third story. There was deformity of the spinal column in the lumbar region, with great mobility; paralysis, at first partial, but afterwards complete; and bed-sores. Death resulted. The autopsy revealed fracture of the second dorsal vertebra; the spinal cord was lique- fied ; and a purulent cyst was found by the tenth dorsal vertebra. (Ashhurst.) (4) Adams5 relates the case of a woman, aged 28, who fell ten feet, striking the head. “ Grating in the neck” was felt; there was a protuberance in the pharynx and a depression in the back of the neck; paralysis; pain; dyspnoea; retention of urine; insomnia; involuntary evacuation of the bowels; bed-sores; and convulsions. In twelve days death ensued. The autopsy revealed dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra; also fracture of the sixth dorsal vertebra. Opposite the latter point the spinal cord was divided, and above it the cord was softened. (Ashhurst.) Here again was shown the remarkable propensity to travel upward, which characterizes trau- matic myelitis. ' Ibid., p. 326. 3 Lancet, 1850. 5 Dublin Med. Journal, vol. vi. 2 Rec. des Trav. de la Soc. Med. d’Obs., t. i. 4 Diseases and Injuries of Bones.