4 INJURIES OF BONES. arm in a hole in the towel with which the child was being dried. When the child was examined, the right clavicle was bent and thickened with callus near its middle, where it had been broken at some time unknown to its mother. The fractured hone united in the usual manner.” He also speaks of fractures occurring in syphilitic children during their birth, quoting a case recorded by Porak ;* and says that “ in adults the bones occasionally give way under a trifling strain.” Gross2 mentions the case of a man aged 31, whose humerus gave way as he threw a small chip at a dog. He had had syphilis seven years before, and was at the time subject to nocturnal pains in the arm and forearm. Prof. Chiari, of Prague,3 maintains that the occurrence of “gummous osteomyelitis,” or central gurnmata, in the medullary structure of the long bones, is not rare, and may afford an explanation of these cases of apparently spontaneous fracture. But when we consider, first, the immense number of syphilitic patients constantly under observation, and the rarity of fractures among them, and secondly, the fact that in many persons presumably free from any such taint the bones give way to seemingly inadequate force, it must lie admitted that the basis of the theory that syphilis weakens the bony structures is but a slight one. Only a very few instances have been reported in which fractures have taken place at the seat of the so-called tertiary lesions.4 Cancer is another malady which has long had the reputation of affecting the strength of the osseous system. But here also the fact would seem to be that it is only when local manifestations of the constitutional taint occur in the bones, that these organs show any unusual fragility. At least we may say, as in the case of syphilis, that in view of the great number of cases of cancer constantly under the eyes of the profession, it is strange that fractures without local deposit should so seldom occur, if the pathological change in the bones were really an element in the natural history of the disease. It is otherwise with regard to certain disorders of the nervous system, which are attended with such degeneration of the nerve centres as to affect the trophic innervation of many organs, and especially of the skeleton. Perhaps the bones betray this influence the more readily by reason of their low grade of organic activity. Attention seems to have been first drawn to this subject by Davey,5 who reported the case of an insane person, an autopsy upon whom disclosed six so-called “ spontaneous” fractures—three in the two femora, and three in the humerus, radius, and clavicle respectively. At a later period, the frequency with which fractures of the ribs were found in patients dying in lunatic asylums, attracted notice; it was thought that these lesions were due to maltreatment by attendants, until the publication of numerous observations by Pedlar,6 Ilearder,7 and others, showed softening of the bones to be one of the elements of a tabetic condition apt to occur in the later stages of insanity. The bones of two insane persons dying with frac- tured ribs, are said by Ormerod8 to have been dark, wet, greasy, easily decomposed, enlarged, and with thin outer walls; under the microscope they showed much fatty matter, and a granular condition like ossifying cartilage. According to T. L. Rogers,9 the organic constituents of the bones in a • Graz. Med. de Paris, 1877, p. 538. 7 System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 898, 6th ed., 1882. 3 Phila. Med. Times, Feb. 10, 1883, from Vierteljahrsschr. fur Dermatologie uud Syphilis. 4 Arnott, London Med. Gazette, June 5, 1840. 6 Medical Times, Deo. 24, 1842. 6 West Riding Lunatic Asylum Report, 1871. 7 Journal of Mental Science, Jan. 1871. 8 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. 1870. 9 Liverpool Med. and Surg. Reports, vol. iv. 1870.