280 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. and look almost like a discolored moss, or sometimes like that singular fungus which hangs from the ceilings of old wine cellars. Nor are these beautiful growths confined to those parts of the joint which are normally the seats of fringes; they arise from the whole inner surface of the membrane and hang into the joint, while some, breaking away, float free in the fluid, and, un- dergoing fatty degeneration and decay, are after a time mere floating flocculi. The tissues outside the joint, likewise in a state of severe inflammation, undergo the hyperplastic, the indurating, and subsequently the disinteg- rating processes, so well described by Strieker,1 which constitute suppura- tion. These do not, of course, take place equally and simultaneously, save in very severe cases, throughout the whole thickness and extent of the peri- articular structures; hence, we find, after a little time, spots of inflamed tissue ready to break down into abscesses, surrounded by parts still com- paratively unaffected. Nor does this apply only to the soft tissues; the bones for a certain distance from the joint become inflamed, but after and more slowly than the other periarticular tissues, and in this inflammation the cartilages of incrustation participate.2 If a joint in these stages of disease be removed from the body, and split so as to show in section the interior of the bones, the edges of the cartilages, and those of the synovial membrane and its surroundings, together with the interior of the joint-bag, we find that the latter, instead of being an empty cavity, is occupied by proliferating fringes, looking, as they slightly protrude, like strings of beads or bunches of millet. Outside this, is a district of more or less red, gelatinous material (proliferating areolar and ligamentous tissue). This jelly-like substance, or, as I have called it, granulation-tissue, is traversed by white fibrous cords—that is, by those parts of the capsule which may still remain unchanged, and which are more or less abundant, according to the age of the inflammation. In some parts the new inflammatory grow this evidently breaking down, is perhaps deeply stained by some extravasation; in other parts less metamorphosis has taken place. The section of the bones lays the cancelli and their cavities bare. If the stage of inflammation be still quite early, those spaces will simply be found hyperpemic, and from them some blood-stained serum will exude. At a later period, the exudation will be thicker and yellower ; and at one still later, the redness of hypersemia will be concealed by the creaminess of pus and of exuded fat globules. When this fluid is washed away by a stream of water, one may see that out of each cancellus protrudes a little bunch of inflammatory new growth (due to proliferation of its lining membrane), which before section was compressed within the cavity. After section, the tissue projects so that when the finger is lightly drawn over the surface merely a soft material is felt. If, in going further, this granulation-tissue be removed, we find the cancellar walls variously changed, according to the mode and stage of the inflammation—viz., where the action is more intense and older, their lamellce are softened by loss of earthy constituents, are thinned by absorption from both sides, or have disappeared. In places where the action is less severe and newer, the indurating phase may be found, the walls being thicker, and the cavities smaller. The softened or disintegrated parts are, unless the action be intense, distributed in spots here and there, and are more or less surrounded by the indurated portions, which, therefore, on section appear as circles, or segments of circles.3 1 See Vol. I. p. 30 et seq. 2 Inflammation of cartilage precedes, by periods variable in duration, any breach of substance; a certain change of hue, then dull-white opacity, and subsequently easy impressibility with the finger-nail, and fibrillation, are the macroscopic signs of this condition. s More detailed account of these processes (termed osteosclero is and osteomalacia) will be given on a subsequent page.