72 INJURIES OF BONES. the symphysis. The rami are flat and comparatively thin, widening out transversely above and posteriorly to form the condyles, while above and an- teriorly they run up into the thin points known as the coronoid processes. Without a careful study of the anatomy thus briefly sketched, a proper com- prehension of the fractures of this bone is impossible; and such study must embrace the relations of the condyles to the base of the skull, as well as of the arrangements of the osseous structure as seen in sections. As to the latter, it affords a very striking illustration of the law before stated, that the lamella: always run perpendicularly to the planes of pressure, and as nearly as possible parallel with the lines of muscular action. If a line he drawn from the sjmiphysis to the centre of either condyle, it will be found to represent the resultant of all the normal forces to which the corresponding half of the bone is subjected. As might be inferred from its complicated shape, the fractures of this bone present great varieties. They may result from direct violence at almost any point, or from indirect violence at one or even at a number of points. A force from without may tend to crush down the whole arch, in which case it may give way at its apex, at two or more weak points, or, if the force he exerted somewhat obliquely, at some point on the opposite side of the arch. Occasionally there is a distinct lever- age, and sometimes a pressure on one side of the arch, with a counterpressure on the other. The annexed diagram (Fig. 593) will serve to show the portions of the bone at which fractures are most apt to oc- cur. The body is the part oftenest involved; it may he broken just at the symphysis (although on the autho- rity of Boyer this was long thought to be impossible), or at a variable distance from it. Double fractures, the body being broken through at two points, are by no means rare. The angle may give way, probably always to leverage across it. Occasionally the neck of the condyle has been broken, and very rarely the coronoid process. Fractures of the lower jaw are rarely met with in children, by reason of the small size of the bone at their age j1 and they are infrequent also in women and old people, whose habits of life exempt them in great measure from the kind and degree of violence by which these injuries are produced. Blows of all kinds—with the fist, with weapons, by the kicks of horses, by flying masses in mining accidents—falls on the face, and crushing forces, such as the passage of a wagon-wheel, are the chief causes of fractures of the lower jaw. Hamilton states that he has seen the bone broken on both sides by the vio- lent grasp of a hand. Gross2 mentions the case of a man of 70, who sustained a fracture of the neck of the bone during a violent paroxysm of coughing; this case I believe to be unique. The amount of injury done to the bone varies greatly. Ho other single bone is so apt to be broken in several places; a fact which is readily ex- plained by its complex shape, and its double articulation, giving two points 1 Bouchut (op. cit. p. 759), says that fractures of the lower jaw are sometimes caused by the accoucheur in aiding delivery ; but he cites no cases in proof of the statement. Two are quoted, however, byGurlt (op. cit. Bd. ii. S. 409). 2 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 940. Fig. 593.