401 DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. on the heels, considerable pain will be felt. Also—and this is a very im- portant symptom—if the surgeon places a hand on each ilium of the recumbent patient, and then by a sudden movement of both towards the middle line compresses the two bones as though he would drive them together, and if, when an assistant steadies one side by firmly grasping the ilium and its ante- rior spine, the surgeon, holding the other bone in a like manner, jerks it out- ward as though he would sunder the two ilia, pain nearly always follows one or the other, sometimes both movements. When the disease attacks the posterior part of the juxtaposed surfaces, there are pain and swelling, and subsequently abscess inside the posterior iliac spines. With attention to these details, the diagnosis of the disease, when either primarily or secondarily it invades the joint, is always feasible. But to de- tect a deep caries of the sacrum, especially if it lie beyond the reach of a finger passed into the rectum, is occasionally impossible. In 1879, a man aged 24 was under my care with obscure symptoms and great weakness; he was evi- dently very ill. After seven weeks, an abscess appeared under Poupart’s ligament, and twelve days afterwards he complained of weakness in the right leg, which lie could not lift from the bed ; the attempt to do so gave him great pain ; the limb was lengthened, but the hip-joint was perfectly free. I now diagnosed disease of the sacrum, spreading towards the right ilium. Exactly a week after this he had four fits of convulsions, became comatose, and died. At the post-mortem examination, a deep, carious ulcer was found in the first and second portions of the sacrum, and involving also the lowest part of the last lumbar vertebra. The spinal canal was perforated, evidently recently, and was full of pus. Treatment.—The treatment of sacro-iliac disease depends upon its locality, as above described. In cases of extensive caries of the front of the sacrum, we can do but little further than trust to rest and tonics. But when the lateral surface only of the sacrum or ilium is involved, we-may be more hopeful of doing good by treatment. Rest should be enforced, at first on the back, and, if the disease be not severe, a pillow under both thighs and knees is ad- vantageous, as patients move much less in such a position than when allowed to lie straight. If the symptoms be rather acute, I have found advantage in placing a Desault’s splint on the limb of the sound side and making weight- extension on the other. If the patient be restless, these appliances may be supplemented by laying over the patient a sheet weighted with sufficiently long sand bags. If there be much pain, great relief is obtained, and I think the disease may sometimes be checked, by drawing a line with the actual cautery along the joint, or by making by the same means an eschar just inside the posterior-superior iliac spine. Of course, when the patient lies oil his back, this cannot be done ; a prone couch must first be procured. Even then, how- ever, such treatment has its disadvantages, since the cicatrix, if the disease be protracted, may give way when it becomes necessary that the patient should resume a supine position. For the same reason, blisters can only be used if a prone couch be available. It an abscess form over or close to the sacrum, it should be opened sufficiently early, and the surgeon should take this opportunity of examining the condi- tion with his finger and with a probe. In some eases a very superficial, in others a deeper caries will be found; in some an opening, a sort of osseous sinus or cloaca, will be found passing through the joint to the pelvis, or again in others the prooe impinges on a sequestrum. In all these events, surgery will be. ot benefit. The removal of a sequestrum by enlarging the opening has, twice in my hands, proved curative; and when caries, lying at the back vol. iv.—26