361 CHRONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. pus; a chemical but rather barren report1 shows, in respect to the liver, that the larclaceous organs “are considerably deficient in potassa and phos- phoric acid, while they contain an increase of soda, chlorine, and choleste- rine;” and “that the deposit producing the peculiar condition may he called albuminoid, although the proportion of nitrogen it was found to contain ap- peared to be somewhat lower than that which exists in albumen.” This albuminoid matter is deposited in various parts of the different organs named, chiefly along the course of the minuter vessels, and therefore especially where function is most actively carried on. For instance, in the Malpighian bodies and the tubuli of the kidney; in the lobules of the liver, intermingling with the hepatic cells; in the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen. "Hence, it early interferes with, and, after a time, abolishes, the func- tion of the particular glandular element in which the deposition occurs ;2 the effects therefore produced vary according to the organ attacked. Often, however, two of those named, and less frequently all, are involved; yet whether one or more be thus diseased, mal-nutrition, cachexia, and increas- ing anaemia are the invariable results. "Special note must be taken, however, of the effects produced on the secre- tion of the kidneys by this disease, viz: albuminuria, and the appearance in the sediment of certain casts called hyaline, which consist of a very trans- parent, highly refracting material, often lined externally with an imperfect covering of epithelium, which, having adhered to the “ albuminoid” cast, has become detached from the tubule, the lining of which it really is. Nevertheless, it must not be assumed that these changes are, unless they have overpassed a certain point, necessarily fatal; if suppuration, the cause of this disease, can be summarily stopped, lardaceous changes will retrograde, even rapidly, if the patient be still young. Symptoms.—The joint-ends of long bones are in adults rarely inflamed. When thus affected, the disease is generally rheumatic or traumatic. Syphi- litic osteitis usually attacks the shaft. Short bones, as those of the carpus or tarsus, as also the ends of phalanges, may be inflamed in adult, and even in senile, life. The first symptom in articular osteitis is a dull, heavy pain, which is worse at night. In young children this symptom is translated into limping, and disincli- nation to move the limb; also into sleeplessness or restless sleep, with waking up to cry. On examination, no change may be perceptible to the eye, and it may be difficult at first to ascertain which is the affected joint ;3 but care in ex- amination will eliminate error. Palpation of the affected part will discover a certain change, hardly as yet an enlargement, of one bone constituting the joint; for instance, at the knee, accurate comparison with its sound fellow will verify a slight swelling of the deepest soft parts, beneath which the bone will be found, not increased in size, but altered by a subtle change of form ; the normal depressions being less marked, and the elevations not so promi- nent, but broader. After a time, the enlargement becomes more real, and perceptible to the eye, but is still confined to one part of the joint, or rather a little above or below the actual joint; that is, the place where the two bones are in contact. There 1 Transactions of Pathological Society, vol. xxii. pp. 1—12. London, 1871. 2 In regard to the liver, fatty are very frequently, though by no means always, mingled with lardaceous changes. 2 Students and young practitioners are so often cautioned against attributing the knee-pain of hip-disease to a malady of the knee, that the contrary error sometimes occurs, and I have more than once known treatment to he directed to the hip, when after-events showed that a femoral condyle was the affected part.