275 SYNOVITIS. ing the diseased joint to a certain traction in the downward (anatomically downward) direction, either by means of weights or other force. It will not be necessary to describe the various modes of applying extension here, since the method must be more fully referred to in the section on chronic inflammations, where it is, in my belief, more useful than in the acute forms of disease. Nevertheless, it must in justice be pointed out that many writers of great authority—Volkmann, Langenbeck, and others—speak in high praise of ex- tension as a direct antiphlogistic, and that they, like many others, consider that the secret of its virtue lies in enlarging the cavity of the joint, and thereby diminishing intra-articular distension. But this supposition is evi- dently incorrect; the only way in which extension could enlarge a joint cavity would be by drawing the bones asunder, that is, by elongating the ligaments. Acute synovitis, if considerable intra-articular distension be permitted to continue, leaves behind a very detrimental laxity of ligaments; if to this were added such powerful extension as would elongate them, still greater trouble would follow. Too powerful extension may be, and, as I have ob- served, has been, followed by such an injurious result. But such moderate traction as is ordinarily employed, does not increase, in fact, it rather decreases the joint-space, by causing a certain tension of the skin.1 My own belief is, that the value of extension is to be found in its resistance to the morbid muscular contractions to which I have already referred. Muscular effort, whether voluntary or involuntary, may always be tired out by continued resistance, and, if this resistance be of a sort insusceptible of fatigue, it must, in a certain time, obtain the victory. We shall see, hereafter, that the obstinacy of many joint inflammations is in great part due to the ex- cessive mutual pressure of surfaces, produced by the muscular contractions. If we overcome these, we in so far place the part in a better position for getting well. The indication, therefore, for the use of extension is not the fulness of the synovial sac, but the advent of well-marked neuro-muscular phenomena, and it may be thus used, whether or not the joint has been pre- viously emptied. In the absence of these symptoms, we shall probably find that evacuation of the synovial sac leaves a certain inflammatory state behind, and we may then take further measures to subdue this condition. Of these measures, no doubt the use of cold is the most potent for all but very deep joints. It must- be rather intense; the mere application of water, or of an evaporating lotion, is inoperative, but ice kept on the part for a considerable time has a very decided effect. The easiest mode of application is to place small pieces of ice in a wide-mouthed India-rubber bag, and to suspend it in contact with, and partly surrounding, the joint, from the wires of an ordinary bed-cradle. Probably the first contact, driving blood from the surface, causes some greater fulness of the synovial vessels, but in a little time the deeper tissues also become chilled, and, save in such deep articulations as the hip, the whole membrane, with the peri-articular structures, becomes pale and bloodless. In the use of this remedy, however, some caution is necessary, for in persons about or beyond middle life, and even in young people of rheumatic habit— especially in those who have suffered from acute rheumatism—cold, though at first beneficial, is very apt to leave behind a condition of chronic or recur- rent inflammation, and often, even without demonstrable inflammation, a tender and painful condition of the joint, a stiffness and lameness which are very difficult of cure. In such persons, heat is a preferable remedy; it must not be mere warmth, 1 I would especially refer those who are curious on this subject to some excellent work by my friend, Dr. Karl Reyher, in the Deutsche Zeitschrift fiir Chirurgie, Bd. iv. S. 26 und folg.