INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. 791 injury was attended by a number of minute extravasations of blood (ecchy- moses) in the gray substance ; (3) there were anaesthesia and loss of motion in both lower extremities and in the left arm; (4) there was paralysis of the sphincter ani and sphincter vesicse, which denoted that the reflex motor appa- ratus was also paralyzed; (5) the anaesthesia passed away in the course of some hours, the return of sensibility being noted first in the parts most distant from the injury; (6) hyperaesthesia appeared synchronously with the reaction from “shock,” and steadily increased in severity; (7) hyperaemia of the gray substance was found as well as ecchymosis. It should be remarked that the hyperaesthesia was more severe in the right arm than elsewhere, and that this part had not at any time been paralyzed. It should also be noted that the hyperaesthesia was coincident in its appear- ance with the hyperaemia of the cord-substance which followed the injury, and that as the inflammatory excitement caused by the sanguinolent extrava- sations of blood into the cord-substance, or the hyperaemia, etc., increased or progressed, the hyperaesthesia also rapidly increased until thirty-four hours after the accident, when death occurred. Treatment.—Inability to urinate and defecate will necessitate the employ- ment of catheterization, and of enemata, or laxatives. When hyperaesthesia is present, it must be subdued by the administration of belladonna, or of opium or morphia. Dry-cupping the dorsal and lumbar regions lias, in my own experience, proved very useful in cases of gunshot concussion of the spinal cord. At a later stage, counter-irritation by issues or setons has appeared to do good. But, quietude or rest for the injured spinal column and cord is an important reparative measure, in such instances, fully as important as any other. Not only should the patient be debarred from attempting to over- come bis “ numbness” and his “ pins and needles” by exercise, which caprice or habit might lead him to do, but he must be kept in bed until these symp- toms have passed away. Mr. Hilton1 mentions the case of a gentleman who had sustained a moderate concussion of the spinal marrow from falling upon his back at Epsom, which resulted in irremediable paraplegia, from inatten- tion to this curative measure. Should the symptoms of myelitis supervene, they must be combated by the remedies for that disease which will be men- tioned further on. Contusion of the Spinal Cord.—Bruises of the spinal marrow, like bruises of the cerebrum, are attended by disintegration of the elementary tissues thereof, and minute extravasations of blood, or ecchymoses. There is, how- ever, this important difference between them; for, inasmuch as the cineritious substance is mostly found on the exterior of the Cerebrum and within the interior of the spinal marrow, so the ocular evidences of contusion are usually seen, most distinctly, on the exterior or cortex of the former, and within the interior of the latter; and it frequently happens that contusions of the spinal marrow are not discernible by the unaided eye, until the parenchyma thereof is laid open by an incision, and until the cineritious substance is thus exposed to view. The slighter examples of contusion of the spinal cord, those in which the ecchymoses are not large nor numerous, are commonly, and almost unavoid- ably, classified, in practice, with the cases of concussion of the spinal marrow which have just been described, and in which the symptoms of spinal con- cussion constitute the chief clinical phenomena, and among which,at the bed- side, no differential diagnosis between concussion and contusion of the spinal * Op. cit., p. 33.