884 INJURIES OF THE BACK. which carries them, the suddenness of its arrest, and the helplessness of the victims, are all circumstances which of necessity greatly augment the severity of the injuries sustained by the spinal column and cerebro-spinal axis. But perhaps there is one circumstance which more than any other gives a pecu- liar character to railway-collisions, namely, the thrill or jar, the “bbranlement” of French writers, the sharp vibrations, in fact, which are transmitted to everything that is subjected to the force of such collisions. It is this vibra- tory shock or jar, which by some is compared to an electric shock, by others to setting the teeth on edge (Erichsen), that causes railway carriages to be shattered into splinters on colliding, and produces the sharp tremulous move- ment which runs through every structural fibre of the occupants, whereby profound concussion or contusion of their spinal cords is oftentimes effected. Moreover, the body of the passenger is simultaneously pitched about or hurled to and fro, not unfrequently five or six times, without there being any power of resistance or of self-preservation, and thus the vertebral articu- lations are often severely wrenched, as well as the spinal membranes severely stretched and irritated. Those injured by railway-collisions may sustain dislocations and frac- tures of the vertebrae, lacerations of the spinal meninges with intra-vettebral hemorrhage, and lacerations of the substance of the spinal cord with intra- rachidian hemorrhage. It is not, however, my purpose to devote now any time to the discussion of these lesions, for they differ in no wise from those produced by falls and blows, which have already been fully considered in the foregoing pages. Likewise, acute inflammations of the spinal membranes and spinal cord may arise from the injuries occasioned by railway-collisions. These disorders have also been so fully discussed above, that it is now unne- cessary to take them up again. We are at present chiefly concerned with the remote effects of the spinal injuries which result from railway-collisions, such, for example, as chronic inflammation of the vertebral joints, chronic spinal meningitis, and chronic myelitis, together with the structural changes, and functional disturbances, or phenomena, by which these affections are severally attended. And, inasmuch as chronic vertebral arthritis with caries and necrosis, chronic spinal meningitis, and chronic myelitis, when they pre- sent themselves as the remote effects of spinal injuries caused by railway- collisions, differ in no essential particular, with regard to anatomical changes, functional disturbances or symptoms, and therapeutic indications, from the corresponding affections of the spine which are not unfrequently produced by blows on the back and various common accidents, the discussion of which has just been ended, I shall not occupy much space in any further discussion of them. In respect to the symptoms by which the remote effects of spinal injuries caused by railway-collisions are characterized, they will he found to vary according as the inflammatory lesions of the vertebral articulations, of the spinal membranes, or of the spinal cord-substance, may predominate. For instance, in cases where myelitis constitutes the principal secondary lesion or disorder, cutaneous anaesthesia and complete paraplegia, with alkaline urine, etc., often combined with hypersesthesia, will probably be observed at an eaidy period; while in others, where meningeal inflammation constitutes the main affection, there will be marked cutaneous hypersesthesia with severe peripheral pains, as well as intense pain in the spinal column itself, combined perhaps with tetanic spasms of the posterior cervical, abdominal, and other muscles, but without any paralysis whatever of the voluntary muscular apparatus. As Mr. Erichsen well remarks, one of the most remarkable phenomena of this class of cases is, that, at the time of the accident, the victim is often quite