511 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. be hoped for without operation, and in which excision may be resorted to with every prospect of a favorable result. Arthritis of Knee of six years’ standing ; Limb deformed and useless; Excision; Recovery with Useful Limb—The patient in this case was presented at a meeting of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, held on February 21,1872, and a note of the case appeared in the Transactions of that body.1 The patient, Mary M., eleven years of age, was admitted to the Episcopal Hospital on February 24, 1871. At the age of five, she had suffered from smallpox, following which disease she had arthritis of both elbows and of the right knee. In the elbows, firm anchylosis ensued, and, the joints being flexed at convenient angles, she enjoyed very good use of her upper limbs. In the knee, however, the arthritis recurred from time to time (the last acute attack having been about two months before the date of the patient’s entrance to the hospital), and the appearance of the joint, on her admission, was quite characteristic of advanced dis- ease of the articulation. The knee was flexed to a right angle and much swollen, the subcutaneous veins enlarged, and the tibia dislocated backwards and outwards. The joint was tender on pressure, and painful when moved, and the patient thin and anaemic. Excision was performed on February 28, 1871, a single transverse incision afford- ing access to the joint; the parts removed were the condyles of the femur, the articu- lating surface of the tibia, and the pa- Fig. 736. 737. tella. Five or six small vessels were secured with ligatures, the wound was closed with wire sutures and lightly dressed with oiled lint, and the limb was carefully adjusted upon the bracketed splint, which was not changed until some time in the fourth week. Convalescence was retarded by a profuse epistaxis which occurred a few days after the operation, leaving the patient blanched and exhausted, by rather profuse suppuration (several ab- scesses having formed above the site of excision), and by a troublesome diar- rhoea which, beginning in the month of April, continued at intervals through the summer, and at one time became a really serious complication. Firm, bony union was completed about the third or fourth month, but several superficial sinuses persisted, and did not entirely heal until several months subseqnently. A year after the operation the patient walked readily, without any assistance whatever, though with a perceptible limp due to the shortening, which was found by measurement to be an inch and three-quarters. She had grown considerably, was fat and hearty, and in every way offered satisfactory evidence of the advantages to be derived from this particular branch of conservative surgery. This patient has been frequently seen since her discharge from hospital, and it has been ascertained that the benefits derived from the operation have been permanent. The accompanying illustrations (Figs. 736 and 737), from photographs, show the appearance of the patient before operation and after recovery. Arthritis of knee-joint. Before operation. The same patient after ex- cision of the knee-joint. 1 Trans. Coll. Phys. Philada., 2d S., vol. iv. page 413.