30 INJURIES OF BONES. with caution, and only for the purpose of determining such points as the sur- geon really needs to know. All poking about to satisfy mere curiosity, at the risk of disturbing or tearing tissues not already damaged, and all wrench- ing of the fragments to get at the deeper parts of the wound, should be abstained from. The amount of injmy to vessels and nerves can be better ascertained in other ways, and may be increased by meddlesome and indiscreet handling. Consequences of Fracture. While it is cpiite true that, in general, simple fractures progress steadily toward recovery, it is also true that they sometimes give rise to very grave and even fatal symptoms. These symptoms may be general or local, imme- diate or remote. Murray1 mentions a case in which a simple comminuted fracture of the thigh was followed by traumatic delirium ; Hammick,2 one in which tetanus ensued upon simple fracture of the thigh. Pyaemia, not a very uncommon secpience of compound fracture, has been seen by Hewett3 as the result of simple fracture of the leg. The occurrence of wounds of arteries, veins, and nerves, has been already mentioned (complicated fractures), and will be again referred to in connection with fractures of special bones. Occasionally, when vessels of some size ai’e injured, gangrene comes on, or the hemorrhage challenges immediate attention, and either ligation or amputation must be performed; but sometimes the symptoms are only perceived at a later period, when aneurism., true or false, has developed itself.4 With regard to nerves also, the signs of the lesion may appear immediately, or may be postponed until they show themselves in the altered nutrition or sensation of the distal parts. In several instances to be hereafter quoted, it was to the callus that the trouble was to be attributed, either from exuberance of this formation, or from entanglement of nerve- trunks within it. Verves may also be caught and pinched between the fragments; a case is mentioned by Callender5 in which the ulnar nerve was thus entangled in a fracture separating the styloid process and triangular ligament from the rest of the ulna. The same author saw a case in which a compound fracture at the wrist was followed by gangrene by reason of stretching of the ulnar and median nerves. Pre-existing disease may become fatal when complicated with fracture; thus Hunt6 has placed upon record a case in which a man, aged 29, who from the age of four yeai's had had chorea and partial hemiplegia, lost his life from the incessant movement of his arm, broken by an accident. There are some instances in which untoward results take place without any apparent reason. In one of his clinical lectures, Prof. Verneuil referred to the case of a man, 60 years of age, strong, robust, and tall, who had been in hospital for two months and a half for a fracture of both bones of the leg. He was treated as usual, had exhibited no bad symptoms whatever, and, in fact, was just about to be sent to a convalescent hospital prior to dismissal, when (the only thing that had excited attention having been some alteration in his features) he suddenly died, his face having a violaceous aspect. Prof. Verneuil believed that this must have occurred from embolism, which is not very rare after fracture. It is produced by thrombosis of some of the veins 1 Edinb. Med. Journ., Feb. 1882. 2 On Amputations, Fractures, etc., p. 74. 3 Lancet, 1867, vol. i. p. 628. 4 For much valuable information on this subject, with details of 27 cases, the reader is referred to a pamphlet entitled “ Des Anfivrysmes compliquant les Fractures. Par Gerard Laurent, Doc- teur en Medecine, etc.” Paris, 1875. 5 St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Reports, 1870. 6 Pennsylvania Hosp. Reports, vol. ii. 1869.