INJURIES OF THE BACK. 85G * Ibid., pp. 61, 131. 1 Bramwell, op. cit., p. 129. shoulder. When seen on the following day, his lower extremities were completely paralyzed, and the line of anaesthesia extended as high as an inch above his nipples. The breathing was solely diaphragmatic. There was marked priapism. The tempera- ture was 98°. The pupils were equal and of a small size in a dull light. Next day the pulse was noted at 36 per minute, and small. In the evening, the temperature in the rectum was only 95.8° ; in the distended penis it was only 93°. He died on the sixth day after the accident. The vaso-motor theory of the production of priapism is insuffi- cient to account for such cases, as well as for those instances in which the erections are more or less vigorous, and in which the distension of the penis is obviously effected by the operation of active agencies. The nervous apparatus, the disordered action of which produces priapism, is doubtless the same as that by which normal erections are effected. The pro- cess is a retlex one, the centre for which (that is, the sexual centre) is situated in the lumbar portion of the spinal cord. The sexual centre may be put into action by peripheral impressions conveyed to it from the penis, especially the glans, by the sensory nerves; also, by cerebral impressions (they are usually emotional influences) conveyed to it by the conducting fibres of the cord. “ As the result of the stimulation of the sexual centre, an impulse is gene- rated which travels along the nervi erigentes and inhibits the local nervous mechanism in the bloodvessels of the corpora cavernosa ; vascular dilatation, engorgement, and erection follow.”1 Thus, it is not difficult to conceive how priapism may be caused in cases where the spinal cord is injured or diseased in the cervical or dorsal regions, etc., and where paraplegia, both sensory and voluntary-motor, is present in consequence thereof, namely, by irritating the “ exeitor” fibres which pass from the cerebrum to the reflex sexual centre, as pointed out by Dr. Bramwell.2 In the same way, cerebral injury or disease may also produce priapism. This view as to the retlex origin of priapism in spinal injuries is supported by a fact noted in the clinical history of a para- plegic case related above, from Bellevue Hospital, viz., that the introduction of a catheter always brought on priapism. Finally, in order to show that the paralysis of the muscular apparatus is not of necessity so complete in cases of seemingly perfect paraplegia that priapism cannot be caused in this way, as asserted by Professor Agnew, it is only necessary to state that, in practice, priapism is very often found associated with retention of urine and feces, and that the presence of the latter condition is due to the fact that the sphincter muscles are not paralyzed. In regard to the significance of priapism as a symptom, or as a prog- nostic, in cases of vertebral injury, while it shows that the spinal cord is involved in the lesion, it can be stated with certainty that it is not necessa- sarily a fatal sign, inasmuch as recovery resulted in two cases mentioned above, in which its presence was recorded. One of these cases was reported by Dr. Parker, and the other by Surgeon C. S. Tripler, U. S. Army. Special treatment is seldom required for priapism. In severe cases, how- ever, pulverized camphor, camphor monobromate, or potassium bromide, may be administered with benefit. Injuries of the Sacrum and Coccyx. Fractures of the Sacrum.—Simple, uncomplicated fracture of the sacrum sometimes, though very rarely, occurs. The structure, shape, and position of this bone in the skeleton are such as to render it peculiarly free from a liability to sustain solutions of continuity, by itself, in the ordinary accidents