69 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. introduction of an instrument to pry the fragments up. Malgaigne quotes a case thus operated upon by Ferrier, with a good result. Muhlenberg1 has recorded a case of fracture of the zygomatic process by the kick of a horse, followed by very troublesome false anchylosis of the tem- poro-maxillary joint. Malar Bone.—Fractures of the malar bone are exceedingly rare, as might be expected from its great strength, and from its attachments. A few instances are on record in which it has been separated from the adjoining bones, by very great force. In one, recorded by Malgaigne, there was depres- sion, especially marked posteriorly, where the malar bone had been driven inward away from the zygomatic process of the temporal, and injury was done to the infra-orbital nerve, paralyzing the area supplied by it. Replacement may be difficult, or even impossible; but the resulting defor- mity is not very great, unless from some such lesion of nerves as that just mentioned. There would be no valid objection to making a slight incision so as to introduce an elevator for the purpose of prying the bone up, as in Ferrier’s case of depression of the zygomatic arch. In any such case, by making the section of the skin obliquely, the resulting scar would be materially lessened. Upper Jaw.—Fracture of one upper maxillary hone is very rare, except in the alveolar portion. This is sometimes broken off by blows or falls ; thus I have seen a semicircular piece detached in front, carrying with it the incisor teeth, in a man, who, having fallen from a wagon on his face, had a heavy box come down on his head as he lay ; his lower jaw was also broken in two places. I have seen a much smaller piece knocked loose in a hoy of six, by a fall against a step ; he bled profusely for a time, but a good result ensued. Occasionally the wall of the antrum is pierced by a thrust with a stick or sharp instrument; and in such a case the hone may be more or less splintered in various directions. In most cases, the force fracturing the upper jaw-bone is exerted at the same time upon adjacent bones, and a more complex injury is produced. Thus the kick of a horse may crush and drive hack both upper maxillre, with the palate bones and vomer; or the same effect may be produced by a tall on the face from a height. Wiseman2 relates a curious instance, in which, a boy, aged 8, having had a kick from a horse, which drove the bones backward, he “ caused an instrument to be made, whereby the great fractured body was more easily brought into its natural place, and also kept there by the hand of the child, his mother and my servants helping him some while.” The result is said to have been “ better than could have been hoped for from such a distortion in that place.” Hayes3 reports the case of a man, who, being thrown from a carriage and striking upon the end of a fence-rail, sustained compound comminuted fractures of the right upper maxilla and right malar bone, with simple fractures of the left upper maxilla and the lower maxilla on the right side. There was a good deal of cerebral commo- tion, and very severe hemorrhage ; but the patient ultimately did well. A man, aged 40, was brought to the Episcopal Hospital, in December, 1876, having been injured by the caving in of a culvert. He had a compound fracture of both nasal bones, the greater part of the left one being crushed off; and a laceration of the right lower eyelid, the ball being partially torn away and falling forward in the orbit. The whole face was enormously swollen, and there was continuous and free bleeding from the 1 Phila. Med. Times, May 15, 1871. 2 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 253. 8 South. Med. Record, 1882, p. 281.