EXCISION OF THE CLAVICLE. 465 Excisions in the Upper Extremity. Excision of the Clavicle.—The clavicle, in whole or in part, has been frequently excised in cases of caries or necrosis, of compound fracture, and of tumor. The inner end of the bone has also been removed by Davie, of Bun- gay, and other surgeons, on account of dislocation causing dangerous pressure on the trachea or oesophagus. An easy and usually a safe operation in cases of necrosis—in which, indeed, the procedure is often nothing more in reality than an extraction of sequestra—excision of the clavicle, in cases of tumor, is fraught with the greatest difficulty and danger; in Dr. Mott’s famous case, the operation occupied nearly four hours, and the bleeding was so profuse that about forty ligatures were required. The f rst complete extirpation of the clavicle appears to have been performed by Dr. McCrearry, of Kentucky, in 1811, and the second by a German surgeon, Dr. Meyer, in 1828. Remmer’s operation (in 1732), often spoken of as an extirpation, was really only a par- tial excision, and the same must be said of Dr. Mott’s case, already referred to, for its published history1 states distinctly that the acromial end of the bone was not interfered with, and the autopsy made by Dr. Porcher and Dr. Michel, after the patient’s death, 54 years subsequently, showed that the por- tion left measured one and three-quarter inches.2 The operation can be best accomplished by making first a long incision in the line of the clavicle, extending, if necessary, from the acromial junction Fig. 695. Excision of tho clavicle. to tho sterno-clavicular articulation of the opposite side, supplementing this wound, in cases of tumor, by one or more at right angles to it, as may he found desirable. If a healthy portion of bone can be exposed, an elevator or resection-sound may be slipped beneath it—if possible, between the bone and 1 Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, O. S., vol. iii. p. 100. VOL. IV.—80 2 Ibid., N. S., vol. lxxxv. p. 146.