552 TUMORS. conveyed, are not always demonstrable between the first growth and the nodules, or between the individual nodules, so that we are reduced to the necessity of believing that the disease extends from the primary growth in long lines in the connective tissue, without special reference to vessels or tis- sues, and that here and there it buds forth in the form of larger or smaller nodules.1 The secondary tumors very frequently affect the neighboring lymphatic glands, commencing usually in a single gland, and spreading from gland to gland until a whole group or chain of glands is converted into tumors. The affection of the glands generally follows the appearance of the primary dis- ease by a distinct interval, usually of several months, sometimes only of weeks, occasionally even years, but varying with the seat and nature of the primary disease. The characters of the disease in the glands resemble these of the primary growths, in some instances only distantly, but generally so closely that sections of a. cancerous gland and of the cancerous tumor with which it is connected may easily be confounded. Not only are the cells of the same type, but they are arranged in the same fashion, with the same disposition of the intercellular material. It is, of course, natural to assume that the disease travels along the lymphatics from the primary growth to the affected glands, and, indeed, this is generally admitted; but the precise method of conveyance has been and is still a much debated question. In some cases, cords composed of plugged lymphatics occupy the interval between the glands and the primary disease, and examination of the material which plugs the lymphatics shows that it consists of cancer-cells; but cords, which re- semble these in their general feel and aspect, are not invariably plugged lymphatics. Gussenbauer has shown,2 in one case, in which a very careful investigation was made of such a cord between an affected gland and a primary epithelioma of the oesophagus, that the lymphatics were unoccu- pied throughout their entire course, and that the induration was due to the presence of long lines or cords of cancer-cells in the walls of the bloodves- sels and the connective tissue. In the large majority of cases no connecting cords are observed, and even microscopical examination fails to detect any alteration either in the lymphatics or in the neighboring tissues. Of these cases two explanations may be offered: first, that cancer-cells, or germs capable of developing into cancer-cells, are conveyed by the lymph into the glands, and there grow and multiply ; second, that an infecting material is conveyed in the lymph, which, brought in contact with the cell-elements of the lymphatic gland, cause these to assume the form, arrangement, and properties of the cancer-cells.3 The chief objections to the first explanation are that cancer-cells are not found in the lymph in these cases ; that the leu- cocyte-like cells which are observed cannot be proved to be young cancer- cells ; and that we know little or nothing of germs or fragments which are capable of developing into cancer-cells—certainly we do not know enough of them to distinguish them microscopically. To these objections another has of late been added, especially by Gussenbauer in a later and very elaborate paper,4 that in the earliest stages of glandular disease the first truly cancerous changes are observed in the follicular ends and cords of the affected glands, not in the lymph-paths. Gussenbauer argues strongly in favor of the infec- tion theory, and believes that he has discovered the actual material which 1 The exquisite drawings of lymphatics which Sappey has lately published, lead me to think it not improbable that these secondary nodules are due to extension of the disease along the lines of lymphatic vessels. 2 Langenbeck’s Archiv, Bd. xiv. S. 501. 1872. 3 By cancer-cells, let it be understood that sarcoma-cells and carcinoma-cells are equally meant. 4 Zeitschrift fur Heilkunde, Bd. ii. S. 17.