INJURIES OF BONES. 66 properly shaped and padded, may be put along either side of the limb, and accurately bandaged. Firm compresses may be put under the padding, be- tween it and the splint, at any points where special pressure is desired; and if extension seem to be needed, it may be made by an adaptation of methods to be hereafter described. When consolidation has actually taken place, and the bone is permanently fixed in its distorted condition, there are several courses open to the surgeon. Brainard1 advised weakening the bony texture at the seat of fracture, by drilling it subcutaneously, and then breaking it up in the manner already described. It must, however, be borne in mind that re-fracture is by no means a trifling affair. Union may fail to occur after it, whether it be accidental or produced intentionally by the surgeon ; and symptoms of great gravity may ensue, as in a case reported by Hunt,2 in which the patient, though he ulti- mately recovered with a useful limb, was placed in imminent danger of his life by the operation. Resection of a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the projecting angle has been done in a large number of cases.3 It dates back as far as the sixteenth century, and from the published reports would seem to have been very generally successful. Yet there are not wanting accounts of its failure, and I have myself seen several instances in which it has proved fatal. Subcutaneous osteotomy, either with the saw after the method of Adams, or with the chisel of Linhart and Maunder, is certainly a safer procedure; but for obvious reasons it would sometimes afford much less advantage in the correction of the deformity. The deformities which are most frequently met with after fracture, are such as admit of no treatment. They are apt to be very close indeed to joints ; I have seen them in the neighborhood of the elbow and ankle more often than elsewhere. They are mainly due to the extreme smallness of one fragment, which gives no purchase for any form of retentive apparatus; moreover, in these cases there is commonly very great swelling in the early, and even in the later stages, so that the precise condition of affairs cannot be determined until all chance of correcting it is past. Hence the surgeon, when called upon to attend fractures in these regions, should be careful to guard the patient or his friends from disappointment, and himself from blame, by stat- ing from the outset the probability of more or less deformity and loss of movement resulting. The foregoing remarks apply especially to the treatment of cases of angular deformity, which, indeed, is the one most generally brought to the notice of the surgeon, and the one which affords most chance of relief by operative measures. Mere shortening, after union has taken place, can scarcely be remedied, as it is due either to the loss of bone-substance or to overlapping of the fragments; and the section of a bone so united, in order to splice it anew, would be a procedure so grave in its risks as to prevent any prudent surgeon from attempting it. As to rotary displacement, disabling and disfiguring as it is, in the very rare cases in which it occurs, the prospect of improvement from an operation must be acknowledged to be too small to warrant its em- ployment. The subject is in practice still further narrowed by the fact that the cases which have been hitherto reported as dealt with by operation have nearly all, if not all, concerned either the leg or the thigh. Here angular deformity involves shortening of the whole limb, as well as a most awkward and incon- 1 Chicago Med. Journal, Jan. 1859. 2 Philadelphia Medical Times, Oct. 26, 1872 ; Surgery in the Pennsylvania Hospital, p. 151. 3 Norris, op. cit., pp. 124 et seq.