158 INJURIES OF BONES. When the joint is extensively laid open, or if the bones are very badly crushed, it may be good practice to excise the whole joint; a procedure which, although not mentioned by Malgaigne, has been resorted to with suc- cess in many instances, and is at present of recognized value. Sir A. Cooper cites two cases in which it was employed with excellent results by McIntyre, in one as early as 1829. I myself had at the Episcopal Hospital, a few years ago, a young man, who, by a fall from a roof, had sustained a very extensive compound fracture of the elbow ; I freely excised the joint, and he recovered with so good an arm that he was able to resume bis business as a tin-roofer. When excision is decided upon, it is important to remember that much depends upon the removal of a sufficient amount of bone to leave the forearm freely movable; upon sparing muscular attachments as much as possible; and upon avoiding interference with vessels and nerve-trunks. Partial ex- cisions have, in some instances, been done with success; but I think that the general result of experience is, that it is better to remove all the articulating surfaces, that healing thus takes place more quickly, and that to leave any portion of the joint adds nothing either to the safety of the procedure or to the subsequent usefulness of the limb. Occasionally, besides the damage to the hones, the vessels are torn across, or such extreme injury has been inflicted on the soft parts as to be irrepara- ble, and amputation must then be performed. The question may be raised with regard to either amputation or excision, whether the better plan is to operate at once, or to wait until suppuration has been established ; in other words, whether a primary or a secondary ope- ration affords the best chance of a good result. I think it should be decided, not abstractly, but according to the circumstances of each case. If it is clear that operative interference must be resorted to, and the patient’s condition does not forbid, there would seem to be no valid reason for postponing it. But if there is a doubt in the surgeon’s mind, either as to the necessity of any operation, or as to which he should adopt, or if grave constitutional symp- toms are present, a few days’ delay may be of momentous advantage. Such questions, however, belong rather to general surgery than to the special branch now under consideration. Fractures of the shaft of the ulna are rare as the result of indirect vio- lence, although Bellamy1 has reported one in the upper third of the bone from a fall on the hand, in a child six years of age. Yoisin is quoted by Malgaigne as having seen “a detachment of a longitudinal splinter from the articular facet” at the lower end, produced in the same way. Macleod has reported2 a case seen by him in which the patient, in striking a blow, sustained a frac- ture of the styloid process of the ulna, with separation of the triangular car- tilage. A more frequent cause is direct violence, as when a pugilist wards off a blow, and receives it on the edge of the forearm ; or from a fall, striking the same part against a step or other resisting body. The ulna is subcuta- neous in its whole length, and hence is specially exposed to injuries of the kind just referred to. Labatt3 saw a healthy girl who had sustained a fracture of the lower third of the ulna by muscular action, as she was engaged in wringing clothes. A previous injury had impaired the power of supination. In the statistics from the Children’s Hospital, already quoted, in the 316 cases, the ulna by itself is said to have been fractured 11 times, or in very nearly 3| per cent. Yet the causes are much more prevalent among grown 1 British Medical Journal, Sept. 16, 1876. 2 Edinburgh Medical Journal, Nov. 1874. 3 Dublin Med. Press, April 8, 1840.