893 SPINA BIFIDA. the seat of more or less considerable ulceration. A nsevoid condition of the skin is by no means uncommon, either over or about a spina bifida. When the skin is dissected ofif, the true sac of the tumor is met with. This is formed from the membranes of the cord matted together. No layers, however, can usually he made out, nor can the integuments be distinctly separated from the protruded membranes. In cases where the skin is quite normal, however, a layer of loose connective tissue often exists between the membranes and the most external coverings of the protrusion. Mr. Thomas Smith has recorded a remarkable case where the tumor contained two distinct sacs. The tumor, in this instance, was large and pendulous, and opened from the lower lumbar region. It was translucent, but presented no impulse on crying. The child was 14 months old, and, apart from (lie tumor, in perfect health. The mass was tapped, and 8 ounces of clear fluid drawn off. The patient died in ten days from spinal meningitis. At the autopsy, a second and smaller cyst was found at the upper part of the mass, that had not been punctured. Between the two cysts was a strong membrane, and in this position also ran the cauda equina. The bony opening was at the last lumbar vertebra. The larger or lower cyst communicated with the spinal canal and contained a few nerves. The smaller cyst led by a funnel-like process to the centre of the cauda equina and subarachnoid space.1 Sir James Paget has also recorded a case of two sacs in a spina bifida, one inclosing the meninges and cord, and the other occupied by fibrous and fatty tissue. Contents of the Tumor.—The sac of a spina bifida contains more or less fluid, which is identical in composition with the cerebro-spinal fluid. There is no doubt, moreover, that this fluid and the fluid in the sac of the tumor are one. The fluid may lie found either between the cord and its* membranes (hydrorachis externa or hydro-meningocele), or may be found hi the central canal of the cord (hydrorachis interna or hydro-myelocele). In the latter case, the cord is usually found spread out so as to form a thin covering over the wall of the sac,.and its condition may be compared to that of the brain in severe hydrocephalus. Follin and Duplay believe that in at least three-fourths of all cases the fluid is formed within the centre of the cord. In all cases where the fluid has apparently accumulated in the central canal, an extensive spread- ing out of the substance of the cord is not necessary. In many instances the cavity of the sac has been found to communicate by a funnel-shaped opening with the central canal of the cord, while yet the thinning or expansion of the cord was very slight..2 In all these cases the communication has been at the lower part of the medulla spinalis ; and while it is probable that in these instances the fluid originally accumulated in the central canal, it is equally probable that the collection communicated at an early period with the sub- arachoid space. In some cases cerebro-spinal fluid may form the sole contents of the sac in spina bifida ; but such cases are exceptional. As a rule, the spinal cord, or some part of it, and a certain number of the spinal nerves, are included in the protrusion. Follin and Duplay state that some nerve-tissue is found in the sac in five-sixths of all cases. Out of twenty cases of spina bifida, reported by Sir Prescott Hewett, in one instance only was the sac free from nerve-structures.3 The relation of the cord or of the spinal nerves to the sac varies greatly. In some cases the cord may bend into the sac, and, having possibly contracted some adhesions there, may re-enter the spinal canal; or the cauda equina, with more or less of the lower end of the cord, may 1 Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xxi. page 1. 1869. 2 See drawing of a dissection in Bryant’s Surgery, vol. i. p. 255. 3 London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxiv. 1844.