408 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. supported on a chair or by an assistant, while the surgeon presses the flexed thigh backward, taking care that the pelvis is properly fixed. Or the patient may be placed on his sound side, when the surgeon, placing one hand on the buttock, grasps the thigh at the knee with the other, and forcibly draws it backwards. These are the results which are aimed at, but I need hardly say that prudence generally renders it necessary to stop short of this ideal. Fre- quently, after a certain amount has been etfected by operation, gradual exten- sion, or a subsequent stretching, may enable us to gain a great deal more. Myotomy about the hip may be pretty extensively practised. I have fre- quently carried the operation very far, with excellent results; but, unfortu- nately, the ilio-psoas, which is the chief agent in maintaining flexion, is scarcely within reach of the tenotome. Certain structures that aid in keep- ing up that posture can, however, be divided, permitting force to be more immediately exercised on the contractured muscle. These are the iliac por- tion of the fascia lata, its tensor muscle, and the tendon of the rectus femoris. To divide the former, the surgeon should observe, while extension is exer- cised on the limb, the extent of subcutaneous section to be made. Let the limb be flexed enough to relax the skin, which is to be drawn from the flank as much as possible outwards; the tenotome is inserted a little below and internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, its point being directed outward, and, as it passes on, the handle is to be raised a little, so as to let the blade glide around, close to the bone, to the front and upper part of the dor- sum ilii; the knife now lies between the bone and the higher portions of the tensor vaginae femoris, and by causing the handle to pass in a semicircle down- ward, while the blade, taking the opposite course, is kept close to the crest of the ilium, the origin of the muscle is separated from the bone, while the thigh is extended as far as may be; afterwards, the edge is turned outward, towards the skin, and the fascia lata is divided, partly by pressing it down on the blade with the fingers of the other hand, partly by a sawing movement of the knife. The tendon of the rectus femoris may be divided through a puncture either on its inner or its outer side; the latter is preferable. The skin should be shifted well inward, and the knife should be inserted about half an inch from, and a little below, the anterior inferior iliac spine ; the blade must be sunk pretty deeply, and must go fairly under the tendon of origin ; by carrying it upward while depressing the handle, that tendon is easily divided. The adductors frequently require division ;1 sometimes only the superficial, sometimes the deeper ones likewise; the internal parts of the fascia lata must also in such cases be incised. The patient must lie on his back, and the limb be held in extension and in abduction sufficient to make prominent the tendon of origin of the long adductor, just outside of which the puncture is to be made. A rather stout tenotome being chosen, and the skin drawn well downward, the surgeon enters the knife a little outside that tendon, and so high that he feels the blade coursing along the surface of the bone. Turning the cutting edge inward, he not so much divides the tendon as peels it from the bone; this allows more abduction, and renders the gracilis tight, when its tendon is to be similarly dealt with. Now the fascia is found to be tight, not in one uniform plane, but in bands and puekerings here and there; these are also to be severed, but not very near the bone, especially in the male, lest the crus penis be wounded. The surgeon must now see whether the 1 There is a condition, much more common in the female than in the male, of shortening of the adductors, independent of any joint-disease. Such patients cannot separate the knees, which sometimes even cross. Difficulty in micturition without wetting the thighs, the impossi- bility of cleanliness, and at a nubile age other inconveniences, render operative interference ■essential to social life.