DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 330 Hence, it may be surmised (not concluded) that the causa morbi lies in a ! certain vice of the nutrient functions, including the dissolution and removal of effete tissues, whereby uric acid is formed in superabundance, or is not converted by further chemical changes into some more easily eliminated material; and that the blood thus surcharged acts injuriously on the kidneys, retarding or preventing the secretion of the substance in question so as to still further increase the saturation of the blood, and ultimately rendering those organs not merely functionally, but organically diseased. Symptoms.—The form of gout with which only we have to do here is the articular.1 It has several varieties: acute, sthenic gout, commonly called a fit of the gout; asthenic gout, the fits of which are more commonly subacute chronic gout, which commonly means the condition left by the acute fit,. |i added to a certain amount of inflammation, and occasionally varied by an , acute attack; and simple goutiness, viz., a more or less crippled, non-inflam- matory condition of the parts in which the deposit has taken place. It is unusual that a patient should, without having had at least one acute attack, suffer from articular gout and chalk-stone deposit. The first fit of sthenic gout may be taken in practice as the starting-point of the disease; although, from what lias been said, it is evident that for a considerable period previous, the excess of uric acid in the system has been preparing. The patient may feel and seem to others to be in good, and even in uncommonly good health, taking food with unusual relish, and perhaps in unusual quantity; or it may be that a certain irritability of temper is observed;. or again, he may be unwontedly disposed to fall asleep after dinner—the bowels being at the time a little constipated. Some night, after falling asleep with ease and readiness, he wakes about two or three o’clock with pain in the ball of the great toe; a sense of heat and bursting that in a little time becomes intolerable. On examination, the part is found to be of a deep red, I with sometimes a tinge of purple, in which full turgid veins are strongly marked. (Edema causes considerable swelling, and is often more extensive than the redness; the skin is tense and shiny. The toe and its surroundings are extremely tender. As daylight comes on, the pain and the objective signs j begin to diminish, and, perhaps, during the day may so far disappear that the patient thinks he lias escaped with the fright; even though some pain return in the evening, he may, if still a novice, go to bed with happy assur- f ance; but scarcely has he shaken himself into place before a sharp throb tells him that the enemy is upon him, and forebodes another night of what amounts to torture; and so on through a succession of nights until the fit passes, again, ( however, to recur at intervals of from four to six months. Each of these ' fits is accompanied by a certain degree of pyrexia, the rise of thermometer pre- ceding, according to my observation, the pain ; the skin is hot and dry; the urine very scanty and high colored. After the attack, all the part that has been inflamed desquamates, not in small furfuraceous scales, but in large flakes, i The early attacks, unless unusually prolonged and severe, leave but little local mischief behind them; but each succeeding one produces more and more j injury, and the intervals, therefore, are less free. As a compensation, a joint which has been attacked once or twice, is less painful during the fit than it was at first; other joints are, however, liable to become affected. Asthenic gout is, if we take typical cases of each form of the disease, very 1 It is nevertheless essential for the surgeon to know that gout may attack other, especially ' internal, organs, when the disease may become exceedingly dangerous. If this occur alone, and n without simultaneous or immediately preceding joint-affection, it is termed misplaced, aberrant, j or non-articular gout; if it arise during an attack of articular gout, which then subsides—a j species of metastasis—it is called retrocedent gout.