MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 954 keeps the lieacl extended and the affected spine at rest. In Sayre’s “jury- mast,” the head is, as it were, suspended by the apparatus: extension is kept up, but rotary movements of the head are permitted, as is also some lateral motion. A better apparatus is that advocated by Fisher, which differs from Sayre’s instrument in so far that it not only maintains the extended position, but at the same time prevents, by its rigidity, all movements of the head and iron, iodine, phosphorus, and quinine are of service, and one of the most suitable drugs for children is, perhaps, the compound syrup of the phosphate of iron. The treatment of the abscess is a subject of much difference of opinion, and on this matter the reader is referred to the article on Abscesses in a previous volume.1 As far as my own experience goes, I should advise an evacuation of the matter by the aspirator at as early a period as possible, and I do not think that facts support the practice of temporizing, with the hope—which is always very meagre—that the pus will be absorbed. When the collection re-forms after the puncture, it may be again aspirated, and this procedure may be repeated a great many times. After each operation, the skin about the puncture should be kept for a while painted with collodion, and in any case every care should be taken to protect the parts from friction and inju- rious pressure. In the majority of cases, the skin at the most prominent point of the abscess will become greatly thinned, and possibly inflamed, and the condition will be such that the collection, if left any longer, will discharge itself through the integuments. In anticipation of this, a free opening should be made into the abscess under antiseptic precautions, and the wound should be dressed antiseptically until such time as antiseptic measures are considered unneces- sary or unadvisable. At each dressing, it is well that the abscess-cavity should be gently syringed with a weak carbolic solution (1 to 100 parts). Fig. 815. cervical spine. In any case, the vertical bar is fixed below, either to a Sayre’s plaster jacket ap- plied in the usual way, or to a poro-plastic corset. In the former case it is retained by being included in the folds of the plaster bandages, and in the latter it is fixed to the corset by means of rivets. In either case the necessary firmness needed for the support of the bar is given by several transverse pieces of metal attached to the lower part. There can be little doubt but that the latter method of fixing the jury-mast is infinitely the more advanta- geous. In these cases of disease above the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, recumbency is almost imperative as a preliminary measure, and should be insisted on as long as the mischief is acute and progressing actively. The general treatment of the malady needs little detail. The patient’s health must be attended to: change of air, especially to the seaside, is to be ad- vised, and a liberal diet should be ordered in all cases where such a diet is obtainable. If the state of the digestive organs does not forbid its use, cod- See Vol. II., page 268.