681 LACERATED FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. torn off, and, on the right side, a large portion of the gluteal muscles was also removed. This huge wound is well illustrated by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 768). The shock appears to have been considerable. On May 8, reaction having taken place, the patient was sent to Armory Square Hospital, at Washington. He suffered but little Fig. 768. Snowing an immense shell-wonnd of the lumbar and "luteal regions ; tetanus : recovery. pain, and had a good appetite. He was ordered the best of diet, with porter; lint wet with a disinfectant lotion to the wound ; and an anodyne internally at night. The patient did well until the forenoon of the 15th, when lie complained of inability to separate his jaws, and of stiffness in the muscles of the neck. The trismus was attended next day by opisthotonos and other tetanic symptoms, caused perhaps by spinal meningitis. Large doses of morphia were administered at short intervals, and with a good effect. On the 22d, a large dejection from the bowels occurred. From this date the patient steadily improved. On July 10, he was furloughed. On November 21, he re- turned to the hospital. On December 5, an examina- tion showed that the wound had cicatrized, except- ing a patch having the size of the palm of a hand, and that this portion was kindly granulating. The right buttock was wasted and flattened. His gait was feeble and uncertain. His general health appear- ed to be good. On December 15, he was discharged from the service and pensioned. A drawing in colors of the huge wound in this case, as well as of that in the preceding case, was made by Hospital Steward Stauchsoon after the reception of the injury. Both drawings are preserved in the Army Medical Mu- seum. An excellent chromo-lithograph, made from the drawing in the last case, is presented in the sec- ond volume of the Surgical History of the War. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 768) is a copy (re- duced) of the chromo-lithograph. On November 30, 1870, the pension-examiner reported as fol- lows in the case : “ A shell-wound over sacrum of large extent; is not so well as formerly; the sore now shows no disposition to heal, and, in all proba- bility, will remain an open ulcer. His weight is 130 pounds ; the pulse 70 ; the respiration normal; dis- ability total.” In 1871, the late Dr. Otis, the much-esteemed editor of the Medical and Surgical History of the War, addressed a note of inquiry to this soldier, regarding Fig. 769. Showing tne .appearance of the cicatrex nine years after the wound represented in Fig. was inflicted. In the centre of the cicatrix au indolent ulcer of irregular shape remains.