267 SYNOVITIS. The pain of a sero-synovitis is not, as a rule, severe, while the limb is at rest, and especially after it has been motionless for some time. In other words, movement causes pain, which slowly subsides during quietude. The pain consists in a duller or sharper aching, according to the amount of tension, and at the same time in a sense of distension, fulness, or bursting; throb- bing is very rare, its presence, or at least its prominence, marking a condition other than that of simple synovitis. Many persons, especially those of irritable or sensitive idiosyncrasy, complain of an uneasy aching, a dull sort of cramp about the flexor muscles or tendons. This is most commonly remarked while the patient is in bed, and while the limb is Unsupported. But besides the general joint-pain above described, there is in every larger articulation a special place which is more painful and more tender than any other part. These painful spots will he referred to in connection with the peculiarities of tumefaction of each joint. The swelling of simple synovitis, since infiltration of tissue is an intrinsic part of the process of inflammation, must occupy some space outside of the synovial membrane; but this external swelling is quite trivial in amount, and in the presence of much larger and greater tumefaction, is hardly or not at all perceptible. The enlargement on which the mind of the surgeon is fixed is that which is due to hypersecretion of fluid within the synovial sac, whereby it is filled out or distended to abnormal size. The swelling therefore is fluctuating to the touch, and, according to the amount of effused fluid, more or less tenSe. If the joint be superficial, as the elbow, knee, or wrist, the fluctuation is, like the tumefaction, very easily de- tected ; whereas if it be deeply seated, as for example the hip, both symptoms are obscure, and only to be recognized when the amount of fluid is very con- siderable. Certain very important points in semeiology arise from this disten- sion of the deep parts of the limb. It is to be noted that every joint is crossed by certain ligaments and tendons, which leave between them parts where the synovial membrane is less covered. Most of these structures make, beneath the skin, prominences, which may be seen or felt, and which help to give what an artist would call “ character” to the part; if they were eliminated the joint would look (again in artist language) “ dumb” or ■'‘"lifeless.” How this is pre- cisely what takes place in slight synovitis: the distended sac, bulging out be- tween the ligaments and tendons, obliterates their prominences, and the joint looks evenly rounded—dumpling-like, or dumb. But if the effusion become greater in quantity,a further effect follows: the interspaces between the liga- ments and tendons protrude further than those structures, that which nor- mally was a hollow becomes now a prominence, and vice versa. Hence a peculiarity of shape for each inflamed articulation, according to the position and form of the bands by which it is crossed. We will take together the form of swelling and the special seat of pain for each important joint. Shoulder.—The shoulder looks fuller and broader than that of the other side,1 and the groove which separates this part from the chest is, especially at the upper end, very inconspicuous. These changes may best be seen by looking down upon the shoulders, the patient either kneeling or sitting on a low chair. In persons not too obese, there is at the back of the shoulder a shallow depression just below the acromion; this becomes filled up in syno- vitis. In severe cases the apex of the'axil la is blunted, and to its outer side tumefaction may be made out. The especial seat of tenderness and pain is in front, hist below the acromion. 1 The natural differences between the right and the left arm must he kept in mind.