INJURIES OF BONES. 258 verse fracture of the os calcis has occurred half an inch below its articulation with the astragalus.” The patient had fallen from a second-story window; he refused amputation, and died of pyaemia, after erysipelas, sloughing, abscess, and secondary hemorrhage, for which the anterior tibial artery was tied. Fracture of the lesser process, or sustentaculum tali, has been studied and described by Abel.1 It is said to he due to falls on the sole of the foot, or to forced inversion of the foot, so that the sole looks inward. The me- chanism of such an injury is obvious. The symptoms of fracture of the os calcis, as may appear from what has already been said, are not always such as to lead to its easy recognition. Of course there is pain, inability to bear weight on the heel, and tenderness on pressure, while sometimes the posterior fragment is drawn upward by the muscles of the calf acting through the tendo Acliillis. But Malgaigne says that he mistook the lesion, in the first case seen by him, for fracture of the fibula, and that the same error was fallen into by Voillemier as well as by Bonnet; and it is very possible that surgeons of less experience have been deceived in like manner. Abel says that when the sustentaculum tali is detached, any attempt to stand or walk everts the foot, giving the ankle the valgus position; crepitus and abnormal mobility, although present, may be masked by the swelling; but the astragalus and tibia are displaced somewhat backward, lessening the distance between the posterior border of the inner malleolus and the tendo Achillis. The course of these cases can hardly be definitely laid down. Consolida- tion would appear to take place only very slowly, and it is apt to be a long- time before the foot becomes useful again. I think that sometimes, in the cases of caries or necrosis of the os calcis, which are met with in children, there may have been in reality an unrecognized fracture, the nutrition of the bone being irretrievably damaged. The prognosis must always be doubtful. As to the treatment, it must consist in obviating displacement as far as pos- sible, by keeping the foot in a proper position, attention being at first paid, of course, to keeping down inflammatory action. The best dressing for these cases is a splint along the front of the leg, extending as far as the roots of the toes, and having an obtuse angle corresponding to the instep ; it may be kept in place by an ordinary roller, and afterward by a plaster or silicate bandage. The old plan of putting a slipper on the foot, and attaching it by a band to a fillet around the lower part of the thigh, is open to the grave objection that the pressure of the heel of the slipper would itself tend to push the posterior fragment out of place. Fractures of the other tarsal bones can hardly occur except from crush- ing force, and present no features which need be dwelt upon. I have never seen such a case, except when the whole ankle was smashed, and when ampu- tation was the only resource. Fractures of the metatarsal bones result only from crushing, as by heavy weights falling upon the foot, and are nearly always compound. If amputa- tion is not demanded, the only course open to the surgeon is to allay inflam- mation, and to keep the foot at rest until union shall have occurred. Any displacement of the fragments must be remedied as far as possible by careful manipulation; the result is apt to be favorable. Malgaigne says: “ I recently had to treat a carter, who was thrown down under his vehicle, and had the 1 British Med. Journal, Nov. 9, 1878; from Arch, fur klin. Chirurgie.