SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 603 shaped cells, with which are found cell-nests resembling the epidermic globes of squamous epithelioma. It is probable that many, if not all, of these tumors are of endothelial origin. Hemorrhagic Sarcoma.—A round-celled or spindle-celled tumor, having such a great tendency to bleed, that the tumor may appear to be simply a collection of blood, or a blood-cyst, so completely are its characters obscured by hemorrhage. Melanotic Sarcoma.—A spindle-celled or round-celled tumor, in which pigment granules are so abundant that the tumor exhibits a black or brown- ish-black color. The pigment generally lies in the interior of the cells, but in some instances is found in the intercellular material or fibrous trabeculae Mgxo-sarcoma ; Net-celled Sarcoma.—Most of the myxo-sarcomas appear to be spindle-celled or mixed-celled sarcomas, containing many stellate cells. The cells are imbedded in a viscid, homogeneous, or granular material, which is often very abundant, so that the tumors present a jelly-like appearance. The origin of this material is very uncertain, but it is probably a result of dege- neration of some of the textures of the tumor. Localities of Sarcomata.—A sarcoma may originate in almost any region of the body; for, as connective tissue is of universal occurrence throughout the body, and sarcoma is of connective-tissue origin, so the origin of sarcoma may be universal. Thus it may arise in cartilage or bone, in fibrous tissue or lymphatic tissue, in the connective tissue of the nervous cords and centres, in the connective tissue of the various organs. But in some respects it ap- pears almost capricious in the selection of the part which it attacks. Thus, such parts as the tongue and the oesophagus, which are frequently the seat ot malignant disease, are scarcely ever affected by sarcoma. The sole of the foot is not uncommonly attacked by sarcoma, the palm of the hand almost never. The bones are frequently the seat of sarcomatous growths, but cer- tain parts of certain bones are the seats of election of the disease. Among the parts which are particularly subject to sarcoma may be mentioned the skin and subcutaneous tissue; the bones; the lymphatic glands; the eye; the upper jaw; the testicle; the breast; the brain; the lungs and kidneys. They are found also, but less frequently, in the nerves; in the fascia? and intermuscular septa ; in the spinal cord ; in the heart and liver. Further, the subclass and variety of the particular sarcoma are, to a certain extent, dependent on the character and situation of the mother-tissue. Thus, the skin and subcutaneous tissue are liable to round-celled and spindle-celled sarcomas, and the tumors are often melanotic. The bones are subject to all four subclasses of sarcoma, but the giant-celled tumors are almost limited to the central parts of bones. Tbc lymphatic glands may be attacked by round- celled and spindle-celled sarcomas, but are most frequently the seat of the variety lympho-sarcoma. Glioma and melanotic spindle-celled sarcoma affect the eye. The testicle and breast may be the seat of round-celled, spindle- celled, and mixed-celled sarcomas, and of the variety lympho-sarcoma. The brain and spinal cord are subject to glioma; the lungs and kidneys chiefly to round-celled sarcoma and lympho-sarcoma; the fasciae and intermuscular glands to spindle-celled sarcoma. The influence ot the mother-tissue is felt not only in determining the form of sarcoma which is primarily produced, but in the transformations or degen- erations which the tumor undergoes. Thus, the subperiosteal sarcomas are peculiarly liable to osseous and calcareous changes, and fibrous tissue is largely found in tumors which grow from the fasciae and septa. Nor is this influ- ence limited to the primary growth. It makes itself felt in recurrent and