EXCISION OF TIIE KNEE-JOINT. 513 it subsequently communicated. This abscess had been opened Fig- 739. in December, and in January, 1872, when I took charge of the case, I found the parts in a quiet condition, but the liga- ments of the joint very much relaxed, and its structure evi* dently disorganized. Excision was performed in the usual way on January 25, the semilunar cartilages being found muck diseased, though the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia were but slightly eroded. Only one ligature was required, and the limb was placed on a bracketed splint and dressed in the usual manner. The patient convalesced rapidly ; osseous union occurred quickly between the resected bones; and the patient was discharged, cured, with an excellent limb, on June 12, 1872, about four and a half months after the date of exci- sion. The result, of the operation may be seen by the accom- panying illustration (Fig. 739), from a photograph taken shortly before the patient left the hospital. In the next case, as in that of Henry S., a most useful limb was obtained, although without the occurrence of bony union. Excision of Left Knee-Joint for Arthritis of two years’ standing; Recovery with Useful Limb Annie McS., nine years of age, entered the Children’s Hospital on October 8, 1873, suffering from arthritis of the left knee, with partial an- chylosis, and consecutive outward and backward dislocation of the tibia. The condition of her limb rendered her very help- less, and by preventing her from going to school seriously inter- fered with her acquiring an education. As her disease, more- over, was of two years’ standing, and was manifestly too far advanced to offer much prospect of recovery without operation, immediate excision was determined upon, and was performed in the usual way on October 14, 1873, only one Result of knee-joint excision. Fig. 740. Fig. 741. Parts removed in excision of the knee-joint. ligature being required, and the wound being dressed and the limb supported in the ordinary manner. The articular cartilages were found much eroded, and a patch of caries existed on the outer condyle of the femur. The appearances of the resected parts are seen in the annexed illustrations. (Figs. 740 and 741.) The operation was followed by very little constitutional disturbance ; an abscess, which formed above the excision wound, was opened on October 18; the sutures were removed on the 20th, and the ligature came away on the day following. Union between the resected surfaces had begun by October 26, and by December 12, the cure was sufficiently far advanced to allow the bracketed splint to be replaced by a simple, moulded, pasteboard gutter, and the patient to sit up. By March, 1874, though slight motion still existed as regarded flexion and extension, the patient was able to walk without any aid, the limb being simply supported with a soap-plaster and bandage. One superficial sinus, which healed very slowly, caused the patient to be kept under observation an unusually long time, and she did not finally leave the hospital until the