DISEASES OF TI1E JOINTS. 424 several years. The second form of disease, above referred to, not only affects the joints differently, but, apparently, rather the deeper structures. It com- mences later in the course of the paralyzing disease or injury, with less swell- ing, which is of a firmer and harder description, and with considerable pain, even while the parts are at rest, but greatly aggravated on the slightest move- ment. There is great tendency to contraction, and in these cases it appears almost impossible to prevent anchylosis. Mechanical appliances and passive motion are not only unbearable, but appear rather to increase than diminish this tendency, and in the large majority of instances the surgeon has no choice but to retain the limb in such a posture as may be most convenient for the stiffened joint. This obstinate tendency often continues, even though the paralysis may get well. I cannot but look on these arthropathies as simply the result of disturbances of nutrition and secretion, the vaso-motor or sympathetic portions of the sup- plying nerves being at the first powerfully involved, and their affections being more persistent than those of the other nerves. This view is borne out by the frequency of ulceration and sloughing in these cases, especially at spots upon which pressure may fall, as in M. Vigues’s case above quoted. Hypercemia, in some cases at first active, but soon becoming or being from the first passive, produces excess of synovial secretion followed by deficiency and thickening. If the nervous malady still persist, destruction of cartilage, and even of bone, may follow, just as oedema, ulceration, and sloughing may occur in the ordi- nary connective tissues. But if the arthropathies of hemiplegia and paraplegia exhibit no, or but slight, special characteristics, the joint-affections of another nerve disease are very differently circumstanced; especially is tabes dorsalis or locomotor ataxia distinguished by occasionally producing very remarkable and peculiar con- ditions of the joints. The profession is indebted to Professor Charcot1 for calling attention to and giving excellent descriptions of these affections. The papers of Ball,2 Richet, Bourneville, and others, are also of great value. We cannot but believe, from a careful examination of the records, that the joint-malady is a more frequent accompaniment of locomotor ataxia, as it appears in France, than in either England, Germany, or America. Never- theless, the excellent work of Dr. Buzzard3 and the contributions of Clifford Allbutt,4 * in England, of Ponfick, Ilitzig, and Westphal,6 in Germany, and of Weir Mitchell, in America,6 show that these conditions exist, and that more instructed attention may lead, in these countries, to the recognition of a greater number of cases than have hitherto been recorded. The joint-trouble begins generally towards the end of the first period of the disease; that is, when the “lightning pains” have lasted some time; and either before or very shortly after incoordination shows itself. Occasionally, the arthropathy is still earlier, and may be, as in the second case of Charcot,7 contemporary with the first attack of the characteristic pains. One of these periods of manifestation is certainly the invariable or almost invariable rule in the lower extremities, but it may be much later in the upper, because the malady is generally a long time advancing upwards from the inferior parts of the cord. 1 Lectures on the Diseases of the Nervous System. New Sydenham Society’s translation. London,1877-1881. 2 Gazette des Hopitaux, 1868-9. 3 Pathological Transactions, vol. xxxi. p. 193, and Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Nervous System. 4 St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1869. 6 Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, Nos. 46, 47, 53, 1872; No. 29, 1881. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1873. . 7 Op. cit., vol. ii. lect. iv.