FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 187 The records of the Pennsylvania Hospital1 show, out of 248 eases of frac- ture of the femur in which the age is noted, 80, or 32 per cent., under twenty years of age ; 47, or nearly 19 per cent., between twenty and forty years of age; 71, or over 28 per cent,, between forty and sixty ; and beyond sixty, 50, or 20 per cent. The influence of sex on the frequency of occurrence of fractures of the femur is strongly marked, but not equally so with regard to all portions of the bone. During childhood and youth, when the neck of the bone is almost exempt, the number of cases in males is very much greater than that in females. Afterwards, the ratio of the two sexes becomes more nearly equal; but in old age, when the neck is the part of the bone most frequently broken, the proportion of women is in excess. The analogy which exists between the anatomical form of the femur and that of the humerus obtains also in regard to their fractures. Thus, we have in the femur, fractures of the neck, of the trochanters, of the shaft just below the trochanters, of the shaft in other parts of its length, and of the condyles. But it will be noted that while the upper portion of the humerus, as stated in a previous part of this article, is less frequently broken than the lower, the converse is true of the femur; and the anatomy of the neck of the femur is more complex than that of the condyles, while in the humerus the upper ex- tremity of the bone is much the simpler. The epiphyses of the humerus are far more frequently separated by violence than those of the femur. In fact, according to Holmes,2 separations of the upper epiphysis of the femur are “ unknown, except, perhaps, in the foetusthis statement is too sweeping, but the lower is much oftener detached, as will hereafter appear. A correct knowledge of the external anatomy and internal structure of each portion of the femur is essential to the understanding of its fractures. The general mechanical principles concerned have already been laid down.3 Fractures of the upper part of the femur are such as involve the neck of the bone, or the trochanters, or both. On examining a normal femur, it is seen that the neck, projecting upward from the oblique inter-trochanteric line, is set at an angle more or less obtuse with the shaft. In front, the surfaces of the two portions are nearly continuous, whereas posteriorly the line is a very marked ridge, and defines a deep hollow between it and the head. Hence, the greater trochanter projects backward, and the general shape of the neck of the bone is slightly convex in front, deeply concave behind. The angle at which the neck is set on to the shaft, is found, on comparison of femora from different subjects, to vary considerably. Ward says that it is on an average about 125°. Whether it changes in the same skeleton from youth to old age, has never been determined, although it has been so supposed by almost all writers on anatomy and surgery. Sir Astley Cooper4 gives a very clear description of degenerative changes seen by him in old bones, and in the excellent illustrations accompanying his text, there may be perceived an arrangement of the cancellous structure, which, as I shall presently try to show, has much to do with the clinical features of all fractures in this region. But although these changes may undoubtedly occur, and are more frequent in old age, they are, I think, only parts of a degeneration which, in some individuals only, affects the entire skeleton. In many old bones no such change is to be noted; the neck is at a very obtuse angle with the shaft, and its structure, like that of the bony system at large, resembles that of most 1 Surgery in the Pennsylvania Hospital, p. 280. 2 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, p. 258. 3 See pp. 13 et seq. 4 Op. cit., pp. 134 et seq.