193 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. this procedure the thigh should be flexed to nearly a right angle with the body. The great leverage given by the leg (the knee being of course flexed also), should not be forgotten, as the fragments may be readily displaced, and damage doue. Crepitus may be elicited by this manoeuvre, and is often perceptible even if the degree of impaction be considerable ; although in such a case it will be slighter and less distinct than if the fragments are freely movable upon one another. This and the preceding sign are apt to be in the same ratio of clearness. By Maisonneuve,1 and more recently by Levis,2 it has been advised that the patient should be laid on his face, and the limb lifted up from the bed in a backward direction ; if the cervix be intact, the movement will be very soon arrested. This procedure should be executed with the utmost gentleness, if at all, on account of the risk of doing mischief by separating the fragments. Swelling and ecchymosis, although Very apt to occur when the injury is the result of force applied over the trochanter, are sometimes wholly wanting when the bone has yielded to slight and indirect violence. The course of fractures of the femoral neck varies greatly, according to the age and constitution of the patient and the character and severity of the local injury. In the old and infirm, there may be such a shock induced as to undermine the general health, and to lead to the extinction of life within a few weeks or months. Occasionally the fatal result is brought about by suppuration. McTyer3 l’ecorded the case of a woman, aged fifty-six, who fell on her side, and had afterward a slight halt in walking. She was admitted to the Infirmary, three months after the accident, for “ erysipelas in the thigh.” A puncture was made, and a large quantity of pus evacuated ; the discharge continued, and death took place on the eleventh daj7. The neck of the femur was broken within the synovial membrane; “ the abscess, which was situated in the thigh, communicated through the lacerated capsular ligament with the hip-joint.” Reference has already been made4 to Hunt’s case of fracture of the neck of the lemur in a man aged twenty-six, who died on the twenty- second day, ot pelvic abscess and pyaemia. More commonly, in the old, the limb remains in a great degree useless, so that the patient becomes either bed-ridden or a cripple. The extent of the loss of power may be, however, but slight, especially if the fracture have been an impacted one. Lven when bony union does not take place, there may be such a thickening ot the capsule ot the joint as to enable the weight of the body to be suspended, as it were, upon the fibrous band so formed. Perhaps the Y-ligament may add firmness to this support; and it would seem that occasionally there are adventitious bands formed, as in an instance reported by Park man,5 in which there were shown “ certain bands of lymph proceed- ing from the internal surface of the capsule to the broken surface of the upper portion or head ot the bone.” Morgagni6 states that in a case observed by Ruysch, ligamentous union had occurred betwen the broken surfaces, and not, as asserted by Salzmann, through the periosteum alone; and numerous specimens ot this kind may be found in museums. -As to bony union between the fragments, there can be no question of its frequent occurrence in cases involving the base of the neck, close to the tro- chanters, or in what are commonly called extra-capsular fractures. Some- times it is very firm, and the accuracy of adaptation of the portions of the Clinique Chirurgicale, tome i. p. 169. 2 * Glasgow Meclieal Journal, Feb. 1831. « Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 18^2, 0 Op. cit., Letter LVI. Art. 4. VOL. IV.—13 Philadelphia Medical Times, Jan. 31, 1874. See page 24.