824 INJURIES OF THE BACK. 4 Ibid., p. 176. slant or long continued, combined with that of decomposing urine and feces, should soon become converted into an eschar, a slough, or a bed-sore. For a further account of the common variety of bed-sore—of its symptoms and treatment—the reader is referred to Prof. Moore’s Article in the Second Volume of this Work, pp. 306-308. (2) The neurotrophic or neuropathic variety of bed-sore appears to have been clearly understood for the first time by M. Brown-Sequard, as already intimated, for he first demonstrated by experiments on animals the peculiar nature, as well as the causal relations and causal indications for treatment, of this important lesion. The celebrated Dr. Bright, however, had already been so much struck by its chief clinical features that he caused drawings and models in wax illustrating them to be prepared ; and he, likewise, related four examples in point in his “ Reports of Medical Cases.”1 But M. Brown- Sequard, after prolonged research and reflection, and after making numerous experiments on animals, to elucidate this lesion, remarked concerning it, in 1858, as follows:— “ The production of sloughs on the sacrum cannot be considered as an effect of prolonged pressure [from the decubitus] upon the parts of the skin where they appear, [inasmuch] as they sometimes are produced in a few days and even in a few hours after the fracture. They result from a morbid excita- tion of the spinal cord, and not from the loss of action [paralysis] of that nervous centre owing to its partial or complete section, as I have proved by experiments [on animals] showing that they never occur after [simple] section of the cord. The proof that pressure upon the sacrum has but a slight influence in their production, is clearly given in the case of animals on which, after fractures of the spine, I have seen sloughs occurring in parts that were not subjected to pressure. Besides, it is known that men who are confined to bed by other causes than a nervous complaint, may bear pressure upon the same part of the body for a long time without producing sloughs. Pressure upon the sacrum is, therefore, only an additional cause of sloughs. For the mode of action of the nervous system in producing alterations of nutrition, I will refer to my lecture on the influence of the nervous system upon nutri- tion,2 and I will only say here that an irritation, and not a paralysis, is the cause of these morbid changes.”3 Among the points established in the lecture to which he refers, are the following:— (1) The phenomena of reflex action, that is, pains and muscular contrac- tions in the peripheral parts, can also be produced by directly irritating either the spinal cord as a compound nervous centre (that is, a series of nervous centres arranged one above another), or the spinal nerves which issue from it. (2) “ The phenomena of this direct irritation have very often been mistaken for consequences of the absence of action in the nervous centres. I will merely point out here the rapid sloughs that are observed after fractures or luxations of the vertebral column, and the rapid change of the urinary secre- tion in similar cases.”4 (3) “ I will only add, as regards the influence of the pressure on the spinal cord producing sloughs on the nates and other morbid changes, that it is 1 Op. cit., vol. ii. pp. 383, 423, Diseases of the Brain and Nervous System. London, 1831. 2 For more details on the capital point that it is chiefly owing to a morbid action of the nervous system that alterations of nutrition take place in diseases of that system, and not, as generally supposed, to a paralysis, that is, to a cessation of the action of that system, see Journal de Physi- ologie, 1859, p. 112. * Brown-Sequard’s Lectures on the Physiology and Pathology of the Central Nervous System, etc., pp. 248, 249.