INTERVERTEBRAL ARTHRITIS. 917 of cancellous tissue that enters into the composition of the vertebrae, will explain the greater tendency of the column to caries, and for the same rea- son it follows that the bodies are the usual parts attacked by the malady. Necrosis, on the other hand, is chiefly met with in the posterior segments of the spine, and when occurring in the anterior portions of the column usually implicates such parts as contain much compact tissue, and therefore princi- pally involves the first and second cervical vertebrae. The matter of caries is fully discussed in the sections on Pott’s disease and Disease of the Atlo-axoid region. The principal and most frequent examples of necrosis of the spine are also detailed in those sections ; and it only remains here to allude to such cases of necrosis of the column as cannot be well referred to either of these clinical divisions. These cases are but few in number, and are due probably in all instances to injury. Thus I have seen necrosis of several of the dorsal spines follow upon a severe laceration of the back, that had exposed and injured those processes. A like necrosis has followed upon certain fractures and dislocations of the spine attended with crushing and comminution of the bones. Mr. Bickersteth records a remarkable case of a man, aged twenty-two, who was shot in the neck. The lesion involved the fifth and sixth cervical verte- brae. After an interval of some months he became the subject of dysphagia and paralysis of both arms. The wound was open, and there was intense inflammation of the pharynx. He ultimately expectorated two small pieces of bone, and a dense mass of tissue that was discovered to be an interver- tebral fibro-cartilage. A perfect recovery followed, although some stiffness of the neck persisted.1 Intervertebral Arthritis. This term obviously implies inflammation of the joints between the ver- tebrae, and includes not only arthritis of the true joints between the articular processes, but also inflammatory affections of the intervertebral disks. The term is too general, and too wide in its application to be of use in any trea- tise that is founded upon a clinical rather than a pathological basis. It might be of great advantage in the light of pure pathology—to consider all forms of vertebral arthritis under one common heading—but such an arrangement would tend to confuse well-marked and familiar clinical outlines, and would be in direct opposition to commonly accepted notions of the varieties of ver- tebral disease. The intervertebral joints that are the most commonly involved are those between the axis and between the latter hone and the occiput. These affec- tions are fully discussed in the chapter on Diseases of the Alto-axoid Region. A special form of intervertebral arthritis is considered under the heading Spondylitis Deformans. The principal and most common, inflammatory, or destructive processes in the intervertebral disks, are considered in the section on Pott’s Disease, and it is necessary, therefore, in this place to do no more than call attention to some rare aspects of intervertebral arthritis that cannot be included under any of the above-mentioned headings. These examples of the disease are twofold : (1) Arthritis of the true joints of the spinal column following upon injury, and (2) certain peculiar cases of perforation of an intervertebral disk. (1) The vertebral column is frequently the seat of concussions and sprains. Medical Times and Gazette, voi. i. 1862, page 614.