DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 350 feels as a sensation of great weight—as though the limh were of lead—and which the surgeon sees in every motion of the sufferer. If from any cause its position must he changed, the patient either drags the limb hanging pas- sively from the trunk, or lifts it with his hands. In the worst cases, those of the osteo-phlebitic variety, the general symp- toms are, severe and remittent rigors (these are, in some cases, not strongly marked), with considerable pyrexia, the evening temperature reaching to 105° F. or more ; the tongue furred, and brown in the middle ; appetite entirely absent; insomnia almost persistent; constipation at first, perhaps followed after a time by diarrhoea and vomiting. Ieteroid coloration of the skin is generally present. In the less urgent cases, these symptoms are greatly modified; the pyrexia is much less marked, and the disturbance of the digestive functions less appa- rent; yet there is sufficient evidence of illness to cause us to recognize the presence of some inflammatory disease, to the locality of which the pain clearly points. Yet for about five days, more or less, from the commencement of the malady, no local change can be perceived; afterwards a deep, local swelling may be detected, which is cedematous at the surface, and doughy or boggy beneath, while still deeper pressure reveals a perfectly hard substratum. This enlarge- ment ceases by a sudden edge, beyond which the limb is, to the touch, nor- mal or nearly normal. The tumefied part is exceedingly tender upon deep pressure; but beyond the boundary of swelling the tenderness ceases quite abruptly. This sharp limitation of swelling and tenderness is a very im- portant characteristic of the disease.1 Again, there is an interval of from five to nine days, during which little alteration takes place except increase of swelling, and then begins a change in the color of the skin.2 In my experience this is bright-red or reddish- purple, and shiny, the color disappearing momentarily on pressure with the finger; but in certain cases, especially of the epidemic, phlebitic form, it is, according to Demme, of a dirty clay color as long as acute oedema is present. Large, distended veins ramify beneath the integument, but in the cases marked by red coloration they are much less perceptible (though present) than in the others. Abscess, except in the most acute cases, can rarely he detected from the surface till after a fortnight. These symptoms, in their entirety, form a picture so different from ordi- nary phlegmonous erysipelas, that mistake is hardly possible; and to make an incision for merely diagnostic purposes (Chassaignac) is not, in my opinion, justifiable. Oil drops (from the disintegrated medulla), which under such circumstances would be found in the pus, might also be due to certain other forms of disease. Incisions can only be justified as a resource of treatment. When the surgeon perceives, during the course of the above symptoms, the sudden appearance of a marked and peculiar deformity about the joint, he may suspect diastasis, and must carefully watch the case for the next few days, during which the distortion gradually, though pretty rapidly, increases. The diagnosis between separation of an epiphysis and pathological dislocation is in part rational, in part physical; thus, the former can only occur during early life, and is a much more common sequela than the latter of acute osteo-mye- litis. The abnormal mobility is greater and of a different sort from that of 1 See also Chassaignac, loc. cit. 2 Demme states that this coloration does not take place until the periosteal abscess approaches the surface. I am, however, in a position to affirm that this is by no means always so ; I have seen intense redness or purplish redness of the skin, in two or three cases, while the abscess has been still very deep.