165 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. side, and that the bandages will become inefficient; but in removing them care should be taken not to allow of any displacement of the broken bone. Compound fractures of the radius in its shaft may of course occur; but I do not remember to have ever seen one, except from gunshot wound, and there are no special points which require comment in regard to the phenomena or treatment of such a case. Fractures of the lower portion of the radius are among the most com- mon of accidents, and must always have been so; yet it was not until the present century that they were distinctly recognized and accurately described. The history of the development of our present knowledge of these injuries is so curious us to merit some notice. Pouteau1 had thrown out the idea that fractures of the radius in the vici- nity of the wrist, caused by falls on the hand, were “ generally mistaken for sprains, for incomplete luxations, or for separations between the ulna and radiusbut the statement seems to have attracted no attention at the time. The same view was promulgated by Desault ;2 but to Colles,3 of Dublin, is due the credit of having given the first clear and practical account of these in- juries and of their distinctive features. Dupuytren,4 C4oyrand,5 Diday,6 and Voillemier,7 realized the importance of the fracture in question, although none of them seem to have been aware of Colies’s paper; and the same may be said of Eelaton and Malgaigne. Even Sir Astley Cooper makes no men- tion of Colies’s name, and Fergusson barely alludes to his having written on the subject. In fact, this first real investigator of the matter would seem to have been forgotten until Prof. R. W. Smith of Dublin, in his very valuable work,8 accorded him the credit to which he was so justly entitled. At pre- sent, the name “ Colles’s fracture” is generally recognized by surgical writers, and employed to designate fractures of the radius close to the wrist, even if not corresponding exactly to the description which Colles gave. Prof. Gor- don, of Belfast, has published9 some researches which have shed further light upon the mechanism of these fractures, as well as upon their treatment; his views have found confirmation in some interesting cases recorded by Cameron, of Glasgow.10 In the United States, attention was first drawn to the subject by Dr. John Rhea Barton,11 of Philadelphia; his views were based upon clinical observa- tion only, and not upon anatomical facts, yet they were ingenious and well stated, and found extensive acceptance among the surgeons of this country. After this, no separate original American paper on this topic appeared for over thirty years, until Prof. Moore,12 of Rochester, advanced the opinion that the fracture of the radius was a less important lesion than the luxation of the lower end of the ulna, which certainly is often a marked feature of these cases, and suggested a plan of treatment based upon this view. 1 (Euvres Posthumes, tome ii. p. 251. Paris, 1783. 2 (Euvres Chirurgicales, tome i. p. 155. Paris, 1813. 3 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, April, 1814. 4 Lemons Orales, tome iv. p. 161. Paris, 1834. See also the volume “On the Injuries and Diseases of Bones” (Sydenham Society, 1847), which consists of selections from the above-named work. 6 Gazette Medicale, 1832, and Journal Hebdomadaire, 1836. 6 Arch. Gen. de Medeeine, 1837. Ibid. 1842 ; article republished in his Clinique Chirurgicale, Paris, 1862. 8 A Treatise on Fractures in the Vicinity of Joints, etc. Dublin and New York, 1854. (The preface to this work is dated 1847.) 9 A Treatise on Fractures of the Lower End of the Radius, etc. London, 1875. 10 Glasgow Med. Journal, March, 1878. " Med. Examiner, 1838. 12 Transactions of the Med. Society of the State of New York, 1870.