INJURIES OF THE BACK. 836 vertebra; cord crushed, but not compressed ; metastatic deposits (abscesses) in several viscera. (Ashhurst.) M. Charcot thinks that this sequel of spinal bed-sores is seldom met with. But experience, especially that gathered in old or perhaps infected hospitals, proves the contrary. (3) Sphacelus of neuropathic origin not unfrequently proves fatal in conse- quence of the formation of gangrenous emboli, or the occurrence of gangrenous embolism. “ In this variety,” says M. Charcot, “ thrombi impregnated with gangrenous ichor are transported to a distance, and give rise to gangrenous metastases, which are principally observed in the lungs. This is a point upon which Dr. Ball and myself have insisted in a work published in 1857.1 But long before us, and even long before the theory of embolism had been Germanized, M. Foville2 had expressed his opinion that a considerable number of cases of pulmonary gangrene, observed in the insane, and in dif- ferent diseases of the nervous centres, are caused by ‘ the transport into the lungs of a part of the fluid which bathes the eschars of the breech.’ ”3 I give the preceding quotations from MM. Foville and Charcot, in order to show not only that gangrenous eschars of the sacrum may cause pulmonary gangrene through the agency of pulmonary embolism and pulmonary infarction, but also that French observers have had some share of importance in developing the theory of embolism itself. (4) Neuropathic eschars prove fatal most frequently of all, perhaps, in con- sequence of exhaustion—that is, the sufferers die worn out by the discharge and irritation, combined with a certain degree of septiefemia which is almost always present in such cases. The process of mortification tends gradually to invade the deeper tissues, as well as to spread more widely on the surface. In this way, the trochanteric synovial bursae may be laid open, the trochanter itself denuded of periosteum, the gluteal muscles, the nerve-trunks, and the bloodvessels of a certain calibre laid bare. But I can best describe the phe- nomena of sacral eschars ending in death from exhaustion, by briefly relating an example:— A female domestic, aged 30, moderately temperate, and of good constitution, was admitted into Bellevue Hospital, on the afternoon of August 30, on account of frac- ture and luxation of the first lumbar vertebra, with the following history. About 9 or 10 o’clock on the previous evening, while in a somnambulistic state, she walked out of a third-floor window, and, falling two floors, struck upon the slated roof of a shed. She was not rendered insensible, even for a moment, but could give no account of the direc- tion in which the blow was received, excepting that she struck upon her left side. No paralysis nor anaesthesia followed the accident, and no pain except upon motion. The left leg, however, had felt “ numb” ever since. No urine nor feces had been passed since the accident. Upon examination, slight deformity, a slight displacement of a vertebra backward, was detected at the position of the last dorsal or first lumbar vertebra, and very slight tenderness a trifle lower down ; but no redness nor ecchymosis, nor any other external mark of injury. The respiration was natural in character and frequency; the pulse rather frequent, but of moderate strength. The urine was withdrawn by catheter for a few days, and after that was passed invol- untarily until death. The bowels acted regularly. In the course of eight or ten days after admission, the vertebral prominence increased so much as to make easy a diagnosis of luxation backward of the first lumbar vertebra. No motor paralysis nor anaesthesia of the limbs or body appeared in the case. The very intense pain occurring upon the slightest attempt at motion, which originally characterized her condition, gradually diminished, and at length in considerable measure disappeared. 1 De la coincidence des gangrenes viscerates et des affections gangreneuses exterieures. L’Union Medicate, 26 et 28 Janvier, 1860. 2 Dictionnaire de Med. et de Chirurg. Prat., t. i. p. 556. 3 Clxarcot, op. cit., p. 60.