358 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. membrane, and resent the presence of pus but very slightly. Again, epiphy- sitis is often a remarkably slow atfection, which, after months of more or less remittent pain, hut of continuous swelling, may hardly reach beyond the stage of hypersemia. It induces, however, by transmission through con- tinuity, an equally chronic inflammation of periarticular and then of synovial tissues. The disease in these soft parts goes through the same processes as in strumous or fungating synovitis, but to him who will look for it, the point of origin will be quite apparent. If afterwards pus form in the bone-end, and ultimately break either into the altered joint or into the neighboring tissues, very little or no additional action is provoked by the occurrence. But that part of the cartilaginous epiphysis which lies next the joint, becomes more or less quickly disintegrated, the intra-epiphyseal inflammatory products mingling with those of the synovial tissues. If the inflammation arise in an older person, in whom the epiphyseal ends are more matured, the articular cartilage yields by one of two processes, both of which are generally present in different parts of the diseased joint. One process, simply ulceration from the free surface, such as is described at page 304, occurs where the osteitis is at some distance from the articular facet, and where the inflammation has spread to the cartilage by way of the soft parts and the synovial membrane. The other process occurs where the bone-inflam- mation lies very close to the joint-surface, aud after a time softens and de- stroys those lamellae and trabecuke which uphold the articular lamella; the Fig. 649. Shedding of cartilage in osteitis. cartilage and the gritty debris of that lamella then fall, or are pushed by subjacent granulations, into the more or less still persisting joint-cavity. Such pieces are often found lying in pus, or in new inflammatory tissue, with the sabulous detritus of the articular lamella still adhering on one side. If the inflammation and detachment have been rapid, the cartilage is quite healthy; if slower, it is in a certain stage of fatty degeneration. Thus, to recapitulate : Inflammation of an epiphysis, or of a short articular bone, cul- minating pretty rapidly in abscess with or without central necrosis, gives rise, when it passes quickly to the joint, to suppurative synovitis. When it passes to a lateral surface, it causes inflammation of the periarticular and synovial tissues of a subacute character, with extra-articular abscess, local- ized, or at least more severe, on one aspect of the joint. A slow epiphysitis,