VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 21 the crumpling up of the bony tissue of the wall on the concavity, would amount to a solution of continuity equivalent to the rupture of the bony fibres of the wall on the convexity in the usual form of partial fracture, and that the difference would be simply that in the former case the convex wall, and in the latter the concave, remained unsevered. Such a result is often produced in the attempt to bend metallic tubes, and may have existed in the really tubular bones which were experimented upon by Hamilton, as above mentioned. Partial or “ willow” fractures are generally produced by moderate force, or by great force acting slowly. Thus in many of the recorded cases they have been the result of slight falls; and Hodge1 and Parkman2 have seen them in young men carried around revolving shafts. Farquharson3 published one in a young man of 18, sustained in a foot-ball match. Two very remarkable cases, due to gunshot, were observed during our late war.4 * They affected the right ninth rib and the left fourth rib, and the patients were aged respec- tively 21 and 28 years. The restoration of the shape of the limb is apt to be very difficult, and in its accomplishment the fracture is often rendered complete. Sometimes, however, it has been gradually brought about by nature, apparently as the result of the continuous action of the surrounding muscles. Epiphyseal separations or disjunctions, met with only in the young, be- fore consolidation by bone has taken place between the diaphyses and the epiphyses, do not differ materially from fractures, although the tissue which gives way is not true bone, but the cartilage-like, osteogenetic matrix. Some- times in these cases the line of separation seems to be very nearly if 'not quite transverse. Union generally takes place readily, but the subsequent growth and development of the whole bone has seemed in some instances to have been interfered with. Hutchinson® gives instances of deficient growth in bones which have been the seat of such injuries, and Holmes6 says that he has several times noted this after fractures in the neighborhood of the wrist. In all cases the child’s friends should be informed of the probability of impaired development as a result. Holmes, from a study of the specimens contained in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, is inclined to agree with some of the French sur- geons7 in the opinion that “the line of fracture seldom runs accurately through the epiphyseal cartilage in its whole course.” I shall have occasion to refer to these injuries again in speaking of ordi- nary fractures affecting special bones in the neighborhood of their articular extremities. Complicated Fractures.—This term has a special significance in surgery. According to ordinary speech, any coincident condition, such as delirium tremens, tetanus, or disease of the liver or kidney—rendering the treatment more difficult and the prognosis more grave—might be said to complicate a fracture; and so also would the existence of other fractures or injuries, even in distant regions of the body. But, in surgical language, a complicated frac- 1 Proceedings of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, vol. i. p. 232. 2 Am. Journal of Med. Sciences, Oct. 1853. 3 British Med. Journal, Dec. 4, 1869. 4 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion. First Surgical Volume, pp. 567 and 568. 6 Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vols. xiii. and xvii. 6 Surgical Treatment of the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, 1868, p. 240. 7 Gazette des Ilopitaux, 1865.