5G INJURIES OF BONES. 4 Hamilton, op. cit., p. 475. 6 Gross, op. cit., vol. i. p. 1029. holds the cut ends of the bandage securely. The other method may involve some pain to the patient. In order to prevent soiling of the plaster-dressing by discharges, etc., it may be well coated, when dry, with copal or other varnish. Some surgical writers recommend the insertion of hooks or staples in the plaster apparatus for the purpose of suspension of the limb; but a better and more secure arrangement tor this purpose can be made by means of sup- plementary wire frames, in a manner to be described hereafter. After-treatment of Fractures. — ~No apparatus which will exercise rigid pressure should ever be applied to a recently broken limb, if there is much contusion, swelling, or ecchymosis. Mischief may thus arise in a very few hours, which may even cost the patient his limb and the surgeon his reputation. Fractures should always be carefully watched for the first few days, and should never be neglected at any stage of the treatment. And here I must enter a protest against what seems to me a most dangerous maxim, though it has received the sanction of some high authorities, namely, that “ comfort is the sign that a fracture has been properly dressed.” It is true that, as a general rule, a fracture properly dressed ceases to be painful; but it is also true that a fracture may cease to be painful although none of the indi- cations for its proper treatment have been fulfilled. The fragments may be in very bad position, the deformity wholly uncorrected, and yet the patient be free from suffering. I have seen a man with a fracture at the middle of the leg, in the third week, lying at his ease in bed, with the foot completely everted, so that the toes pointed almost directly outward; and could cite many other cases, although, perhaps4 not so marked. Actual inspection care- fully made, at sufficiently frequent intervals, can alone guard against bad results; the whole limb should he examined, and nothing be left to the chance of all being right. Fractures of the lower extremity, as a general rule, involve a long confine- ment to bed—those of the thigh always, and, in hospitals, those of the legs also. In private cases, I have for some years been accustomed to use such appliances for swinging broken legs as to enable the patient to sit up almost from the very first. One of the annoyances of such confinement consists in the difficulty expe- rienced in having the bowels moved without disturbing the fracture ; and to obviate this much ingenuity has been expended in the devising of different forms of “ fracture-bed.” The one in common use in our hospitals is merely a mattress perforated in the centre with a round hole, filled up with a pad, except when the bowels are to be moved, when the pad is taken away and a chamber-pot put below the opening. The lower sheet must, of course, be per- forated in the same way. Others have various arrangements of sections sliding in and out; and still others are made so that the patient lies on a perforated sheet of canvas, stretched on a frame, which can be raised by a mechanical contrivance, so as to allow of the vessel being pushed in under the nates. The best-known apparatus on this principle is that of Jenks, in which strips of canvas are substituted for the perforated sheet. In hospitals, where the services of assistants can always be had, the frame can be lifted by handles, like a stretcher. Except, however, in the case of fracture of both femora, these contrivances possess hardly any advantage over the common bed-pan, if the latter be carefully and skilfully used. I will therefore merely mention the fracture-beds of Earle,1 Daniels,2 Burge,3 Crosby,4 Pancoast,5 1 Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 135. London, 1823. 2 Hamilton, op. cit., p. 474. 3 New York Journal of Medicine, May 1, 1857.