900 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. cision has been preceded by ligature; excision has been performed with or without the preliminary use of a clamp. It lias been executed in a great variety of ways: by excising the whole, or by excising a part; by invaginating the collapsed membranes, or by cutting them otf close to the bone. It has been followed by the use of the cautery, and by the application of divers kinds of suture. It lias, indeed, been practised with all the ingenuity that is a feature in the history of so many surgical procedures. The modus operandi is of little moment. If the sac contain cord-elements, the result will prove fatal; if not, success may possibly follow. The opera- tions are, as far as surgical science at present goes, restricted to cases that present in a marked degree the elements necessary for spontaneous cure, and to eases where that cure has so far advanced that the opening in the bones lias become closed, and the tumor gives trouble only by its bulk. If the liga- ture be used, a superficial cut should be made in the skin at the base of the mass, and a silk ligature should then be applied and drawn sufiieiently tight to strangle the mass. In excising the cyst, it should be removed by an oval incision at its base, so planned that after removal the edges of the wound may come together in a clean, straight line. The operation should be done antisep- tic-ally, and firm pressure should be maintained until the wound has healed. An account of the chief operations alluded to under this heading will be found in Mr. Holmes’s monograph in his “ System of Surgery,” 2d ed., vol. v. p. 807. False Spina Bifida. This term has been applied to many different tumors that have, however, for their common characters a congenital origin and a communication with the spinal canal, but not with the spinal membranes. Some of these tumors are solid, some are multilocular cysts, and some are simple cysts. Both pathologically and clinicall}T, they present striking points of difference, and as there appears to be no great advantage in classing these various growths under a common head, I would venture to question the value of this term in its present extended sense. The term false spina bifida should be applied to one tumor only, namely, to a spina bifida whose communication with the spinal membranes, and, perhaps, with the spinal canal itself, has been cut off. Such a tumor is the result of the process of natural cure in cleft spine, and of it many examples have been furnished. The false spina bifida will be found in some region common to this deformity—most probably in the 1 umbo-sacral region—will be of congenital origin, cystic in structure, and situated accu- rately in the middle line. It will present no evidence of communication with the spinal membranes ; will be, in almost every instance, pedunculated ; and will probably have been of some duration. There may possibly be a history to show that such a mass did at one time present all the features of a true spina bifida. Lacking this fact in the history of the case, the diagnosis of false spina bifida is by no means easy. There are certain congenital tumors of a cystic character that may appear in the middle line in regions common to spina bifida, and that may furthermore have an intimate connection with the column. These tumors may closely resemble false spina bifida, but the resem- blance will, in most instances, not be of long duration. The cystic tumor is usually multilocular; the false spina bifida a simple cyst. The cystic tumor is apt to grow rapidly, is usually not very distinctly pedunculated, often con- tains more solid masses in its interior, and is nearly always irregular and bossy in outline. The false spina bifida, on the other hand, tends to diminish rather than to increase in size; its pedunculation is nearly always very dis-