INJURIES OF THE BACK. 860 6 Ibid. the rectum, and “ urine passed after the first few hours from the posterior wound.” This patient expired on the third day, “laboring under the symp- toms of the most violent peritonitis.” In each of the other eases the missile lodged, and was passed by stool about two months after the casualty. One of these unfortunate men “survived for two years, when, a discharge of feces coming on through the orifice in the bone, he died, exhausted by a complication of sufferings; but no paralytic affection ever appeared.” The remaining case was seen by Dr. Thomson in the military hospital at Berlin, under the care of Dr. Reich, hut the result is not stated.1 From this it would appear that shot fractures of the sacrum are highly dangerous to life. Pare, however, asserted that he had many times seen the sacrum fractured by bullets when the subjects recovered. During the late civil war one hun- dred and forty-five cases were reported. In three of them the result has not been determined. Of the remaining one hundred and forty-two instances, sixty-two, or 43.7 per cent., were fatal.2 Thus it appears, (1) that gunshot fractures of the sacrum not unfrequently occur, and (2) that more than one- half of the cases recover. The following very instructive example eventuated in recovery :— Lieutenant W. A. C. Ryan, Co. G, 132d New York Volunteers, aged 21, was wounded at Bachelor’s Creek, N. C., February 1, 1864, by a conoidal ball, which frac- tured the last lumbar vertebra, and lodged in the sacrum. He was at once taken to a general hospital where simple dressings were applied to the wound. On June 12, it was noted that the wound discharged very freely ; that the patient although feeble was in a very good condition ; that an ulcer had formed across the sacrum, about three inches in length by one and a half inches in width, with a sinus leading to the ball; and that the missile was extracted, with some difficulty, from the bone in which it was firmly imbedded, on that day. The wound healed rapidly after the operation. The treatment consisted of tonics, with a generous diet. On October 9, the patient was dis- charged. There is no record of him at the pension-office.3 llis recovery was, therefore, in all probability complete. Recovery resulted in the next example also:— Lieutenant S. W. Russell, Co. B, 49th New York, and A. D. C. Sixth Corps, aged 26, was wounded at Rappahannock Station, November 7, 1863, by a conoidal ball which “entered the left hip, passed across the upper portion of the sacrum, and emerged from the right hip. The surface of the sacrum was fractured.” On the 9th he was admitted into Armory Square Hospital, and on February 3, 1864, he was transferred to Seminary Hospital, Georgetown. He returned to duty on May 16 following, where he appears to have remained until June 27, 1865, when he was discharged from the service and pensioned. The pension-examiner noted at the time that the wound was still unhealed. On June 4, 1873, he was still on the pension list.4 Among the cases of recovery from shot fractures of the sacrum, reported during the late civil war, were four in which the bladder was penetrated. In nine instances the rectum was wounded, and eight of these cases resulted favorably. In addition to the complications attending shot injuries of the os innominatum, paralysis and other disorders referable to lesions of the nerves were common after shot fractures of the sacrum.® In the cases of shot fracture of the sacrum which were observed during our late civil war, it was common for one or both of the posterior spinous ' processes of the ilium to be found fractured at the same time, as is shown in 1 Hennen, op. cit., p. 351. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Volume, p. 246. 3 Ibid., First Surgical Volume, p. 461. 4 Ibid., Second Surgical Volume, p. 246.