FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 119 sexes, while in the latter period the only fracture of the lower end of the bone was in a female. Fractures of the Upper End of the Humerus.—Fractures of the upper portion of the humerus include those of the head, of the anatomical neck, of the tuberosities (the greater being the only one clearly made out to have been broken off), and of the surgical neck. Under the last head are embraced separations of the upper epiphysis. Fracture of the head of the humerus by itself is certainly very rare. Dorsey1 speaks of one case seen by him in which the lesion was “within the capsular ligament, the fracture extending through the head of the bone.” Gross2 says that he has seen “ an instance of the kind, which had been mistaken by the attendants for a fracture of the acromion process, and the true nature of which was Hot detected until several years after the occurrence of the accident, when the man, who was upwards of forty years of age, died of disease of the liver. The fracture, as was shown on dissection, had extended obliquely from above downward through the head of the bone; and although it had become per- fectly consolidated, there were several rough prominences which, while they unmistakably indicated the seat of the injury, had greatly impeded the movements of the shoulder-joint. The accident had been caused by a fall from a carriage.” Malgaigne records and figures several cases in which the head of the bone was more or less distinctly broken, but in connection with other injuries. Our sources of information in regard to these lesions (and in fact in regard to very many injuries in the neighborhood of joints) are narrowed by the difficulty of accurate diagnosis. When the patients recover, the real char- acter of the damage done must, of course, always remain open to some doubt. And even dissection, except in cases in which the fatal result has occurred soon after the hurt, may fail to clear the matter up, the condition of the parts being often such as might have resulted from disease, inflammatory or other- wise, altogether independent of fracture. These fractures would seem to be always due to direct, crushing violence, the head of the bone being, perhaps, most frequently driven against the glenoid cavity, by a force acting in such a direction as to take it at a dis- advantage. A greater or less degree of arthritis of the shoulder must almost certainly ensue, with pain and swelling in the part, and loss of power in the limb. Displacement is not noted in any of the recorded cases, and, if it did occur, would be attributable to the fracturing force, since there is no muscular action which could cause it. Fraser3 reports a case which he regarded as fracture of the head of the humerus, complicated with a laceration of the axillary vein. The vessel was tied above and below the opening in it, and a portion of bone—exactly what part of the humerus is not clearly stated— was sawed off. A tedious convalescence ensued, but the ultimate result seems to have been excellent. Holmes4 mentions a case of fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, in which a subordinate line of fracture ran upward into the joint. There was partial rupture and obstruction of the axillary artery, leading to gangrene of the arm, and necessitating amputation at the shoulder-joint. Fractures of the anatomical neck of the humerus are by no means uncommon. They are often spoken of as intracapsular, although it is likely that the line of 1 Elements of Surgery, vol. i. p. 141. 2 System of Surgery, Gtli edition, vol. i. p. 980. 3 Lancet, July 8, 1848. 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, Am. ed. p. 260.