648 TUMORS. axillary glands which are decidedly enlarged, search the axilla when no enlargement can be felt, and remove all the glands which can be found. That these large operations are fraught with grave danger to life is unques- tioned ; the ordinary operation of removal of the breast is a comparatively safe procedure, but these extensive removals result in a comparatively large percentage of fatalities. In spite of this, I am of those who advocate exten- sive operation where operation is deemed advisable, on the ground that the lesser measure often fails to afford even temporary relief, and that the larger measure has thus far proved much more successful in affording relief and effecting permanent cures. The experiment is still untried, how far success would be increased by much earlier operations than are customary at the present time, but the opportunities of carrying out the experiment seem yet to be far distant. Partly owing to the unfortunate tendency of women to conceal the existence of a tumor of the breast, partly owing to the ill-advice of many family doctors, carcinoma of the breast in a large number of cases does not come under the notice of the operating surgeon till three, four, six, or more months have elapsed since the first appearance of the tumor. By this time the skin is perhaps adherent; the tumor is no longer freely movable; the axillary glands are a little increased in size; and by thus much are the probabilities of complete removal diminished. This sketch of carcinoma of the breast is of course very short, but a much more complete account of the disease will be found in the article on Diseases of the Breast. Carcinoma of tiie Testicle.—The testis is subject to spheroidal-celled car- cinoma. The disease may attack adults of almost every age, but is much more frequently met with after 35 years than earlier, and is most common between the ages of 35 and 45. It never affects both testes. It follows some- times on a blow or squeeze, and is occasionally attributed to friction of the testis against the clothes. The tumor grows steadily and often quickly, at first main- taining the normal or nearly normal shape of the body of the testis, but after a time becoming more spheroidal or oval, and bulging here and there. The bulging parts are usually softer than the rest of the tumor, and sometimes fluctuate with the fluctuation of a soft solid. The epididymis soon ceases to be distinguishable as a separate body; the cord becomes a little thicker than its healthy fellow. If now the tumor be cut open, it usually presents the appear- ance of a typical soft cancer. The whole of the normal structure of the testis and epididymis is swallowed up in the disease, or a thin layer of testis struc- ture may be spread out over a part, or all, of the surface of the tumor. Small areas of fatty or caseous degeneration may be present, but there is no mucous tissue, nor cartilage, nor hone. The mass is inclosed within the tunica albuginea, or a fibrous covering which has taken the place of the albuginea, and thus is separated from the scrotum, which is rarely adherent, even when the tumor is of large size. Ulceration is, therefore, a rare event. The layers of the tunica vaginalis are often adherent to each other, but the sac may contain fluid, even in considerable quantity. Cysts are less common than in sarcoma. The diagnosis of the disease depends chiefly upon the continuous growth of the tumor, its shape, its general elasticity but unequal consistence, the cha- racter of the fluid drawn oft* by a puncture, the absence of the signs of inflam- mation and of adherence to the scrotum, unless the disease be far advanced. It must be borne in mind that sarcoma cannot, in most instances, be distin- guished from carcinoma, and that the diagnosis is, in truth, between malig- nant disease, on the one hand, and innocent tumors, hcematoceles, or inflam- matory affections of various kinds, on the other hand. Of the propriety of castration, in the absence of any contra-indication, at