( 439 ) EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS BY JOHX ASHHURST, Jr., M.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, PHILADELPHIA. The term Excision (from the Latin ex, ont or from, and credo, I cut), or Exsection {ex and seco, I cut), is properly applied to such operations as have for their object the removal of an offending part, without that total ablation of the affected portion of the body which is implied by the term amputation.1 Hence, we speak of excisions of tumors, of joints, of the eyeball, etc. The term Resection (from the Latin reseco, I cut again, cut loose, or shorten by cutting, cut short), is properly used in a special and restricted sense, its etymological components being taken separately and in conjunction with omitted words, to signify an operation which takes away a middle portion and brings the ends together again, and is thus in strict surgical language limited to partial excisions of the long bones. Hence, while we excise the astragalus or scapula, we resect the humerus or ribs.2 The revival of excision as a remedy for joint-diseases, chiefly due to the teaching and example of the great modern advocate of “conservative surgery,” the late Sir William Fer- gusson, has caused this operation to attain such importance in the practical work of surgeons, that though the term “excision” is, as has been seen, applicable to a large number of diverse procedures, yet, when the word is used by itself, it is now understood to signify an operation for the removal, partial or complete, of an injured or diseased articulation, or of a bone, and generally one of the flat or short bones,'which can be removed entire without jeopardizing the usefulness of the affected part. History of Excision and Resection. The operation of excision or resection, in cases of compound fracture and dislocation, was certainly known to the ancients. Whether or not we ac- knowledge the authenticity of the Hippocratic treatise, “He Articulis”—and, for my own part, I see no reason to profess skepticism in the face of evi- dence which has convinced such thorough scholars as M. Littre and Hr. Francis Adams3—there can be no doubt that long before the Christian era these operations were familiar to surgeons as a matter of theoretical teaching, even if they were not often put in practice. Having just declared that in cases of compound dislocation, except of the joints of the toes or fingers, attempts 1 See Vol. I. p. 551. 2 Frencli writers rise ttie word resection for excision of the hones and joints generally, and Percy and Laurent make a distinction between risection of the hard and rescision of the soft parts. (Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, tome xlvii. p. 538. Paris, 1820.) 3 The Genuine Works of Hippocrates (Preliminary Discourse), vol. i. pp. 24 et seq. London, Sydenham Society, 1849.