DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 284 pointing or tending to point in various parts, either immediately over or but a short distance from the joint,1 and the limb becoming more and more bent; distortion, either from subluxation, or, in young subjects, from diastasis, fre- quently supervenes, exfoliations may occur, or bare, crumbling bone may be felt with the probe. In some cases fragments of the cartilages come away in the discharges. All through this course of events, the patient’s suffering is severe; he eats and sleeps but little, sweats profusely, and emaciates rapidly ; the fever, which at first was sthenic, becomes of an asthenic or typhoid cha- racter, and, if he still survives, hectic. The fatal issue may be from pyaemia, from exhaustion with lardaceous changes, or sometimes from a rapid form of tuberculosis. If, on the contrary, the disease be about to improve, one of the earliest signs will be a lower and more even temperature; the pain becomes less, the sweatings cease, the discharge gradually diminishes, the abscesses contract to sinuses, and, the granulations receding from their mouths, these one after another heal, leaving depressed, sometimes greatly depressed, scars, while the abnormal mobility gives place to more and more fixity. If the subject be young, it will be observed, when the joint has healed, that the ends of the bones are smaller than on the other side; not, perhaps, immediately on recovery, but soon after, and at the same period the limb will be found to be shorter than its fellow. After a severe attack of suppurative synovitis, the growth of the epiphyses ceases, as also does the longitudinal growth of the bones from the epiphyseal cartilages adjoining the articulation. This fact must never be overlooked in our prognosis as to the future condition of the patient; it is of course less important in the upper than in the lower limb. Treatment of Suppurative Synovitis.—Penetrating wounds of joints are not necessarily followed by suppuration; but they should always be treated with reference to its possible occurrence. I have been till lately in the habit of thoroughly washing, and even injecting, all such wounds with a warm solution of carbolic acid, of the strength of three or four per cent. Of late I have used the boro-glyceride of Professor Barff,2 one part in twenty. I have found it better, inasmuch as it is not irritating; one may fill the wound, and the joint itself, with such a solution, without fear of producing any in- flammation by the contact of the fluid. At the same time, any dirt or other foreign substance should be carefully removed, and then the limb should be placed on a splint that keeps it at perfect rest. I prefer apparatus which can be removed, since plaster of Paris, starch, or water-glass, may have to be cut away, if inflammation and swelling come on, at a time when every move- ment of the limb is both exceedingly painful and injurious. The wound should then be covered with several folds of lint or wool, soaked in the boro-glyceride solution, and a simple aperient may be judiciously adminis- tered before the patient is left. The treatment, should the joint suppurate, will be the same as in non-traumatic cases. A brisk, cholagogue purge should, as soon as the premonitory symptoms appear, commence the treatment; then, according to the strength of the patient and the mode of thermometric rise, such remedies as are antipyretic. A large dose of quinine (10 or 20 grains), followed by frequent smaller doses, may be given to the more weakly patients with rapid pyrexial rise; in other cases, the tincture of aconite, from one to three drops, every hour, or every 1 Acute suppurations come to the surface usually by a pretty direct route ; chronic abscesses are more usually turned aside by intervening fasciae, and, therefore, take circuitous courses and make long tracks. 2 For the use of “boro-glyceride in operative surgery,” see the Lancet, May, 1882, and my paper read at the Warwick Meeting of the British Medical Association, August, 1882.