739 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL eighth day convulsions occurred, and were followed by mania. On the eleventh day paralysis appeared, which afterward began to pass away. On the twentieth day death ensued. Dissection revealed diastasis of the seventh cervical from the first dorsal ver- tebra ; the intervertebral cartilage had disappeared from suppurative inflammation, and purulent matter had dropped to the bottom of the spinal sheath (theca vertebralis). Outside of the injured vertebrae a large abscess was found. In this case the vertebral lesion had given rise to a destructive inflammation of the intervertebral cartilage and the formation of much pus, together with a suppurative inflammation of the spinal meninges; the latter condition, unless arrested by timely treatment, necessarily proves fatal. Charles Bell1 reports the case of a plasterer, aged 25, who fell forty feet, striking his back against a stone step. Depression between the spinous processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae was observed, but no paralysis. He had acute pain in the back. On the third day he wras delirious, threw himself out of bed, etc. On the fifth day he had to be tied in bed, and, on the same day, he died. Dissection showed fracture of the body and spinous process of the eleventh dorsal vertebra; the spinal cord was not com- pressed by the fracture; but greenish pus was found between the cord and the theca vertebralis, and there was effusion on the brain. (Ashliurst.) From the vertebral frac- ture there evidently arose in this case traumatic cerebro-spinal meningitis, of a suppu- rative character, which caused death. It is not probable that this inflammation could have been successfully combated without the aid of local blood-letting by leeches or cups, and the continuous application of an ice-bag or an iced poultice, with opium and morphia in large doses, and potassium iodide, as well as absolute quietude of the injured and inflamed parts. Dupuytren2 3 mentions a case which, during life, was supposed to be concussion of the spinal cord only; there was partial paralysis and sloughing; but, in the end, death ensued. Dissection revealed fracture of the tenth dorsal vertebra; blood-clots and meningitis opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh dorsal vertebras. (Ashhurst.) Besides the spinal fracture and the spinal meningitis, the autopsy in this case revealed an etfusion of blood between the cord and theca vertebralis. Such hemorrhages are fre- quent concomitants of the vertebral fractures and dislocations that occur in the dorsal and lumbar regions, as well as in those that occur in the cervical region. Dr. C. A. Lee8 reports the case of a man, aged 48, injured by falling from a building across a plank. At first, he was stunned; and, afterward, very restless. On the next day paralysis appeared ; and a projection in the middle of the back was noted. In five weeks death ensued. Dissection showed fracture of two dorsal vertebrae; the spinal cord was softened; and purulent matter was found in the vertebral canal. Here, too, spinal meningitis arose from fracture of the dorsal vertebrae, and was attended by the formation of pus. Obviously, such cases cannot be conducted to a successful issue, unless the occurrence of traumatic spinal meningitis in them be seasonably recognized, and the disorder itself combated by appropriate treatment. Many additional examples of spinal meningitis and myelitis arising from spinal dislocations and fractures might be cited from the records." But, enough of them already have been presented to clearly show that, in every case of vertebral dislocation or fracture, where life continues, there exists a strong tendency for consecutive inflammation of the spinal membranes and cord to ensue; that, not unfrequently, traumatic meningitis or myelitis is the proximate cause of death, in such cases; and that the surgeon should, in all such cases, employ remedial measures of known efficacy, from the outset, in order to prevent the traumatic irritation of the spinal membranes and cord from rising to the grade of inflammatory action. Symptoms and Prognosis.—When dislocation of the joints of a vertebra occurs in the dorsal or lumbar region, it is always attended by functional 1 Ibid., p. 138. 2 Diseases and Injuries of Bones. London, Sydenham Society, 1847. 3 American Journ. Med. Sciences, 0. S. vol. xvii.