TUMORS. 644 rounding skin and subcutaneous tissue, are very unsuitable for operation. It need scarcely be said that affection of the neighboring lymphatic glands seriously complicates the question of removal of a carcinoma, and may render inadvisable an operation which might otherwise be undertaken. But gland- ular affection must not be allowed to exercise too powerful an influence in deciding against an operation, provided that the glands, the primary disease, and the intervening tissues, in which the lymphatics lie, can be freely removed. That the prognosis is less good in such a case, admits of no question; for, in addition to the increased difficulty in completely removing the disease, affec- tion of the glands indicates a more advanced stage of malignancy of the carcinoma. But the success which, of late years, has attended operations conducted on a larger scale than heretofore, justifies the operative treatment of such cases. Recurrence of a carcinoma, either in the site of the original tumor, or of the glands which have been removed, may be met by repeated operations, provided that the recurrent disease be easily accessible; and at each operation every care should be taken to cut wide of the disease. The dissemination of carcinoma generally places it beyond the reach of surgery ; even if the disseminated tumors be removable, their presence indicates a malignancy so advanced that operation would but add one more distress to those which already afflict the patient. Where a carcinoma is so situated that it can be very completely removed by amputation of a limb, that method should always be preferred, unless the disease be a small skin tumor of recent, origin, and still limited to the superficial tissues. The spheroidal-celled or glandidar-celled carcinomas form perhaps the most common of the three subclasses. Their chief seat is the female breast, but they occur also in the male breast, in the parotid and other salivary glands, in the testicle, the antrum, the liver, and other organs. Secondarily, they affect the lymphatic glands and the bones, the lungs, and other of the viscera. They form in most instances definite tumors, and comprise most of the typical hard and soft carcinomas. Their origin and minute structure have been sufficiently described, and it is only necessary to repeat here that the typical alveolar structure of carcinoma is chiefly to be found in the tumors of this subclass. They are very liable to fatty and caseous degeneration ; and most, if not all, of the true colloid carcinomas are glandular-celled tumors. Wast- ing or withering belongs also almost exclusively to these tumors. Combina- tions with adenoma or fibro-adenoma are occasionally met with. Cysts are formed in some of the glandular-celled carcinomas, but are not of frequent occurrence; cystoid cavities, due to degeneration and softening of the sub- stance of the tumor, are much more common. In their gradual growth, these tumors implicate the skin and produce typical cancerous ulcers, but ulcera- tion is usually late, and may never take place. As the disease advances, small secondary nodules may form in the integuments beyond the limits of the tumor, the glands may become enlarged, and the disease may be dissemi- nated in the lungs, the liver, the bones, and other parts. The squamous-celled carcinomas (epitheliomas) differ in several important respects from those which have just been described. They are for the most part superficial, affecting the skin and mucous membranes, but are occasion- ally found primarily in more deeply seated structures. They may grow from the skin of any region of the body, but they especially affect the face, the lower lip, the scrotum, and the anus. Of flue mucous membranes, they attack those of the floor of the mouth and tongue, of the larynx and (esophagus, of the penis and vulva. Of the deeper structures, the upper jaw may be adduced as an example, almost indeed the sole example. Yet even here the disease almost