146 INJURIES OF BONES. As extension is made, the degree to which the normal angle between the axes of the arm and forearm has been preserved, should be noticed, and if it has been lost, the propriety of an effort to restore it must be obvious. Compound fracture of the lower extremity of the humerus, not involving the joint, is of rare occurrence. It differs from simple fracture of the same part mainly in the difficulty of treatment, and in the risk of inflammation of the joint, with consequent stiffening. Almost always due to great direct violence, it may present any of the forms before spoken of, with like displacements. When the elbow-joint is involved, the lesion is a very serious one, and is extremely apt to be followed by anchylosis, in spite of all the efforts of the surgeon. The fact that the joint is opened is generally revealed by the escape of synovia ; but the absence of this symptom does not prove that the joint is intact. When the external wound is large enough, an exploration may be properly made with the finger; but if otherwise, the ordinary rule should be followed, to close the orifice at once as completely as possible, in the hope that it may heal, and thus render the fracture a simple one. Occasionally, if the bone seem to be extensively smashed, with only a small skin-wound, the latter may be enlarged by incision. The injury to the soft parts is very generally on the posterior face of the limb, unless it be due to the projection forward of the upper fragment, in which case, as in one instance before mentioned, the vessels or nerves, or both, may have sustained damage. Amputation is some- times unavoidable. The advocates of Listerism advise that, if the joint has been entered, it should be washed out with carbolizecl water, with the view of destroying germs, and thus preventing suppuration. I believe that the practice is followed by good results, but not on the theory just mentioned. It is a matter of obser- vation that, when any serous membrane is laid open, pure water applied to it acts as an irritant; and the anaesthetic property of carbolic acid is also a known fact. By virtue of this, a weak solution of the acid may, it seems to me, prevent the inflammatory action which would naturally follow the admission of air to the joint-surface. Dirt or other foreign matter forced in at the time of the receipt of the injury must be carefully washed out, and for this pur- pose the carbolized water answers as well, if not better, than anything else. When the fracture, besides being exposed to the air, is comminuted, it is important for the surgeon to see that any loose fragments are removed, and that those that remain are in proper place. Otherwise, even if the joint con- tinue free from adhesions, its motions may be interfered with, and the usefulness of the member be proportionally lessened. A small wound may be closed with lint and collodion, or with any good, non-irritant adhesive plaster. Another excellent plan is to apply lint satu- rated with Peruvian balsam. Good results have also been attained by the old plan of saturating lint with the blood, and allowing it to dry over the wound. For the first few days, until the subsidence of the acute inflammatory con- dition which must attend an injury of this kind, the application of a splint is needless, unless it be merely a wide rectangular one, well padded, upon which the limb can be laid for the purpose of keeping it steady. Irrigation may, in these cases, be sometimes employed with advantage. When the wound has healed or has begun to suppurate, and the swelling has gone down, atten- tion must be paid to the position of the fragments, as well as of the forearm and hand. Anchylosis is so likely to occur, that it is important to arrange the limb in such a way as to make it most useful even with a stiffened elbow; the proper plan is therefore to flex the forearm at an angle of about 90°, and to keep the hand semi-prone.