643 CARCINOMA. the tender age of the patient entirely shuts out the probability of carcinoma. The situation of the tumor is not less important. Xot only are certain situa- tions much more liable than others, but some situations, as the bones and muscles, are impossible to primary carcinoma. The sex of the patient often affects the diagnosis, in the case of squamous-celled carcinoma of the lip or tongue for instance. These and other similar points will therefore always be taken into the account, in addition to the local characters of the disease. Prognosis.—The prognosis of carcinoma is invariably bad, for the natural progress is in every case toward death. But there is the widest diversity, both in the duration and in the course of the disease. There is great diversity not only between the carcinomas of different parts of the body and between different forms of carcinoma, but even in a number of cases of carcinoma of similar structure of the same part. Thus, although spheroidal-celled carci- noma of the breast is in the majority of cases fatal in from two to three or four years, patients have been known to live for more than twenty years with this disease. The great differences which exist in the tendency to dissemination, and in the extent to which dissemination takes place, have been spoken of in previous pages. It may generally be foretold with certainty that a patient with carcinoma of the tongue or the oesophagus will not live a year and a half, and that a patient with carcinoma of the upper portion of the thee, especially in the neighborhood of the orbit (rodent ulcer), will in all probability live for many years. It may with equal certainty be foretold that the disease in the last case will, if unchecked, produce extensive and hideous ravages; and it may be said of the first two cases that the patients are killed thus early owing to the advantageous position which the carcinoma unfortunately com- mands. Operation, if very free and early, may produce a most beneficial effect on the prognosis, but the effect is largely influenced by the situation of the growth. The best results of free removal are observed in the case of squamous-celled carcinoma of the lip and scrotum, where the operation not infrequently is effectual in completely curing the disease. A good result may also be expected from the removal of squamous-celled carcinomas of the skin of various parts, if the disease be not advanced. The more slowly growing carcinomas of the rectum may be removed with a fair prospect of success. But the prospect becomes more gloomy in the case of carcinomas of the testis and the breast. And in those of the tongue and upper jaw, only a faint hope can be entertained that the disease will be eompletely arrested, or even long retarded. Treatment.—In spite of the effect which the removal of a carcinoma may produce on the prognosis, it does not follow that an operation should be prac- tised on every tumor which is removable. It may be laid down as a general rule, that all cases of carcinoma which are uncomplicated, and in which the tumor is accessible, should be treated by free operation. But each indi- vidual case must be judged on its merits, and the considerations which guide our conduct in deciding on operations for other causes, must not be lost sight, of in the treatment of carcinoma. It is often prudent, and in the best interests of the patient, not to remove a shrivelled carcinoma of the breast (Plate XXIV.), even when the tumor is easily removable and there is no glandular enlarge- ment. For it sometimes appears as if a disease which was previously quies- cent, and likely to remain almost unchanged during years, is started into fresh activity by an operation. It recurs, and the recurrent growth exhibits an activity and power which would never have been looked for in the pri- mary disease. Ulcerated carcinomas of the breast, with wide affection of the integument, especially when there are many separate nodules in the sur-