941 pott’s disease of the spine. with the intermittent or clonic spasm just referred to. The condition is generally known as “spastic contraction,” and is perhaps somewhat more fre- quent than is the condition marked by interrupted spasm. So rigid may the patient’s body become in some cases where the muscles of the lower limb and back are the seat of continuous muscular contraction, that, according to Shaw, he may be turned over in bed like a log. Among the peculiar phases of motor-nerve disturbance in Pott’s disease may be mentioned torticollis, observed in some cases of caries of the cervical spine, and also a severe and intermittent form of dyspnoea, occasionally met with in caries of the same situation, and due, according to Michel, to irrita- tion, or perhaps paralysis, of the phrenic nerve. (b) Palsies.—The usual form of motor paralysis observed in angular de- formity is paraplegia. This may be complete, and equally marked in the two lower limbs. It usually develops slowly, although cases are recorded of sudden paraplegia in connection with the sudden appearance of the spinal deformity. The loss of motor power may be more marked in one extremity than in another, or may be limited, more or less, to one particular set of muscles. In other instances there may be mere feebleness in the part, which feebleness may, like the more complete losses of power, be of limited or unequal extent. It is probable that many of the cases of marked paralysis of a limited set of muscles are due to pressure upon the spinal nerves rather than to an injury to the cord itself. With reference to the previous symptoms, the order adopted in their development is usually as follows: First, involuntary jactitation of the limbs, then constant muscular spasm, and, lastly, paralysis. Often, how- ever, the loss of power is preceded by no evidences of spasm. The paraplegia in Pott’s malady has certain peculiarities. It is very usually unassociated with any loss of sensation, or allied with but trifling disturbances of that function. It is, moreover, very seldom accompanied by loss of control over the bladder or rectum, and when such a complication is present, it is usually but slightly marked, and often preceded by a painful tenesmus. In incomplete palsies the muscular sense remains unimpaired. On account of the comparative rarity of defects in sensation, bed-sores are as unusual in Pott’s disease as they are common in other forms of paraplegia. Lastly, this form of loss of power may be entirely recovered from, as will be mentioned when the matter of prognosis is discussed. The reaction of the paralyzed muscles to electricity remains normal, unless the condition is of such long standing that the muscular tissue has become disorganized. The convulsive movements already referred to may sometimes be observed in the paralyzed limbs, and when present constitute a very distinctive feature. They can only occur in cases that are comparatively recent, and will obviously not be possible when the muscular structure has become much changed from prolonged disease. (6) The Gait and General Aspect.—In marked cases of the disease, the patient in walking keeps the spine peculiarly rigid. He walks with his legs only, often shufHing the feet along, and swaying the body to and fro. His movements, therefore, are stiff and ungraceful. When asked to pick up an object from the ground, instead of bending the back, he bends the lower limbs, and approaches the object sideways, as it were. This attitude is well shown in drawings in Prof. Agnew’s article on Surgical Diagnosis.1 In cases where the deformity is marked, the patient stands with the head thrown back, and often supports himself by resting his hands upon the thighs. If one side of the column be more affected than the other, the 1 See Vol. I., page 344, Figs. 21 and 22.