ADENOMA OR GLANDULAR TUMOR. 627 solid nitrate of silver—a painful method, but effectual. Homs are removed with the knife, and the vessels, which are not large or numerous, are tied. Condylomata, when large, are removed with the knife or ecraseur, and the wounds are often touched with solid nitrate of silver, or some other strong caustic, to guard against recurrence. Papillomas of the tongue may he removed with the galvano-cautery, which may also be employed for con- dylomata. The warty tumors of the larynx are generally removed with the galvano-cautery or the forceps: the number and the situation of the growths, not only upon, but beneath the vocal cords, make it most tedious and difficult completely to remove the compound papillomas. They recur again and again, until the patience of both operator and patient are well nigh exhausted. The treatment of villous tumors of the bladder, the rectum, and similar parts, cannot be considered here. Adenoma or Glandular Tumor. The adenoma is a tumor resembling in its structure a secreting gland. Two varieties of adenoma may be described, the first resembling the structure of the racemose glands (Plate XXI.. Fig. 25), the mammary gland for instance, the second resembling the structure of the long tubular glands, such as the crypts of Lieberkuhn. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 4.) Typical specimens of adenoma of either variety, uncombined with other tissues, are much more rare than is commonly taught. On the one hand, ade- nomas are confounded with carcinomas in which the glandular character and origin of the disease are more than usually stamped, and. on the other hand, many tumors are termed adenomas which are largely composed of fibrous or other connective tissues, and iu which gland-tissue, though tolerably abundant, plays only a subordinate part. I have myself always limited the use of the word adenoma to tumors which are almost entirely composed of glandular structures, and which contain only as much connective tissue as is required to knit the acini, or tubes, and ducts, into a compact mass, and to those tumors which bear not only a general resemblance to glandular tissue, but which are composed of acini, or tubes, provided for the most part with a lumen, and sur- rounded by a membrana propria. The racemose adenomas are found chiefly in the mammarv gland and the parotid ; less often in the skin, the tongue, and the liver. The tabular adenomas grow in the prostate, and in the mucous membranes of the mouth, rectum, nose, and uterus. The adenomas of the thyroid body resemble the racemose, much more closely than they do the tubular glands. In almost every instance, ade- nomas originate in connection with previously existing glandular structures, but it is thought that they may be produced by the epithelium covering the skin and mucous membrane. The method of their formation in a gland may be studied iu the breast, where it resembles, in many respects, the natural devel- opment of the organ. The epithelium ot the gland proliferates, and solid evlinders of cells are projected into the surrounding connective tissue. From these cylinders secondary processes are put forth, and. being formed around the termination of the cylinders, the general disposition is that of a terminal duct and acini, or tubelets, which become perfect by the hollowing in them, at a later period, of a narrow lumen. It is difficult to be sure that the connective tissues do not take any active part in the development of the new gland-tissue, or to decide what share the epithelium and the connective tissues take respectively in the new formation) but the epithelium seems certainly to be the chief,