INJURIES OF THE BACK. 880 occurrence of hydrarthrosis; and sometimes to the collection of liquid in the periarticular bursae also. On making a puncture, a transparent, lemon-colored liquid has frequently been withdrawn from such joints. Ataxic arthropathy usually occupies the knees, shoulders, and elbows; it may also affect the hip-joint. This disorder generally shows itself at a determinate epoch of the ataxy, and its appearance coincides in many cases with the setting in of motor incoordination. (2) MM. Patruban, Remak, and Rosenthal have observed in 'progressive muscular atrophy, joint-diseases which are closely allied by their clinical features to the arthropathies of ataxic patients. This will not appear sur- prising, if we remember that a primary or secondary irritative lesion of the nerve-cells of the anterior cornua of the spinal gray substance is the starting point of progressive muscular atrophy. (Charcot.) (8) Sir W. Gull relates the following highly instructive case of rachidian concussion, which was followed by incomplete paraplegia, with redness and swelling of the wrists and ankles, as in acute rheumatism; and, after six months, by recovery:—1 A medical man, aged 38, inadvertently stepped backward into a bole, a few feet deep, and received a concussion of the spine, on January 22, 1855. After a few days lie became partially paraplegic, with weak sphincters; and, at the same time, there came on a diffused redness and swelling of the ankles and wrists. The swelling was not from effusion into the joints, but from oedema of the surrounding tissue. The joints were very painful. The redness and swelling were variable in degree. When most marked, they presented the usual appearances of rheumatism, or rather of gout, for the erythema was brighter, and the oedema more distinct, than in rheumatism. The hands were affected equally with the ankles, though there was no obvious want of muscular power, nor any affection of sensation in the upper extremities; tongue clean ; pulse 120; no acid perspiration; urine high-colored, free from sediment, and normal in quantity. The cutaneous nerves generally were hyperoesthetic to a slight touch, but deep pressure gave less inconvenience. The treatment consisted of good nourishment, wine and brandy freely administered, and opium to allay pain and overcome insomnia. The pulse gradually acquired more j)ower and sank to 80. The affection of the joints continued in varying degree through March, April, May, and June. From the beginning of April there was an improvement in the power over the legs. The same treatment was continued throughout, without the use of mercurials, local depletion, or counter-irritation. In June, he was able to walk without assistance. During sleep, his hands and feet, wrists and ankles, often became erythematous and swollen. Occasionally, there was formication in the lower extremities. Insomnia was a troublesome symptom from the beginning until the end of the case. In July, he was able to leave the hospital, and to resume his duties as a medical practitioner to some extent. The disorders, however, which present themselves most frequently as the remote effects of spinal injuries, arc chronic spinal meningitis and chronic myelitis. In regard to the symptoms which appear in cases where these two affections coincidently occur, it should be stated that the phenomena which are characteristic of meningeal inflammation will be less and less apparent in proportion as the cord-substance becomes more and more affected by the inflammatory process, and the symptoms of paraplegia, or arrested rachidian functions, will correspondingly predominate. In a case related by Sir W. Gull,2 in which the cord-substance speedily became inflamed as well as the spinal membranes, “ the patient was unable to leave his bed on account of the weakness of his legs,” “ within thirty-six hours from the commencement 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1858, pp. 199, 200. 2 Ibid., 1850, pp. 154, 155.