323 EHEUMATIC SYNOVITIS. certain thickening of the perisynovial and synovial tissues doubtless takes place, but I must confess myself unable to describe the condition from anatomical examination. Patients do not'die of this joint trouble, and no opportunity of examining such a joint, only recently affected, has ever oc- curred to me. The inferences as to morbid anatomy will be given in the description of symptoms. The third condition, which constitutes a form of hydrops articuli, will be described with that disease ; here it need only be said that many rheumatic patients suffer from irregularly remittent attacks of slightly painful fluid effusion accompanied by a little thickening; again and again these may occur, and the fluid be reabsorbed, leaving only some laxity of parts behind; but if the attacks come on in very close succession, and last during a considerable time, a sort of mild hydrarthrus, accompanied by considerable joint weakness, will result. Symptoms of Rheumatic Synovitis.—In a certain point of view, a joint left by acute rheumatism, lame, painful, and often deformed, may be regarded simply as incompletely recovered, even although the general disease be well. The course of events is generally as follows: The attack is severe, the pyrexia considerable, and, after a certain time, debility is strongly marked. Usually, during the fever, a smaller number of joints than is customary in so severe a case, are attacked; but sometimes a goodly number may be affected, the inflammation passing rapidly from one to another. In either event one par- ticular joint, generally a large one and among the earliest affected, remains persistently inflamed amid all the fluctuations and variations of other parts. During the somewhat protracted convalescence, all other joints save this one (sometimes two are thus implicated), get well. After a certain period of fre- quently pretty severe suffering, pain may cease, and the joint be anchylosed, or, what occasionally happens, it may become subluxated and otherwise dis- torted.1 Rarely at this period is there much fluid effusion, but there is a some- times leathery, sometimes more doughy thickening, filling up all the space between the skin and the bones, obscuring the proper shape of these latter, and giving a peculiar, unmistakable sensation to the hand. This and the history of the rheumatic fever immediately preceding, sufficiently mark the diagnosis of the disease. It may, however, be said that joints cured of such attacks may, after years of health, become affected with hydrarthrus. Rut rheumatic joint disease is not always immediately due to the fever; it may originate, when the diathesis is present, in some exposure or slight trau- matism, or in both. Under these circumstances the disease, more or less acute, may be continuous, but is often remittent, coming on irregularly at intervals— each attack leaving the joint -lamer, and in a condition very prone to further disease. Even during the intermissions, the joint is not quite at ease ; per- haps a mere stiffness on first rising will be for a time the only inconvenience, but afterwards will follow a certain discomfort in bed, a difficulty in finding a, position in which the limb is at ease, and a sensation of half-developed cramp in some of the muscles.2 If the diathesis be strongly marked, there are frequently also, at this period, vague and uncertain pains in other limbs. The joint is now a little swollen, with a certain amount of fluid effusion, and the tonic contraction of the muscles is a little lax ; at the knee, for instance, the patella floats a little loosely. Movement, particularly after a period of rest, causes 1 I have now under nay care a patient, aged 54, who has suffered a severe attack of acute rheumatism ; her right wrist is fixed partly by fibrous anchylosis, partly by tendinous adhesions; her right knee was swollen, and very painful when I first saw it, and was suffering three forms of distortion—subluxation backward, abduction, and outward rotation of tibia. 2 At the knee, tiie biceps is more particularly subject to this sort of pain, chieliy in the tendon where it bounds the popliteal space.