389 IIIP-DISEASE. the skin, helping to conceal, or at least to render deeper and more distant, the beat of the artery. The former of these varieties of swelling, if it occur quite early in the case, indicates disease from synovitis; and it may arise at a later period during the progress of a rather acute osteal hip-disease. The latter form is throughout indicative of disease commencing in the upper part of the femur. In certain cases, tumefaction also occurs about and below the great tro- chanter, on the outer side of the thigh. The swelling here is not very distinctly localized; it appears merely as increase of size, as an enlargement, not harder nor softer than the rest of the limb. It is not of good augury, indicating, I believe, extensive disease about the neck, near to the epiphyseal line. I have most frequently observed it in children of feeble constitution; such cases have, with very few exceptions, progressed badly. Examination into the condition of the iliac fossa should never be neglected. In certain cases swelling in that place is a very early, in others a late symptom. The investigation, if the patient be fat, is not easy; and if he be a frightened child, and cry vociferously, it is, except with anaesthesia, impossible. It may be thus carried out: The patient, lying flat on the back, or a little turned to the sound side, has the knees drawn up and the shoulders supported on a pillow; then the surgeon, standing at the affected side, places his flat hand and fingers a little inside the iliac spines; by a rubbing and kneading movement towards the middle line, he presses the intestines over towards the other side; sinking this hand deeper and deeper in the direction of the sacrum, when he seems to have sufficiently intruded the hand he turns it outward, and may feel all the iliac fossa down to the brim of the pelvis ; nor, indeed, should he be content, whenever the symptoms point to pelvic disease, with less than this. This examination should be made in the manner pre- scribed. If the fingers are merely placed on the flank, and at once pressed outward toward the iliac fossa, the surgeon will probably be baffled, may imagine himself to feel swelling where none exists, or may overlook real tumefaction. What he is to look for is an enlargement of the parts about the brim of the pelvis, obscuring the clearness of its line, and appearing to occupy the lower part of the iliac fossa, and thence to dip down and be prolonged into the true pelvic cavity. During this stage the thigh wastes more markedly, the muscles, including the large gluteus, becoming soft and flabby. Starting pains increase, often very considerably, and in many cases occupy a larger space than they do at other joints, involving the whole length of the thigh, and passing into the knee; or they may be simultaneous at both hip and knee. When the stage of lengthening has persisted for a certain time, if these pains become more violent, and their recurrence more frequent, we may expect the advent of the third stage, which also, however, may supervene without any such prefatory warning. Third Stage, or Stage of Shortening.—T.lie change from the position which produces apparent lengthening to that which causes the contrary appearance, has, I believe, never been seen to occur; and yet this change is considerable; the thigh which was a day or two ago abducted, is found on a certain visit to be adducted, and the side of the pelvis which was depressed is now raised. How this is brought about in a limb which has seemed much fixed, and whether it occurs suddenly, or occupies a few hours, is at present unknown. The appearance is absolutely the opposite of that described in speaking of lengthening, but the buttock remains broad, and very often the great tro- chanter projects very considerably; otherwise, the description given at p. 387, may, by reversing the terms, suffice. When erect, the crista ilii of the dis-