DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 404 merely the result of long-continued position, but sometimes also due to inflam- matory changes propagated from the perisynovial structures. The diagnosis between true anchylosis and all other forms of joint-stiffness depends upon a perception of entire immobility, which is much more easily made out when the surgeon has to do with a joint that lies between two bones of considerable length, such, for instance, as the knee, than when one of the bones is short, well covered, and difficult to fix, or has other joints in close proximity to that which is being examined, the problem then being difficult, and sometimes impossible of solution. Some aid may be obtained by watch- ing the muscles which move the joint; in true anchylosis these remain during examination perfectly passive, but in the false form of union the flexors twitch on any attempt to straighten the extensors, or any effort to bend the limb. The twitch, if the bonds of a fibrous anchylosis be very short, is often slight enough to be doubtful. In true anchylosis, the muscles above the joint are more completely wasted than those below. If points of bone close to the joint, both above and below, be sufficiently superficial, the surgeon may listen through a stethoscope placed on the one, while the other is sharply struck, an ivory pleximeter being interposed. The sound transmitted from one bone to the other will be much clearer and brighter if the anchylosis be true, than if it be false. When some mobility, muscular twitching, or other symptom, indicates that no true anchylosis exists, there still remains to be discovered the cause of what immobility there may be. A false anchylosis, if the bones be very closely bound together, yields but very little, and even that little with a reluc- tance which it requires some force to overcome; but when the uniting fibres are longer, and the bones therefore further apart, the joint may permit move- ment through a certain space. The movement, however, is not entirely free, still requiring some force, and the more according as the limb is brought fur- ther from its accustomed position, until at length it will go no further. The movement is constrained, and the check gradual. When the so-called bands of adhesion produce stiffness, lameness of various kinds and degrees may be produced. All movements, for instance, may be free save in one direction ; or they may be all free to a certain, perhaps to a very small, degree, but within that degree perfectly free—restricted but not restrained. The check is very sudden, and, as a rule, unyielding. The same thing may be produced by ligamentous shortening, but when the limb is moved as far as it will go in the restricted direction, and a little further pro- pulsion is added, bands of adhesion, being stretched, give a more or less sharp, sometimes a sickening pain; while shortened ligaments are always painless, or nearly so, when moderately stretched. Muscular contracture rarely stands alone as a cause of joint-stiffness, but when it so far predominates as to be considered in the question of diagnosis, there will rarely be any difficulty in distinguishing it from other conditions, even during consciousness. The limb moves quite freely till checked, and is stopped by an elastic and yielding hin- drance; pushed still a little further, and suddenly released, it flies back as though by a spring. During these manoeuvres the movements of muscles and tendons can be very plainly felt. But, unless the case be almost self-evident, it is better to put the patient under the influence of ether, after he has been examined during consciousness. This rule especially applies to such joints as present difficulties in the matter of diagnosis, and particularly to the shoulder, hip, and ankle. The advantage gained by a resort to anaesthesia is absence of muscular resistance, permitting | the recognition of slight flexibility or rotation, which could not otherwise be detected.