EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 507 the risk of death by nearly one-third, its retention more than doubles the probability of subsequent amputation becoming necessary. Two variations in the mode of performing this operation deserve a brief notice. Mr. Golding Bird has recently suggested,1 under the name of “trans- patellar excision,” that the patella should not be removed, but should be sawn across, its segments being turned upwards and downwards so as to expose the joint, and being finally re-approximated with carbolized silk sutures. I con- fess that this modification of the ordinary operation does not impress me as being an improvement. I see nothing to be gained by retaining the pa- tella, while, on the other hand, if its retention were thought desirable, it could certainly be accomplished better by Jeffray’s and Treves’s plan, already referred to, in which only lateral incisions are made. The other variation is one of much greater plausibility, introduced by Prof. G. E. Fenwick, of Montreal, and consists in sawing both femur and tibia in a curved line, so as to make them fit together more closely and accurately than they would do otherwise. This mode of procedure has proved very successful in the hands of Dr. Fenwick himself, who has kindly furnished me with an account of his operation, which will be found at the end of this article. One of the chief difficulties to be contended with during the after-treat- ment of knee-joint excision, is to prevent the anterior projection of the cut extremity of the femur; to obviate this, the surgeon may, particularly in cases of children, fix the bones in apposition by means of a strong metallic suture, as originally employed under these circumstances by the late Dr. Gurdon Buck, of Xew York. In operations upon adults, however, this will not, I think, usually be found necessary, particularly if the bone-sections be made, as above recommended, in a plane slightly oblique from behind for- wards and from below upwards — a suggestion which appears to have originated with Billroth, and which is readily carried out with the aid of Butcher’s saw. The points specially to be considered with regard to the after-treatment, are the choice of a splint, the position in which the limb is to be kept, and the frequency with which it should be dressed. An excellent splint for the after-treatment of knee-joint excisions, is that known as Price’s, which consists of a posterior metal splint, cut away be- neath the knee, with an arrangement by which it can be lengthened or short- ened, a bracketed wooden external splint to guard against outward bowing (to which there is always a strong tendency in these cases), and a movable wooden foot-piece. The objections to Price’s apparatus are its expense, and its complicated nature. Butcher’s “ box-splint” has answered a very good purpose in the hands of its introducer, but seems to me unnecessarily cum- bersome, and the same may be said of the tin splint which is, I believe, gene- rally used in Boston. Dr. Watson, of Edinburgh, employs a posterior moulded splint, with an anterior bracketed rod by which the limb can be suspended, and this splint, with slight modifications, is that preferred by Dr. Fenwick. The splint which I used in my earlier operations was a bracketed wooden splint (Fig. 729), with a movable foot-piece, simplified, and as I thought improved, from that originally introduced into the Episcopal Hospital of Philadelphia, by my colleague. Dr. Packard, the latest development of whose apparatus is shown in Fig. 730. The great merits of this wooden splint were its simplicity and cheapness: it was, however, necessarily heavy, and, the wood getting saturated with the discharge, it became after a time offen- sive ; hence of late years I have preferred the bracketed wire splint shown 1 Lancet, Jan. 20, 3 883.