802 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Treatment.—Incised and punctured wounds of the spinal marrow should he treated by closing them immediately with antiseptic precautions, and with antiseptic dressings applied on the outside, in order to get union of the external wound by “ the first intention,” and thus stop the outflow of cerebro-spinal fluid as soon as possible. To promote the same end, the injured parts should be kept in a state of rest, as nearly perfect as possible. By employing these means, too, the occurrence of spinal meningitis or myelitis may be obviated. It will be remembered that, in a case, mentioned above, of bayonet-wound of the spinal cord, traumatic meningitis supervened, and destroyed the patient. All pains that arise in such cases should be subdued by administering opium or morphia. Gunshot wounds of the spinal cord are of frequent occurrence. In nearly all the examples of gunshot fracture of the spinal column, which have been above presented to the reader, traumatic lesions of the spinal cord also existed. In the case of Soteldo (p. 780'), the missile slightly lacerated the cord, and deposited in its substance a spiculum of bone. In the soldier’s case reported by M. Hutin, where there was survival of the injury for fourteen years, death resulting from Bright’s disease, the missile divided the right half of the cauda equina, displaced the left half, and became itself firmly impacted in the spinal canal, where it remained innocuous for the time specified. In several instances above mentioned, the missile completely divided the spinal marrow. To illustrate the phenomena which result from gunshot wounds of the spinal cord, it is advisable to narrate the history of a case that came under my own observation:— Sergeant A. S. Girt, Co. E, 4th Pennsylvania Cavalry, aged 23, was wounded December 1st, 1864, by a pistol-shot which entered the root of his neck about an inch above the inner end of the left clavicle, passed backward, downward, and inward to the spinal column, perforated the body of the first dorsal vertebra, wounded the theca ver- tebralis and the spinal cord, fractured the laminte of the second dorsal vertebra, and lodged on the right side of its spinous process. He was standing at the time, but instantly fell to the ground in a helpless condition from paraplegia. The wound bled considerably at first, but the bleeding soon ceased spontaneously. On the 2d, I saw him at the field-hospital of the Cavalry Division in front of Petersburg, Va. The orifice of the wound was remarkably small, and the integuments surrounding it were considerably swelled and tender, that is, inflamed. There was complete paralysis, both sensory and motor, of the lower extremities, and of the abdomen as high as the umbili- cus. He had no power of voluntary motion whatever in those parts. Likewise, I failed to excite any reflex movement whatever by tickling the soles of his feet, and did not produce any sensation by violently pulling the hairs on his legs, thighs, etc. The urinary bladder also was paralyzed, and catheterization was necessary. He had priapism. There was faint cutaneous sensibility just above the umbilicus ; and, proceeding upward, this gradually increased until on the thorax it appeared to be normal. His respiration was superior-thoracic and diaphragmatic, or abdominal, but principally the latter. The sensibility of the upper extremities did not appear to be impaired, but the muscular power was considerably diminished, as I readily ascertained by grasping his hands and allowing him to pull. The left arm was weaker than the right. His intellect was un- disturbed, and he did not complain of any pain, excepting when the wound and its vicinage were manipulated. On the 5th, I again saw him. He was smoking his pipe as he lay in bed ; countenance cheerful, and free from any sign of distress; he said his appetite was good, and that he swallowed without difficulty. The wound was scabbed over, and the parts were less swelled and inflamed. His bowels acted spontaneously in the bed, and he had no control over them whatever, for the sphincter ani had ceased to act. The priapism had disappeared, but the condition of the bladder and other parts, as to paralysis, was unchanged. The respiratory function was quite successfully per- formed. On the 10th, he was transferred to the Depot Field Hospital at City Point. On