870 INJURIES OF THE BACK. local difficulties now present, which resulted from the vertebral displacement. The vertebras themselves were firmly lixed in their new position. His general health was good. History.— In September, 1856, the patient fell backward down fifteen stairs, and struck upon the back of his head and neck. lie was rendered insensible, and remained so for three hours. lie has never been able to recollect anything in regard to his fall, his memory otherwise being unimpaired. There was no wound nor contusion, nor any other external evidence of injury upon his neck. With returning consciousness he did not become aware of his injury until lie attempted to rise from the bed. He then felt an acute, spasmodic pain in the back of his neck, which subsided immediately on lying down again. This pain in the back of his neck, on motion, continued three months. Three weeks subsequent to the accident, he began to have severe pain in the back of his head usually nocturnal—and at that time was admitted to this hospital in the service of Dr. Charles D. Smith. Excepting the pains just mentioned, and dysphagia, he has not had any subjective symptoms of spinal injury. There have been no anaes- thesia, no paralysis, no difficulty in breathing, micturating, or defecating, and no in- crease of temperature. Ilis general health being good, he was discharged as affording no particular indica- tion lor treatment.1 The “ awkward position” mentioned above in which the patient was com- pelled to carry his head is not described in words, but it was doubtless the following: Inasmuch as the original lesion of the spinal column consisted in a forward dislocation of the body of the fifth cervical vertebra upon that of the sixth, there occurred in consequence of the action of the muscles directly or indirectly involved, together with the superimposed weight of the head, a forward bend in the spinal column at the place of injury, which widely sepa- rated the spinous process of the fifth cervical vertebra from that of the sixth, and likewise caused the neck and head to present a “ thrust-forward” appear- ance, as well as to acquire a “ thrust-forward” position. It certainly must have been very awkward for the patient to carry his head always in that manner. And had the deformity been removed at the outset by reducing the dislocation, it would have been much better for the patient, because by so doing his difficulty in swallowing would have been obviated, and his head would have been placed in a much more comfortable position. The pain in the back part of this patient’s neck and head which followed the accident, and still persisted two years afterward in a troublesome or dis- tressful degree, was probably due to meningeal irritation, or a low grade of meningeal inflammation, which itself resulted from the fact that the disloca- tion was not reduced, and that the theca vertebralis was consequently stretched and irritated by the injured vertebne in their abnormal positions. Thus it appears that pains arising from meningeal irritation and inflammation (both spinal and cerebral) must also be enumerated among the remote effects of vertebral fractures and dislocations. Moreover, much difficulty will often be experienced in controlling this meningeal disorder, unless perchance the causal indication in its treatment has previously been fulfilled, by “setting” the fractured or dislocated vertebrae, and thus removing the displacement upon which its existence mainly depends. The remedial measures to be employed in such cases are dry cupping and setons, together with the administration of potassium iodide in full doses, alternated with corrosive sublimate, for a long period. Among the remote effects of sprains, wrenches, and twists of the spinal column, are chronic inflammation of the vertebral joints that are implicated, which is often suppurative in character, destruction of the articular cartilages: and the intervertebral substances that are involved, and caries or necrosis of 1 New York Journal of Medicine, March, 1859, p. 24G.