DISLOCATIONS OF THE VEKTEBR.E. 735 Op. cit., p. 293. 8 Am. Jouni. of the Med. Sciences, July, 1871, p. 110. thalmos from impending suffocation. In such cases, if the spinal cord he not promptly relieved from pressure by reducing the dislocation—that is, if the cause of the morbid phenomena be not promptly removed—death will speedily ensue. In some cases, however, death does not occur until the lapse of many days. In at least one instance on record, the paralysis came on gradually, and death ensued in twelve days. In another instance, the para- lysis did not begin until several hours after the accident, but it gradually increased, and death ensued in forty days. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of unilateral luxations of the cervical vertebrae, no doubt, is to reduce the luxation. In no case can the deformity resulting from the luxation he removed, unless this indication he first fulfilled; and, in most cases, recovery from this accident cannot take place, unless the dislocated bone be seasonably restored to its normal position. As already intimated, reduction was employed in sixteen of the twenty-nine cases of this lesion, mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables, and it proved successful in all but one of the sixteen ; in the solitary instance of failure, an autopsy showed that the dislocation had been reproduced. In no one of the eight fatal cases was a reduction of the dislocation permanently effected. Moreover, the paralysis was instantly removed by reduction in many of the successful cases. The motions of the head and neck, too, were instantly restored by reduction in several of them. Likewise, the accomplishment of reduction was attended by an audible sound in several instances. Concerning the method by which extension and rotation are to be applied in order to reduce the dislocation, Mr. Erichsen says: “In these cases I have known reduction effected by the surgeon placing his knees against the pa- tient’s shoulders, drawing on the head, and then turning it into position, the return being attended by a distinct snap.”1 For other methods of apply- ing extension, etc., in these cases, the reader is referred to the examples of the accident, already presented. To prevent a recurrence of the dislocation, it may be advisable to apply a collar of still' pasteboard to the neck, for eight or ten days, as practised by Malgaigne and others ; or to make permanent extension by means of a weight of two or three pounds attached to the head by means of a band and strips of adhesive plaster, as practised by M. Parisot. To avert inflammation of the injured vertebral joints, spinal membranes, and spinal cord, rest upon the back in bed, with a small firm pillow placed under the neck, and a half-filled bag of sand fitted to each side of the head and neck to prevent any lateral movement thereof, are always necessary. Not unfrequently, leeches and cold compresses should also be applied to the injured part. The risks arising from consecutive inflammation are well illus- trated by Dr. Reyburn’s case of unilateral dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra, in which, though reduction was effected, death, caused by abscess of the spinal cord, followed fourteen days subsequently.2 Pain should be moved and sleep procured by giving morphia or opium. Boyer rejected all efforts to reduce the dislocation in these cases, and quoted Petit-Radel’s celebrated case to illustrate the danger of such efforts. But, as Malgaigne has shown, the case of Petit-Radel was not at all such as repre- sented by Boyer; and the fact that in his case the efforts at reduction caused sudden death, proved nothing but that the efforts were unskilfully made by an incompetent person. (Ashhurst.) In that case the transverse ligament of the atlas was ruptured by the efforts at reduction, and the spinal cord was pressed forward against the odontoid process of the axis, with an instantly fatal result.