422 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. as gallic acid, or, which generally answers the purpose, of the Indian hemp. But if no uterine trouble be traceable, it is, I believe, a mistake to give em- menagogues or other medicines directed to the womb. As a rule, under these circumstances, aloes and iron, myrrh, etc., tend rather to increase the trouble by augmenting the pelvic, and therefore the ovarian liypersemia. Certain remedies are frequently valuable, their use being guided by the robust or amende condition of the patient; in the latter condition, iron (without aloes) may be advantageous. With this remedy, alternating with quinine, strychnia, or other bitter, valerian or valerianate of zinc, or bro- mide of potassium, may be combined. Bromo-camphor is doubtless also capable of yielding good results. In the robust, the applicability of tonics is more than doubtful, especially of iron, aloes, or any medicine which may pro- duce hyperasmia of the pelvic organs. Local treatment, such as is applicable to inflammatory joint-disease, is only hurtful in the mock disease. The utmost to be done in this direction must be the use of a chloroform or belladonna liniment, and even this as a rare exception, since whatever calls attention to the part must be avoided ; yet sometimes a little yielding to strong imagina- tion must be conceded, I have had occasionally very marked success by the contrary device, viz., by attracting the patient’s attention to another part. Thus a little seton may be passed subcutaneously a good way from the seat of disease, particular direc- tions being given as to the method of managing and dressing it, with some little mystery about its use, and the assurance that when the thread comes away the limb will be well. In one case that I saw, the girl had been told that her knee must be excised, and on this she had flxed her mind ; the case was most obstinate. At last chloroform was given, and a longitudinal incision made through the skin on each side of the joint; it was put up in splints, she firmly believing that some severe operation had been practised. In about a month, when the wound had healed, the neuralgia ceased. A year ago I treated a young lady in this way, but made a smaller cut on the outside of the joint; she also got quite well. There are other ways in which the imagination may be used—and often by designing persons misused. Entire and implicit trust in a certain set of remedies, or even in a certain person, or, as has more than once happened, in a certain spring or relic, has cured hysteria which has resisted all other means. In the worst cases, the plan introduced by Dr. Weir Mitchell1 may advan- tageously be employed. Arthropathies from Injuries and Diseases of Nerves and of Nervous Centres. Diseases of joints consecutive to and produced by morbid conditions of nervous trunks and centres, form a subject still full of obscurity and difficulty, although of late years much light has been thrown on the subject, in one particular direction, by the labors of Charcot, Weir Mitchell, Ball, Westphal, and Buzzard. The first step in this direction was, I believe, taken by J. K. Mitchell, of Philadelphia,2 who, observing a remarkably obstinate case of acute or sub- acute rheumatism in a woman with angular curvature, resolved, after the failure of all the usual remedies for rheumatism, to treat it as due to spinal irritation or inflammation. His measures were rapidly successful. lie after- 1 Lectures on Diseases of the Nervous System, especially in Women. Philadelphia, 1881. 2 On a New Practice in Rheumatism. Am. Jour, of the Med. Sciences, O S. vol. viii. p. 31. 1831.