INJURIES OF THE BACK. 814 in consequence of cranial injury, and which produce subdural or intra- meningeal abscesses, attended by corresponding palsies of the cerebral func- tions. In this officer’s case, the pressure exerted by the products of the meningeal inflammation (purulent matter and serum) upon the spinal cord, as well as the inflammatory changes which occurred in the cord-substance itself, caused complete paralysis of all the parts of his body which were situated below the spinal lesion. A few words should also be said concerning the pathological histology of traumatic spinal meningitis. This disorder usually consists of acute liyper- temia and suppurative inflammation of the pia mater. There is a tolerably well-marked congestion of all the vessels in the pia mater, together with purulent infiltration of the subarachnoid lymphatic spaces. The most strik- ing point in connection with it is the strict way in which the purulent for- mation is limited to the parenchyma of the pia mater; it never transgresses (when diffuse) the arachnoid lamella which forms its outer boundary. In the first foudroyant example related above, the meshes of the pia mater were seen to be distended by purulent serum which lifted up the arachnoid. The comparison of the arachnoid to a serous sac, formerly so popular, has ceased to be entertainable ever since Luschka’s investigations proved that the so- called parietal layer of the arachnoid was merely the epithelium of the dura mater. The very striking deviation from the superficial character of serous inflammations in general, just mentioned, completes the demonstration that the arachnoid is not a serous membrane in the same sense as the pleura or the pericardium. “ It seems to me,” says Rindfleisch, “ as though this devia- tion were simply due to the presence of very distensible spaces immediately around the vessels. Here, if any where, we may apply Cohnlieim’s theory of inflammatory exudation. Even the naked eye can show us that the pus everywhere originates along the course of the vessels. Like a double-streak of a yellowish-white color, narrow at first- and growing steadily wider, the pus follows the edges of the vessels, especially of the large and small venous trunks. The longer the process lasts, the nearer do the purulent streaks accompanying the vessels approach one another, till they finally coalesce; the pia mater swells up as a whole; it often acquires a peculiar stiffness, owing to the stretching of its fibrous bands, perhaps also to the coagulation of some lymphatic constituents of the exudation.”1 It may then be stripped off from the compressed and bloodless, rarely softened, surface of the cord, together with the prolongations which it sends into the sulci, forming a solid mould of the rachidian irregularities. The morbid process generally begins with hyperaemia (active congestion) of all the inter-meningeal vessels at the place of injury, followed by the appearance of serum and flakes of lymph ; and it terminates, as just stated, in subarachnoid suppuration. Treatment. — Traumatic spinal meningitis, whether diffuse or circum- scribed, is an exceedingly dangerous disorder; and, to treat it with success, it is indispensable that vigorous measures should be promptly employed. The preventive measures (prophylaxis) consist in removing all foreign bodies from gunshot wounds of the spine, and applying antiseptic dressings ; in reducing simple as well as compound dislocations and fractures of the ver- tebrae, thereby lessening the meningeal irritation; in maintaining afterward absolute quietude of all the injured parts ; and in promptly abating any in- flammation which may arise in the circumjacent structures. Meningeal congestion should be combated by administering ergot in large doses at short intervals (from 30 to 60 minims of the fluid extract every four Manual of Pathological Histology, vol. ii. p. 309. New Sydenham Society’s translation.