103 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. Swelling is very apt to occur, especially in fractures caused by direct vio- lence, and attended with much bruising of the soft parts; hut it is not often so marked as in some other regions, nor does it generally mask the condition of the bone so completely, by reason of the small amount of subcutaneous areolar tissue existing here. Ecchymosis may or may not he present, according to the character of the fracture and the amount of injury to the small veins of the skin. It is very rare to have the deep staining of the surface, coming on slowly and very gradually subsiding, which is often met with in the case of the larger bones. Crepitus is very generally to be felt. It suffices to gently press the point of the shoulder forward, the fingers of the surgeon’s other hand being lightly laid over the bone, to develop a sufficient sound. Sometimes, indeed, this is the only symptom present. M. Guerin1 has reported the case of a man aged GO, whose clavicle was broken by a fall of earth. During life the only posi- tive symptom of the injury was slight crepitus. After the patient’s death (from pneumonia) the fragments could be made to project by means of the finger passed behind the bone. Along with the crepitus, and shown by the same manoeuvre, there is often .perceptible an abnormal mobility at the seat of fracture. The degree of this will be dependent upon the completeness, not only of the fracture, but of the tearing of the periosteum, as well as upon the direction of the line of break- age, and often upon the amount of serration of the fragments. But whether slight or otherwise, it is an unmistakable proof of the character of the lesion. Fractures of the sternal portion of the clavicle are much less frequent than those of the acromial extremity, and very rare indeed as compared with those of the body of the bone. They have attracted but little notice, an article by Delens2 being the fullest source of information in regard to them up to the present time. This author states that while they have been observed as the result of both direct and indirect violence, muscular action is by far their most frequent cause. One instance of the latter kind has been reported by Heath :—3 A boy of fourteen, “ whilst raising his arm violently to bowl at cricket, felt something give way at his collar-bone. The inner end of the clavicle was found to be unduly prominent, and presented a sharp edge beneath the skin, quite unlike the smooth end of a bone covered with articular cartilage. The supra-sternal notch was quite distinct, and equally defined on both sides, and a thin lamella could be felt on the right side, intervening between it and the gap caused by the starting forward of the inner end of the clavicle. The treatment consisted in laying the patient down, when the bone at once dipped into place, and was retained by a plaster-of-Paris bandage.” This cannot have been, as was suggested, a separation of the epiphysis, since no such formation takes place, according to anatomists, before the twentieth year; and perhaps it might more correctly be placed under the head of sprain-fracture. Of fractures by indirect violence, the dearest instance is that recorded by Willis4 A man, aged 54, slipped off a hay-rick, falling on his outstretched right hand, and striking his right shoulder. On examination, there was discovered a simple fracture of the right clavicle within a quarter of an inch of the sternal head of the bone. The direction of the fracture was obliquely downward and outward. The outer fragment was tilted up, partly by the direct action of some of the fibres of the sterno-cleido-mas- toid, partly by the weight of the arm dragging the acromial end downward ; it was very sharp, and threatened to pierce the skin. Much difficulty was experienced in coap- tation of the ends, which could only be fully effected by strongly raising the arm—• 1 Gaz. Hebdom., 20 Sept. 1867. 2 Arch. Gen. de Medecine, Mai, 1873. 3 Biit. Med. Journal, Nov. 18, 1882. 4 Lancet, Dec. 2, 1882.