SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. 841 remedies in bed-sores and other sphapelations of spinal origin, not only on general principles, but also because, in several instances related in the fore- going pages, the good effects of these remedies were conspicuous in the rapid healing of the ulcers, and in the disappearance of the other spinal symptoms. Although the pressure resulting from the patient’s posture in bed is never the chief cause of neuropathic bed-sores, we should always endeavor to pre- vent its occurrence, or mitigate its effects, by placing the patient upon a water- bed, or by employing the various expedients which were mentioned in Vol. LI. (p. 807); but, if possible, a water-bed should be obtained for such cases, because no expedient or combination of expedients will answer the purpose nearly as well. The integuments on the sacrum and nates should be kept dry and clean, that is, unsoiled with decomposing urine and feces; and these parts, in bed-ridden people, should be sponged over at least once a day with diluted alcohol or rectified spirit. But when the eschar or sphacelus appears notwithstanding these measures, what more is to be done? The indication then is to limit the extent of the slough, as much as possible, by restoring or invigorating the circulation of blood in the affected parts. There are two procedures for fulfilling this indi- cation, both of which possess great value. One of them was devised by M. Brown-Sequard, and I shall proceed to describe it in his own words:— “ I have tried,” he says, “ to prevent or cure those sloughs which are an evident result of the disturbance of nutrition due to an irritation of the nerves of bloodvessels, by acting upon the bloodvessels of the part where the sloughs exist. I have made experiments upon animals, showing that by applying alternately two poultices, one of pounded ice, the other a very warm bread or linseed poultice, there is a very rapid cure of the sloughs [when] due to a nervous irritation. Several medical men have already obtained the same results in man that I have obtained in animals, by follow- ing the plan of treatment that I have proposed. The pounded ice, kept in a bladder, is to be applied for eight or ten minutes, and the warm poultice for an hour or two, or even a longer period. ... I think I can safely say that, in cases where a slough is beginning, its progress will always be stopped by the means I propose.”1 The other method is that of galvanism, which was first suggested and employed by Dr. Crussel, of St. Petersburg, and is as follows : A thin silver plate, no thicker than a sheet of paper, is to be cut so as to fit the exact size and shape of the bed-sore. A zinc plate of about the same size is connected with the silver plate by a fine silver or copper wire, six or eight inches in length. The silver plate is then placed in immediate contact with the bed-sore, and the zinc plate on some part of the skin above it—a piece of chamois-leather, soaked in vinegar, intervening, which, however, must be kept moist, or there will be little or no action of the battery. Within a few hours the beneficial effect becomes perceptible ; and, in a day or two, the cure is in most cases complete. In a few instances a longer time is required. I have frequently seen,” Professor Wm. A. Hammond says,2 “ bed-sores three or four inches in diameter, and half an inch deep, heal entirely over in forty-eight hours.” Mr. Spencer Wells states that he has often witnessed large ulcers covered by granulations within twenty-four hours, and completely filled up and cicatrization begun in forty-eight hours, under this treatment; and that it is the best of all methods for treating ulcers of indolent character, and bed-sores. Professor Hammond further states: “During the last twelve years I have employed it to a great extent in the treatment of bed-sores caused by disease of the spinal 1 Lectures on the Physiology and Pathology of the Central Nervons System, etc., pp. 260, 261. 2 Diseases of the Nervous System, 1881, p. 453.