ANTEROPOSTERIOR CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. 911 1 Traite des Maladies des Os, tome ii. p. 117. Paris, 1751. drawn backwards by the unresisted sacro-vertebral muscles, and in the latter instance the body is thrown back to enable the patient to walk while the abdominal muscles prevent the backward movement from being extreme. There is a form of lordosis that depends upon rickets, and that constitutes a chief feature of the rachitic spine. It will be alluded to in a subsequent paragraph. Cases of lordosis are sometimes met with that are open to considerable conjecture as to their nature. A case of this kind was lately under the care of my colleague, Dr. Warner, at the London Hospital. The patient was a little girl, aged nine, with a considerable amount of lumbar lordosis. She was a deaf-mute, but was otherwise in all respects well developed. There was no evidence of rickets nor of syphilis. She walked with a curious and unsteady gait, like a doddering old man, placing the sole at each step flat upon the ground at once. There was no definite paralysis of any muscles, and the child would run and play about all day without becoming unduly tired. She was very intelligent. The liip-joints, and all the muscles of the lower limbs and back, appeared normal. It was asserted that the lordosis had been noticed since the child had learned to walk. The greater part of the spinal deformity disappeared on suspension, or when the child was placed in the recumbent posture. The condition remained unaltered during the year or so that the child was under observation. In this case, the defect would appear to have been in the motor nerve system, and whatever the defect might be, it was probably congenital, or developed soon after birth. Pathological Anatomy.—In marked cases of long duration, the posterior spinal ligaments are found contracted, and the anterior common ligament stretched. The spines and transverse processes of the affected part may touch, or be crowded together. The intervertebral disks may be increased in thickness in front, but it does not appear that any absorption of the posterior segments of the bodies is usual, or even common. The sacro-vertebral mass of muscles is often found contracted and rigid; and the psoas muscle, on the other hand, in a state of fatty degeneration from disuse. In lordosis of the lower portions of the spine, the pelvis tends to become more vertical, and the sacro-lumbar angle more prominent. If the dorsal region be much involved, the thorax may become deformed by a diminution in its antero-posterior diameter. In some cases the spinal column may be rigidly fixed in the abnormal position by a bony anchylosis of its parts, although such a circum- stance is of much less frequency in lordosis than it is in the opposite deformity before treated of. This anchylosis may take the form of stalactitic outgrowths from the trans- verse processes and spines, of such a character as to bind adjacent vertebrae together. In other cases the articular processes may be anchylosed, and in another set of instances bony outgrowths from the margins of the bodies themselves may serve to immobilize the affected portion of the spine. Du Verney1 records a case of extensive lordosis of the dorsal and lumbar regions of the spinal column, where the intervertebral disks were ossified, and the whole spine thereby rendered rigid. The account given of this case, however, is very meagre. It is probable that, in some of the instances of lordosis, char- acterized by the outgrowth of stalactitic processes, a chronic rheumatic arthritis of the part is the cause of the condition. The diagnosis of this curvature is extremely simple. It is impossible to be mistaken, if in any degree well developed. The in-curved back, the erect carriage, the prominent belly, are all very familiar as usual concomitants of lordosis in its most common position—the lumbar spine. A more difficult