932 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 6 Arch. Gen. de Med., tome vii. p. 474. 1835. 7 Loc. cit., p. 125. Rare Forms of Spinal Abscess.—(1) In disease of the dorsal spine the pus may proceed more or less directly backwards, and present itself by the sides of the corresponding spinous processes. (2) In disease of the same region the matter may pass forwards beneath the pleura and along the intercostal spaces, and thus reach the anterior mediastinum. Here it may be discharged by the side of the sternum. If the collection occupy the precordial region it may receive pulsations from the heart. (3) Mr. \\ . Adams has recorded a case that I believe to be unique, where the pus pursued an upward direction. The case was that of a lad, aged 12, with disease of the last two dorsal and upper two lumbar vertebrae. There was angular deformity. The abscess took at once an upward course, and opened opposite the spine of the seventh cervical ver- tebra. (4) Mr. Shaw1 has recorded a case where the abscess followed the course of the inguinal canal, and, presenting at the external ring, closely resembled a hernia. lie cites, also, a like case recorded by Sir 13. Brodie.2 (5) Broca3 has recorded a case where a psoas abscess opened into the hip- joint, having effected an entry through the anterior part of the capsule. (6) Leudet4 notes an instance of the abscess opening into the spinal canal. (7) Several cases have been put on record where the abscess opened into the lung, and, in some of these instances, fragments of carious bone were expectorated.5 In M. Michel’s monograph, above alluded to, a case is quoted where the abscess opened both into the lungs and also into the cesophague. (8) In many instances a collection of pus derived from some spinal mischief may open into the intestinal canal; and usually, if not always, into the colon. There may be an opening into the gut and one also through the skin, so that while pus passes from the rectum, some fecal matter may also escape through the cuta- neous aperture. I have seen an example of this condition, and several cases have been recorded. Lallemand6 has given the account of a man, aged 19, who developed an abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa. This ultimately became a fistula in ano. When subjected to operation, a number of pieces of necrosed bone were encountered. It was then discovered that the man had “ a defor- mity” of the lumbar spine. It was supposed that in this case the abscess was spinal, and the pieces of bone derived from the vertebrae, but the evidence as to vertebral caries was very scanty, and the body was not examined after death. (9) A spinal abscess may discharge its contents by the urinary bladder; an account of a case presenting this complication is recorded by Shaw.7 The matter of implication of the spinal cord in Pott’s disease will be con- sidered with the “ symptoms of the malady.” II. TnE Period of Repair.—While destructive changes are going on in the anterior segments of the column, a process of repair is to be observed about the posterior segments. An adhesive form of inflammation appears to be excited about these parts. The periosteum covering the spinous and other processes becomes inflamed, a like change takes place in the ligaments that pass between the various portions of the posterior vertebral segments, and in this change the adjacent connective tissue has also a share. In this way the laminae, and the transverse and spinous processes that correspond to the dis- eased portion of the spine, become matted together by inflammatory material. As the change advances, the products of the inflammation organize, and the adhesion between the various parts concerned becomes much more intimate and 1 Loc. cit., p. 123. * On Diseases of the Joints, p. 267. 3 Bull, de la Soc. Anat., tome xxvi. p. 406. 4 Ibid., tome xxviii. p. 253. 5 See cases by Triquet (ibid., tome xxii. p. 450) and Deville (ibid., tome xxviii. p. 139); also case by Shaw (ioc. cit., p. 125).