INJURIES OP BONES. 28 in the ring-finger, in which the nails did not grow on the injured members; hut, in spite of careful watching for other similar cases, I have failed to meet with them. Muscular roasting, from confinement and disease, is very frequently seen in fractured limbs; but in general it speedily disappears upon the re- sumption of the normal functions of the part, as does also the oedema which often accompanies it. From what has now been said of the general phenomena attending frac- tures, the symptoms may be readily learned. These are divided into two classes,—the rational, and the physical or sensible. The former are such as give rise to a reasonable suspicion of the existence of fracture; they are pain, loss of power, swelling, and ecchymosis. To these may he added, when it is present, the audible crack caused by the snap- ping of the bone; but this would not be conclusive, because very much the same sound might accompany the rupture of tendon, muscle, or ligament. The physical or sensible signs are conclusive: deformity, preternatural mobility, and crepitus. Sometimes the first named, striking the eye of the surgeon, will at once reveal the nature of the case. But for the most part it is from the combination of all that lie is enabled to frame his opinion. Constitutional Symptoms accompanying Fracture. Perhaps it will have been noticed that nothing has as yet been said about the constitutional symptoms attending fracture. In very many cases these are very slight, and might readily be overlooked by an inattentive observer. Yet they always occur, and are in proportion to the severity of the local injury; modified, however, by the idiosyncrasies of the patients, by their condition at the time of sustaining the hurt, and by incidental circumstances. Thus, in some individuals, the nervous system is very sensitive, and even a simple fracture, produced by slight violence, may give rise to marked shock. Such shock may be the more severe from the fact of previous fatigue, of fright at the time of the accident, or from other transient circumstances. Wagstaffe,1 in an article on temperature in shock, in surgical cases, notes a decided lower- ing as attendant upon compound fractures; and it is probable that a propor- tionate degree of reduction would be detected in less serious cases by careful observation. Following upon this state of depression, a more or less decided febrile rise is often noted, especially in private practice, where patients are apt to demand and receive more attention than in hospitals. But Stickler2 has proved, by a series of carefully tabulated observations, that there is, as a rule, a tempo- rary febrile rise after fractures ; it reaches its maximum during the first three days, when the local inflammation is at its height. Upon the subsidence of this febrile movement, the system at large generally ceases to manifest any disturbance, and the whole period of local repair may be passed through without any other trouble than perhaps constipation, and it may be indigestion, if the patient is prevented from taking exercise, and yet indulges his appetite. But in old and feeble persons, the powers may be unequal to the tax upon them, and a condition of debility may ensue, from which recovery is impossible. I have seen a simple fracture of the hume- rus prove fatal on the seventh day, in a lady of eighty-one; yet Hender- son3 has recorded the case of a woman, eighty-nine years old, whose femur, 1 St. Thomas’s Hosp. Reports, 1870. 2 New York Med. Record, Feb. 11, 1882. 3 London Med. Gazette, Jan. 13, 1843.