101 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. cannot offer any explanation of these exceptions; but it will be seen that in my case the fracture involved the sternal third of the bone. Sometimes, when the cause of the fracture has been direct violence, it is sufficiently obvious that the outer fragment has been driven back from the Fig. 600. Fracture of clavicle with downward displacement of outer fragment. inner. But there must be a further reason for the very general existence of this displacement, and I believe it is to be found in the changed position of the scapula. Upon the loss of the stay afforded by the unbroken clavicle, the serratus magnus and pectoralis minor muscles pull the scapula forward and inward, while perhaps the rhomboidei muscles draw up its lower angle. The acromion is thus brought nearer to the median line, and tilted down- ward ; the effect of which is to push the distal fragment of the broken clavicle inward, and to depress its outer end. This seems to me to afford an ample explanation of the very constant occurrence of this form of displacement. Very possibly the fibres of the subclavius may also draw upon the outer frag- ment, and aid in the production of the deformity. The forcing of the outer fragment behind the inner will tilt the latter upward and forward; and my belief is that to this, and not to the action of the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, is due the projection of the inner fragment so com- monly present. The action of the last-named muscle, indeed, is from below upward (the Germans call it “ Kopf-nicker,” that is, head-nodder), and through the rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament it gets an origin from the first rib. This ligament would of itself prevent the drawing up of the inner fragment, unless, as sometimes happens, it should he itself ruptured. By all authors we are told that the shoulder falls forward, inward, and downward, and that this displacement is due to the weight of the shoulder and of the upper extremity. It is true that the shoulder does thus change its position; yet the muscles which support it are not impaired, and the mere lifting of the weight does not remedy the deformity. When the scapula itself is drawn back into position, and only then, does the outer fragment of the clavicle resume its normal relation to the inner. The explanation now given of the cause of deformity in fracture of the clavicle finds strong confirmation, I think, in the condition observed when the bone is broken near the acromial extremity. Here the short outer frag- ment is pushed round forward and inward, so as to form almost or quite a right angle with the inner, the broken end of the former even coming in con- tact with the anterior wall of the latter. Many museum specimens exist in proof of this statement, and two such are in the Mutter collection in this city. Malgaigne mentions two cases of fracture very near the acromial end, in which union had taken place. In each of them, “ the shoulder was de- pressed, and carried forward and inward ; . . . and to this inclination of the shoulder there corresponded posteriorly a notable prominence of the infe- rior angle and posterior edge of the scapula.” Both the patients had perfect motion of the arm, except backward. Here it seems to me quite plain that the change of shape is to be accounted for as follows : partly by the action of the clavicular part of the trapezius, drawing up both fragments, and favored in so doing by its attachment to the natural convexity of the bone; partly