INJURIES OF BONES. 102 by the tilting upward and backward of the lower angle of the scapula by the rhomboideus major muscle, aided by the weight of the arm dragging on the upper and outer angle of the bone, and through the acromion on the outer end of the clavicle; but chiefly by the serratus magnus and pectoralis minor carrying the whole scapula forward and inward around the side of the thorax, and thus bringing the outer fragment into exactly the position described with regard to the inner. A case mentioned by Malgaigne so strongly illustrates the theory now stated, that I venture to quote it at length:— The patient had sustained a fracture of both clavicles by a fall from a window fifteen feet high. Non-union had occurred in both bones, and the impairment of function was such that he could not resume his former occupation as a tinsmith, but became a tailor. “ Both clavicles had been broken at the middle ; the two inner fragments were nearly horizontal, and very distinct beneath the skin ; the outer fragments had also a nearly horizontal direction, but were buried behind and below the others, to which they seemed to have no adhesions of any kind. The overlapping was considerable. “ When he stood up the two shoulders seemed lower, as well as carried further forward and inward, than in a healthy person. The one on the right side was higher, and at the same time closer to the sternum, than the other. Posteriorly the scapulas were sepa- rated from the spinal column by three or four inches, and inclined forward and out- ward ; and, on the whole, the thorax seemed contracted at its upper part. “ He could draw the shoulders back a little, but not enough to overcome their appa- rent prominence anteriorly. On the other hand, he could draw them together forward so that they seemed like wings covering the chest, and leaving between them, in front of the sternum, only three inches of space. In this movement the scapulaeto the sides of the trunk, and the back seemed rounded from one side to the other, almost like that of a skeleton deprived of its upper extremities. The shoulders could be raised also at will, but not to any extent, from want of muscular power.” Professor Gordon, of Belfast, has expressed1 views in regard to the dis- placement in fractures of the clavicle, exactly the same as my own. As he lias not referred to my paper, I presume that he is not aware of its existence. Though these views have not as yet received the general assent of surgical writers, my belief is that they are correct, and that they will idtimately obtain acceptance. Prof. Moore, of Rochester, Y. Y.,2 regards the relaxation of the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major muscle, and the consequently unopposed action of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, as the great cause of the displacement; but it does not seem to me that this view is tenable. 1 say nothing of rotary displacement, because nothing of the kind has ever occurred in the cases under my notice, and I do not think it exists. Pain is an almost constant symptom of fracture of the clavicle. When the line of separation is oblique, as in most cases, this is obviously due partly to the pressure of the ends of the fragments, especially of the inner, against the skin. According to Tillaux, it is the filaments of the supra-clavicular nerve, in the platysma myoides muscle, which are thus irritated ; but the fact that there are often pain and numbness down the arm, and even in the fingers, affords proof that the large trunks of the brachial plexus are also interfered with. In order to obtain relief, patients are very apt to assume a position which, by some authors, has been considered almost a diagnostic sign ; they support the arm of the injured side by placing the other hand under the forearm, and incline the head toward the afiected shoulder. * Dublin Quarterly Journ. of Med. Science, Nov. 1859. Also in a Treatise on Fractures of the Lower End of the Radius, on Fractures of the Clavicle, and on the Reduction of the Recent Inward Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint. London, 1875. 2 Trans, of Med. Soc. of State of N. Y., 1870, p. 107.