TUMORS. 662 The identity of these blood-tilled and transformed sarcomas should be estab- lished as early as possible, for the prognosis and treatment must be guided by the recognition that the disease has all the gravity of an ordinary sarcoma of the part affected. Fortunately, however, all blood-cysts are not masked sarcomas. Some of them are serous cysts, in which the serum has been replaced by blood, or has been largely mixed with blood: this transformation is occasionally seen in hsematoceles which are formed from hydroceles. Some of them are developed in connection with bloodvessels in the manner already described on a preceding page. Some of them are of uncertain origin. They may occur in different parts of the body, and have been met with in the neck, the thigh, the parotid gland, the thyroid body, and the trunk. Most of the blood-cysts of the parotid and the thyroid are probably examples of cysts of other kinds into which hemorrhage has taken place. Those of the neck appear to be the most frequent. They vary in size and outward characters, but are seldom very large. The blood which they contain is almost all, and always, fluid ; but, whole the tumor is, in most instances, undoubtedly cystic, the nature of its contents is usually not recognized until it has been punctured. The interior of the sac is generally quite smooth, but may be columnar or fasciculated like the interior of the auricles of the heart. These cysts may be tapped, and the blood evacuated, and this may suffice for cure. But they almost always fill again, sometimes indeed imme- diately, and render further treatment necessary. The treatment suitable, in such cases, is to lay the cavity completely open, clear it of its contents, and plug it from the bottom with strips of lint. If there be hemorrhage into the cyst at the time of operation, the bleeding vessels should be sought for and tied: if the hemorrhage be capillary or venous,it will be arrested by the lint plugs. Mucous Cysts.—Of these the best examples may he found in the cysts at the neck of the uterus, in the labia, in the lip, beneath the tongue, and in the antrum. The first of these are formed in connection with the glands of Naboth: they often burst and discharge their contents, and are then re-formed or are replaced by others of a similar kind. The second are formed by dila- tation of Cowper’s or Duvernoy’s glands. They are seldom multiple, like those of the uterus, but attain a larger size. The mucous cysts of the lip are, I think, less common than those of the uterus and vulva. They are developed usually on the inside of the lower lip, not far from the prolabium, by dilatation of the submucous glands. They are easily recognized by their smoothness, their rounded or oval shape, and their transluceuce, which is very obvious. 1 have never seen one larger than a common nut. Of far more frequent occurrence are the mucous cysts in the floor of the mouth, beneath the tongue, which are known under the name “ ranula.” A few of them are, perhaps, developed by a dilatation of the duct of the sub- maxillary gland, but the large majority of them probably originate in the mucous glands beneath the tongue. The tumor may be much larger than in the last case, and may contain from half an ounce to an ounce of fluid. It is quite easily recognized by its situation, its bluish color, its consistence, and its transluceuce. Cystic disease of the antrum is not very common. The cavity is seldom distended by a single cyst, but contains several or many cysts which may in time distend it to the utmost. All these cysts contain, in most instances, a glairy, clear, whitish, or yellowish fluid, not unlike white of egg. But the contents are not, in eveiy case, so clear and almost colorless. They are occasionally, especially in the tumors of the labium, opaque and dark colored, and sometimes very thick. The treatment, for those of the