TRAUMATIC MYELITIS. 821 following day. Next morning (November 24), on waking, the legs were paralyzed. On the 26th, he entered the hospital. There was complete paraplegia, a bed-sore had already begun to form over the sacrum, and ammoniacal urine dribbled from the blad- der. He died exhausted, on January 2, forty-one days after the strain. Autopsy.—A large bed-sore exposed the sacrum in its whole length. The bones and ligaments of the spine exhibited no trace of injury. The cord was softened, opposite the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebrae, through all its columns, into a thick, greenish, muco- puriform fluid, with a brown tinge. Lumbar and cervical portions of the cord normal. Commencing suppuration in the cortical substance of the kidneys. Mucous membrane of the pelves greenish, with patches of greenish fibrinous exudation. Mucous membrane of the ureters and bladder in the same condition ; the bladder contained a quantity of muco-purulent fluid. The microscope showed the softened part of the cord to consist of disintegrated nerve-tissue, with a few irregular collections of granules. Prognosis.—The outlook in cases of traumatic myelitis is always gloomy. From inflammatory disintegration of the spinal cord, gangrenous bed-sores often arise; and they prove fatal, not unfrequently, by inducing septicaemia or pyaemia, as happened in the following instance:— A soldier was wounded at Antietam, September 17, 1862, in the lumbar spine, and lay on the field until the 20th, when he was taken to general hospital. At that time he could walk, but paralysis soon supervened. Retention of urine lasted two days ; no difficulty afterward ; no derangement of the alimentary canal ; pulse small and weak ; face flushed. The patient suffered greatly from bed-sores. On October 6 he suf- fered great pain in the legs ; they were without feeling, but warm. On the 10th, pro- fuse sweats occurred; he sank rapidly, and died on the 11th, apparently of septicasmia arising from the bed-sores. A conoidal ball was found to have passed through the spinal column and cauda equina at the third lumbar vertebra, and to have lodged at the left intervertebral foramen ; condition of cord and membranes not reported.1 Again, traumatic myelitis may destroy life by causing vesical and renal inflammation, as well as an alkaline state of the urine. But the discussion of this point is reserved for the section on Disorders of the Urinary Organs arising from Lesions of the Spinal Cord. Most frequently, however, traumatic myelitis ends in death by ascending the spinal cord until it involves the origins of the spinal nerves upon which the respiratory movements depend, when paralysis of the respiratory muscles and death from asphyxia (apnoea) ensue. Stromeyer mentions a case in which the posterior parts of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae were torn away by a bullet, and which ended fatally on the fifth day from this cause. Paralysis of the lower extremities occurred on the first day ; afterward, complete paralysis of the arms, etc., was superadded.2 I have already presented many examples in which death resulted in the same way, that is, by paralysis of the respira- tory muscles in consequence of ascending myelitis. In the following example, where the cauda equina was injured, death appears to have been caused in the same manner :— A corporal, aged 26, was wounded by a conoidal musket-ball, July 9, 1864, in the lumbar region, and on the next day entered general hospital. Three days after that, incomplete paraplegia set in. He suffered at times from excruciating pains at the seat of the wound and in the lower extremities. Anodynes were freely given. Sphincter ani muscle paralyzed; patient delirious at times; pulse slightly accelerated. Death resulted on the 18th. Necroscopy The missile had entered at a point midway be- tween the anterior andj posterior spinous processes (upper) of the ilium, one inch below the crest, passed inward and backward, chipped the sacrum at its posterior superior angle, fractured the fourth lumbar vertebra, and lodged in the spinal canal; condition of the cauda equina and membranes not reported.3 The symptoms clearly indicate 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 446. 2 Op. cit., p. 37. 3 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 447.