ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. 371 longation were perfect and uninterrupted, the added cartilage would form a tube surrounding the neck of the bone,1 while a similar outgrowth from the edge of the acetabulum would inclose that tube in yet another one. This growth at the edge of cartilages may be termed marginal hyperplasia; the outgrowths rapidly ossify. But mingled with this process, lines and intersec- tions of fatty degeneration and atrophy occur, in such wise as to divide the added parts into irregular masses of somewhat square, hexagonal, or rounded shape, which thus come to form nodosities, or larger craggy conglomerations about the margins and surroundings of the joint (“ additamentary bones”). But in the mean time, wherever pressure occurs, atrophy of the cartilage prevails; in some parts by fatty degeneration of the cells, enormous exaggera- tion of the corpuscles, and peculiar, coarse fibrillation of the hyaline substance. In other parts, the cartilage seems to disappear simply by encroachment of the bone from the deep surface. The outcome of these difficult and complicated changes is, however, quite simple, viz., disappearance of the articular cartilage; the bone is left bare, while by the marginal hyperplasia the amount of con- tact-surface is largely increased. The bones undergo very remarkable changes of constitution and of form, produced by an intermixture of hypertrophy and of atrophy. Both these actions are of two sorts—interstitial and dimensional—producing respectively condensation or rarefaction, and increase or decrease of size. The combina- tion of these two acts is influenced by pressure-friction, which produces by its irritant effect interstitial hypertrophy, and by its wearing effect dimen- sional atrophy. In other words, all hardened or condensed portions are undergoing “ usure” or wasting, while all outgrowths and dimensional enlarge- ments are at the same time rarefied. The former are all situated where the juxtaposed bones press and rub on each other; the latter on the margins of articular surfaces where no pressure exists, until the outgrowths from the different bones come into contact. This sort of induration is not quite the same thing as an osteo-sclerosis, produced by an ordinary osteitis, and consisting of an orderly increase of the bone elements within a given space. The induration of arthritis deformans is, on the contrary, produced by the deposit of lowly organized bone-salts, in the form of an effusion among, rather than of assimilation into, the bone- tissue imparting to the structure an appearance like porcelain, whence the name “ porcellanous deposit.” Mr. Quekett long ago pointed out the mechanism of this change, and of the high polish which such surfaces receive. In these places, “ I found,” he says, “ that the bone was more than usually dense, and that there was an almost total absence of Haversian canals, which made the bone more dense; this led me to speculate on the cause of this porcellanous deposit. Recollecting that the French polisher (when he wishes to give a fine polish to rosewood, mahogany, or any other woods which have an open grain) first fills up the pores in the wood with some wax or resinous material, and then polishes, whereby a fine lustre is obtained, etc.” To this account I must add that the deposit is quite superficial, reaching hardly of an inch below the surface, and that it never is found save where two hones rub together. Thus, the friction which afterwards produces the polish, causes by its direct irritant action the effusion of the lime-salts. Fur- thermore, these .spots of polished, porcellanous structure are here and there formed of cartilage that has been ossified and partly worn away; here and there of the somewhat hypertrophied bone. Wherever and liowTever formed, The hyperplasia is never thus equal and uninterrupted on all sides ; but we will leave the matter so for the present, pointing out in future wliat it is by which the hyperplasia is inter- rupted and modified.