INJURIES OF THE BACK. G70 3 New Sydenham Soc. Bien. Retrospect, 1871—72, pp. 202, 203. 4 Ibid., p. 204. other. Hennen, indeed, remarks that “simple incised wounds on the back of the neck, although sometimes penetrating to a great depth, and even un- covering the vertebral arteries, are not beyond the reach of simple bandage, and retention by adhesive strips and sutures; feebleness of the extremities, particularly the lower, is a more frequent source of complaint, in these cases, than hemorrhage.”1 Nevertheless, there are many cases on record in which stabs in the nape of the neck opened one of the vertebral arteries, and thus gave rise to most disastrous consequences. Dr. Kocher, of Berne, relates an excellent example of this sort, in Langenbeek’s Archives ;2 and he remarks that it is the twenty-first recorded case of traumatic aneurism of the verte- bral artery. In twelve of these twenty-one cases, the wounds were stabs. In ten cases the result was fatal before any pulsating swelling appeared. In eleven cases where life was prolonged until there was pulsating swell- ing, but two recoveries occurred.3 Thus it appears that flesh-wounds in the nape of the neck which involve either of the vertebral arteries are ex- ceedingly dangerous to life, that the ratio of mortality for this lesion has, hitherto, exceeded 90 per cent., inasmuch as nineteen out of twenty-one recorded cases have proved fatal, and that the surgical treatment of this form of injury is a subject of very great importance to practitioners as well as to patients. It may be useful to state in this connection the chief causes of this striking want of success. In eleven cases, the carotid artery was tied, through error in diagnosis, and this operation probably rendered the evil greater, by increasing the blood-pressure in the wounded vertebral artery; indeed, in two of the cases thus operated on, the patient died of violent hemorrhage from the seat of injury; and in three other cases belonging to the same category, death occurred from bursting of the aneurism. In five instances, the ligation of the carotid was followed by paralysis that proved fatal. Liieke, in a case where the aneurismal swelling increased rapidly after ligating the carotid, injected into the sac chloride of iron, and also applied plugs saturated with the perchloride; the patient, however, died with symp- toms of paralysis. Maisonneuve, in a case of gunshot wound, tied both the vertebral and the inferior thyroid arteries,and extracted the missile. The bleed- ing was arrested, but death ensued from the infiltration of pus into the spinal canal, and consequent inflammation. One patient died of septicaemia follow- ing suppuration of the connective tissue of the neck. In several cases there was hemorrhage that resulted in death.4 But, as stated above, an error in diagnosis, a mistaking of the wounded artery for a branch of the carotid with consequent ligation of that vessel, was by far the most frequent cause of failure in treating these cases; and, inasmuch as such errors in diagnosis are avoidable when the likelihood of their occurrence is borne in mind by sur- geons, there is good reason to hope that much better results will hereafter be achieved in treating flesh-wounds in the nape of the neck which involve either of the vertebral arteries. But flesh-wounds of the posterior cervical region may lay open other arte- ries of importance as well as the vertebral, for instance, the profunda cervicis, a branch of the subclavian, the arieria princeps cervicis, a branch of the occi- pital which inosculates freely with the profunda cervicis, and even the occi- pital artery itself. In Dr. Ivocher’s case it was, at first, uncertain whether the vertebral or the deep cervical was injured; but the occurrence of hemor- rhage on removing the dressing, and the result obtained by introducing a finger into the wound as far as the transverse processes of the vertebrae, 1 Principles of Military Surgery, p. 285, Am. ed. 8 Archiv fiir klin. Chirurg., Bd. xiii. S. 867.