244 INJURIES OF BONES. of contrast. Those of the “ V-shaped fracture” are: projection, but not generally very marked, of the up- per fragment; pain, utter loss of power, swelling, ecchymosis; mo- bility and crepitus only at the seat of the oblique fracture, the hone as a rule not being noticeably separated at the fissures. General tenderness always exists along the whole course of the fracture. Effusion occurs rapidly into the ankle-joint. In “ Pott’s fracture” there is gen- erally very marked deformity, the ankle being bent as in the cut (Fig. 623), and very movable until effusion has taken place in the joint. Ecchymosis occurs gradually. Fractures of the lower portion of the leg, involving both bones, usu- ally unite well, although some cases of non-union in this region are upon record, and sometimes consolidation takes place but slowly. In cases of Pott’s fracture, unless the deformity is effectively remedied by treatment, the ankle remains permanently distorted, in a position similar to that of talipes valgus, and for a long time there is serious difficulty in walking. Sometimes, however, even when the bones have united in bad position, there is ultimately a much better result than might have been expected. The treatment of fractures of the leg has long been recognized as a matter of great importance, and to describe all the contrivances for the purpose which have been brought forward would be a formidable task. I shall en- deavor to give an idea of the principles to be carried out, and of the chief methods proposed for so doing, dwelling especially upon those which are of most practical value. As in most other fractures, the main points are the correction of the defor- mity, the restoration of the normal shape of the part, and the maintenance of the limb in this condition until the fragments shall have become firmly united. Sometimes the reduction is accomplished with ease, but sometimes it pre- sents great difficulties. When the fragments are very loose, the distal por- tion of the limb dangling and very movable, the replacement is, as a rule, easier than when, though the displacement is less marked, the two portions of the tibia are interlocked. Very oblique fractures are sometimes attended with great overlapping, but this may be rectified without much trouble; its recurrence, however, can scarcely be obviated, except by well-adapted means, carefully applied. Angular deformity is in general overcome by gentle manipulation, and ought not to be permanent under proper treatment. The rotation of the lower portion of the leg outward or inward must be carefully corrected, and in so doing the surgeon should make sure that both bones are placed in pro- per line; otherwise the tibia may be straight, but the fibula bent so as perhaps to give the patient a limp in his gait. It will readily be seen that the reduction should be effected at the earliest possible moment, for two reasons: in the first place, because the swelling which soon ensues increases the difficulty of the procedure, and prevents the surgeon from judging how far he has succeeded in accomplishing his object; and secondly, because the resistance of the muscles is greater the longer the Fig. 623.