709 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRA. paraplegia, coming on some little time after a violent contusion or sprain of the hack, the paralysis appearing first in the legs, and extending upward ay ith more or less rapidity, according to the nature of the case. At all events, these are the phenomena which Avere observed in both of the instances men- tioned by Le Gros Clark, as well as in that which I have myself recorded. . Treatment.—Should the surgeon be able to make a differential diagnosis in a case where this accident has occurred, it may be advisable for him to pre- scribe the fluid extract of ergot in doses of thirty drops every four hours, or the acetate of lead in doses of tAvo grains every hour or two, with a view to suppress the bleeding. In cases where the hemorrhage has ceased, it will generally be advisable to administer potassium iodide in doses of ten grains every eight hours in simple syrup, Avith a view to promote absorption of the effused blood. Quiet should be enjoined, and measures, should be employed to prevent the occurrence of spinal meningitis and myelitis. II. INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Dislocations of the Vertebral The traumatic lesions to which the several pieces of the spinal column are exposed consist, (1) of pure dislocation, (2) of 'pure fracture, and (3) of disloca- tion combined with fracture. Experience has shoAvn that, leaving gunshot wounds of the vertebrae out of the account, pure dislocation occurs quite as frequently as pure fracture, and that dislocation combined with fracture is met with much oftener than either of them; and, perhaps, almost as fre- quently as both conjoined. For instance, Professor Porta found in 27 cases, pure dislocation in 7, dislocation complicated with fracture in 14, Avith 6 recoveries, so that there could not, by any possibility, have been more than 6 examples of pure fracture. Dissection Avas practised in 20 of the -I fatal cases, that is, in all but one. The fracture complicating the dislocation was often so slight as not to be distinguishable until the autopsy revealed it. Again, Mr. Bryant found in 17 cases where the nature of the injury was verified by post-mortem examination at Guy’s Hospital, during a period of five years Avliile he Avas officiating as surgical registrar, that 6 were.instances of pure dislocation, 3 of pure fracture, and 8 Avere examples of dislocation and fracture combined. Clear views on this subject are of practical importance, because pure dis- locations of the spinal column are, as a rule, more amenable to treatment than corresponding fractures Avith a like degree of displacement. In the latter cases, the spinal cord is apt to be scratched and torn by the sharp points and edges of the fracture-splinters and fragments, in addition to being- compressed by the displacement of bone. The late I )r. D. S. Conant, of bay- York, reported a case of fracture of the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar ver- tebrae,1 in Yvhich the patient lived six days, the spinal cord being divided by a splinter from the first lumbar vertebra, and not by displacement of the vertebra itself. It. might Avell be that an apparently hopeless case of spinal dislocation could be saved by reducing the luxation, Yvhile a case of fracture involving the same part, AYTitli a similar amount of displacement of bone and paralysis of body, would not be saA7ed by a like proceeding; and that, too, 1 American Medical Times, 1861, pp. 359, 360.