51 GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. which the patient is to lie, and the approaches to it, and should so direct the bearers that there shall be no awkward changes or turnings to be made in reaching it. The best kind of bed is a narrow one, with a firm mattress on top ; it makes very little difference whether there are feathers, straw, or springs below, provided that they give a good and equable support. The surgeon still taking charge of the injured limb, the patient should now be lifted firmly, promptly, and gently, and laid on the bed in such a position that the fracture can be gotten at with facility for the purposes of examination and dressing. It will readily be perceived that all these manoeuvres will be much easier in the case of a child, a light person, or one who can help himself somewhat, than under opposite circumstances; they may present extreme difficulty if the patient is very heavy, or otherwise infirm and helpless. Sometimes, as already said, all this has been done before the arrival of the surgeon; or the accident may have taken place in or close by the patient’s house. In either case, the next step is to remove the clothing, and examine the injury. Often it is better simply to rip or tear the clothing away ; but to poor people this may be a serious affair, and one to be avoided if possible. Under such circumstances everything should be loosened, and the sound arm or leg first stripped, when the rest is an easy matter. Too often the patient is needlessly exposed, and may take cold ; lie should be at once covered up with blankets or any other convenient wraps. The surgeon should next carefully examine into the nature and extent of the injury, if he has not already done so. If his previous investigation has satisfied him on these points, he may keep the temporary dressings in place until he has prepared those which he intends to apply. Not unfrequently anaesthesia is required to facilitate this inquiry, as well as the correction of displacement—the setting or reduction of the fracture. Much pain may be thus saved to the patient, and the surgeon’s task is rendered easier by the abolition of muscular resistance. Reduction.—It is now an established rule in surgery, that the reduction of a fracture should be effected at the earliest available moment. Otherwise the muscles become shortened, and not only the difficulty of the procedure itself, but the risk of inflammation and of other unpleasant symptoms, from the pressure of the fragments upon vessels or nerves, may be rendered much greater. The process of setting or reduction consists simply in the overcoming of whatever displacement of the fragments may be present, and restoring the normal shape of the bone as accurately as possible. Very generally the de- formity, as mentioned in a preceding page, is somewhat complicated ; so that the broken ends may have overlapped, or may be engaged together by their irregularities, and at the same time not only placed at an angle, but rotated in reference to one another. When there are two bones, as in the forearm or leg, and both are fractured, it will readily be seen that the different frag- ments may become so entangled, either with one another or with the inter- osseous membrane, as to present a condition equally difficult to recognize and to correct. In some cases a broken bone may be set with scarcely any trouble to the surgeon, or pain to the patient; but occasionally-—-rarely, it is true—the displacement cannot be corrected by any available means. Between these two extremes there are innumerable gradations. The amount of difficulty encountered is by no means proportioned directly to that of displacement; on the contrary, a very slight change in the relation of the broken ends may be so maintained by the interlocking of their serrations as to baffle every effort