175 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. make this statement from the examination of a number of eases treated by most able bands on this plan. Hays’s splint, a mere temporary substitute for Bond’s, is open to the same objection. Hamilton uses a splint on the same principle, but padded with horsehair, kept in place by a sack-like envelop. He employs a dorsal splint also. Fig. 613. Bond’s splint for fracture of the radius. A number of years ago a splint was made by Carr, a surgeon in New Hampshire, which consisted of a slip of board to fit along the palmar surface of the forearm, narrowing at the wrist, and having nailed across it, by way of palmar block, a cylindrical bit of wood like a section of broomstick (which, I believe, the first one really was). Very good results are said to have been obtained with this, and it is certainly correct in principle. More elaborate and complicated contrivances, on the same general plan, but with adjustable blocks, have been made by others. Coover’s splint, shaped out of wood, so as to fit the palmar surface of the Fig. 614. Cooyer’s splint for fracture of the radius. forearm and hand, is sold in pairs, and of various sizes. I have repeatedly used it with great satisfaction. Levis’s splint, made of tin, answers a very good purpose; its shape and mode of use are shown in the cuts, Figs. 615 and 616. A very similar one, of what material is not stated, is described as having been exhibited by Schede, of Hamburg, at a recent congress of the German Society of Surgery.1 Gordon’s splint deserves mention, although it is awkward in appearance; it consists of a board for the palmar surface of the forearm, with a block along its radial side, filling up the natural concavity of the part. This board extends only as far as the flexure of the wrist, the hand hanging free and tending to adduction. A shaped, dorsal splint, and straps and buckles, com- plete the apparatus. Both by its contriver and by others it is said to have been found efficient. Much bolder plans, allowing more liberty to the limb, have been proposed and employed, it is said, with good results. Moore, having effected reduc- tion in the manner before mentioned, applies a small roller firmly over the 1 Gaz. Medicale de Paris, 19 Aout, 1882.