952 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. posture, as advised by I)r. Walker, of Peterborough;1 or during horizontal ex- tension, or extension by ail inclined plane. I would most strongly advise the application of the jacket while the patient is in the prone position, extension being maintained by the inclined plane upon which he lies. The prone pos- ture itself tends to lessen the deformity, and to remove the diseased parts from mutual pressure. Some few details in the application of the jacket itself may be here men- tioned. The vest worn next to the skin must be drawn well down during the application of the plaster bandages, and to effect this end Sayre advises it to be fixed temporarily beneath the perineum. The bandages are made of some loosely-woven material, such as crossbarred muslin, mosquito-netting, or crinoline, and are advised to be about 3 yards long and from 2£ to 3 inches wide. The plaster is to be rubbed into the bandages, which are to be rolled up and then dipped into a basin of water before use. As the plaster so soon spoils, it is well for the bandages to be prepared on the spot for each case as required. During the application of the bandages, an assist- ant should, with a moist sponge, keep the plaster smooth, and may add, with his hands, a little dry plaster here and there where required. Sayre ad- vises the use of longitudinal strips of tin, that are to be included in the folds of the bandage. They certainly add to the rigidity of the jacket with- out greatly increasing its weight. Little pads of cotton-wool are to be placed over the iliac spines and any other bony prominences. In the case of females, a pad should be placed over the breasts, to be removed when the jacket is rigid. The “dinner-pad” must not be omitted. This consists of a wedge- shaped pad, inserted beneath the vest over the lower part of the abdomen, with the thin edge of the wedge downwards. It is removed when the jacket is dry, and leaves a potential space between the jacket and the skin. When a discharging abscess exists in a part that would be covered by the jacket, Sayre advises an opening to be made in the following manner: “A piece of oil-silk having been placed over the sinus, a hole should then be cut in the shirt, in order to indicate the size of an opening to be subsequently made in the plaster jacket; and in this hole should be set a folded piece of pasteboard of the same size, and carrying a long sharp pin thrust through its outermost leaf. Xow, each turn of the bandage can be carried over the pin without forcing it into the abscess cavity below, and the surgeon is furnished with a guide in making an opening that will lead directly to the diseased surface. When the plaster has nearly set, the bandage should be cut away around the pin until the pasteboard is reached, and an opening made of sufficient size to allow of its easy removal. The oil-silk, which is then exposed, should be starred, or cut into strips from the centre, so that when the strips are reversed they will cover the edges of the opening in the plaster, where they can be glued down with gum-shellac.”2 When once applied, the jacket may be kept on for one, two, or three months, or until it becomes so weakened as to be useless. In some of Sayre’s cases the jacket was kept on for periods varying from seven to twelve months. This practice is to be condemned upon the grounds of the simplest hygiene, and I think that in no case should the same jacket remain on the patient for a longer period than twelve weeks. The difficulty as to cleanliness, in cases where jackets are long retained, is, to some extent, met by the ingenious plan of drawing the old undershirt off while a new one is drawn on without dis- turbing the plaster jacket. This is effected by attaching the new shirt to the 1 See British Medical Journal, Dec. 1878. For an account of Mr. Willett’s method of suspen- sion in the prone posture, see St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xiv. 2 Spinal Disease and Spinal Curvature, p. 19. London, 1877.