INJURIES OF BONES. 144 and inner angle of the lower fragment past the corresponding portion of the upper fragment, whether behind it or in front of it. Allis’s method, putting the forearm in extension, with the normal angle maintained, and keeping the limb in this posture by means of the plaster-of-Paris or starched bandage, or other form of immovable apparatus, is a very sound one in theory, and no doubt has given good results. But I believe that the same advantage may be gained by other means, and perhaps with more comfort to the patient, if only the normal shape of the joint be borne in mind. Any one may readily satisfy himself, by inspection of a sound arm, of the obliquity of the anterior fold of the elbow; and a glance at the skeleton of the limb will show that the line between the bones corresponds with the furrow in the skin. The means of preventing stiffening of the elbow will be spoken of here- after. Now, as to the special plans of treatment of these fractures, they may be classed as those without apparatus, those with apparatus for maintaining flexion, and those with apparatus for keeping the limb extended. The principle of treatment without apparatus is merely to suspend the limb in a sling, the elbow being flexed, and to favor a certain amount of change of angle of the joint, in order to obviate stiffening. I have heard the opinion expressed by a surgeon of large experience and high reputation, that the formation of a false-joint near the elbow was by no means a misfortune; he had seen a number of cases of permanent disability from anchylosis of the joint, the fractures having united. But I do not believe that it is necessary to run the risk of deformity by leaving the joint uncontrolled, lest it should stiffen ; nor does it seem to me that the favoring of a pseudarthrosis to take the place of such a joint as the elbow, is a good surgical procedure. The only proper aim, in dealing with the cases in question, must be to obtain union of the fracture, and to preserve the mobility of the elbow; and my conviction is, not only that these ends can in the majority of instances, by due care and attention, be accomplished, but that any other course would justly fail to receive the approval of the profession. Various plans have been proposed and adopted for treating these fractures in the flexed position. By some surgeons, a rectangular splint has been employed, extending along the whole posterior surface of the limb; and to this Sir Astley Cooper added an anterior arm-splint to correct the angle forward. Pliysick’s splints, also rectangular, and applied along the lateral surfaces of the arm and forearm, had for many years a popularity in this country, due more to the name of their advocate than to the excellence of the results obtained with them. To these succeeded the anterior angular splint, somewhat hollowed to fit along the front of the arm and upper surface of the supinated forearm. Physiek’s splints, as used by him, and I believe by all of his followers, were made of wood: for the others, wood, tin, binders’ board, gutta-percha, and felt, have been employed. My own practice has been to use binders’ board, shaped as shown in Fig. 608, giving the lower edge of the part applied to the front of the arm an obliquity corresponding to that of the crease at the bend of the elbow, and bevelling it oft’ so as to avoid painful pressure on the skin. The advantage obtained in the pressure of the upper part of the lower fragment backward, while the olecranon is pushed forward by the projection at the angle of the splint, bent around against it, has seemed to me to be very great. Another plan, which I think would answer well, although it has never to my knowledge been employed, would be to place the forearm-in a state of flexion at a somewhat acute angle, keeping the hand semiprone, and directed a little outward, so as to maintain the normal angle before referred to. In this way