TUMORS. 590 depend, not on the structure of the tumor, but on the importance of the parts which it attacks. Neuroma or Nerve-Tumor. This is a tumor consisting of nervous tissue, either ganglionic or fibrous. Here it is necessary to point out a distinction which must be clearly under- stood and borne in mind through the whole consideration of this subject. A neuroma is not merely a tumor of a nerve, or a tumor of the brain or spinal cord, but is essentially a tumor of nervous tissue. It would scarcely be necessary to draw attention to this distinction, were it not that the term neuroma has been misapplied to tumors occurring in the course of nerves, and especially to fibromas of nerves, so that many persons, hearing it employed, accept it in that, rather than in its true, sense. The tumors which are composed of ganglionic tissue have been termed medullary, a bad term, because, although it may be correctly applied in the present instance, it has been used in other senses when applied to tumors. The term ganglionic is for this reason alone to be preferred. The tumors which are composed of nerve-fibres may be either medullated (myelinic), or non-medullated (amyelinic), according as they contain medullated or non- medullated fibres. True neuromas may grow in connection with any of the nerves, but are much more frequent upon the spinal than the cerebral or sympathetic. The ganglionic tumors occur in the brain, or, more properly, upon the brain, for they form small tumors in connection with the cortex. Nerve-tumors may, too, be heterologous. They have been found in the testes and ovaries, and in the sacral region. These tumors are not usually pure nerve-tumors, but mixed growths, consisting of several different tissues, among which nervous tissue forms one, but generally not the most important. A large number of the nerve-tumors are probably congenital, those of the nervous centres especially. The nerve-fibre tumors may occur at any age, but many of them are also probably congenital. Neuromas, of whatever kind, grow slowly, and, as a rule, do not attain a large size. The ganglionic tumors are usually very small, but the nerve- fibre tumors sometimes reach the size of a tennis ball, or even a larger size than this. Appearances after Removal.—The general characters of the nerve-fibre tumors are so like those of fibrous tumors, or of fibro-myomas, that it is impossible with the naked eye to make the diagnosis between them. They are usually very firm or hard, and inclosed in a fibrous capsule, and they present on section various arrangements of bands of fibres such as are common in fibromas. It is almost as difficult to make the diagnosis of a non-medullated nerve- tumor from the microscopical examination, for the very fine fibres, closely interwoven, very nearly resemble the tissue of some of the fibrous tumors. The difference may be recognized by coloring sections with gold, but this method is not usually adopted unless the presence of nervous tissue is sus- pected, or is especially sought for. Sections examined fresh, or colored with hsematoxylin, present no distinctive characters. Even the medullated tumors may be overlooked unless the examination be very thorough. The coloring of the axis-cylinders, and absence of color in the medullary sheaths, how- ever, is the feature by which the distinction may be made. The frequency with which nerve-tissue is mingled with other tissues, and the abundance of