319 STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. ment and pressure should be centrifugal; but I cannot credit such great differ- ences of effect as are said by some to follow slight variations of the method. Passive movement is invaluable in two conditions—either as a means of stirring into healthy action an indolent tissue that will neither consolidate nor become absorbed, or for preventing close and stiff anchylosis when tissue is consolidating. Used for the former purpose, we should be perfectly sure that actual inflammation has subsided, and should always begin the method cautiously, both as to range and duration. It may advantageously be com- bined with rubbing, and the limb must be returned to the splint and absolute rest as soon as the sitting is over. The advent of pain or additional swell- ing, for the joint should be measured before the next attempt, should cause postponement for awhile of the treatment. The other object of passive movement, viz., to obviate fixity of the joint as much as possible during the consolidation of inflammatory products, is a most important part of rational treatment. This may lie intrusted, under surgical direction, to a rubber; but it is preferable to let the patient also take part in the movements,1 as thereby a certain amount of active muscular exercise is likewise obtained. Thus a great deal may be done by attaching a weight to the limb, and letting it swing. For the knee, a weight of from one to three pounds may be tied below the sole by a bandage or napkin; the patient, seated on a table, lets the weight swing, lifting it a little higher at each gyration, day by clay. This brings the leg towards flexion. If it is to be brought to extension, the patient may lie prone upon a sofa, with the lower half of the leg projecting beyond the end, and the weight may be secured in front of the ankle; he is to lift the weight a few inches by the power of the hamstring muscles, and let it fall again, alternately. For the ankle, an ex- cellent plan is to let the patient place the foot on the treadle of a lathe or sewing machine, kept in motion by another person. Sometimes it is neces- sary that he should steady the knee by pressure with the hands. It is not needful to describe the simple devices for applying these principles to the joints of the upper limb. The treatment of abscess must, to some degree, depend on its position out- side or inside the joint, and also on its more or less rapid formation, especially with reference to the condition of the surrounding parts. An abscess which forms rather slowly within the much contracted joint-cavity, should only be treated by incision or puncture either when tension becomes consid- erable, or when the pus has pretty nearly approached the surface; in either case, the abscess should be evacuated after one of the methods to be imme- diately described. Adjacent and neighboring abscesses should be emptied when detected, more especially if the deterioration of the health, and the increased softness and bogginess of the tissues, give evidence that more of the inflammatory tissue is about to give way. For the kind of pus contained in such abscesses—containing flocculi and tis- sue-debris—aspiration is useless, and it is better to open such collections with a straight, narrow bistoury, under pressure of an elastic bandage, in the manner already described (p. 274). But if the pus have formed quickly, and if a great deal of the granulation-tissue is evidently breaking down, the best method is to make a free incision, and to pass in the finger and remove from around the abscess all the suppurating and degenerated material; this may even be done on both sides of the joint. Some free oozing takes place at the moment, but by mopping out the cavity with sponges, soaked in a solution of chloride of zinc, forty grains to the ounce, and afterwards by using firm 1 Bonnet (Tlierapeutique des Maladies Articulaires) has described a number of mechanical contrivances, which, for the most part, are of no practical value.