SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 607 or calcifying, or fibrifying sarcoma, without obscuring its real nature. The term hemorrhagic, applied to a sarcoma, does not lead to confusion. But the term melanotic is not wholly free from objection, for there is a tendency to attribute to melanotic sarcomas properties which the uncolored tumors do not possess. The term pigmented is, on the whole, to be preferred, since it does not carry with it any further meaning or false impression. The terms osteo-sarcoma and osteoid sarcoma are absolutely indefensible. Some of the so-called transformations of sarcomas may be, and probably are, true combinations of sarcoma with other structures. Thus mucous tissue, cartilage, bone, and fibrous tissue, may all or any of them be combined with sarcoma, without necessarily having resulted from organization or degeneration of the natural tissues of the tumor. One of the most certain combinations is that of gland tissue with sarcoma. It occurs in such organs as the breast, where, with the formation of sarcoma-tissue, there takes place simultaneously a development of acini and tubes from the previously exist- ing glandular structures. It must be borne in mind that the combinations of glandular and other tissues with sarcoma are of very little clinical import- ance, for they exercise little or no influence on its course. However large the proportion of the developed tissue compared with the quantity of sar- coma-tissue present, the destructive power of the tumor will always depend on the sarcoma-tissue. In spite of the less settled character of the latter, its hold upon the individual is far greater than that of the developed tissue. The latter exercises no softening or benign influence on the sarcoma-tissue, but the sarcoma-tissue may, as it were, poison the more developed growth. Nevertheless, the combinations with other tissues often produce great alterations in the characters of a sarcoma. Even the combinations with glandular tissue, though not at first as evident as those with bone, or carti- lage, or fibrous tissue, may in time lead to macroscopic changes quite as striking, owing to the formation of cysts. The large cystic sarcomas of the breast are familiar to every practical surgeon, and sarcomas of the testicle containing cysts are scarcely less familiar. The formation of the cysts in these tumors from the glandular structures of each organ has repeatedly been traced, and at the present moment is hardly disputed by any pathologist. Sarcomas are prone to inflammation, and, but much more rarely, to suppura- tion. The signs of inflammation are sometimes so strongly expressed in con- nection with a quickly growing sarcoma, that the question of diagnosis may be affected. In some of these cases, the rapidity with which the tumor grows may suffice to explain the heat and pain of which it is the seat. In other cases the tumor actually becomes the seat of inflammation, or sets up inflam- mation amid the surrounding tissues. A sarcoma may ulcerate, and the character of the ulcer is, in some instances, significant of the nature of the disease. It is not merely a superficial opening through the skin, due to pressure, or to irritation and inflammation of the tumor, but the structures covering the tumor are, as in carcinoma, gradually infiltrated by the growth until the skin is transformed into sarcoma-tissue. The ulcer, when it forms, is then a cavity bounded on all sides by the tumor substance, out of which it may appear to have been scooped. But the surface of the ulcer sometimes puts forth large and prominent granulation-masses, so that there is a protrusion in the place of a depression. This is particularly noticeable in the cystic sar- comas of the breast, where a superficial cyst becomes filled with intra-cystic growth ; the skin covering the cyst at length gives way, and with it the cyst- wall ; and through the circular opening thus formed, the intra-cystic growth, still enlarging, protrudes as a soft, fungous mass, prone to bleed and slough. Around such a mass as this the skin is not generally adherent, but is thin