FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 231 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1032. the patella, and drawn down by another strap passing down from it, around the sole of the foot, and then up along the other side of the leg. An appa- ratus, very similar in principle, has lately been proposed by Levis, of Phila- delphia.1 A plan which has in my hands proved very satisfactory, is known as ban- born’s. Its peculiarity consists in the use of a strip of adhesive plaster along the upper surface of the limb, leaving a free loop just over the patella. Com- presses having been applied, and the ends of the strip secured by transverse strips and a roller, the loop is twisted up by means of a bit of stick passed through it, until the compresses are so drawn together as to bring the frac- tured Surfaces as nearly as possible into contact. The stick is then secured by tying its ends with a strip of bandage passed round under the back-splint. Of course the pressure can be increased at any time by twisting the loop up tighter, and can be lessened by untwisting it. "A number of appliances have been proposed, and a few of them have been extensively used, with semicircular or crescentic plates of metal, arranged to press against the upper and lower edges of the fragments, and to push them together. Of these, Lonsdale’s2 was the first; his plates were carried on arms attached to the back-splint, and by means of screws and nuts could be adjusted so as to produce the desired effect. I need hardly enumerate the other forms of apparatus based upon this idea, as they can be found described in readily accessible works, and have mostly had but an extremely limited use. Some of them are complicated, and others inefficient. Perhaps I may be permitted here to digress for a moment, and to say that this subject of the treatment of fractures of the patella affords a striking illus- tration of the fact that in surgical appliances and methods what is wanted is not power, not mere brute force, but exact adaptation. Much ingenuity has been expended upon the invention of apparatus to overcome resistance which it is far better to evade than to oppose, to coax than to compel. An apparatus employed at the Middlesex Hospital,3 in London, seems to me to possess very great advantages, and I will quote the description of it in full:— “ A broad piece of moleskin plaster, cut out at one border, somewhat horseshoe- shaped, but with the ends ot the curve prolonged, is fixed to the thigh, so that the curved edge is level with the normal position of the patella, and is retained by means of a few turns of roller. Next the limb is fixed upon a well-padded McIntyre or simple wooden back-splint having a foot-piece. Then the lower fragment of the patella is fixed by means of a pad of lint and broad strip of adhesive plaster applied figure-of-8 fashion around limb and splint; and the bandage which confines the foot and leg to the splint is continued upward as far as this pad, which it assists in fixing. To the pro- longed ends of the moleskin plaster are sewn pieces of bandage (pieces of moleskin plaster of different sizes cut to the right shape, and having the pieces of bandage fas- tened on, are always kept ready) which are attached in turn to India-rubber accumu- lators, one on each side of the leg ; each of the accumulators at its lower end is fastened to a piece of bandage, and these are tied together below the foot-board of the splint. With a pad of lint at the upper border of the superior fragment of the patella beneath the free edge of the moleskin, the requisite amount of tension is obtained by tightening the tied pieces of bandage.” I am at present using this plan in two cases in my wards tit the Episcopal Hospital, and find it satisfactory. A very elegant, but very complicated arrangement for the use of weights and pulleys in coaptating the fragments of the broken patella, the invention ' Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. 980. 2 Treatise on Fraatures, p. 427.