20 INJURIES OF BONES. which the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint is inserted, which probably belongs in this class. He exhibited four specimens, all however taken from bodies in the dissecting-room, and with- out history. Callender, who I believe tirst gave the name of “ sprain-fractures” to these injuries,1 suggests that the bit of detached bone may remain held by its liga- mentous connection, but, failing to unite, may act as a foreign body, occa- sionally getting caught in the joint. Of this, however, there is no known instance. I have recently seen a case in which the tip of the inner malleolus was torn off in a fall on the ice ; whether it united or not I cannot say, but the injury was followed by very intractable lameness. Very little is as yet known in regard to this form of fracture, to which special attention has only re- cently been attracted; but the injury to the bone adds to the gravity of the case, renders recovery much slower, and may even cause permanent impair- ment of the functions of the limb. Such cases, there can be no doubt, have often been unrecognized. Crepitus may sometimes be detected, but may be wanting by reason of effusion into the joint or into the tissues, or because the small fragment is separated from the main portion of the bone. Any case of sprain or other injury about a joint should be carefully ex- amined with reference to the existence or non-existence of this form of frac- ture, and its possibility, or proof of its presence, should influence the surgeon in making and expressing a prognosis. Partial fractures are those in which a’ bone is so acted upon, either by direct or by indirect violence, that some of its fibres are broken, while the rest are only bent. Sticks are often broken in this way, especially when they are green and tough ; hence the name “green-stick”2 or “ willow” frac- ture has been given to this form of injury. And fractures of this kind are especially apt to be met with in the tough and resilient bones of the young, in whom, moreover, the periosteum is proportionately thicker and less apt to be torn through than in later life. Otto3 says that he has seen incomplete frac- ture in the radius of a lion, as also in the bones of animals of the deer kind. Reference may be best made here to the subject of bending of bones, about which there has been much discussion, some surgeons maintaining that it is common, and others that it is impossible. Without going into the history of the question, I may say that cases were long since observed, in which, generally in the forearm, distortion, or rather angular deformity, was noticed, but without any of the other signs of fracture to be presently described. Sometimes, indeed, there was pain, and always more or less loss of power; but not the helpless dangling of the limb usual in fracture. Hence it was claimed that the affected^ bones were not broken, but only bent. Experience, however, showed that whenever dissections were made in such cases, the lesion was found to be incomplete or partial fracture, as above described. It must be admitted that Hamilton4 succeeded in bending experimentally the bones of young animals; but this does not prove the possibility of such a thing in the human subject; and for practical purposes it is better to regard and treat cases of apparent bending as partial fractures. I believe, indeed, that this would be the true view of bending, if that were shown to exist; that is, that 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. 1870. * “There is also a curvedness which may he reduced to a fracture. I have seen it in children often It is as it were when you break a green stick ; it breaks, but separates not.”—Wiseman, “ Chirurgical Treatises,” vol. ii. book vii. p. 239, 6th ed. 1734. 3 Compendium of Human and Comparative Pathological Anatomy, translated by South. Lon- don, 1831. 4 Op. cit., p. 85.