DEFECTS IN THE PROCESS OF REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 43 4 L’Exp6rienee, 4 Nov. 1841. 6 Brit. Med. Journal, March 18, 1882. 6 Op. cit., p. 42. with in which the fragments remain movable; and the conditions of this failure to unite are now to be considered. These cases have been divided into those of delayed union, of dissolved union, of fibrous union, of complete separation of the fragments, and of pseud- arthrosis or false-joint properly so called. Delayed union is by no means uncommon. Scarcely a year passes that I do not see one or more instances in my hospital wards, and I have repeatedly been consulted about such cases in the private practice of others. It is not always easy to assign a cause for the failure, which may occur under the best treatment, and in persons seemingly of good general health. Porter1 speaks of having “seen two cases of fractured femur remain ununited at the end of five and six months, in the persons of fine and healthy young men, although the ends of the bones were kept in apposition, and in every other respect the treatment was correct.” I have myself seen union delayed oftener in the leg than elsewhere, and in some of the instances the fracture has been extremely oblique ; the patients have been for the most part male adults of the laboring class, of middle age; although one, in private practice, was a very young man in excellent circumstances, and rather remarkably robust. Although more frequent in men, delayed union is met with in women also, and among its constitutional causes pregnancy has been assigned by some writers a prominent place; but against the cases adduced in proof of this view must be set a great many in which the cure has been rapid. One such occurred to me at the Episcopal Hospital, in 1871.2 In like manner, the evi- dence is conflicting as to the influence of syphilis, of cancer (not affecting the bone itself), of paralysis, of old age, and of great losses of blood; as to all these, while there are instances on record of their apparent influence in retarding the union of fractures, there are enough in which they seemed to have no such effect, to make the matter at least doubtful. The reader will find these vari- ous cases detailed in the systematic works of Malgaigne, Gurlt, and others. Horris3 has discussed the subject at great length and very instructively. The influence of very long-continued low diet, and of the debility thus induced, in hindering the consolidation of fractures, is much more clearly proved. In two instances, one recorded by Thierry4 and the other by Poncet,5 the repair of fractures seemed to have been delayed by indulgence in sexual intercourse, and took place promptly on the withdrawal of the opportunity for such indulgence. Among local causes of delayed union there are some which seem to be un- questionable. Wide separation of the fractured ends, by a bad position of the fragments, or by loss of substance, may have this effect. Here there is more to be done, and nature takes longer to do it. The wonder is that union is not in some of these cases totally prevented. Norris6 says: “ In the case of a boy aged 12, who came under my care in the Pennsylvania Hospital in 1837, two inches of the tibia was removed, notwithstanding which he was discharged cured in eleven weeks, with shortening of the limb of but half an inch, the space occupied by the removed bone being filled by a firm and even callus.” When the fragments are widely separated, it is very hard to prevent some disturbance of their relative position ; and this may be sufficient to pull upon the as yet fibrous uniting medium, and interfere with its ossification, though not enough to induce actual inflammation. In like manner, an attempt 1 Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. i. p. 447. 1 Philadelphia Medical Times, Feb. 1, 1872. 3 Contributions to Practical Surgery, pp. 23 etseq. Philadelphia, 1873.