215 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. outer part of the shaft from the remainder, and thus completely severed the condyle-portion from the upper part of the bone.” The patient, a man aged fifty-nine, had fallen from the height of a ladder. Another specimen in the same museum,1 taken from a man aged thirty-five, who had also fallen from a height, shows a fracture about two inches below the trochanter major, besides “ a jagged, slightly comminuted fracture about three inches above the condyles.” Sometimes, as in two cases recorded by Hamilton,2 the long anterior point of the upper fragment projects so as to give trouble; in one of Hamilton’s cases resection was required in order to effect reduction. Spence3 has published an account of a very similar case, the sharp point of the upper fragment pro- jecting, covered merely by the skin, and with the patella apparently locked between it and the condyles. Reduction was attempted in vain, and the patient died on the fourth day, having sustained other grave injuries. It was then found that the bone had penetrated through the vastus extermls and crureus muscles, and the edge of the tendon of the rectus, on dividing which transversely, reduction became possible. The condyles were found to be separated and comminuted. Occasionally, the lower fragment is tilted down backward, as mentioned by Boyer, and observed much more recently by Erichsen, Bryant, and others; the displacement is ascribed by these surgeons to the traction exercised by the gastrocnemius muscle, which, it has been proposed, should be relaxed by division of the tendo Achillis. Three cases so treated have recently been placed upon record by Treves.4 I believe the cause of this rare displacement to be the upward pull of the muscles at the back of the thigh, forcing the lower fragment against the upper, by which it is aga-in pressed backward. I have cited from Hamilton a case in which the circulation was interfered with by the pressure of one fragment upon the vessels; Laurent5 quotes a case in which a popliteal aneurism was thus developed, necessitating ligature of the femoral artery. Injury to the peroneal nerve from like cause has lately been reported by Lauenstein.6 The symptoms and diagnosis of fractures of the lower part of the shaft of the femur need hardly be dwelt upon at much length. Pain, helplessness of the limb, swelling, deformity, and crepitus may be looked for. The main difficulty will be to determine the exact extent and direction of the lesion of the bone, and whether or not it involves the joint. For it must be remembered that even if an arthritis be not set up, there will still very probably be some effusion, and that this, along with the rapid swelling of the neighboring soft parts, will obscure the precise condition of the bone. I think that the degree of lateral mobility of the leg upon the thigh (the real point of motion being, however, above the knee) may be, to some extent, relied upon as indicating the state of the condyles ; if it is very free, they have probably suffered. Antestliesia should always be induced for the pur- pose of making this examination, which should be cautiously and gently conducted ; and if the question is not readily settled, it is far better not to be 1 Catalogue, p. 31, No. 1133s. 2 Op. cit., p. 489. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1848, from Monthly Journal and Retrospect of Medi- cal Sciences (Edinburgh), May, 1848. * British Med. Journal, Feb. 17, 188a. 5 Op. cit., Ohs. XXI. p. 36. the quotation is thus given in the Index Medicus for February, 1883 ; Bruch des Obersch- enkels oberlialb der Condylen, Dislokationdes unteren Fragmentes nach der Knie-kehle, mit Ver- letzung des N. peroneus ; Befreiung des Nerven durch Resektion des vorspringenden Knochen- fragmentes (fracture of thigh just above the condyles, displacement of the lower fragment toward the ham, with injury to the peroneal nerve ; freeing of the nerve by resection of the projecting portion of the bone.) Centralblatt fiir Chirurgie, Leipzig, 1882. I have not had access to the original account of this case.