634 TUMORS. nishes a large proportion of the sum total of all carcinomas, and the vulva and the uterus are more often affected than the penis, the scrotum, and the testicle. The large statistics published on these points in the death registers of various countries might he adduced to prove the truth of these statements, but they are not accurate enough in several points. The various kinds of malignant tumor are not sufficiently distinguished, and the certificates are often not based on examinations after death, in cases in which the precise seat and nature of the disease could only be discovered by an autopsy. In several parts which possess the same structure and function in males and females, carcinoma is much more prevalent in the former; this is the case in the tongue, the oesophagus, and, above all, in the lower lip. The difference is attributed to habits and conditions which are much more common in the stronger sex ; the habit of smoking undoubtedly predisposes to the formation of epithelioma of the lip, and it is a remarkable circum- stance that more than one of the few women who have suffered from this disease have been habitual smokers; the same habit, and the results of past syphilis and intemperance, tend to carcinoma of the tongue; dram-drinking and coarse habits of eating and drinking are thought to be powerful agents in producing carcinoma of the oesophagus. Although I quite admit that these are all agents in the production of carcinoma, chiefly, perhaps, by causing irritation and chronic inflammation in structures which are prone to carcinoma, it is difficult to believe that the enormous disproportion in the two sexes can be due solely to these causes, and I am driven to suspect the exist- ence of some other essential difference of which at present we are ignorant. Among the causes to which epithelioma of the tongue is probably in many cases rightly ascribed, is the rubbing or scratching of carious teeth. But carious teeth are as common in women as in men, and epithelioma from this cause ought certainly to be as frequently observed in one sex as in the other. Development of Carcinomata.—The manner in which a carcinoma is de- veloped from epithelium can be clearly discerned in the tumors of certain parts. Thus, squamous-celled carcinoma of the tongue is formed by prolife- ration of the cells of the deeper layers of the epidermis of the mucous mem- brane, and by the consequent ingrowth of the interpapillary processes into the subjacent tissues. In carcinoma of the antrum, the form of the mucous glands is often for a long time maintained, but their size is greatly increased, and the epithelium, in place of forming a thin lining for each tube or sac, is vastly thickened, and consists generally of several layers of cells, while the cells exhibit many signs of activity and proliferation. In carcinoma of the breast, a similar glandular arrangement can often be distinguished even when the dis- ease is far advanced, if not in the central, yet plainly in the peripheral portions. But the tumors of the breast which offer the greatest facilities for these re- searches, are the carcinomas which have been preceded by eczematous condi- tions of the nipple and areola. (Plate XXIII.) The activity and prolifera- tion of the epithelium of the nipple is continued into the mouths of the galactophorous ducts (Plate XXI., Fig. 27); the same activity and prolifera- tion can be traced along the ducts, in which the form of the cell is usually changed, and a spheroidal cell is substituted for the columnar cell which naturally prevails there (Plate XXI., Fig. 28); these morbid conditions are continued deep down into the substance of the mammary gland, where the sacs become similarly affected. Coincident with the changes in the ducts and glandular epithelium, increased vascularity and the collection of cells resembling leucocytes are observed in the connective tissue immediately sur- rounding the glandular apparatus. But no direct connection can be traced between the changes within the ducts and sacs and those without them, and