FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 203 it was the case of a man eighty-three years of age, who died on the twenty- fifth day after the accident, when it was found that the shaft of the right femur “had been clearly fractured at the junction of the middle with the lower third, and the extremity of its proximal end was driven to the extent of an inch and a half into the shaft of the distal portion; this process of im- paction splitting the shaft of the distal extremity of the bone, and producing a second fracture of the bone above the condyles.” The symptoms of fracture in the shaft of the femur are for the most part of a very pronounced character. Pain is not always present, although it is in- duced by any attempt at movement, whether active or passive; but there is total loss of power. Deformity is apt to be very marked, the fragments being- drawn up at an angle to one another, and the lower one generally rolled out- ward, the weight of the foot tending to throw it over on its outer side. Often the two broken ends are entirely separated at the anterior part, but posteriorly they are held together by the reinforcement of the periosteum by the strong intermuscular fibrous tissues attached along the linea aspera. This connection may be quite close, but sometimes even here the periosteum is stripped away to a considerable degree, so as to allow a good deal of play to the fragments, and admit of the occurrence of decided overlapping. Swelling quickly takes place, but from the great depth of the bone there may be but slight ecchymosis. Preternatural mobility at the seat of fracture is very perceptible; and crepitus is induced, of course, if the broken ends are rubbed together. Often a mere glance is sufficient to show the nature of the injury. The shortening of the limb, which strikes the eye at once from the position of the foot, may be verified by measurement between the umbilicus, or the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the inner malleolus, as compared with that on the sound side. However carefully made, this measure- ment is very apt not to be absolutely correct, partly because of the mobility of the skin, and partly because of the difficulty of getting exactly the same bony points on each side. But the matter is really one of small consequence, and it is sufficient if the fact of shortening is made out. Ordinarily the dif- ference between the two limbs strikes the eye at once, and may be from an inch to two or three inches. In one case (the reference to which has escaped me), no treatment having been instituted, the ultimate loss of length was four inches. Cases are occasionally met with in which both femora are fractured, and here comparative measurement is, of course, valueless. One such, occurring to a sailor at sea, is reported by Surgeon II. Smith, U. S. IN".1 Reference will be again made to this condition of things in connection with the modifications demanded by it in treatment. Sometimes the fever is repeatedly broken at the same point, as in an instance recorded by Humphry,2 in which a woman aged sixty had in 1856 the fourth fracture at the lower part of the bone, the first having occurred in 1847. Firm union took place, but only after the lapse of eighteen weeks. Grosselin3 mentions a still more remarkable case, in which a young man of twenty had broken his left femur six times in the course of twenty months. Confinement for three months, with the use of phosphate of lime, was resorted to, and the accident did not again occur. Fractures of the shaft of the femur are seldom attended with any serious complications. Hammick4 says that in simple fracture of the thigh he has never seen the large vessels wounded so as to endanger the limb ; but he has once seen tetanus. “ A filament of the anterior crural nerve was found 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1865. The same number contains an account of another case, in a child aged six, reported by Dr. A. Peter. 3 British Medical Journal, June 6, 1857. 3 Op. eit., p. 192. < Op. cit., p. 74.