ARTHROPATHIES FROM INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 427 The joint-malady then in its commencement (its benignant form) depends on a change in the nutritive condition—probably a profound disturbance in the functions of the vaso-motor nerves, which permits distension of vessels, arterioles, and venules, with great passive hypersemia—whence painless hut very considerable cedematous swelling, not merely of the joint, but of the whole limb. The condition is, in this benignant form, transitory, for the spinal disease itself is not progressive in a regular and uniform manner; the nerves supplying the vessels may regain their influence; the local disorder may gradually disappear. The malignant form commences in the same manner, but the nervous defect, and therefore the local troubles, are persistent; the disorders of nutri- tion continue, resulting, as we have seen, in such a condition of the bones that they break with the greatest ease, or become worn away wherever subjected to friction, as in the knee under the patella, or at the joint-ends, as in the humerus above depicted. When the heads of bones have thus become worn down, and when the edges of cavities have disappeared, luxation is very readily produced, especially when the ligaments and capsules also have become lax and softened by previous distension. Although, therefore, it is at the joints that the malady has chiefly been observed, this, probably, is merely because of their mechanical value in the functions of movement, and because of the mechanical effect of such motion. The diseased condition is not confined to the articulations, but extends to the whole mass of the bone—indeed to the whole limb supplied by that portion of the spinal cord which is in a certain state and stage of disease. At present, the peculiar central disease which produces arthropathies, has not been differentiated from the general changes of tabes. Many years ago Charcot believed that certain changes in the large cells of the anterior cornua might he the primary cause of these arthropathies, but changes very similar or identical with those which he indicated, have been found in ataxic patients without joint-affections. In one case of articular disease occurring very early, Westphal found the posterior columns degenerated (gray), but in most autop- sies no central lesions which in our present state of knowledge we can directly connect with the joint-disease, have been discovered. The assumption that there may be “ in the medulla oblongata a centre directly concerned in the nutrition of the osseous skeleton,”1 2 is as yet hardly within the range of scien- tific physiology. We must be content to leave the deeper pathology of all arthropathies originating in nervous disease or injury, till a larger number of facts shall yield a clearer clue to their interpretation. Symptoms.—The joints are liable to affection in this order of frequency: (1) knee, (2) shoulder, (3) elbow and hip equally. Small joints are rarely affected. The attack, always sudden, is ushered in by no prodromata save that, in some cases, a crackling in the joint, in some a severe bout of “ lightning pains,” in others a quick pain like a strong electric shock, causing a fall, have preceded the joint-attack. Prof. Pall and Dr. Buzzard connect acute visceral disturb- ances with the arthropathy, Ball having found that a quarter of the joint- troubled patients with tabes, 4 in 16, were also affected with crises gastriques? while Buzzard found 8 out of 21 who were thus affected. The proportion, eyen according to Buzzard’s figures, is too small to establish any close rela- tionship, especially as Westphal3 says that he has seen many patients without arthropathy suffer from similar visceral affections. Some morning, generally at the end of the first period of ataxia, the patient 1 Buzzard, Pathological Transactions, vol. xxxi. p. 268. 2 Gaz. des Hopitaux. 3 Loc. cit.