INJURIES OF THE BACK. 718 where the displacement of bone is not so great as to seriously compress the cord, however, life may be prolonged for many hours or many days, and even recovery may take place. For example:— A mason, aged 60,1 fell head-foremost from a height. He suffered from shock, and there was unnatural mobility of his head. He survived the accident, however, twenty hours. An autopsy showed dislocation forward of the atlas on the axis ; no fracture; the spinal cord was compressed by the odontoid process. (Ashhurst.) Again, a boy, aged 15,2 was injured by blows on the back of the neck, but paralysis did not supervene until four months afterward. One-half of a month later still, death ensued. An autopsy revealed dislocation forward of the atlas, with compression of the spinal cord. (Ash- hurst.) Moreover, in two cases mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables, where “ dis- location or displacement of the atlas” was diagnosticated, reduction by extension, etc., proved successful; and in one case of “ dislocation of the odontoid process” recovery also is stated to have taken place.3 In the case of a female patient, aged 45, where there was at least subluxation of the atlas from disease of the atlo-axoid articulation, Mr. Hilton says: “The head was inclined to fall forward, and, indeed, she found it impossible to keep it up without arti- ficial support of some kind. On pressing the head directly downward upon the spine, and attempting to rotate the head upon the spine, she could not bear it. She became nearly pulseless and fainted, and the limbs tremulous and agitated. We immediately placed her upon the floor of the room. I thought she was dead, but she very slowly recovered.”4 Still, this patient, in the end, regained good health after many months of treatment, which consisted mainly in absolute rest of the spine in bed with two large half-tilled bags of sand placed, one on each side of the head and neck, to prevent any lateral movement of the head, and a small, firm pillow put under the neck, to remedy the displacement of the atlas by raising the axis to the same level, thereby freeing the spinal cord from the impingement upon it of the odontoid process of the axis. The last-mentioned point in the treatment is of very great importance. Concerning it Mr. Hilton observes:— “ The patient was placed with her back flat on her bed. This position brought on extreme difficulty in her breathing. Whilst she was still in the recumbent position, and breathing with difficulty, I placed my hand underneath the neck, and lifted upward and forward that part of the spine. The sense of suffocation became at once dimin- ished (I had observed the same circumstance before in another patient who had disease of the highest part of the spine), and I had therefore a small, firm pillow put under- neath the neck, which supported it very perfectly. This is a very important fact, because I think I have known at least two persons who were destroyed in consequence of this little point not having been attended to.”5 Considerable space has been devoted to this example because of its intrinsic value in showing what the plan of treating this lesion should be, in cases of injury where life is not immediately destroyed, as well as in cases of disease. 1 Journal de Chirurgie, 1844. 2 Revue Mddico-Chirurg., t. xii. 3 The two instances, that are barely mentioned above, in which traumatic dislocation of the atlas was successfully treated by reduction, deserve additional notice: (1) A man, aged 60 (Malgaigne, Trait6 des Fract. et des Luxations, t. ii.), was injured by a bundle of hay falling on his head. His head was bent forward so that his chin touched the sternum, but there was no paralysis. A dislocation of the atlas was diagnosticated. Malgaigne (Senior) reduced the dis- location by making extension, and the man recovered. Two years afterward his head could not be turned. (2) A lad, aged 16 (Journ. Complementaire, t. xxxvi.), fell backward from a ladder, with a sack of flour over his head. He was unconscious, almost pulseless, and paralyzed. There was abnormal mobility of the head, and a prominence in front and to the left of the point of abnormal mobility. A displacement of the atlas was diagnosticated. Ehrlich effected reduction by applying extension and pressure. The success of his efforts was marked by an audible sound. Recovery ensued. 4 Op. cit., pp. 56-60. 6 Ibid., p. 58.