OSTEOMA OR OSSEOUS TUMOR. 579 The rapid growth of the latter, the large size it presently attains, its unequal consistence, and the much larger surface of bone to which it usually is attached, greatly assist the diagnosis. Osteomas are liable also to be mistaken for in- flammatory affections ; but the diagnosis may be made by observing that the inflammation affects the shaft of the bone rather than either end, and that the swelling is smoother, more diffused, and less prominent. Inflammatory affections of bones are, too, usually painful; osseous tumors little or not at all. Prognosis.—As the diagnosis of an osteoma is usually very easy, so is the prognosis very favorable. The tumor may be removed without fear of recur- rence, provided that its base be taken away; and even this does not seem absolutely necessary to insure against recurrence. Or the tumor may be left untreated without fear that it will affect lymphatic glands or be disseminated, and, in most cases, without fear that it will increase to a large size. The malignant osseous tumors are not true osteomas, but combination tumors, or sarcomas which are ossifying. They are therefore not included in this section, but in the section on sarcoma, to which they properly belong. Treatment.—An osteoma may be removed if it be increasing quickly in size, or if it cause pain or inconvenience, or threaten an important struc- ture in its further growth. One of the most frequent reasons for removal is the pain or inconvenience produced by the frequent hitching of a ten- don against an exostosis. This may necessitate the removal of a tumor of quite small dimensions from the upper end of the tibia, or from the lower extremity of the femur. Again, an osteoma of the upper jaw may be removed after many years of growth, because it grows upwards into the orbit, and causes great disfigurement or imperils the safety of the eye. The exostoses of the bones of the skull are, for the most part, beyond the reach of removal. And this, unfortunately, is the case also with many of the large, irregular, bony outgrowths of the bones of the face, which, projecting into the nostrils, orbits, or upwards into the cranium, produce horrible deformity, and damage important or vital structures. The danger incurred in the removal of these masses is usually greater than that of leaving them. Paget suggested, many years ago, that they should be exposed and treated by the application of powerful caustics in the hope of causing necrosis or caries, and ultimate slough- ing of the mass. I am not aware that this plan has ever been carried, out in the case of tumors of large size, nor does the operation appear likely to succeed so far as to procure the removal of any large portion of the growth. Cancellous exostoses of the long bones are usually very easily removed by means of a chisel or gouge, after thorough exposure of the base of the tumor, which should be cut away flush with the surface of the bone. The operation is not free from danger, for deep-seated suppuration is liable to occur, which delays the recovery, and may even prove fatal. The removal of a compact or ivory osteoma, even when it is easily accessible and not very large, is often exceedingly difficult on account of the extreme hardness of the tumor. The saw is a safer instrument than the chisel for such growths, especially when they are situated on the bones of the skull or face. Multiple exostoses need seldom be interfered with by operation, unless any of them are painful or very inconvenient. They almost invariably cease to grow when the stature of the patient is completed, if not earlier. As a variety of the osteomas may be described the tumors of the teeth to which the term odontoma has been applied. They may be composed of cement- substance, and may grow from the fangs of the teeth as overgrowths or con- tinuous outgrowths of the cement. Or, they may consist cinefly of a sub-