125 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. axilla, so that one branch of it shall be applied to the side of the chest, and the other along the inner side of the arm. This splint, well padded, may be secured by a bandage, which in the case of very restless patients may be im- bued with plaster of Paris or some other solidifying material. Such a splint was long ago recommended by Tyrrell, and has been more recently employed by Middeldorpf, Gely, and others. It is not needful to retain the arm in this position during the whole period of repair, but only for the first two or three weeks, after which a gradual lowering of the elbow may be effected without putting too much stress upon the newly-formed uniting material. When this splint is used, the binder’s board shoulder-cap may be dispensed with. In any case, the cap need extend no further over the shoulder than just to cover in the acromio-clavicular junction. I recently had a woman, aged 57, in my ward at the Episcopal Hospital, who had sustained a fracture of the surgical neck of the left humerus, and in whom the upper fragment projected into the axilla, while the lower was drawn up so as to overlap it at its outer side. I succeeded in overcoming this deformity by means of gentle pressure with a small, firm compress, held in place by a wide strip of adhesive plaster carried around the arm and up upon the shoulder (Fig. 606), the hand being, of course, supported in a sling. The ultimate result of the case I do not know. Fractures of the tuberosities admit of very little in the way of treatment, as the purchase afforded by the sepa- rated portions is so slight. The elbow, however, should be supported, and the arm placed and kept in such a position as may be found to correct the deformity most completely. When, along with fracture, there is dislocation of the head of the bone from the glenoid cavity, it becomes a question whether the dislocation or the fracture should be first treated. Cases might be cited in favor of either course; but it seems to me that, as a general rule, an effort at immediate reduction of the head of the bone ought to be made. Such a procedure is certainly difficult; but, on the other hand, the fragments can scarcely be brought into proper relation as long as the head of the bone remains out of the glenoid cavity, and the reduction cannot be easy if put off until after the occurrence of union. Indeed, from the cases quoted on a previous page, it must be evident that a change in the position of the head of the bone is very apt to occur even when there is no luxation. Should the reduction be found impos- sible, the shaft should be placed in the best attainable position for union between it and the head, in hope that after four or five weeks the attempt may be renewed, with the advantage of the leverage afforded by the length of the bone; although there may be adhesions, changes in the capsule, etc., as in other cases of old luxation, which may foil the best directed efforts. Hence, it must be evident that the prospect in cases of this kind is anything but encouraging. When, reduction being impracticable, the displaced head gives rise to serious trouble, the proper course is to excise it. Fracture of the shaft of the humerus is of very frequent occurrence, and is met with at all ages and in both sexes. An instance is reported by Lowen- hardt1 in which a fracture of the upper third of the left humerus took place 1 Am. Journal of tlie Med. Sciences, Jan. 1841 ; originally in Medizinisclie Zeitung, 6 Mai, 1840. Fig. 606. Application of com- press and adhesive plas- ter to overcome defor- mity in fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus.