769 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRiE. describing the treatment of luxations of the vertebrae, especially if the frac- ture be seated in the cervical region. The surgeon should make his diag- nosis as complete as possible, at his first examination of the case, in order to avoid the doing of harm by moving the patient to make any subsequent examinations. The patient should be placect on a water-bed; but, if it is not practicable to do that, upon a soft, thick hair-mattress. The fractured ver- tebrae should then be “ set,” that is, their fragments should be restored to as nearly a normal position as possible: (1) by attending to the patient’s posture in bed, for sometimes a dorsal or even an abdominal decubitus will quite remove the deformity, as well as greatly lessen the patient’s sufferings; (2) by em- ploying extension and counter-extension (whenever necessary), made with the hands of skilled assistants, at the same time coaptating the fragments with the hands; and (3) by applying extension continuously with weights, in cases where there is shortening of the spinal column. The following ex- amples are in point:— Malgaigne1 gives the case of a clerk, aged 22, who was treated by himself at the Hopital des Cliniques, in 1843. The man had fallen from a second story, alighting on his heels and buttocks. Both calcanea were fractured. The spinous process of the twelfth dorsal vertebra was also fractured, and displaced toward the right side. There was paraplegia with great pain in the back on motion, and it was thought that a lumbar vertebra was likewise broken. The patient was treated by rest in bed alone, and the paralysis gradually passed away. When he got up, the displaced spinous process had resumed its proper position. In some cases of vertebral fracture, the fragments readily subside into a nor- mal position when the patient is confined to bed in dorsal decubitus. This doubtless occurred in the example just mentioned. In other instances the deformity has been removed by making the patient lie on his belly, and a com- plete cure has been obtained by making him keep that posture until the frac- ture has united. Sir B. Brodie2 mentions the case of a boy, who was injured in the lower part of the back. There were fracture and displacement of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, and spinal paralysis. Attempts at reduction were made, and proved partially success- ful. After the first month, voluntary motion, as well as sensation, gradually returned. At the end of three or four months the patient was much relieved. Mr. Higginson3 mentions a case in which there was fracture, with displacement, of a dorsal vertebra. The patient was treated by extension, and recovery ensued. Mr. Luke4 relates the case of a man having fracture of the seventh dorsal vertebra. The displacement was corrected by making extension, and the reduction was accom- panied by an audible sound. Erysipelas, however, supervened, and caused death seven days after the accident. At the autopsy, the spinal cord was found to be softened and disorganized, and to contain purulent matter. The fatal issue of this case does not appear to have been in even the least degree due to making extension, and effecting reduction of the displaced frag- ments of the seventh dorsal vertebra. Moreover, I have not found a record of any case of spinal fracture in which the efforts at reduction proved at all hurtful. But reduction by extension is not to be employed in every instance ; certainly not in cases where the deformity can be removed by adjusting the patient’s posture in bed. Reduction by extension, however, is allowable when much deformity, and especially shortening, of the spinal column exists; and, likewise, when severe pain arises from the fragments of bone pressing upon 1 Treatise on Fractures, etc., p. 342. Packard’s translation. 2 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx. p. 159. 3 British Medical Journal, 1862. r Lancet, 1850. vol. iv.—49