683 GUNSHOT FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. patients, 27 are reported as having succumbed to tetanus' 33 to secondary hemorrhage, and 28 to gangrene. The fatal termination was ascribed to surgical or traumatic fever in 17 cases, to pyaemia or septicaemia in 67 cases, to pneumonia or hepatitis (probably instances of embolism) in 17 cases, to erysipelas in 8 cases, to typhoid fever in 31 cases, to diarrhoea and dysentery in 39 cases, and to peritonitis in 7 cases. In one instance the administration of chloroform, it was thought, caused the fatal result. Two patients died from diphtheria, two from smallpox, and 18 from various intercurrent dis- orders due to “hospitalism,” and not directly connected with the traumatic lesions. Dr. Otis makes the following observations, which may be of special interest to statisticians: “Analysis of this large series of gunshot flesh- wounds indicates that the mortality of these non-penetrating wounds has been over-estimated by some European writers of acknowledged authority in matters pertaining to surgical statistics. Making every allowance for errors, and admitting that the aggregate may have been swelled by the admission to hospital of trivial cases of wounds of the integuments, the pei’centage of mortality remains much lower for this group of injuries than has been here- tofore represented.”1 2 The foregoing exhibit of the causes of death which were noted in 12,681 cases of shot flesh-wounds of the back, shows that these lesions were but seldom mortal, unless septicaemia, pyaemia, gangrene, or tetanus (that is, traumatic spinal meningitis) supervened, or arterial hemorrhages occurred, which, doubtless, were not infrequently maltreated, and so proved fatal, as I have shown, on a previous page, was the case in numerous instances of incised and punctured wounds of the posterior cervical region. Nevertheless, sep- ticaemia, pyaemia, gangrene, tetanus, and maltreated arterial bleedings, were encountered with such frequency in this class of injuries as to make the em- ployment of special precautions against their occurrence a necessary feature in every plan of treatment. The destructive effects of “hospitalism,” and of exposure to infectious disorders, such as typhoid lever, smallpox, and diph- theria, were likewise observed with such frequency as to require the adoption of preventive measures. But flesh-wounds of the back, inflicted by small-arm missiles, usually— that is, in a large majority of instances—gave no particular trouble, and soon terminated in recovery. The following example will serve to illustrate this point:— Private John Cosgrove, Company F, Eighth U. S. Infantry, aged 23, was wounded March 17, 1869, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right side of his back near the fifth lumbar vertebra, passed forward and outward, and emerged immediately over the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. lie was admitted to the post hospital at Columbia, S. C., on the 18th. Simple dressings were applied, and in April he was returned to duty.3 However, the observations collected by surgeons in several different wars have shown that there are certain forms belonging to this group of injuries, which are particularly liable to prove troublesome in respect to manage- ment, and to be followed by imperfect recovery or physical disability. For instance, TIennen found that “extensive injuries, or the permanent lodgment of balls, gave rise to either death or incurable paralysis.”4 Stromeyer ob- served that, while shot flesh-wounds of the back did not in general exhibit 1 I have no doubt that most of these 27 fatal cases of so-called tetanus were, in reality, examples of traumatic spinal meniugitis, in which inflammatory irritation of the motor filaments produced tetanic spasms in the corresponding peripheral muscles. 2 Op. cit., p. 432. 3 Circular No. 3, War Department, S. G. O., August 17, 1871. 4 Op. cit., p. 350.