504 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. Fig. 726. phry, of Cambridge, Prof. Eriehsen, of London, and Prof. Gross and Prof. Agnew, of Philadelphia. This method consists in raising an anterior flap con- taining the patella, the base of the flap reaching to above the femoral condyles. The ligamentum patelke is divided in the first incision, when, the crucial and lateral ligaments being cut, the articu- lating extremity of the femur can be readily excised with a Butcher’s saw. The limb being then flexed and forcibly thrust upward, the extremity of the tibia can be made to protrude, and may be removed with the same instrument. This method makes a smaller wound than the H -shaped incision, but does not afford such free access to the joint. By far the best procedure, in my judgment, is that originally suggested by Park, in the postscript to his famous letter to Mr. Percival Pott, but which seems to have been first employed by Textor, Ivempe, of Exeter, and Sir Wil- liam Eergusson. It consists in making a single, transverse incision across the front of the joint, immediately below the patella, the extremities of the wound being carried well backwards, so as to ensure free drainage during the after- treatment. (Fig. 727.) When the limb is much contracted, as it often is in these cases, this incision, though made trans- verse to the axis of the tibia, forms, when the limb is extended, a somewhat obliquely curved wound with its convexity downwards, and thus really con- stitutes a flap operation. By dividing the ligamentum patelke, the joint is opened, and the surgeon then.proceeds to divide the lateral ligaments, and the crucial ligaments if any portion of these is remaining. The next step is to clear the condyles of the femur for the application of the saw, and it is here ordinarily recommended to dissect back all the overlying tissues, including the patella, which is subsequently removed from within; but this, in cases in which the parts are much thickened and infiltrated, is a very troublesome business, and when it is accomplished the result is not very satisfactory, for the cavity left by removing the patella almost invariably suppurates, and, as a consequence, abscesses form, and leave persistent sinuses above the wound. Moreover, all that is really needed as a covering to the bone is the skin and subcutaneous fascia, and hence in all my more recent cases I have simply dissected these back to the level at which I meant to apply the saw, and have then cut directly down to the bone, thus removing together the extremity of the femur and the patella, with the diseased tissues by which the latter is surrounded. For clearing the posterior surface of the condyles, I employ the strong probe-pointed knife with limited cutting edge, recommended by Mr. Erich- Excision of knee-joint by 6emilunar incision.