MECHANISM OF THE PRODUCTION OF FRACTURES. IS 3 Amer. Med. Times, July 21, 1860. 4 Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 25, 1852. affected, as in an instance recorded by myself'.1 Hydatids (cysticercus cellu- losie) are sometimes found in bone, and the first indication of the disease has sometimes been the occurrence of fracture without apparent cause.2 Still another set of cases are thus known, in which the bones give way un- der abnormal muscular action, as in epileptic or other convulsions. Lente3 has recorded an instance in which both femora were so fractured. Van Oven4 reported a fracture of the femur, by cramp coming on during sleep, in bis own person. Many other cases have been published, some of which will be hereafter referred to in connection with the special bones involved. As a general rule, if the muscular action be not clearly pathological, such as that exerted in epileptic states, it is sudden and forcible ; and the fact can often be demonstrated that the bones thus broken are taken at a mechanical dis- advantage. Sometimes, as I shall point out in regard to certain parts of the skeleton, there is a probability of leverage being the true explanation of these apparently causeless yieldings. It will therefore be seen that the term “ spontaneous,” if used at all, should be clearly understood either to refer only to the first of the classes of cases just enumerated, or to have a simply conventional meaning, namely, that the force producing the fracture is not obviously adequate to the breaking of a sound bone. For it cannot be imagined that turning in bed, for instance, or throwing a chip, should involve sufficient strain upon the structure of a normal femur or humerus to cause the fibres to give way. Indeed, in the first class of cases, it may be regarded as almost certain that some pathological change had taken place in the bones, although undetected ; the accounts do not state whether or not there was any further evidence of disease, but such a thing is quite possible. As to the third class, any one familiar with the fearful force of muscular action often manifested by patients affected with epilepsy or tetanus, will see the absurdity of applying the word “ spontaneous” to fractures occurring under such circumstances. Hothing ever occurs spontaneously, either in normal or in pathological phenomena; although it may be that the chain is not traceable without closer observation or clearer insight than is brought to bear upon it. Mechanism of the Production of Fractures. It has already been remarked that the main function of the bony skeleton, and of each of its component parts, is mechanical, and is carried on in accord- ance with the known laws of mechanics. Further than this, each bone is a member of a system, made up of two or more bones, united together by ligaments, and moved upon one another more or less freely by the action of muscles, so that the mechanical conditions involved are somewhat complex, and can only be arrived at by the study of the structure, form, and connec- tions of the members of each system. When the strain put upon a bone is beyond its power of resistance, its fracture takes place in obedience to the same laws, and under the influence of the same conditions. Hence, if any one studies a large number of fractures, placing them in series according to the portion of the skeleton involved, he may readily note a certain uniformity which prevails among the different members of each series. Variations do indeed exist, but they are traceable to differences, perhaps slight, in the char- 1 Malgaigne, Translation, p. 26. 2 Stanley, op. cit., pp. 190, 194 ; Wickham’s case, from London Medical and Physical Journal, vol. lvii.