SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 619 occasioned by the tumor. Sarcomas of the larynx are more often outgrowths than circumscribed and separable tumors; sometimes they are quite smooth, more commonly papillary or coarsely warty, sometimes foul and deeply ulcerated, like an epithelioma. They have no tendency to undergo meta- morphosis of structure, unless it be towards fibrous tissue, which is tolerably abundant in some of the tumors. The surface of the tumor is generally red, but may be yellow or gray when viewed with the laryngoscope. In its pro- gress, the tumor tends to affect the neighboring structures, and may invade and perforate the cartilages of the larynx, may attack the tongue, the palate, or the pharynx, or may involve the upper portion of the gullet. The glands are practically never affected. Only once were they enlarged in eighteen cases of which I have collected notes, and in that case the primary disease had passed completely through the thyroid cartilage, and had thus been brought in close proximity to the affected glands, Nor does there appear any greater proneness to dissemination; not even in the lungs, which are singularly well situated to receive blood returning from the affected part, and fragments of the growth carried down by the inspired air. By reason of this immunity from glandular affection and dissemination, the prognosis of sarcoma of the larynx is not nearly as unfortunate as that of the disease last discussed. If left to itself, naturally it will prove fatal, either directly by obstructing tbe entrance of air through the glottis, or indirectly by inducing spasm of the glottis, or by favoring the course of an intercurrent pulmonary malady. In selecting an appropriate treatment, it is very neces- sary to be sure of the diagnosis, not merely from innocent tumors, but from carcinoma. Generally, the larger size and more rapid growth of the tumor, with its irregular shape and tendency to ulceration, are sufficient to distin- guish it from an innocent tumor. But the diagnosis from carcinoma is so difficult when the surface is deeply ulcerated that, at an early period of the disease, it may be impossible to make it by observation with the laryn- goscope. In such cases it is not only justifiable, but most advisable, to remove with the laryngeal forceps a fragment for examination. A very small por- tion is sufficient to enable a person even moderately skilful with the micro- scope, to make out whether the disease is sarcoma or squamous-celled carcinoma (epithelioma). The treatment may be either palliative or curative. The palliative treat- ment consists chiefly in opening tlie trachea and soothing pain by blowing morphia powder down upon the surface of the tumor. The curative treatment, or removal of the disease, may be performed through the mouth or through the neck. When the disease is limited to the epiglottis, it may be removed by means of an ccraseur through the mouth; and, although there is a great tendency to recurrence, and the operation may need to be repeated, the result may nevertheless be satisfactory. When the disease is more deeply seated, and especially when it has invaded the surrounding structures, and when there is, therefore, no prospect of removal by such simple measures, excision of the larynx may be undertaken, either partial or complete, and, with the larynx, may be removed all the adjacent parts which are affected. Thus, Dr. Caselli, of Reggio Emilia, cut out the larynx, with adjacent portions of the pharynx, palate, and base of the tongue, in a young woman 19 years of age. Twenty months afterwards the patient was well and free from recurrence. And Dr. Gerster, of New York, removed the right half of the larynx and hyoid bone, a portion of the pharynx, the right tonsil, and part of the base of the tongue, in a man of 50 years, who died of pleurisy a year subsequently, without a trace of return of the disease. These results of operation serve to prove that laryngeal sarcomas may be attacked with confidence, even when they are extensive and affect important structures around the larynx. The diagnosis between sar-