792 INJURIES OF THE BACK. marrow can be made. The following case, observed by Mr. Savory,1 will serve to show what the symptoms are in severe contusions of the cord:— A man fell upon his head from a railway van. During the first few minutes he was stunned, but this soon passed off. When admitted to hospital, there was complete loss of motion and sensation in the lower and upper extremities, and in the trunk nearly as high as the clavicles. The respiration was entirely diaphragmatic, the thoracic walls sinking inward at each inspiratory effort. No reflex action could be excited in the lower extremities, nor elsewhere. The pupils were moderately and equally dilated, but sluggish. There was partial priapism. Death ensued in about thirty hours. Autopsy. —There was no fracture nor displacement at any part of the skull or spinal column ; there was also no hemorrhage nor material congestion at any part on the surface of the brain or spinal cord. But a longitudinal section of the spinal cord revealed, opposite the fourth cervical vertebra, a clot of blood which was extravasated in its substance to the extent of about half an inch. This extravasation was well defined, and nothing wrong could be perceived in the adjoining or in other parts of the cord. In tliis case the functions of the spinal cord were completely abolished in two important particulars: 1. There was entire loss of sensation and volun- tary motion. 2. There was also total absence of any reflex action. While the clot of blood, the product of contusion, which was found in the snbstance of the spinal cord at the autopsy, accounts satisfactorily for the former, it does not for the latter; for while the blood-clot might completely destroy the power of the spinal cord as a conductor of impressions, it could not destroy its functions as a reflector of impressions or as a nervous centre. And inas- much as the loss of reflex action, observed during life, was due to destruction or impairment of the spinal cord as a nervous centre, it must, as pointed out by Mr. Savory, have arisen from the concussion to which the spinal cord was subjected by the accident, although it produced no effect on the structure of the cord that was visible after death. This loss of reflex action in the spinal nerves, in consequence of concussion of the spinal cord, mentioned above by Mr. Savory, I had myself previously observed; and I specially noted it at the time of making the observation, although I did not then understand its rationale. The following abstract is taken from the note-book in which the minutes of the case were written at the time:— Private John II. Rhodes, Company A, 16th Pennsylvania Cavalry, aged 22, was ad- mitted from our front before Petersburg to the Depot Field Hospital, at City Point, December 14, 1864, for injury of the spine and paraplegia. On the 15th, I examined him with much interest. It appeared that he had been hurt, while lying face down- ward on the ground, on Sunday, the 11th, by the falling of a tree, some branches belonging to the top of which struck him violently across the back and shoulders. He was immediately deprived of the use of his legs and the lower half of his body. When I saw him, all the parts below the umbilicus were completely paralyzed, both as to sen- sibility and voluntary motility. The bladder required a catheter to be introduced twice a day ; the urine was more abundant in quantity than natural. He passed a consistent stool unconsciously in bed on that day. “ I failed to excite any sensibility or any reflex action by tickling the soles of his feet, or by pulling the hairs of his legs, thighs, or groins. Both extremities were alike in these respects.” Above the umbilicus, sensi- bility gradually appeared in the skin, at first indistinctly, but increasing with the upward progress of the examination, until it became normal on the upper part of the thorax. The respiration was abdominal (diaphragmatic), and superior thoracic (superior inter- costal). He had good use of both upper extremities, and made no complaint of them whatever. He was cautiously turned upon his right side, so as to permit an examina- tion of his back. The consistent stool, above mentioned, was then found in bed. Before this, his bowels had not acted at the hospital. There was no appearance of contusion 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. v. p. 45.