EXCISION OF TIIE SCAPULA. 467 Of the whole 28 cases, only 6 proved fatal, a mortality of less than 22 per cent. Partial excisions of the clavicle vary in severity from comparatively trifling affairs to such grave operations as those of Mott and Bartlett; Otis has col- lected 69 such cases, including those recorded during the War of the Rebel- lion; adding to these Mott’s, Bartlett’s, one of Wutzer’s, Felaton’s, and Gunn’s cases, incorrectly included by Dr. Otis among the cases of total excision, we have 74 cases, of which 59 recovered, and 10 died, the result in 5 being unknown; the mortality of determined cases, therefore, was but 14.5 per cent. Excision of the Scapula.—This operation may be required in cases of caries or necrosis, in those of tumor, and in some cases of severe lacerated wound or compound fracture, though in these it is often necessary to remove the upper extremity at the same time, the operation then being an “ amputation above the shoulder,” as described in a previous portion of this Encyclopaedia.1 The scapula may be removed by means of a crucial, an H-shaped, a "|-shaped, or, which is commonly preferable, a T-shaped incision, as advised by the late Prof. Syme, of Edinburgh; the transverse branch of the wound extends from the acromio-elavicular junction, following the spine of the scapula, to the posterior edge of the bone, and the longitudinal branch, start- ing from the centre of the other, passes downwards as far as may be neces- sary. In traumatic cases, as in those of caries or necrosis, the muscles should be carefully separated from the bone, which should be removed with as little disturbance of the soft parts as practicable; in cases of tumor, however, the external incisions should be only skin-deep, as the muscles will probably be found to be inflltrated by the morbid growth, and blood may be saved by not cutting into the tumor, which may be very vascular. Hemorrhage during the operation is, indeed, one of the chief risks in excision of the scapula, and every means should lie taken to avoid it. For this purpose an assistant should compress the subclavian artery with a padded key over the first rib, and, since there is apt to be very free bleeding from the superficial parts of the wound, it is well not to make the whole incision at first, but to begin with a cut of moderate size, and afterwards enlarge it when more room is found necessary. It is recommended by Sir W. Fergusson and Mr. Pollock to free the posterior border of the scapula first, and then the inferior, turning up the bone from below as the operation is continued. By doing this, the pulsation of the subscapular artery can be felt for, and the vessel controlled with the finger before it is divided. Prof. Spence, however, from practical experience with both methods, advises that the clavicular attachments should be first severed, so as to permit an assistant to control the subclavian artery by direct compression. If the operation be performed for malignant disease, the whole scapula should be excised (Fig. 696), but, under other circumstances, it may be better to substitute partial excision ; and there is certainly an advantage in retain- ing the neck of the bone and the glenoid cavity (not opening the joint), with the acromion and coracoid processes, when nothing can be gained by their removal. Under these circumstances, the bone is to be divided at the proper points with the saw or cutting forceps, and even in complete excision, it will commonly be found more expeditious to use the saw at the acromio-clavicular junction than to attempt disarticulation. The coracoid process also may be sawn through at any convenient point, and its tip afterwards dissected out when the removal of the tumor has been completed. In order to free the 1 See Vol. I. p. G47.