732 INJURIES OF THE BACK. marrow, is no idle dream. Among the best means to fulfil the second indica- tion, is to keep the injured joints as nearly immovable as possible, by apply- ing: a bag; half-filled with sand close to each side of the head and neck, continuously day and night, so as to entirely prevent any lateral or rotatory motion of the parts. The patient should be supplied with food and drink while in the supine position, and without raising his head. Not unfrequently the application of leeches and cold lotions may be advisable. This plan of treatment should be continued until the cure is complete. Potassium iodide may oftentimes be administered with advantage in order to promote the ab- sorption of inflammatory effusions and of blood from the spinal canal. The diet should be nourishing and easy to assimilate. Pain should be subdued and sleep secured by administering opium or morphia. The condition of the back must be daily examined in order to forestall the occurrence of bed-sores. The parts must be kept dry and clean. Pressure must be removed from the salient points as far as possible, which can best be done by placing the patient on a water-bed. The condition of the bladder should be cared for from the outset. Retention of urine is almost certain to exist, for a time, and over-distension of the viscus is very detrimental. Cathe- terization should be performed with extreme care at least twice a day. If the urine become offensive, the bladder should be washed out daily with a weak solution of borax or boracic acid. The bowels should he moved by enemata rather than by purgatives. When incontinence of urine, or of feces, or of both, exists, the greatest attention must constantly he paid in order to keep the parts clean and dry. The frequent application of a spirit lotion, containing two per cent, of carbolic acid, to the parts, often proves useful. In cases where the paralysis begins in the lower extremities, some hours after the accident, and steadily rises higher and higher, should the surgeon conclude the cause thereof to be the extravasation of blood (hemorrhage) occurring within the theca vertebralis, he might be justified in exhibiting the fluid extract of ergot, in full doses, and the acetate of lead and opium, as haemostatics. Unilateral Dislocations of the Cervical Vertebra’.—Hitherto, the symmetrical or bilateral luxations of the cervical vertebrae only have claimed our atten- tion ; but, now, the unilateral ones must be considered. They essentially consist in the displacement of the inferior articular process on one side of a cervical vertebra, from the corresponding superior articular process of the vertebra which lies next below ; and they cause the victim’s face to be turned toward the side opposite to that on which the luxation is situated. Many examples of this lesion have occurred, and a considerable number have been recorded. Twenty-nine cases are mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables. Desault related, in his lectures, the case of a lawyer, who produced this luxa- tion, while sitting in his office with his back to the door, by turning his head suddenly round to see who was coming in. Chopart showed a young man, aged 24, who sustained a similar lesion from turning his head too far round; his face was turned to the left, and his chin ever afterward rested upon the , left shoulder. (Boyer.) The following is an excellent example in which the t deformity was removed with success by reducing the luxation:— Maxson, of Geneva, N. Y., relates the case of a young girl, aged about 9 years, who had a dislocation of the right oblique process of the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, caused by turning her head suddenly round while at play. At first, she complained only of inability to straighten the neck, and she became faint whenever she was moved. About forty-eight hours after the accident, her mother attempted to turn her head slightly, and a severe convulsion ensued. Soon after that, Dr. Maxson saw her, and could distinctly feel the displacement of the transverse process. He grasped her