710 INJURIES OF THE BACK. because of the injury inflicted upon the cord by the splinters and fragments of broken bone. Moreover, in certain cases of cervical dislocation where the reduction proves to be difficult, although it is indispensable in order to save the patient from speedy death, the surgeon will be more likely to persevere until he accomplishes the reduction and thus frees the spinal cord from in- jurious compression, if his mind be clear in respect to the diagnosis, than he will if his opinion be unsettled. Many cases of this sort have already been recorded, some of which have been saved by a timely reduction of the dislo- cation, while others have perished from the lack of this proceeding; and more cases of the same sort will hereafter be met with. The clearness of view and accuracy of diagnosis needful for their proper treatment, are much more likely to be attained by making a separate study of vertebral disloca- tions, than by considering them together with vertebral fractures—that is, than by discussing the traumatic lesions of the vertebral, en masse, as practised by most writers and lecturers on surgery, at the present day, in England and America—and, therefore, I shall not follow their example. Until a recent date, pure dislocations of the vertebrae were held, by even the best informed surgeons, to be of very rare occurrence; and some of equal eminence positively denied that dislocation of the body of a vertebra, unat- tended with fracture, ever occurred at all. Among the latter, Delpech was specially prominent. Abernethy likewise taught: “ There can be no disloca- tion (of the vertebne) surgically speaking—we do not take the word in its etymological sense ; in surgical language, a dislocation is a displacement of bone, with a laceration of ligament unaccompanied with fracture; for if there be a fracture, it is not a dislocation ; but, from their position, if one vertebra be knocked in, its articular surfaces must be broken ” (South). Sir A. Cooper declared that he had never seen a pure dislocation of one vertebra upon another; but, at the same time, he admitted the possibility of its occurrence when he said: “ If luxation of the spine ever does happen, it is an injury which is extremely rare.” In England, Mr. Lawrence was the first to dem- onstrate that vertebral dislocation, unattended by fracture, in reality did occur. He reported the following example:— A robust porter, aged 22, while “ carrying a heavy barrel on the back of his head and neck, slipped on descending some steps, and fell on the buttocks, the burden resting on the head and upper part of the neck. He was immediately deprived of sensibility in the trunk and limbs, and of all power over the voluntary muscles of these parts. When brought to the hospital lie was completely insensible, and incapable of voluntary motion below the neck.” The respiratory movements were performed apparently by the dia- phragm alone. Priapism was noted. On the next day “ there was pain in the lower part of the neck ; he could move the arms very slightly, and had a little feeling in the front and upper part of the chest.” On the third day “ he experienced a tingling sensation in the hands, and was sensible to impressions on the upper part of the arms and thighs.” On the morning of the fifth day, very early, he died from asphyxia and exhaustion. Autopsy “ No displacement or inequality could be discovered by external examina- tion, when the body was laid on the face. After cutting away the muscles from the back of the spine, the cartilaginous surfaces of the superior articular processes of the fifth cervical vertebra came into view. They were exposed in consequence of the inferior processes of the fourth vertebra having been completely dislocated forwards, and re- maining fixed in their unnatural position. The yellow ligaments connecting the laminae of the two vertebrae [ligamenta subfiava] were torn through, and the bifid apex of the fourth spinous process lay in close contact with the basis of the fifth. On the front of the column an unusual projection was observed, but the anterior longitudinal liga- mentous expansion [anterior common ligament] was entire. The body of the fourth was completely detached from that of the fifth vertebra, the connecting fibro-cartilage being torn through, and the body of the former projecting by its whole depth in front of the