398 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. the knee. In those that I have had made, my directions have been to place an additional thickness of metal over the splint, from the middle of the ilium to the middle of the thigh, so as the more securely to guard against adduc- tion. With this instrument, immobility of the hip is to a great measure, if not entirely, secured. The foot never comes to the ground, and therefore no body-weight can be transmitted from it to the hip; care, however, must be used that during its application the limb is drawn well down, or weight is likely to be transmitted upward from the splints around the thigh and leg. A great advantage is, that mobility of the knee is not interfered with. After a very little practice the patient can walk quite well with this splint, without crutches. When the foregoing few pages are considered, it will be impossible to deny that the surgeon has a very wide choice of appliances for the treatment of hip-disease; and, indeed, if we could accept, without any grains of salt, the dicta of each inventor, any and all cases of hip-disease would be easily curable. But a saying of my revered teacher, Mr. J. H. Green, was marked by his well-known wisdom. “ Whenever many instruments are invented to fulfil a given purpose, we may be certain that not one of them is capable, under all circumstances, of satisfactorily doing so.” And thus, although by these various means—even by Dr. Hutchison’s absence of appliance—success will, in a certain number of instances, follow ; yet in certain cases, in spite of the most careful and skilful treatment, caries and suppuration will set in and continue. Such cases occur in persons in whom the strumous, scrofulous, or tuberculous taint is strongly developed, and in whom inflammation of bone (the part primarily attacked) runs on to exuberant granulation, perhaps with caseous or fatty degeneration, followed by softening and suppuration. That the, various extension splints of Davis, Sayre, Taylor, Andrews, and others, have been more successful in America than in Europe, is, because in the younger country struma is less widely spread, and less deeply scored, and patients have greater facilities for obtaining fresh, good air than on this side of the Atlantic. Nevertheless, I must repeat that the right idea, and that most likely to pro- duce good results, is the American, viz., to get the patient moving about as soon as possible. In the earliest stages of the more chronic form of the disease, it is evident that Dr. Hutchison’s plan may in some cases sutfice. Sayre’s or Taylor’s splints are admirable in cases which are rather more acute; but in the severer forms even these do not answer, for excision is an operation which is still practised in America. In such cases we must not only secure the joint against pressure, but also, by some means other than muscular contraction, against motion. Thomas’s and Dumbrowski’s splints seem to me the best which have been devised up to the present time; the latter is that which I choose in severe cases. The defects of both have been mentioned ; those of the latter are apparently inseparable from any immobilizing appliance. When suppuration supervenes, the surgeon must be guided in his treatment by its quietude or vehemence. If the formation of pus be accompanied neither by pyrexia nor by marked increase of pain, the same treatment, that is, rest to the joint and movement in other parts of the body, should be maintained ; and the surgeon should wait until the abscess is pretty near the surface before interfering; when near enough, he should open it pretty freely, wash or syringe out the wound, and pass just within its lips a drainage tube, still per- severing in the same treatment, and being very careful to maintain the limb in a straight line with the body, and as little adducted as possible. Many chil- dren go through a lengthened period of quiet suppuration, and ultimately get well, with a limb, it must be confessed, a good deal shortened—partly by position, partly by alterations, already described, about the cervix and ace- tabulum, partly by cessation of growth. The joint too is generally stiff.