INJURIES OF BONES. 172 the majority of cases, the result obtained is a useful hand, with perhaps a degree of disfigurement not sufficient to he a serious annoyance, unless the patient be a woman in the higher walks of life. A city surgeon may almost daily see the most laborious occupations pursued by persons who have been the subjects of this fracture, as testified to by the unmistakable distortion of the affected limb—the projection of the ulna, the abduction of the hand, and the thickening of the wrist. Anchylosis of the joint very seldom occurs; a fact which may he accounted for by the rarity of actual involvement of the articular surface. Even when there has been extreme distension of the tendinous sheaths, and the stiffening of the wrist is at first strongly marked, the parts ultimately resume their suppleness, except in the case of very old, feeble, or rheumatic subjects. Barometric pains are sometimes complained of subsequently, but not, I think, as often as after most other fractures. The diagnosis of these fractures does not generally offer very much diffi- culty. Luxations of the wrist, with which they would be most likely to be confounded, are so rare as practically to be almost excluded from considera- tion. One case, observed by Lenoir, and published by Voillemier,1 is undis- puted, having been verified by dissection after the patient’s death. Another, mentioned by Hamilton,2 seems to me to be beyond doubt. Nearly fifty others have been recorded as such,3 but none of them can be accepted upon the evidence offered. I have had one case in which the character of the deformity, the ease of complete reduction, and the speedy resumption of the normal condition and use of the hand, convinced me that there had been a luxation of the carpus backward; and two others which I had reason to believe were of that nature, but in regard to which I feel less positive. Admitting that luxation can occur, it is of course desirable that the dis- tinctive features of the two lesions should be known, so far as they can be from the limited facts at command. The pain, helplessness of the hand, and deformity, are alike in both. But on examination, instead of the rough and irregular edges of the broken bone, the fingers of the surgeon will, in the case of a dislocation, find on one side the smooth concavity of the articulating ends of the bones of the fore- arm, and on the other the rounded convexity formed by those of the carpus. The styloid processes, according to Hamilton, were plainly felt in his case. Preternatural mobility, apt to be present in fracture, although perhaps in but slight degree, will be wanting in dislocation, and so also will crepitus. Re- duction, often very difficult in fracture, gradually effected, and attended with a grating sound, is easy, sudden, and marked by a click or snap, in luxation. The only other lesion with which fracture could be confounded is a severe sprain, and the limits between these injuries are, as already said, very ill de- fined. It seems quite possible that cases are not very rare in which the bone is partially broken through, and that sometimes, when the bone is completely divided, the fragments may remain in contact, the fibrous structures being untorn. A mistake, however, would, under such circumstances, be really a matter of no moment. The treatment of fracture of the lower end of the radius has been very ex- tensively discussed, and different surgeons have held widely different views 1 Archives Generates de Medecine, D6c. 1839 ; also in liis Clinique Chirurgicale, p. 120. It may also be found in R. W. Smith’s work before quoted. 2 Practical Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, p. 712. 3 The reader who wishes to follow up the matter can find in Malgaigne (op. cit., tome ii. p. 681 et seq.), and in a valuable prize essay by Dr. T. K. Cruse, published in the Transactions of the Med. Society of the State of New York for 1874, the references to these reports. I am at a loss to account for the want of correspondence between the lists given by these two authors.