FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 209 changed at will; one part of it is intended to support the thigh, while the leg rests upon the other, the angle occupying the bend of the knee. Exten- sion may be made by means of a pulley attached either to the apparatus itself, a frame being added for the purpose, or to a standard lixed at the foot of the bed. The single inclined plane, as its name imports, is a board inclined at an angle, upon which, properly padded, one or both of the patient’s lower limbs may rest. Extension may be made by means of a pulley fixed at the upper end of the board. One objection holds against both these forms of apparatus ; there is much difficulty in preventing the patient from working his body up on to the inclined plane, so as to neutralize its effect more or less completely. Possibly this object might be accomplished by having a perineal block, or a well-rounded upright arranged at a suitable point. But it would perhaps he better to have recourse to one or other of the suspensory splints to be pre- sently described. Dr. Swinburne, of Albany, advocates1 the treatment of fractures of the shaft of the femur by simple extension, using a perineal band attached to the head of the bed, and fastening the lower part of the limb to the foot of the bed, by means of adhesive plaster and a cord. Without disputing Dr. Swinburne’s statements as to the results obtained by him in this way, I can- not but think that the less rigid methods are at the same time more com- fortable to the patient, more adaptable to the varying circumstances under which fractures occur, and more likely to be satisfactory in the hands of most practitioners. Plaster-of-Paris bandages were strongly recommended a few years ago by Dr. Sands,2 of New York. They were applied during complete extension, and sometimes under anaesthesia. Whether acknowledged or not, the efficacy of this method must have largely depended upon the extension made against the swell of the leg below the knee, and the counter-extension against the upper portion of the thigh ; and the lateral compression must have been at once lost if the thigh itself diminished in size, as it naturally would do from total inaction. My own experience of this plan is limited to a very few cases in children, in which it afforded good results. It seems to me that here, where there is but slight muscular power to be counteracted, and the small size of the bone makes the leverage on the fragments but trifling, the plaster- of-Paris or other solidifying dressing, especially the silicate-of-potassium, is much less objectionable than in the case of adults. Hamilton, however, holds the opposite view. He says : “ If I have been unable to give my ap- proval to the treatment of fracture of the shaft of the femur in adults with plaster of Paris, or to any other form of immovable dressing, I am still less able to give it my approval in fracture of the same bone in children.” He then relates a case of gangrene in a boy four years old, treated on this plan ; but, according to the account, there was unpardonable neglect on the part of the surgeon, and nothing is proved against the treatment if carried out with ordinary skill and judgment. The method devised by Dr. Hath an Smith, and improved upon by his son, the late Dr. Nathan R. Smith, of Baltimore, has had a wide popularity in this country, especially in the Southern States. As at first made, the appa- ratus consisted of a wooden splint, cut so as to fit along the front of the entire limb, from the groin to the toes, the hip and knee being each flexed to about 135°. To the under side of this splint the limb was carefully band- aged, and then slung by means of two staples driven into its upper face, one 1 Treatment of Fractures of Long Bones by Simple Extension. Albany, 1861. 2 New York Medical Journal, June, 1871. VOL. IV.—14