EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 494 As was done in the case of the elbow, I shall further illustrate the subject of hip-joint excision by appending brief abstracts of a few cases selected from those in which I have myself had occasion to employ this mode of treatment. The following case is of some local historical interest, as having been the second in which excision of the hip-joint had ever been done in Philadel- phia, and the first which terminated successfully. Dr. Addinell Hewson was the pioneer in this procedure, in Philadelphia, having, in 1858, excised the left hip, in a girl of thirteen, at the Wills Hospital for the Blind and Lame; this case ended unfavorably, the patient sinking, exhausted by diar- rhoea, seven months after the operation. No further attempt was made in this city to excise the hip-joint until I did it at the Episcopal Hospital, nine years subsequently. Fig. 719. Head and neck of femur removed by excision. Fig. 720. Excision of the Hip for Acute Hip-Disease with Abscess ; Recovery with perfect Use of Limb W. E., aged four and a half years, was admitted to the children’s ward of the Episcopal Hospital on June 15, 1866, suffering from hip-joint disease of the right side, of recent origin. I found him in the ward at the beginning of my term of service, in the month of January, 1867. On January 5, I find an entry in my note-book, that a large abscess was forming in connection with the joint. This abscess opened spon- taneously ten days afterwards, and from that time the patient’s health rapidly deteriorated. On February 27, 1867, with the assent and assistance of my colleagues, I excised the head and neck of the right femur, making the section a short distance below the trochanters, and removing in all about two and a half inches of bone. The incision employed was that recommended by O. Hey- felder (see Fig. 716), and the bone was divided partly with a chain-saw and partly with strong cutting forceps, the head of the bone separating from the neck in the pro- cess of removal, and the great trochanter, too, remaining adherent to the lower flap from which it was afterwards carefully dissected. The appearance of the excised por- tions of bone, which are now in the Hospital Museum, are shown in the annexed wood-cut. (Fig. 719.) The operation was greatly facilitated by the fact that disloca- tion had already occurred, the head of the femur being found displaced from the acetabulum to the dorsum ilii. The acetabulum itself presented very little evidence of disease, and was therefore not interfered with. Two liga- tures only were required. The patient’s convalescence, though slow, was upon the whole satisfactory. His condition gradually improved, the greater part of the wound healing by adhesion, and his health and strength being little by little restored. One or two abscesses formed around the seat of operation, and were opened, and in the following summer the patient suf- fered a good deal from diarrhoea; but in spite of these complications a progressive amendment was observed in the child’s state, both constitutional and local, and by January of the next year (1868) his recovery could be considered as established. His condition, thirteen months after the operation, was as follows : There were still several sinuses, which could not, however, be ascertained to com- municate with diseased bone, and which, together, dis- charged on an average less than a fluidrachm of pus in the Result of hip-joint excision. course of twenty-four hours. The patient could support a