378 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Syphilitic Joint-affections which originate in Bone-disease.—These may lead, unless their true nature be quickly discerned, to more serious results than the synovial malady. When syphilis attacks the osseous system, it most commonly affects the hard structure; certainly, when any limb-bone is involved, the shaft is more commonly chosen than the joint-ends. Moreover, syphilis of the spongy portion of a long bone is commonly a later manifesta- tion than nodes, etc., on the tibia or cranium. The lesion takes the form of a gumma, which, on the surface, is circumscribed in a patch or patches be- neath the periosteum, and occupies the more superficial layers of the osseous tissue ; in the cancellous structure it is more commonly, though by no means constantly, diffuse. From either of these starting points, the joint may become involved ; from the former, the malady spreads by continuity to the synovial tissues, the result being a syphilitic hydrarthrus like that above described, but somewhat more recalcitrant: from the latter arises a malady of far deeper gravity, involving the cartilages, and causing them to ulcerate or to be cast off into the joint. The effused fluid, not large in quantity, is therefore largely mixed with tissue- debris and leucocytes; it is puruloid rather than purulent, for true suppura- tion of the joint is unusual. This form of the disease tends to terminate in either false or true anchylosis. The symptoms of this malady vary somewhat according to the different modes of attack above described ; but both forms have this in common, that they are preceded by the well-known pains in the bones which are so charac- teristic of syphilis (osteocopic), aggravated at night. If the gummatous deposit be on the surface, the patient will point out the seat of chief pain, and the surgeon will readily feel the soft, nodular enlargement; then, as the disease involves the peri-articular tissues, he will readily detect the localized lumps and patches overlying the joint (described above), and will thence have no difficulty in diagnosis. If, on the other hand, the gummatous lesion be in the interior of a joint-end, the osteocopic pains may not be accompanied by any distinct enlargement outside the bone, nor are the synovial tissues of necessity involved until a later stage of the arthropathy; indeed, it happens occasionally that the cartilages are pretty severely affected before any joint- swelling is observed. Other symptoms, however, should call attention to the locality, namely, difficulty on movement, a sense of weakness in the joint, and, not unfrequently, abnormal mobility. The disease, although chronic and slow in its course, has a sudden commencement, and is excessively painful during the night, hut much less so during the day ; there is but little tendency to flexion; passive movements, until the cartilages are ulcerated, are not, while active movements are, remarkably painful. When a mild articular osteo- syphilis has been preceded by vague and wandering pseudo-rheumatic pains, not uncommon in syphilis, the diagnosis between this malady and a localized rheumatic affection is difficult; but in the latter disease the joint is red in the beginning, effusion is more manifest, the pains are less uneven throughout day and night, and the urine, more markedly acid, contains a greater quantity of urea; the fever is of a different sort, not the peculiar one of syphilis. Lastly, osteo-syphilis is accompanied, and frequently preceded, by loss of health, ancemia, skin-discoloration, and other signs of cachexia. Treatment.— The treatment of syphilis by appropriate remedies has already been sufficiently discussed it need only be said here that such later manifestations as those now in question yield more rapidly to iodide of potas- See Yol. II. page 568.