837 SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. A bed-sore early formed over the sacrum, and slowly proceeded inward or deepened until exposure of the bone was effected. Subsequently, diarrhoea supervened. She sank from exhaustion ; and, on October 6, she died, thirty-eight days after the accident. Autopsy Crushing of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, with displacement of the entire vertebra backward, was revealed. Firm union in the fractured vertebra had taken place.1 It is worthy of particular mention that a sacral eschar attacked this woman although she had no sensory nor motor paralysis whatever, that the eschar soon followed the accident, that it steadily deepened until it laid hare the sacrum, and that it caused death by producing exhaustion. The sacrum itself was probably necrosed, for it has often been found necrosed in analo- gous cases. (5) Finally, sacral eschars of neuropathic origin pretty often prove fatal by destroying the sacro-coccygeal ligament and thus opening the sacral canal, or by penetrating this canal in some other manner ; whereupon there quickly supervenes either a simple, purulent, ascending meningitis, or a sort of ichorous, ascending meningitis. I have already mentioned a number of instances in which the sacral canal was opened by bed-sores with fatal effect. Mr. Hilton states that he has “ several times seen fatal mischief result from a bed-sore extending to the interior of the vertebral canal, and causing inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes.”2 lie likewise presents an accurate draw- ing made from a preparation illustrating this important pathological condition, of which the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 796) is a copy. This cut will remind surgeons of the close proximity of the spinal dura mater and the posterior wall of the sacral canal to bed-sores, a, a, a. A ver- tical section of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae, b, b. A vertical section of the sacrum, d. A portion of the sacral arch turned backward, e, e. Short, delicate, and elastic ligaments, seen proceeding from the lower part of the spinal dura mater to the sacrum, c. Dura mater, containing the cauda equina, spinal pia mater, and spinal arachnoid extending to a point opposite the second bone of the sacrum. Numer- ous strong ligaments are shown affixing the dura mater to the posterior ligament of the spinal column, oppo- site the second portion of the sacrum. Three distinct, slender ligaments proceed to the third, fourth, and fifth pieces of the sacrum. (Hilton.) The fact that the spinal membranes extend downward as far as the second piece of the sacrum, is well shown in the cut (Fig. 796). In one of Mr. Hilton’s cases death re- sulted from pyaemia (pysemic pneumonia), although the bed-sore had reached the interior of the vertebral canal, and involved the membranes of the spinal mar- row.3 Fig. 796. To illustrate the penetration Of the ichorous form of ascending meningitis, MM. of the sacraicanai by bed-sores, Lisfranc and Baillarger have reported many remark- and the ocearrence of fatal i, , t * ro j- •, • r- spinal meningitis therefrom. able examples. In this affection, it is found that a (Huton.) puriform, grayish, acrid, and fetid liquid steeps the spinal meninges and the cord itself; sometimes only the lower part, some- times the whole cord is bathed in this liquid, which, occasionally, is also found 1 New York Journal of Medicine, March, 1859, pp. 244, 245. 2 Op. cit., pp. 213, 214. a Op. cit., p. 43.