318 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. any other with which I am acquainted, are that it fixes perfectly the diseased joint, leaving the others free, and obviates all weight-pressure on the joint- surfaces ; moreover, after a very little practice, the patient is able to walk steadily and securely without crutches, thus leaving his hands free for em- ployment or amusement. I can speak from some experience of the great efticacy and value of this splint; and the more I see of strumous joint disease, the more evident does it become to me that fresh air and exercise are great aids, if not essential to its cure. But occasionally, when the limb is in or has been put into good position, and when all has been done to prepare it for some such splintage as has just been described, inflammatory symptoms and pain do not sufficiently abate. This mostly happens when neglect has allowed the disease to advance, when the strumous hahit is strongly marked, or when bad food and hygiene have depressed the health. Starting pains show that the bones are becoming involved, and perhaps increase of the soft swelling marks a tendency to abscess.1 Among our most potent remedies must he mentioned strong but carefully applied pressure. This may either be carried out by using an adhesive plaster—the emplastrum resinte, the emp. ammoniaci c. hydrargyro, the emp. plumbi iodidi, or, if a more rubefacient action be desirable, the emp. cantha- ridis2—or the joint may be compressed with a bandage of elastic webbing, which I prefer for this purpose to the whole-rubber bandage of Martin. Care must be taken not to exercise such constriction as to produce oedema of the limb below ; and it is always advisable first to bandage the parts below the joint. Stronger and more even compression can be obtained if the part be first covered with a tolerably thick layer of cotton-wool; and this keeps purer and sweeter if a little spirit of camphor be sprinkled over it. Careful bandaging of this sort will remain firm a long time on the splint. If these methods be successful, one of the locomotion splints may be applied, pressure being still maintained. In some cases nothing more is needed, but in some there comes a time, when all inflammatory symptoms have subsided, when the special points of tenderness no longer give pain on pressure, and when motion within certain limits produces no discomfort, and yet the swelling per- sists, nor does it become, in any appreciable degree, harder. Under these circumstances, the parenchymatous injection of tincture of iodine is often valuable. The parts are in the same state as an indolent ulcer, with soft, flabby granulations, such as we touch with nitrate of silver or with sulphate of copper. The strength of the iodine solution should be at first thirty or forty minims of the tincture in a fluidounce of water, and this proportion may be in a little time increased up to two or even three fluidraclims; the quantity to be injected is about half a fluidounce, by means of a syringe, like, but larger than, that used for hypodermic injections. The needle should have lateral perforations, and must be inserted obliquely so as not to enter the joint-cavity. After using about half or a third of the contents of the syringe, it may be somewhat withdrawn, and then directed with a different, obliquity; and this proceeding, once or twice repeated, will soak a large bulk of the tissue through a single skin puncture. Another mode of treatment is by shampooing or rubbing (massage),3 and by making passive movement. In the former, the chief force both of move- 1 Even these conditions, if slight, need not deter the application of splints for locomotion ; hut if severe, and more especially if their progress he rapid, it is wise first to lessen or subdue them. For this purpose, the use of flying blisters allowed rapidly to heal, or of nitrate of silver solution (3j-3iss ad f^j), or of strong iodine paint, is valuable. 2 All these are preparations of the British Pharmacopoeia. 3 Mosengeil, Verliandlungen der Deutschen Gesellscliaft fur Chirurgie, 4ter Cong., 1875.