28 > SUPPURATIVE SYNOVITIS. end of the metatarsus, but bent bracket-wise as it passes over the knee. These splints, being held in position, are secured in tlieir places by plaster. of-Paris bandages, applied with sufficient firmness to the thigh and to the leg and foot, omitting the knee altogether, which thus remains exposed all around for treatment. Thomas’s knee splint is of good construction; but its fault is that it covers all the back and a considerable part of the sides of the joint, which cannot be well got at to make incisions or for other purposes. It consists of two round metal rods united below the sole, or, if small, of one rod bent upon itself so as to make a loop under the foot while the segments run up on the inner and on the outer side of the limb respectively ; the inner is a little shorter than the outer branch, so that when they end in an oval metal ring it lies upon them at an angle of 45°, thus fitting the perineum and tuberosity of the ischium, on which it chiefly abuts, as also the groin and outer face of the ilium. Furthermore, there is loosely stretched between these rods a strip or apron of leather, on which the limb is to rest, the apron being slit on either edge in two or three places for the passage of a bandage.1 Mr. Thomas also advises that in bad cases a couple of wheels connected by a slotted axle should be used; into the slot the loop of metal under the foot is to be inserted to keep the back of the limb from the bed; but it is far better to sling the whole apparatus. Fig. 635. Thomas’s splint for the knee in the recumbent position. The inventor claims for this that it perfectly and entirely immobilizes the joint—an assertion which my experience leads me very much to doubt; there is always a certain play between the edge of the apron, to which the limb is attached, and the irons. Moreover, the irons themselves are too much in the way of the surgeon, the joint having to be treated while lying in a sort of ditch. A great part of these objections might be overcome by bending out, bracket-wise, the two irons, opposite to the knee, and making the leather apron in two parts, one for the thigh and one for the leg, omitting the part behind the knee altogether. The ankle-joint may be fixed in sundry ways. In severe cases, the lower part of the splint for the knee (Fig. 634), with a plaster-of-Paris casing, omitting the joint itself, is the steadiest and most secure. But a simpler splint may be made by moulding to the leg and foot, including the sole, a piece of poro-plastic felt. This must more than half encircle the leg, and must take in all the heel, the side, and the sole of the foot, as far as the root of the toe (inner or outer). If greater security be thought desirable, such an appliance may be made in two portions, one for the inner and one for the outer side of the limb. When dry, the felt is to be removed, and a couple of interrupting brackets (previously prepared) riveted so as to stride over the ankle; the part of the splint included in the gap of the brackets can then oe cut away. The limb should always be slung by a Salter’s cradle. Whatever form of splint be preferred, I would point out that, in this dis- ease, entire immobility is one of the great essentials, while the other, perhaps hardly less important, is accessibility to almost all the joint surface, per- 1 Thomas, On the Treatment of Hip, Knee, and Ankle-Joint Disease.