901 CONGENITAL SACRO-COCCYGEAL TUMORS. tinct; it contains no separate, solid masses, although it may present a uniform thickening of its sac; and lastly, its outline is nearly always quite smooth and regular. The diagnosis, however, is of no great moment, as it would suggest no plan of treatment that, while applicable to a false spina bifida, would not be equally applicable to such a cystic tumor as would closely resemble the simple cyst. Excision is probably the most suitable mode of treating these cases, and is the method that has been attended with the greatest success. Injection with iodine has been proposed, but would appear to have no great claim to atten- tion, for the sac of the false spina bifida is often thick, and, even if the sac should become obliterated as a result of the injection, the cyst-wall would still remain with probably a considerable pedicle. If the case should prove to be a multilocular growth, the injection would then be obviously useless. On the whole, therefore, considering possible errors in diagnosis, a cautious excision of the mass is probably the most certain and the safest procedure. Certain of the following tumors may be—and have been—mistaken for spina bifida. Congenital Sacro-coccygeal Tumors. The sacro-coccygeal region is peculiarly liable to be the seat of certain con- genital tumors. Some of these grow from the sacrum alone, and others from both the sacrum and the coccyx, but the majority would appear to have their primary origin from the coccyx alone. As to the reason why this region is so frequently the seat of congenital growth, nothing definite can be said. It is a problem that still requires to be worked out. It is remarkable that the congenital tumors about the sacrum and coccyx should be much more frequent in the female than in the male. Molk gives 58 cases in which the sex was noted, and of this number 44 were in females, and 14 in males. These tumors are very varied in their external characters, and are, I think, best classed in the following manner: (1) Attached foetuses, (2) Congenital tumors with foetal remains, (3) Congenital cystic tumors of various kinds, (4) Congenital fatty, fibrous or fibro-cellular tumors, and (5) Caudal ex- crescences. Attached Foetus.1—The most common example of this condition is afforded by a third lower limb that is attached to the sacral region, anol that hangs down between the normal legs of the patient. The condition has been known as “ human tripodism.” The superfluous limb consists usually of the two legs of another foetus blenoled into one. The size and development of this addi- tional member vary. It is usually dwarfed, and often contracted at the knee, and the foot, or feet, commonly much deformed. It may, however, appear w^ell developed, and may even exceed the natural limbs in the degree of its development. In some instances, one of the natural lower extremities of the patient may be wasted and deformed, and in a condition but little better than that of the additional member. This abnormality is associated with certain alterations in the anatomy of the pelvis, and some variation is shown in the manner in which the additional limb is attached to the trunk. In certain less frequent instances, the attached foetus has been represented by a confused, pendulous mass that exhibits the rudiments of several limbs. 1 Representations of the principal varieties of attached foetus are given in Dr. W. Braune’s Die Doppelbildungen und angehoren Gescliwiilste der Kreuzbeingegend. Leipzig, 1862.