DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 366 symptoms are apt to recur; the inconvenient part is the presence of the sore and subsequent scar. In certain cases the treatment is certainly useful; the difficulty is to distinguish these cases beforehand. It appears to me that those cases benefit most which are marked by severe starting pains before any synovial disease begins, and which show an early tendency to intraosseous suppuration. The oleate of mercury, 5,10, or 20 per cent., according to the age of the child, may be painted on the swollen part every day, or every other day, so as slightly to redden the skin ; the iodide of potassium ointment, or strapping with the plaster of mercury and ammoniacum, or of iodide of lead, may be employed. Pressure is of little, probably of no use, but somewhat powerful counter-irritation, such as may tend to direct hypersemia to the skin, appears to divert it from and so relieve the bone. The great necessity of treatment, however, is to keep the joint at rest, to prevent either weight or muscular pressure, and to do this by some means that will allow to the child exercise and plenty of fresh air. If in spite of these measures the joint-end continues to be inflamed—if it swell more, and especially if it assume somewhat of a conical form, while starting pains supervene, or, if they be already present, increase—we may conclude that the intraosseous or intracartilaginous parts are in a state of tension, are very possibly progressing towards suppuration, or have already begun to suppurate. Under these circumstances, it evidently becomes the surgeon’s duty not to wait upon events, nor let the pus choose its road, per- haps into the joint, or otherwise into dangerous parts ; but he should take the initiative, and by opening the outer case of cartilage or bone, guide the diseased products in a safe course. In considering the application of this method, the surgeon must of course be well aware that, even though the symptoms may indicate a certain point for perforation, he yet may not find an abscess, occasionally, no doubt, because none is present, and occasionally, because though present, it has been missed.1 By having pierced the bone, however, even when no abscess exists, benefit and not injury results; the signs which the surgeon has before him indicate intraosseous pressure, and it is only a little more or a little less gravity of the symptoms that can indi- cate whether that condition is due to the presence of pus, or of effused serum, or merely to hypersemia. In either event, the relief by what I have termed “ paracentesis ossium,” relieves that pressure which otherwise would result in suppuration, perhaps in necrosis. To perforate and miss an abscess is a mischance, which the surgeon must do all in his power to avoid ; the result is not direct injury, but absence of expected benefit to the full extent desired; nevertheless, some diminution of tension is produced, and I have twice seen abscesses that had been missed, open in five and eight days respectively into the perforation. Means whereby the mishap may as much as possible be prevented will be described immediately. When, therefore, the symptoms indicate intra-epiphyseal tension, the surgeon has to ask himself if they are sufficiently decisive to call for interference; and, if so, whether the spot most clearly marked be in such a situation as to be attainable without injury to the synovial membrane, even though he may have to make the paracentesis somewhat oblique. If the patient be so young that the epiphysis or short bone is chiefly cartilaginous, a tender, swollen, and red point of skin, when such appears, marks a spot opposite the site of chief intra-epiphyseal dis- ease ; if subsequently, or in more acute cases, the whole neighborhood be red and swollen, it may safely be concluded that all the nucleus opposite that side of the limb is inflamed. Thus in either case it is impossible—given an 1 Holmes, Surgical Treatment of Children^ Diseases, p. 427.