REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 41 as regular as those already described as seen in sections through the articular extremities. Sometimes the new wall is thick and almost ivory-like in den- sity and hardness; but it is always present, so that the medullary cavity is invariably covered in. Probably there is in the first place a formation of new bone, which scarcely acquires its density and hardness before the absorp- tion of the outer and irregular portions of the old bone begins. How long the modelling process lasts, cannot well he determined; but it is most likely that it always occupies more time than all the rest of the repair of the injury. Sometimes it is not completed for many months after the bone has in great measure resumed its function. Thus far reference has been made to the reparative process in cases of frac- ture of the shafts of the long bones. When the breakage extends into a joint, so as to involve the articular cartilage, we find that although the joint- cavity may have been seriously damaged, perhaps filled with blood, the ulti- mate result may be very good. The blood becomes absorbed, the secretion of synovia is restored, and the end of the bone may show no trace of the solu- tion of its continuity beyond either a groove or a depression. For, perhaps owing to the absence of periosteum, callus is not thrown out at the portion of the fracture corresponding to the joint; and if the fragments can be kept in accurate apposition, there will be no such bulging of new material as exists around the fragments elsewhere. The same may be said of fractures of the patella. Here, if the broken portions can be kept in contact, so as to become united by bone, this will be found on the anterior surface to be marked by a more or less distinct ridge, while posteriorly, or on the joint surface, there will be rather a depression, as if there had been material absorbed instead of deposited. Like all the other processes of nature, and especially like all the other processes of repair, the healing of broken bones takes place in obedience to certain general laws; and although in the majority of cases the result thus provided for is good—is, indeed, the best attainable as far as nature is con- cerned—still instances occur in which these blind forces work harm. Thus, in the case of fractures near the joints, the deposit of new bone may be such as to hamper the movements of the limb most seriously. In fractures of the forearm, the callus of one bone may unite with that from the other, and the resulting osseous bridge may do away altogether with the possibility of the pronation and supination of the hand, rendering it almost, if not wholly, use- less. Nature is wholly indifferent to the individual; and it is for the surgeon to watch and guide her reparative efforts in each instance. Fractures of cartilage are sometimes met with, and are repaired by means of a copious deposit of material analogous to the callus of bone. In the “ Wistar and Horner Museum” of the University of Pennsylvania, there is a specimen of fractures of the sixth, seventh, and eighth costal cartilages of the right side, each surrounded by a somewhat irregular bony ring. A very similar specimen is in the Mutter Museum of the Philadelphia College of Physicians. Paget thinks that this occurs only in the costal and laryngeal cartilages, which have a tendency to ossify in advanced life. When an articular cartilage is involved in a fracture of the bone to which it belongs, it does not seem ever to be fully repaired ; a groove lined by fibrous tissue always marks the line of injury. The repair of compound differs from that of simple fractures, in the fact that suppuration is almost inevitable, and that granulations spring up about the injured and exposed bone, by the ossification of which union takes place. In point of actual damage to the bone, many compound fractures are less