DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 312 ward. The ulna at the wrist is very prone to he thrown backward. The hip and the knee are both very subject to pathological dislocation; in the former this is generally complete, in the latter incomplete, and very early ; indeed, a certain amount of backward displacement of the tibia is, even during the first stage, usual, unless the case have been skilfully treated. Joint-crepitus.—Very often, when the limb is moved either in a normal or abnormal direction, a distinct, bony crepitus is felt. This symptom, when it occurs, is direct evidence that the cartilage has disappeared from both bones. Its absence cannot be taken to indicate non-ulceration with any certainty ; for granulation-tissue may prevent the contact of the otherwise bared bones, or, what sometimes though rarely happens, the loss of substance on one bone may not be opposite to that on the other. A nutgall-crepitus, that is, one which does not quite feel like two bone-surfaces rubbing together, may indi- cate cartilaginous ulceration on one bone only; but it is hardly distinguish- able from fibrous or ligamentous crepitation. In some cases crepitation is present during a certain period, and may then disappear—either to reappear, or to remain permanently absent. This last event indicates a tendency to amelioration of the local condition by the occurrence of fibrous anchylosis. At this time abscesses within the joint or elsewhere may be developed; although they are more particularly characteristic of the third stage, yet their commencement is often here. The symptoms of the third stage are either such as mark consolidation and repair, or such as indicate degeneration and further ravages. Reparative processes mark their advent always somewhat slowly, but more especially so if they have fortunately commenced during the first stage of the disease, or, indeed, during the earlier part of the second, before ulceration of cartilage has gone very far, or before abscess has formed. In the former case, the slow amelioration is marked by an improvement in the general condition ; the child’s sleep is less perturbed ; his appetite is less capricious; he eats in a more business-like manner, and no longer requires to be tempted with tid-bits or constant variety ; his complexion is clearer and brighter; and the tell-tale dark marks under his eyes disappear. While these improve- ments are taking place, the disease is generally in that state of interregnum above referred to (p. 303); the joint no longer inci’eases in size, and after a time becomes harder; the special points of tenderness (p. 310) are no longer painful on pressure; ultimately decrease in size may be verified, and the bone appears less distant from the surface, while its elevations and depressions reappear. The amount of this resumption of form depends on the previous degree of swelling, for the greater part of the inflammatory products do not disappear; the deeper structures still remain covered by them, only now more fully developed, and therefore occupying less space. If before repair has begun the cartilages have ulcerated, we may add to this account that, simul- taneously with the improvement in general health, the starting pains diminish both in frequency and intensity. When abscesses have already opened outward, the gradual diminution and cessation of discharge is very marked; but still more striking is it to see the exuberant sprouts of granulation slowly recede within the openings ; they do not shrivel and disappear, but are really withdrawn, as a snail retires into its shell. This is due to the contraction which the deeper inflammatory pro- ducts undergo during fibrillation—the indication of which may be seen for years afterwards in the depressed cicatrices which such abscess openings leave behind. This fibrillation and hardening of the granulation-tissue is the first step towards false anchylosis, if the whole joint and its surroundings have been