TUMORS. 572 situations may be borne with very little distress. One of the patients described by Recklinghausen was the subject of several hundred tumors, many of which had originated during childhood; yet she lived to be more than fifty years of age, was twice married, and bore eleven children. Small fibrous tumors of the breast are often permitted to remain untouched during many years, without danger or detriment to health. Huge outgrowths of the vulva fre- quently exist for years without treatment, partly because of the slight annoy- ance which they occasion, partly on account of the modesty which induces a woman to conceal as long as possible the existence of such a tumor. The prognosis of a fibrous tumor may, however, be complicated or falsified owing to misconception. A very shrunken, scirrhous carcinoma, or mixed fibroma and sarcoma, or, more probably, a fibrifying sarcoma, may be mistaken for a fibrous tumor, and on this faulty diagnosis an equally faulty prognosis may be based. From such errors as these it has appeared as if certain fibrous tumors were capable of exhibiting characters of malignancy, and a group of “ malig- nant fibrous tumors” was formerly described to include cases such as these. These cases may now more justly be regarded as examples, not of malignant fibrous tumors, but of carcinomas, or, much more frequently, sarcomas, which have been, in great part, transformed into fibrous tissue. Treatment.—As to the treatment of fibrous tumors, they may be removed if they are sources of pain or inconvenience, or if they are increasing quickly. For most of them the knife is the best instrument for removal, but the epu- lides may need the gouge, and the fibrous polypi of the uterus may be more safely removed with the ecraseur. The soft fibrous polypi of the nose may be best taken away with the galvano-cautery ; or, under chloroform, the poi’tions of bone to which they are attached may be cut through, and, together with the polypi, removed, in order to prevent recurrence. For, although recurrence does not take place after complete removal of a fibroma, the tumor slowly grows again if the removal has not been complete. The outgrowths of the vulva, in spite of their enormous size, may be removed with a minimum of danger and difficulty. The blood-supply is inconsiderable, and the vessels may be easily secured. Indeed, the disproportion, in most of these large tumors, between the size and number of the vessels and the bulk of the tumor, is so striking that it is difficult to conceive how so large a mass can be nour- ished by so small a blood-supply. The explanation may probably be found in the low vitality of the tumor, and in the fact that the nourishment which it receives is solely for its maintenance, for it neither expends its force in action nor supplies material for further use in the economy. Chondroma or Cartilaginous Tumor. A tumor composed of cartilage may occur either as a hard or as a soft mass. The most typical examples of cartilaginous tumor are those which occur in con- nection with cartilage and bone, all of which may be regarded as homologous on account of the close relations betAveen bone and cartilage. Of cartilaginous origins, the septum nasi is probably the most frequent; but small chondromas groAV also from the larynx. The bones which produce chondromas are many of the long bones—the femur, tibia, clavicle, humerus, bones of the forearm, and phalanges of the fingers and toes; and some of the flat bones—the os innominatum and the scapula. They grow also in connection with the jaw bones, the upper more often than the lower. The number of the chondromas may be largely augmented if the cancel- lous exostoses which are coated with a layer of hyaline cartilage are classed