INJURIES OF BONES. 212 6 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1867. notched at either end, and the upper and lower turns of the bandage con- fining the limb to it were cast through these notches, so as to make an im- perfect and inefficient extension and counter-extension. Physick lengthened this splint both ways, extending it up into the axilla, and downward beyond the foot; he also contrived a gaiter to be placed over the ankle, in place of the figure-of-8 bandage previously employed, and introduced the perineal band, afterward padded by Coates, for counter-extension. Hutchinson added a block on the inner side of the long splint, below the foot, over which the extending band passed, thus bringing the force into line with the axis of the limb. The introduction of adhesive plaster for securing the extending band to the limb, an invention the paternity of which has never been satisfactorily established, but which is certainly of American origin, was a great step in advance. By Gilbert1 the use of the same material for counter-extension was strongly advocated. Yet the extension and counter-extension, however carefully made, were apt to become relaxed, and various means were tried with the view to make them constant. I myself employed an India-rubber “ accumulator ;2 and the same idea was subsequently brought forward by Buckstone Brown3 and others in England. It was not, however, until the revival of the old weight- and-pulley extension that the problem was solved ; although, indeed, the sus- pension splint of Dr. Yathan Smith, before mentioned, may be regarded as capable of answering the same end. In the foregoing slight sketch, many things have been omitted which would deserve description in a history of the development of the treatment of these fractures. Such are, for example, the inside splint of Physick’s apparatus, and the splint-cloth by which it and the other splint were connected; the various forms of apparatus in which it was attempted to “ make the sound limb act as a splint for the injured one;” the different arrangements of screws for making extension; and the perineal block for counter-extension. All these devices have been so completely superseded that it seems to me need- less to enter into detail with regard to them. After the descriptions now given of elaborate contrivances for the treat- ment of fractures of the shaft of the femur, and the importance evidently assigned by surgeons to the prevention of shortening, the reader may well be surprised to know that there have been advocates of the use of a simple roller bandage in these cases. This plan, which is a good deal more than a step beyond that with the plaster-of-Paris or starched bandage, was first proposed by an English surgeon named Radley. Dr. Dudley,4 * of Kentucky, claimed great merit for it, but without succeeding in gaining for it the favor of the profession at large. It would certainly be a difficult matter to convince a jury, if a dissatisfied patient should seek for damages in a case so treated, that due care had been exercised to obtain the best possible result. Bryant, however, tells us that, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, both Paget and Callender were in the habit of treating all cases of fracture of the shaft of the femur, in children, without splints or other apparatus; “ the child being laid on a firm bed, with the broken limb, after setting it, bent at the hip and knee, and laid on its outer side.” Bloxam6 makes a similar statement. It may serve as an additional illustration of the diversity of views that may be held on practical subjects, if in contrast with those given on the fore- 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1858, and April, 1859. 2 Ibid., July, 1862. 3 Lancet, Oct. 10, 1874. 4 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Nov. 1836 ; from Transylvania Journal of Medicine, etc., April, 1836.