457 EXCISION OF THE UPPER JAW. artery (if it can be seen) and of any other vessels that are found bleeding, or by the application of the hot iron, the external incisions should be accurately adjusted with the hare-lip or shotted suture. A piece of lint, wet with glyce- rine and water, and laid over the part, is all the dressing that is needed. Partied excision of the jaw may, in cases of non-malignant growth, often be substituted for complete extirpation ; thus, on the one hand, the orbital plate may be preserved, a groove being cut with the saw across the bone below the orbit, and the cutting forceps then applied in the same line; or, on the other hand, the alveolus and hard palate may be left, the bone being cut across above these, and the rest of the operation completed in the ordi- nary manner. Fergusson suggested that it might be sometimes advisable to cut into the centre of the diseased mass, and then work outwards with gouge and gouge-forceps, instead of resorting to formal excision. In cases of small tumor, and in those of necrosis, removal may often be effected from within the mouth, without making any external wound whatever, and Dr. Hutchison, of Brooklyn, lias even succeeded in extracting through the mouth, in a case of necrosis, the whole upper jaw and malar bone. Linhart, of Ber- lin, has thus removed the greater portion of both upper jaws, while preserv- ing the muco-periosteal covering of the hard palate and the incisor teeth. The statistics of excision of the upper jaw are quite as favorable as could be expected, in view of the severity of the operation. Of 84 terminated cases of the operation, referred to by 0. ITeyfelder, 51 ended in recovery, and 33 in death or relapse (39 per cent.); and other authors give a still more favorable picture. Thus, Prof. Agnew, from an analysis of a large number of eases collected for him by Dr. Hunter, finds that 120 operations gave 99 recoveries and only 21 deaths (17.5 per cent.), while 20 cases tabulated by Ohleman, of Bremen, give the high proportion of 17 recoveries, or 85 per cent. Partial excision, though less grave in the immediate results of the operation, is more often followed by fatal recurrence: 83 terminated cases referred to by 0. Iley- felder, gave only 48 recoveries and 35 deaths or relapses (42.1 per cent.). Hence the inference is very clear that, in cases of malignant disease, total excision should be preferred. I have myself bad occasion to remove the entire upper jaw in three cases, two of which ended in recovery, while the third proved fatal from secondary hemorrhage. Another case, in which I removed all of the jaw except the orbital plate, as a preliminary to the extirpation of a very large pharyngeal tumor attached to the base of the skull, also ended fatally, apparently from the shock of the latter operation. The principal risks which attend excision of the upper jaw appear to be excessive hemorrhage, shock, and suffocation from the entrance of blood into the air-passages. (1) Hemorrhage is always pretty free in the early stage of this operation, though less when Fergusson’s median incision is adopted than when the cheek is laid open, and the facial artery cut therefore where it is of consider- able calibre. The bleeding may be temporarily arrested by pressure, or by the application of a clip or serrefine, but if the patient is under the influence of an anaesthetic, so that haste is not important, it is as well to pause, and tie each vessel as it is divided. At the end of the operation, there is again free hemorrhage from the internal maxillary artery or its branches, and if there should be any difficulty met with in applying ligatures, the bleeding points should be promptly and thoroughly seared with the hot iron, which should always be in readiness. As a prophylactic against hemorrhage, Lizars, and others of the older surgeons, ligated the common carotid artery of the affected side as a preliminary procedure ; but this plan has been long since abandoned as unnecessary, and as in itself adding considerably to the dangers of the ope- ration. Digital compression of one or both carotids by the hands of an assis-