945 pott’s disease of the spine. be clear. The hernia, if reducible, is returned with a peculiar gurgle, and is of slow formation. If of any size, it will also be, as a rule, tympanitic on percussion. The following case—recorded by Shaw1—will show how closely a cancerous tumor about the groin may imitate a spinal abscess. lie had under his care “ a female, of middle age, who had lateral curvature of the spine from girlhood; and in whom the hump was so prominent and abrupt, that it might be mistaken for angular deformity from caries of the vertebrae. She was admitted for a tumor that occupied the inner side of the left wing of the pelvis, and was on a level, at its anterior part, with the crest of the ilium. An oval-shaped, projecting lobe, in course of time formed on its most dependent face, near Poupart’s ligament; and the feeling communicated to the finger, when examining that part, bore the greatest resemblance to what is conveyed by pus, when near the surface of an abscess. The subsequent progress and termination of the case showed that the tumor was one of me- dullary cancer.” Among other tumors in the inguinal region that may possibly be confused with spinal abscess, are bubo; varix of the saphenous vein; fatty, cystic, and other soft or fluctuating tumors; and possibly some cases of aneurism. Before concluding the matter of diagnosis, it is to be observed that it is scarcely possible to diagnose with any certainty the nature of the bone-mis- chief during life. In less recent times, much was written on the distinctions between simple and tubercular caries, and on this point the arrangement of Broca was perhaps the most popular. He asserted that tubercular osteitis occurred in children, and, as a rule, in the cervical and dorsal regions, and that it soon led to deformity, and to paraplegia. Whereas simple caries appeared usually in adults, and in the lumbar spine, and was marked by a very tardy deformity and no paralytic symptoms. This arrangement is very fascinating, but must, in the present state of our knowledge, be, I think, discarded as useless Progress, Prognosis, etc.—The 'progress of the disease is, as a rule, slow. In some cases it may be so slow, and produce so few symptoms, that the malady is hardly noticed by the patient. Thus cases are recorded where the patient followed a laborious employment during the development of the disease, and where years elapsed before any troublesome symptoms—such as abscess or cord-troubles—appeared. There are cases, on the contrary, where the malady has been acute, and has pursued a rapid course. But, as a rule, even these acute cases are not acute from the first. They begin as chronic maladies, and then, for some particular reason, take on an acute action. The great feature, however, in the progress of Pott’s disease is its uncertainty. Seldom is its progress uniform, but marked rather by the utmost variety, not only in the rate at which it advances, but also in the period at which certain symptoms appear, and in the general features of those symptoms themselves. The actual time, therefore, occupied by the disease must vary considerably. Except in very few instances, it can hardly run its course in less than six or nine months, although Michel asserts that the period of time from the commencement to the termination of the malady may be as little as three months. In the majority of cases, the duration of the active disease is to be estimated by years, and not by months, and perhaps one or two years would be an average time for the period occupied by the course of the dis- ease. _ It would be difficult, perhaps impossible, to detail the circumstances that influence the rate of progress of spinal caries. It may be, here, only necessary to observe that the malady, as a rule, advances more rapidly in VOL. iv.—60 Loc. cit., page 126.