157 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. Op. cit., p. 477. for obvious reasons, adult males are most exposed to the causes of such injury. The diagnosis is sometimes quite clear as to the nature of the hurt, but it may not be easy to determine exactly which bones are involved, and to what extent. Malgaigne mentions a case, as follows: “ In the only example of comminuted fracture of the elbow which I have seen, the humerus was intact, except that its articular cartilage was stripped off; the patient had fallen from a second story upon the elbow, and the wound answered merely to a transverse fracture of the olecranon, leading me to think that this process alone was involved. The patient dying on the fifty-eighth day, the autopsy revealed a comminuted fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, as well as of the head and neck of the radius.” When the external wound is large, exploration with the finger may afford much more exact information as to the precise nature of the damage to the bones. There are very few injuries in which the prognosis is more doubtful than in those now under consideration. Every pathological cabinet contains speci- mens illustrating most extensive fractures involving the elbow, from which recovery has taken place, with deformity indeed, yet apparently with a fair degree of usefulness of the limb. In Malgaigne’s case, just mentioned, there was an incessant oozing of blood from the fractured surfaces, which filled the joint, and doubtless had to do with the unfavorable result; such a complica- tion might occur in any case, and disappoint hopes otherwise well founded. On the other hand, Sir A. Cooper1 relates the case of a brewer’s servant, in whom the elbow was crushed by the wheel of a dray, so that the finger could be passed through the joint, and the artery thus felt. lie refused to submit to amputation, and recovered, with sufficient motion in the elbow to allow him to resume his former occupation. Another case is given by the same author, in which a man, aged seventy-four years, with very extensive frac- ture, made a complete recovery ; “ although the form of the joint was irregu- lar, yet a considerable degree of motion was preserved.” I think it may be assumed that, in the latter case, the joint was not laid open—a circumstance which, as a general rule, renders the chance of a good result much greater. When this can be ascertained, the surgeon may, there- fore, venture to give the patient much more encouragement than if the latter is likely to undergo the risk of a suppurative arthritis. When the joint does not show' any sign of stiffening, and especially if passive motion neither gives pain nor excites inflammation, the prospect is favorable, even if the outward shape of the part is disfigured—the result of several displacements being to give something like the natural mechanism. Much, however, depends upon the judgment with which passive motion is employed. For the treatment of cases varying so widely in the degree and character of the lesions presented, it can scarcely be expected that definite rules should be laid down. When the fracture is a simple one, the course to be pursued is identical wdtli that recommended when only one of the bones entering into the joint is concerned. In compound fractures, if the joint be not laid open, the fragments must be adjusted, and any that are entirely loose removed; the wound is next to be closed as securely as possible, and the limb placed upon a rectangular splint ; inflammation is to be expected, and must be met by fomentations, evaporating and anodyne lotions, or irrigation. Upon its subsidence, the same treatment should be instituted as for simple fractures, provision being made for the dressing of the wound until it has completely healed.