509 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. it can be made the better it will be for the patient. I have had the oppor- tunity of comparing the results of both methods in practice, and have no hesitation in deciding in favor of the straight position. No rule is more important in the treatment of these cases than that the limb should be undisturbed after the operation. The wound, of course, must be dressed daily, but when the splint is once applied there should be no necessity for readjustment until the process of bony union is well advanced ; six weeks is none too long for the splint to remain without renewal, and under no circumstances should it be disturbed within the first fortnight, I believe with Price and Swain that a neglect of this rule has been answerable for many of the failures of knee-joint excision. In the later stages of the after-treatment I have found it convenient to replace the bracketed splint by a simple, moulded, pasteboard gutter, made to embrace the posterior half of the limb. Should, unfortunately, caries or necrosis recur after excision, a re-excision may be properly attempted, or, if the patient’s health be failing, amputation may be resorted to as a life-saving measure. Re-excision may also be re- quired for recurrent deformity with anchylosis, and I have successfully em- ployed it under these circumstances. In two eases have I known fiexion of the limb to occur after recovery from knee-joint excision, when the bones were, to all appearances, firmly united. In the first case, I succeeded in straightening the limb without any difficulty by applying a posterior, straight splint, and an elastic bandage, which soon brought the knee down into posi- tion ; but in the other case the patient was lost sight of for seven years, at the end of which time complete synostosis had occurred with the leg at a right angle to the thigh, and I then successfully re-excisecl after Buck’s method (excision in a block), and the patient has now a straight and useful limb, though of course shortened by the double operation. As in the case of other articulations, I shall endeavor to further illustrate the subject of knee-joint excision by giving abstracts of a few cases1 from among those in which I have had occasion to perform the operation. Partial Anchylosis with Recurrent Arthritis of Right Knee; Excision; Recovery with Useful Limb.—The portions of bone removed in this case were exhibited in their recent state to the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, at its meeting of March 24, 1870, and a brief note of the case appeared in the proceedings of that body.2 The patient was a boy, ten years of age, who four years previously had received an injury of the right knee, and had been subsequently treated in various hospitals with but tem- porary benefit. When admitted to the Episcopal Hospital, where he came under my observation, in March, 1870, the joint was found to be markedly distorted, the limb being contracted to an angle of about 120°, the tibia dislocated backwards and upwards, and tbe patella firmly fixed upon the external condyle of the femur. There was partial anchylosis ; the joint was tender and at times painful; and the frequent falls to which the boy was exposed by the inability to use his limb, led to oft-recurring attacks of inflammation, each of which left the part more crippled than it had been before. Under these circumstances it was determined to resort to excision, and accordingly, on March 23, the patient being under the anaesthetic influence of ether, I made a single curved incision over the front of the joint, dissected out the patella, and, having with a probe-pointed knife fairly exposed the ends of the femur and tibia, removed their articu- lating extremities with the saw known as Butcher’s, its blade being fixed so as to cut from below upwards, and thus to avoid all risk of injury to the important structures in the popliteal space. The disorganized soft tissues of the joint having then been clipped away with Butcher’s knife-bladed forceps, a few small vessels were secured with 1 Several of these cases, as well as some of those of elbow-joint excision, were included in papers read before the College of Physicians of Philadelphia in 1875 and 1876. (Transactions, 3d series, vols. i. and ii.) 2 Proc. Path. Soc. Phila., vol. iii. p. 164.