TUMORS. 652 ages of thirty and forty years, but is more often seen in older persons. In both these circumstances it resembles typical epithelioma of the same regions. But a most singular circumstance, in which it differs from malignant disease in general, is the extreme slowness of its course, a slowness not exceptional and belonging only to occasional specimens of the disease, but habitual and almost inseparable from it. Thus, a rodent ulcer will slowly spread during five, ten, fifteen, or even twenty years, produce horrible disfigurement and great destruction, and yet not affect the lymphatic glands nor become dissemi- nated. So uniform is its course in these respects, that the separation which has been till lately made of rodent ulcer from the carcinomas may easily be accounted for. Malignancy of the disease is, however, expressed in its con- tinuous extension, and in the fact that it attacks every structure with which it comes in contact—skin, subcutaneous tissue, fascife, muscles, cartilage, and bone. The microscopical characters of typical examples of this disease are these: In the cutis vera and subcutaneous tissue are blocks or irregular masses of cells, closely massed together; the blocks vary much in shape, and are generally much larger than the cell-masses and cylinders of epithelioma. (Plate XXI. Fig. 29.) They are separated by a fibrous tissue infiltrated with small cells, or in some cases are tolerably free from cell-infiltration. The cells of which they are composed are for the most part spheroidal, or angular from mutual pressure, smaller and more uniform in size and shape than the cells of epithe- lioma, and they contain generally each a single nucleus. (Plate XXI. Fig. 30.) The peripheral layer of cells of each block is more frequently columnar, like the deepest layer of the normal epidermis. In some of the masses or blocks, the cells present another, very different shape. They are elongated, or even oat-shaped, or spindle-shaped, so that a careless examination might lead to the impression that the tumor was a sarcoma. (Plate XXI. Fig. 31.) A closer examination of all parts of the floor of the ulcer will correct this false im- pression. Occasionally very small and ill-formed cell-nests are observed. The exact origin of the disease has been made the subject of frequent and animated discussions. The deeper layers of the epidermis, the hair-follicles, and the sudoriparous glands, have each been regarded as the source from which the new growth was derived. The balance of opinion inclines towards the Mal- pighian layer of the cuticle or the hair-follicles; and with this opinion my own accords, on the ground of the similarity of the cells met with in this disease to those of the structures referred to, and of the direct continuity which may sometimes be traced between the cell-masses and those structures. A cir- cumstance may here be mentioned which bears upon the scarring of rodent ulcer, and tends to show that the healing is probably only apparent. In a section cut by Mr. Bowlby perpendicularly through the scarred portion of a rodent ulcer, the characteristic structure of the disease was quite as evident beneath the scar as in the unhealed parts. The disease was therefore not cured, but concealed by the scarring over it. It is not certain that this is invariably the case; a spontaneous cure may in some rare instances be effected, but such healing must always be regarded with suspicion until its complete- ness and durability have been proved. The diagnosis of rodent ulcer in advanced and well-marked cases presents no difficulty; but in earlier stages, and when the characters are less pro- nounced, it may be quite impossible to distinguish between this disease and the common form of epithelioma. Practically, the differential diagnosis is not very important, for precisely similar treatment should be followed in both diseases. The practice so commonly adopted, of applying caustics to the surface of the ulcer, or of attempting to destroy it with the cautery, is in the very large majority of cases useless, or worse than useless. This treat-