CAUSES OF FRACTURE. 9 peculiarity. Sometimes it is seen in old people, as one of the changes inci- dent to their time of life; but it has also been observed as a congenital con- dition, and in rare instances as a matter of heredity, so that many members of a family, and even several generations, may manifest it. From the published accounts, it does not appear that the bones of persons affected with fragility are always, or even generally, small or slight, and their muscular develop- ment would seem to be quite equal to the average standard. A few instances only need be here quoted at length. Dr. F. J. Shepherd reported to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Montreal1 a case of senile atrophy of the bones, with very remarkable fragility, in a woman aged between 80 and 90. Tyrrell2 thus reports a remarkable case of brittleness of hone in a man whose age is not given :— He had been the subject, at the time he was last under my hands, of seventeen frac- tures ; and when I last saw him, three or lour years ago, he had had five more frac- tures, making in all twenty-two. These fractures affected the femur, the tibia and fibula, the upper arm, and the forearm—scarcely a cylindrical bone of any size had escaped. In consequence of these fractures he had lost in height from seven to eight inches. The first time I had him under my care was in consequence of fracture of the thigh-bone, and the other had been fractured once or twice previously. In consequence of indifferent surgery, that limb was shorter by three inches than that for which he came under my care. He had worn an iron to make up for the difference in the length of the two limbs, and it enabled him to make progression with some inconvenience. Finding this, I stated that it was possible to set the recently broken limb to the same length as the one formerly broken, and at his wish I did so. I made an angular union of the second limb, reduced it to the same length as the other, and he was enabled after- wards to make progression more easily and rapidly. Hence I was the instrument of taking off three or four inches from his height, by shortening the limb to that extent. It may not he anticipating too much to say here that it is difficult to see how walking could have been facilitated by making the leg crooked; and the experiment is certainly one which surgeons of the present day would hesitate to try. Gibson3 gives the following case of his own :— A patient of mine, a Mr. Green, residing near Trenton, N. J., has a son now nine- teen years of age, who, from infancy up to the present period, has been subject to frac- tures from the slightest causes, owing to an extraordinary brittleness of the bones. The bones of the arm, forearm, thigh, and leg, have all been broken repeatedly, even from so trivial an accident as catching the foot in a fold of carpet whilst walking across the room. The clavicles have suffered more than any other bone, having been fractured eight times. What is remarkable, the boy has always enjoyed excellent health, and the bones have united without much difficulty or much deformity. The above was pub- lished in 1824; since then this patient died, in the twenty-third year of his age. . . . Altogether he had experienced twenty-four fractures. Stanley4 speaks of a hoy aged ten, under the care of Mr. Earle, in St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital, “ who had suffered eight fractures, six in one tibia, and two in the femur. Each fracture of the tibia occurred in a different part of the bone, and had united within the usual period.” In a case reported by Arnott,5 a girl aged fourteen years Avas under treats merit for her thirty-first fracture ; the right thigh having been broken seven ' Medical News, Nov. 18, 1882. 2 St. Thomas’s Hosp. Reports, vol. i. 183(1. 3 Institutes and Practice of Surgery, 8th ed. (1850), vol. i. p. 234. 4 A Treatise on Diseases of the Bones. London, 18i9. 6 London Med. Gazette, June 15, 1833.