190 INJURIES OP BONES. the neck in a direction almost or quite transverse; under the second, those which involve the portion of bone close to the lesser trochanter; and under the third, those which begin near the trochanter and run upward across the neck of the bone to a point close to the margin of the head. But unless the description above given of the extent and attachments of the capsular ligament is incor- rect, ail these fractures are within the capsule. A more correct phraseology would be “intra-articular” for those which concern the part of the bone beneath the synovial membrane of the liip-joint, and “extra-articular” for those which are wholly outside of it. Of the latter class, I think, very few examples can be found, the great majority of cases being those in which the fracture affects the hone partly beneath the synovial membrane and partly beyond its limits. Bigelow says: “ In lecturing upon this subject, I have been in the habit of dividing the injuries of the neck of the femur into the impacted fracture of the base of the neck and the unimpacted fracture of the rest of the neck, without regard to the capsule—a practical classification, embracing a majority of cases, and to which the other lesions may be regarded as exceptional.” Viewed mechanically, the femur is a bent lever, arranged for the purpose of receiving the weight of the body, and of being moved so as to transfer it from place to place. Any force brought to bear upon the femur so as to tend to diminish the angle between the neck and the shaft, in other words, any force driving the head downward or the shaft upward, the opposite end being pre- vented from yielding, may cause a fracture beginning at the lesser trochanter, and tearing away the mass of lamellte described as radiating upward from that, point toward the head. This will only happen if the force is excessive, or if it bears upon the bony texture out of the proper line of transmission of the weight of the body. A blow upon the greater trochanter may do it, or a blow either in front or behind the base of the neck of the bone; in either case the central point of the neck, as it might perhaps be called—the apex of the pyramid of columns—is the starting-point of the rending of the bone. This idea can readily be understood by any one who will carefully examine a vertical section of the upper portion of a well-developed femur. Moreover, such a section will show also how the greater trochanter may be split off. Out of a very large number of specimens of fracture of the neck of the femur which I have examined, every one which belonged to the “ extracap- sular” class, that is, every one in which the fracture was not clearly within the limits of the synovial membrane, presented a long point running down close to the lesser trochanter, embracing the lower wall of the neck of the bone, and the pyramidal mass of columns already so often mentioned. And in this statement may also be included all those specimens which would be placed under the head of “mixed.” In other words, I feel warranted in say- ing that, all fractures of the neck of the femur are divisible into two classes: one in which the line of separation runs across the neck of the bone between the reflection of the synovial membrane and the margin of the head, the other in which the line begins close to the trochanter and runs up obliquely, and more or less irregularly, to the upper surface of the neck near the head. This long, wedge-like point is very apt to be driven into the cancellous struc- ture of the uppermost part of the shaft, and may split or burst away several fragments of it, one of which will probably consist of the greater trochanter. By a mechanism not materially different from that now described, fracture may be caused by any force acting upon the shaft of the femur as a lever, the head of the bone being fixed ; the enormous advantage afforded by the length of the shaft must be at once apparent. As to the production of the intra-articular fractures—-those in which the neck of the bone is broken nearly or quite transversely—they are generally due, I believe, to a twist impressed upon the part. In some cases this is very