( 535 ) EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. BY GEORGE E. FENWICK, M.D., C.M., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN M°G1LL UNIVERSITY ; SURGEON TO THE MONTREAL GENERAL HOSPITAL. I shall in the following pages describe the method of excising the knee- joint which I have myself invariably practised. In all the cases that have come under my own observation I have adopted the single incision in the soft tissues, and have invariably found it sufficient for the purpose. An incision is made extending from the back part of one condyle of the femur, passing across the front of the joint to the back part of the condyle on the opposite side of the limb. This should be carried below the lower part of the patella, and curved slightly downwards. This incision should divide the ligamentum patellae and also both lateral ligaments. The joint is thus freely opened; the soft parts, with the patella included, are now reflected upwards, and on flexing the leg upon the thigh, the lower end of the femur will protrude through the wound. The crucial ligaments, if intact, should be divided close to their attachments, and the soft parts freely separated from the intercondyloid notch. In doing this the edge of the knife, guided by the finger, should be kept close to the bone, so as to avoid injury to the pop- liteal artery, which lies in close proximity to the bone near its centre, and is separated from it only by some fat, occasionally one of the deep lymphatic glands, and some areolar tissue. The whole articular surface can thus at once be brought into view, and its condition observed. It can now be removed with the saw. I have been in the habit for some years past of removing the ex- tremity of the femur with a fine fret-work saw, which I have had adapted to Butcher’s frame. By a circular sweep from the front, extending back- wards, the operator can take away just so much of the bone as is involved in the disease. If the bone is in process of ulceration, or softened, a second Fig. 754. Convex surface of lower end of femur after the application of the saw. thin slice may be removed. The operator should be careful in making this section to remove an equal length of both condyles, which will enable him to adjust the bones with greater accuracy, and will prevent the tendency to bending of the limb to either the outer or the inner side. By removing the end of the femur after the manner above described, the sawn extremity pre- sents a rounded surface. A thin slice from the face of the bone will, as a