SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 687 efforts of the flexor muscles of the trunk, so that in maintaining an upright position of the vertebral column, they lessen considerably the expenditure of muscular force by their automatic work. (4) The capsular ligaments and synovial membranes hold together the articular processes of the vertebrae. (5) The inter-spinous and supra-spinous ligaments fasten together the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. (6) The inter-transverse ligaments connect the transverse processes of the lower vertebra? with each other. Furthermore, the ligamenta subjlava are in direct relation, by both surfaces, with the meningo-rachidian veins; and, internally, they are separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by these veins and some loose connective and adipose tissue. A laceration of these ligaments would probably be attended by a rupture of these veins. Again, the posterior common ligament is in relation by its anterior surface, not only with the intervertebral sub- stances and the bodies of the vertebrae, but also with the venae basum vertebra- rum. It is in relation by its posterior surface with the dura mater of the spi- nal cord, some loose connective tissue and numerous small veins alone being interposed. A laceration of the posterior common ligament would probably he attended by a rupture of these veins, with a rupture of the venae basum vertebrarum, and a considerable injury of the spinal dura mater. Indeed, the anatomical relations of the ligamenta subflava and the posterior common ligament are such that traumatic spinal meningitis, as well as hemorrhage from the contiguous veins, might readily result from a traumatic lesion in- volving either of them. Violent strains and forcible flexures, and strong twists or wrenches of the back, produce injuries of the joints and ligaments of the vertebral column, and of the adjacent parts, both soft and hard, which are strictly analogous to the lesions that result from the same kinds of hurt when they affect the joints of the extremities. The lesions which are met with in the back, in consequence of these forms of injury, vary from a slight laceration of some fibres of the vertebral ligaments, and of the contiguous connective tissue, and lesser bloodvessels, on the one hand, all the way up to a very extensive tear- ing through or detachment of the vertebral ligaments, with a correspondingly extensive rupturing of the contiguous muscles, tendons, connective tissue, and bloodvessels, on the other. Indeed, the lesions which result from severe sprains and twists, or wrenches of the vertebral column, differ only in degree from those which attend dislocations of the vertebrae. But, according to" the observations of Mr. Hilton, “the most frequent lesion in injury to the spine is a partial severance of the vertebra from the intervertebral substance.”1 This view receives support from the fact that the junction of a more to a less elastic body is the weakest spot, and, therefore, receives the full effect of a strain.2 The symptoms or phenomena which attend these accidents are pain in the injured parts, and inability to move them, with tumefaction and tenderness under pressure in the same region ; and, not unfrequcntly, subcutaneous ecchymosis appears in the swelling. These symptoms, however, all vary in degree and extent, according to the amount of the injury that has been sus- tained. The swelling may or may not he attended by ecchymosis ; and some- times the latter does not make its appearance for several days. The tenderness under pressure is usually not restricted to the spinous processes of one or two of the vertebra; (which circumstance, if it were present, would excite a sus- picion that vertebral fracture existed), but is equally noticeable over several contiguous spinous processes. At the same time, on tracing the tips of these spinous processes, they are found to he in a normally straight line, and on a 1 On Rest and Pain, Am. ed., pp. 47, 48. 2 Ibid., p. 48, foot-note.