INJURIES OF BONES. 138 4. Case 52. Examined after five weeks. “ The inner condyle is displaced upward three-quarters of an inch. The olecranon process lias followed this fragment. Large amount of callus in front at seat of fracture. The elbow is nearly anchylosed at an obtuse angle.” 5. Case 53. Examined after six years. “ The internal condyle is displaced down- ward toward the wrist half an inch.” Extension, flexion, pronation, and supination are stated to have been all impaired in this case. 6. Case 55. Examined after five years. “ The inner condyle displaced downward and forward half an inch.” The reader will perceive from the above quotations, I think, more distinctly than from a mere general statement, the influence of the muscles in produc- ing and keeping up displacement of the fragment, when the epitrochlea, with or without part of the joint surface, is broken off. It will be noted that the separated portion had been moved in various directions—backward and upward, forward, downward (in two instances), upward, and downward and forward. When the fragment is drawn upward along the arm, it seems to me that it must be by portions of the triceps and brachialis anticus, the fibres below the fragment being probably torn across. Other displacements may be due to traction by the pronator radii teres, or by the superficial flexors. Very possibly the action is a gradual one, the separated portion of bone being drawn into its new position during the period preceding the organization of the callus. Certainly, in some cases there is at first distinct crepitus, showing that no such gap exists between the fractured surfaces as is brought about afterwards. When a fracture runs obliquely into the elbow-joint, separating the outer or inner portion of the articulating surface of the humerus, it is not difficult to see how in the former case the radius, and in the latter the ulna, loses its support, and, under the influence merely of the muscles, pushes the fragment before it. Sometimes the fracturing force itself may cause the displacement, and in that case the muscular action would surely tend to keep up the de- rangement of the parts. An obvious result of either disturbance of relation must be to twist the forearm into an abnormal direction, and, by changing the position of the points of origin of muscles, to interfere with some actions, while others are made more free, although less powerful. Pick1 has recorded a curious case of fracture of the external condyle, the fragment having been carried up and attached to the outer side of the bone. Hunter2 met with a case in which the external condyle was broken off, the radius and ulna being at the same time luxated outward. The fragment “ had apparently become wedged in between the bones forming the elbow-joint,” and reduction was impossible. Strength was regained in the joint, but not much motion. In 1856, I saw a washerwoman in whom a fracture of the inner condyle had resulted from muscular effort in lifting a heavy tub. The accident had occurred some two months previously; there was much effusion into the cavity of the joint, and the head of the radius was widely separated from the ulna, but some use of the arm remained. The nature of the lesion was quite clear, and the patient’s account of the matter plain and straightforward. I do not know any further history of the case. Disjunction of the lower epiphysis of the humerus is an accident which can of course happen only in childhood or youth. It is probable that here, as else- where, the line of separation may not always be exactly confined to the carti- lage, but that a portion of the bone may be torn off. On the other hand, I think the fracture may concern a portion oidy of the epiphysis, and thus be entirely within the joint. The cases of this kind which have come under 1 Trans, of London Pathological Society, 1870. 2 Philadelphia Med. Times, April 1, 1871.