618 TUMORS. twice. With the lungs, in one case, the walls of the intestine, the peritoneum, and the mesenteric glands, were also diseased. The diagnosis of sarcoma of the tonsil is not very difficult. The enlarge- ment of a single tonsil in an adult patient, is in itself a suspicious circum- stance ; and when to this are added the continuous and rapid growth of the tumor, the absence of signs of inflammation, and the globular shape and darker hue than natural, suspicion is exchanged for certainty. The jwognosis is most unhappy. There is no malignant disease which appears to run so rapid and so smooth a course to death. Ulceration, suppuration, hemorrhage, impairment of deglutition, impeded respiration, and dissemination, combine to exhaust the patient’s strength, and surgery offers scarcely a prospect of even temporary alleviation of his suffering. Treatment.—The tonsil may be removed either from the mouth or through an opening in the neck, and, although both operations may appear fraught with excessive danger, they are very seldom fatal. The operation through the mouth may be performed with the ecraseur, or with the actual or the gal- vanic-cautery: contrary to what might naturally be expected, the hemor- rhage is seldom severe. The operation from the neck presents the advantage of the possibility of much more free removal of the primary disease, and of extirpation at the same time of one or more affected glands. In spite of the importance of the parts in the midst of which the incision must be carried, even this operation may be performed with comparative safety. Unfortu- nately, both operations are speedily followed, in almost every case, by recur- rence ; so that the short relief obtained is scarcely sufficient to compensate for the distress of the operation. In the only successful case with which I am acquainted, in which the tumor was removed through the mouth, I am sometimes tempted to wonder whether the disease was really a sarcoma. Sarcomata of the Larynx.—The sarcomas of the larynx offer in many respects a striking contrast to those of the tonsil. The disease is far more dangerously situated, yet its progress is less rapid, and it is more amenable to treatment. It is difficult to comprehend why there should be so much difference in the disease of two parts so nearly neighbored ; it may perhaps lie in the softer consistence and cellular, structure of the tonsil, and in its close connection with the lymphatic glands. The structure of the parts of the larynx beneath the mucous covering is, for the most part, fibrous and muscu- lar. In accordance, therefore, with the general rnle that the structure of the parent tissue exercises a marked influence on the structure of its tumors, most of the sarcomas of the larynx are spindle-celled or fibre-celled. Round cells are often mingled with the spindle-cells, but a pure round-celled tumor is an exception. The disease may originate in the epiglottis, the ventricular bands (false cords), or the vocal cords. One case has been described by Morell Mackenzie, in which the tumor grew from the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage.1 It attacks adults, rarely children, and is rather an affec- tion of middle and advanced, than of younger adult life. Most of the cases occur in males; at least three times as many males as females are attacked, a difference possibly accounted for by the much coarser use to which the larynx is subjected in the male sex. The tumor does not usually grow very quickly, and does not usually grow very large. Large size seems almost precluded by the nature and situation of the parts affected. Many of the tumors which have been removed are thought to have existed months or even years before the operation. Yet they are very small. On the other hand, quick growth has been observed, and early operation has been called for by the dyspnoea 1 Diseases of tlie Throat and Nose, vol. i. p. 350.