TUMORS. 546 to credence rests, indeed, on the insufficiency of other theories to explain the occurrence of every variety of tumor under every possible condition. But the difficulties in accepting it are so great that they appear almost insuper- able. It is scarcely conceivable that masses of embryonic tissue can remain locked up in developing or fully developed tissues, that they can remain unchanged and inert in the midst of continual change and action during a period, in some instances, of half a century, and then be capable of springing suddenly into life and action on the application of so slight a stimulus as an increased flow of blood in their immediate neighborhood. The theory of parasitic origin, when applied to malignant tumors, offers at the present moment greater attraction than any other. It affords an oppor- tunity of explaining many circumstances in the life-history of sarcoma and carcinoma, almost inexplicable on any other theory, especially the invasion of lymphatic glands and general dissemination. It cannot, I think, be main- tained that the tumor is the parasite, for its elements are undoubtedly de- rived from the natural textures of the body. But it may, and probably will be proved, that the tumor contains the parasite, such a parasite for example as the bacillus of leprosy or of tubercle. The close resemblance of the pro- cesses of the malignant tumors to those of certain of the infection-tumors, especially tubercle; the manner in which malignant tumors are developed in distant portions of the body ; the rapidity with which the transit is in many instances effected ; the resemblance of the secondary masses to the parent growth; the obstinate hold which malignant growths maintain, all favor this view. That there are objections to the theory of parasitism, I am well aware, but some of the most important of them may be met. Thus, to the objec- tion that no parasite has been discovered in any tumor, the answer is obvious: the parasites of leprosy and tubercle have only recently been discovered. The objection that tumors are not inoculable, or infectious, or contagious, may be answered by pointing out that tubercle does not appear to be readily infectious or contagious, and that the difficulty of carrying out inoculation experiments successfully is much greater for tumors than for tubercle; for it is evident, from what we know of their life-history, that they require certain very favorable conditions for their first production. "When the nature and the situation of the parasite has been discovered, it may then be found pos- sible to conduct inoculation experiments with success. Among the circum- stances which tend particularly to encourage the belief that malignant tumors are due to the presence of parasites, the following may be mentioned. Acti- nomycosis, which stands on the border-line between tumors and infection- tumors, has been already discovered to contain, and probably is due to, a parasite or fungus. The lympho-sarcoma of the lungs of the cobalt miners of Schneeberg,1 undoubtedly a true tumor-disease, occurs only amongst the miners in the cobalt-pits, killing all the men who work there for a certain number of years, but afiecting none of the persons in the neighborhood who are not employed in the pits. The green color and rapid dissemination of green cancer (chlorosis), with the invariable presence in the tumors of very numerous, minute, highly retractile molecules, may also be mentioned. Even the geographical distribution of cancer, as pointed out by Dr. Ilavilland,2 may tend towards the same conclusion. For he has found from statistical research, that, while the high and dry lands are very free from cancer, the courses of large rivers subject to seasonal overflow, are hotbeds of cancer; which may suggest that the organisms of cancer thrive only or chiefly in moist districts, or in the tissues of those who reside in moist, river districts. 1 Hesse, Archiv d. Heilkunde, Bd. xix. S. 160. 2 Journal of the Society of Arts, vol. xxvii. No. 1367.