54 INJURIES OE BONES. with perspiration, as cotton does. An excellent substitute, almost always at hand, when neither cotton nor wool can be had, is found in flannel; three or four thicknesses of old blanket make a very efficient and agreeable lining for any kind of splint. Some surgeons use the article known as “ canton flannel” in the same way ; the soft or flocky side should always be placed in contact with the skin. By Tufnell,1 the use of lon°- bags of straw, as combined splint and padding, has been recommended; tire straws are carefully arranged lengthwise, and the sacks are not so tightly stuffed but that they can be shaped by pressure to fit the limb. This plan, which certainly has merit, has never come into general use. Allied to these, but of less value because less adaptable, are various forms of cushion and of padded apparatus, which do not seem to me to need de- scription. For merely temporary support and protection, an ordinary pillow may sometimes be applied with advantage. Sand-bags are often of great use, and will be further referred to hereafter. Water-cushions have been proposed by Jeaffreson2 and by Thompson3 as substitutes for padding, but have never been generally employed, and are cer- tainly open to very decided theoretical objections, apart from their costliness. The same may be said of the air-pads of caoutchouc, devised by Gariel.4 Solidifying Dressings.—The employment of bandages imbued with mate- rials which harden on drying (such as gum shellac or other gummy or resin- ous substances), is of very ancient date. But it had almost entirely gone out of fashion until Larrcy, about 1825, revived the idea, using the bandage of Scul- tetus, and cushions or compresses soaked in a mixture of spirit of camphor, acetate of lead, and the whites of eggs. The apparatus thus made was allowed to remain until consolidation had taken place.5 Some ten years later, Seutin proposed the substitution of starch for the composition above mentioned, as well as for plaster moulds, which had been used by Dieffenbacb, and proba- bly long before his time. Seutin, however, modified the plan by suggesting the division of the splint with pliers, after the lapse of a few days, not only in order to examine the state of the limb, but to refit the apparatus and insure its effectiveness. By so doing he made this method what it has been ever since, although the materials used for stiffening have been variously modified by different surgeons. Glue, paraffine, gum arabic and whiting, flour and white of egg, plaster of Paris, silicate of potassium or sodium, in different combinations or alone, have been thus used. Of all these, the best are probably the two last named, as they are cleanly, and the solidification takes place so quickly as to make them much more secure than those which “ set” only after a length of time. Tripolith, a material recently employed in Germany as a substitute for plaster of Paris, is said6 to be lighter than that substance, to harden more quickly, to be non-absorbent when once dried, and to be a trifle cheaper. Its exact composition is unknown, and I am not aware of its ever having been brought to this country. The silicate of potassium may be bought in saturated solution of any wholesale druggist; it is applied with a clean bristle-brush, such as house- painters use, to successive layers of bandage after they are put upon the injured limb, the skin being carefully protected by a smooth and even layer of raw cotton. I have thought it well to lay two or more strips of thick 1 Am. Journ. of tlie Med. Sciences, Jan. 1847 ; from Dublin Med. Press. 2 Lancet, Nov. 9, 1867. 3 British Med. Journal, April 10, 1880. 4 Jaruain, Petite Chirurgie, p. 210. Paris, 1860. 5 Journal de Progres, etc., tome iv. 1827. G Med. Times and Gazette, Nov. 27, 1880.,