668 INJURIES OF TIIE BACK. pressure upon the entire surface of the spinal cord as well as upon that of the brain, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the spinal cord and spinal column, giving at the same time to the delicate structures of the coi'd and brain the advantages of the mechanical principles so usefully applied by Dr. Arnott in the hydrostatic bed. Thus we tind that the spinal cord is protected in a truly wonderful manner from the ill effects of blows, and shocks, and pressure, by an elastic, fluid medium which every- where surrounds and gently compresses it. The traumatic lesions of the back naturally arrange themselves in three groups, as follows:— I. Injuries of the integuments and muscles, or soft parts generally. II. Injuries of the vertebral column. III. Injuries of the spinal membranes, spinal cord, and spinal nerves. For the purposes of study and description, this classification of the trau- matic lesions to which the dorsum of the trunk is exposed presents some advantages which are quite obvious, Fig- 764. and, therefore, I shall follow it as far as may be found serviceable. It should be borne in mind, however, that the examples which claim the surgeon’s attention in practice usually illustrate at least two of these forms of injury; and that, not unfrequently, all three are simultaneously exhibited in the same patient. The symptoms and treatment of these lesions must there- fore be described from general or com- mon, as well as from specific points of view. From most writers on surgery, inju- ries of the back have not received that degree of attention which their importance justly demands. This neg- glect may have arisen on the one hand from undervaluing the functions of the spinal cord itself, and holding it to be merely an appendage of the brain, or, on the other hand, from considering the injuries which involve the vertebral column and spinal cord, in general, to be hopeless lesions for which the sur- geon’s art can do no good. Neverthe- less, I am fully persuaded that a con- siderable share of even the least pro- mising cases are susceptible of per- manent relief by judicious treatment from the surgeon; and I am supported in this view by the extremely large proportion of recoveries which has resulted from the attempts to reduce dislocations and fractures of the vertebrae that have been recorded. For instance, thirty-four cases are mentioned in Dr. Ashhurst’s tables,1 in which reduction was attempted by various appropriate procedures, and recovery Posterior view of the vertebral column, ribs, etc., the integuments and muscles having been laid open and deflected from them. (Sibsou’s Medical Anatomy, PI. XII.) 1 Injuries of the Spine, pp. 71-121. Philadelphia, 1867.