FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. 75 The coronoid process has very rarely been seen fractured; never without other lesions. Besides the cases before quoted from Houzelot and Fergusson, Gurlt gives one other, from Middeldorpf, and Tatum has reported1 a fourth. A number of instances are on record in which the condyloid process has been broken, either by itself or, as in cases already referred to, along with other portions of the bone. I have seen the former condition caused by a stone, in a man injured by the premature explosion of a blast. Will2 has reported one observed by him in a patient hurt by a falling wall. Watson3 has recorded a case of fracture of the necks of both condyles, by a fall from a yard-arm, the jaw-bone being otherwise uninjured. Cockburn4 gives a curious case in which by a blow on the left side of the face, the neck of the right condyle was broken. Other instances are quoted by Malgaigne, who points out that “ the condyle itself remains in relation with the glenoid cavity; but the pterygoid muscle makes it execute a movement of rotation, carrying the fractured neck up- ward, forward, and inward, so that the fractured surface of the inferior frag- ment is in relation only with the posterior surface of the neck and of tlie condyle.” A case is reported3 in which, along with fracture about an inch to the right of the symphysis, there was discovered after death, fifty-four days from the time of the accident (a fall from a horse), a fracture “situated in the left condyle, and extending obliquely downward and inward.” If this fracture involved the condyle itself, it was, as far as my knowledge goes, altogether unique. The symptoms of fracture of the neck of the condyle may be readily in- ferred; they will be more clearly made out if the fracture is on one side only. Besides crepitus, pain, and inability to move the jaw, there will be a twisting of the chin toward the injured side, which, according to Malgaigne, is apt to be permanent in cases which do not prove fatal. This twist has an obvious diagnostic significance, as in unilateral luxation the chin is directed away from the injured side. Fractures of the jaw vary greatly in their degree of gravity. Even when they are compound, healing often takes place with readiness, and in cases which look very unpromising a good result may be obtained by careful and well-directed treatment. Yet it must be remembered that injuries about the face are particularly liable to be followed by erysipelas; and the interference with nutrition which necessarily attends the lesion in question, may be a source of serious debility, especially in persons previously broken down by 1 Lancet, Dec. 1, I860 ; see also Trans, of Path. Society of London for 1861, p. 159. 8 Lancet, Jan. 21, 1882. 3 New York Journal of Medicine, Oct. 1840. 4 British Medical Journal, December 28, 1867. 6 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part III., Surgical Vol., p. 649. Fig. 595. Fig. 596. Fracture of lower jaw at angle. Fracture of lower jaw at symphysis and angle.