152 INJURIES OF BONES an elastic compress, drawn downward by tapes attached to the lower end of a hollow, jointed splint. Sir A. Cooper,1 who advocated the straight position, advised that after bringing the fragment into apposition with the ulna, a piece of linen should be laid longitudinally on each side of the joint, and wetted rollers applied above and below the elbow; the extremities of the linen were then to be doubled down over the rollers, and tightly tied, so as to cause approxima- tion. It is not distinctly said that he ever used this plan, which would seem to involve great discomfort at least to the patient, as well as risk of interference with the nutrition and innervation of the distal portion of the limb. This objection, indeed, holds good with regard to all the figure-of-8 and other bandages which encircle the limb; if tightly enough applied to be efficient, they may do harm. With the excellent adhesive plaster now procurable, it is easy to keep the fragment in place without any such binding; a strip of suitable length and width being put on so that its middle shall press just above the fragment, while its ends are carried down along the ulnar side of the forearm, one in front and the other at the back, far enough to take a firm hold. The splint and bandage are then applied as before directed. A compress is needless, and might indeed do harm by tilting the fragment, so as to produce a con- dition such as Malgaigne quotes as seen byPasquier: “the fragments, far- ther separated posteriorly than anteriorly, were only in contact by their ante- rior edge.” It has been suggested by myself,2 as wTell as by others, that in cases of much difficulty an instrument analogous to Malgaigne’s patella-hooks might be used —a small metallic plate or wire frame, with either one or two short recurved hooks, to be inserted into the posterior and upper part of the olecranon, drawn down, and fastened in place by means of a strip of adhesive plaster carried along the forearm, as before described. Such a contrivance could be readily made, and probably could be used without danger ; yet I think that the ma- jority of surgeons would be content with the results procurable by less for- midable appliances. Dieffenbach,3 many years ago, proposed and practised the division of the tendon of the triceps, bringing the upper fragment down into place, and occasionally rubbing the two fragments forcibly together; he claimed to have obtained firm union in this way. Suturing the fragments has been proposed, and the operation has been per- formed in a number of instances. Mac Cormac4and others have thus obtained bony union in cases attended with marked separation. Sheldon had already, in 1789, proposed the laying bare of the bone and rasping of the fractured surfaces, but says, in his work,5 that he never had attempted the operation. The introduction of the wire suture made the procedure far more effective, and the advocates of the so-called antiseptic system claim that their precau- tions make it safe. I must confess that no case has ever come under my own observation, in which it has seemed to me that the amount of advantage likely to be derived from such severe measures would warrant their substitu- tion for the less brilliant methods above described. By care and accuracy in the adaptation and use of simple apparatus, satisfactory results can, as a general rule, be obtained. 1 Op. cit., p. 474. 2 New York Medical Journal, Dec. 1866. 3 Casper’s Woclienschrift, 2 Oct., 1841. 4 Trans, of Clinical Society of London, vol. xiv., 1881. 6 An Essay on the Fracture of the Patella, or Knee-pan ; containing anew and efficacious method of treating that accident: With Observations on the Fracture of the Olecranon. By John Shel- don. London, 1789.