TUMORS. 592 name of ncevi, and although the term angeioma has been applied to them for many years past, they are so much more commonly called mevi that the other name has never become popular among surgeons. Vascular tumors offer several different varieties. They may be arterial, venous, capillary, or what is called cavernous, where numerous freely anas- tomosing cavities take the place of capillaries or small veins. They may, too, be lymphatic, and again may be cavernous, or composed of dilated lymphatic vessels. It will be convenient, for purposes of description, to consider, first, the arterial angeiomas, then the other forms of blood angeioma, and lastly, those which are connected with lymphatic vessels. Arterial angeiomas, or, as they are often called, arterial ncevi, aneurisms by anastomosis, or cirsoid aneurisms, may appear in one of two different forms, either as a dilatation and lengthening of the arteries of a certain area or region (aneurism by anastomosis), in which case there may be a formation of new vessels, or as a dilatation and lengthening of an arterial stem and its branches (cirsoid aneurism). Both these conditions affect chiefly the arteries of the scalp, the temporal and occipital, but occur also more rarely in con- nection with other vessels, the posterior auricular and supra-orbital, and the vessels of the upper lip. They may be congenital, but are often of extra- uterine formation, and may even appear late in adult life. In some instances the disease can be clearly traced to injury, but in other cases it appears to form spontaneously. Examination of these arterial neevi shows that the disease in the most typical cases is limited to the arteries, and does not materially affect the veins and capillaries, or entail an increase in the sur- rounding connective tissues. Indeed, these tissues more often undergo atrophy than hypertrophy from the increasing pressure of the vessels, which not only become greatly dilated and hypertrophied, but are at the same time coiled and twisted, and interlaced with one another so as to appear like a group of coiled worms. In some cases the vessels lose their uniform calibre, and undergo irregular dilatation, becoming varicose and sacculated. The struc- ture of their coats is not materially altered. Hot only are the arteries of the tumor widely dilated, but the arteries which supply it are often greatly en- larged, so that their calibre is in some instances increased twofold. The supply of blood to arterial mevi of the first form is not derived from a single source, but often enters the tumor from vessels which communicate with it on every side. Some of these dilated vessels, and the enlarging tumor itself, channel or hollow the bone on which they lie. Diagnosis.—Arterial mevi are, for the most part, exceedingly easy to recog- nize. In the larger tumors the form and convolution of the vessels may be easily made out through the skin which covers them, and this alone is usually so striking a feature as to stamp the disease. But all these tumors, even the smallest and in other respects the least ty] deal of them, pulsate with regu- larity and often with considerable force. The pulsation cannot, as a rule, be controlled by pressure on a single artery in the near neighborhood of the dis- ease, and in some instances cannot be controlled by pressure upon either distant or surrounding vessels, however carefully it may be applied. Treatment.—Under these circumstances, it will be understood that the dis- ease is often difficult, and may be most formidable, to deal with. Even the smallest tumors bleed profusely during their removal, and I have seen exces- sive hemorrhage from such a tumor situated immediately above the orbit, and measuring only an inch by half an inch. It was necessary to tie six or eight arteries before the hemorrhage was arrested. In some cases arterial angeiomas may remain without special treatment during years, without detri- ment to the patient’s health, for some of them neither increase quickly nor