446 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. exercise a prejudicial influence upon the progress of a case after excision, by prolonging the time required for treatment, and by thus exposing the patient to the various risks which always attend long-continued suppuration. But such a state of affairs cannot he said to absolutely contra-indicate the operation, and, if the other features of the case be favorable, excision may often be hope- fully resorted to, even if the tissues be much infiltrated and the skin fairly riddled with sinuses. I have more than once excised the hip, under such circumstances, with the happiest result. (4) Excision is contra-indicated in cases in which the patient is either very young or past early middle age. Children less than five years old are unfa- vorable subjects for excision, at least of the joints of the lower extremity, on account of their intolerance of the restraint necessary in the after-treatment of these cases; and indeed, as regards excision of the knee, I have in recent years been disposed to fix this limit at a still later period, and I am now chary of attempting a knee-joint excision in a child under nine or ten. On the other hand, the mortality which follows the operation of excision, as we shall see presently, rapidly increases with advancing age—more rapidly, even, than the mortality after amputation; and hence, though brilliant successes have occasionally been obtained by excision in old persons, these results must be considered exceptional, and the prudent surgeon will usually prefer amputa- tion—if any operation be necessary—in patients who have passed the middle period of life. The objection which is often urged against excision in child- hood, that it interferes with the future growth of the limb, is more apparent than real. Bceckel, of Strasbourg, from an investigation of more than twenty cases of arrested development, came to the conclusion that the shortening was less due to injury of the epiphyseal cartilages than to disuse of the limb owing to pain or to muscular atrophy; and, as shown by Mr. Barwell at page 359 of the present volume, the arrest of epiphyseal growth is by no means unlikely to occur as a result of inflammation, even in cases treated without operation. In illustration of this point, I may refer to a case in which I excised the knee of a lady, 30 years of age, sent to me by Dr. Massey, of West Chester; the disease of the joint had begun when she was only seven years old, so that it was of 23 years’ standing when she came under my care. The knee was flexed beyond the right angle, and the whole limb, below the knee, very much wasted, and by actual measurement four inches shorter than its fellow. She walked, with great difficulty, by the aid of a crutch or cane, and high-soled shoe, the shortening being so much increased by the flexion of the limb that a sole of seven inches merely enabled her to bring her toes to the ground. By the operation of excision, I was enabled to give this lady a strong and straight limb, and, as with exercise the muscles of the leg became developed, and the ankle strength- ened, she was enabled to throw aside her artificial supports; and though a considerable amount of bone had of course been removed at the operation, she was, by the straight- ening of her limb, now able to walk easily and without fatigue, with a sole of but five inches’ thickness, her leg being thus practically two inches longer than it had been before the excision. I have recently heard from Dr. Massey that this lady now—more, than six years since the operation—continues in excellent health, and walks without any artificial support whatever. (5) An impaired state of the general health, particularly if this condition be due to organic disease of the viscera—and especially of the lungs, liver, or kidneys—should always be regarded as a contra-indication to excision. The operation, at least in the lower extremity, usually necessitates long confine- ment of the patient during the after-treatment, and is apt to he followed by profuse and exhausting suppuration, thus seriously compromising the chances of recovery. Hence, as a rule, if any operation becomes necessary in a case I : I A i