MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 93& Quoted by Michel, loc. cit. s Loc. cit., page 114. the dorsal region. It must not be supposed, however, that an “ angular curvature” of necessity appears in all cases of Pott’s disease below the cervi- cal region. In some cases—especially in lumbar disease—no deformity ap- pears throughout the whole progress of the malady; but at the same time it must be confessed, that the absence of distortion in dorsal disease is very unusual. Bouvier endeavored to construct a table to show the relative fre- quency of deformity in the various segments of the spine, with the following results:—1 Out of 101 instances of Pott’s disease there were 10 cases of lower cervical disease, 3 with deformity, 7 with none. 55 “ dorsal “ 45 “ 10 “ 3G “ lumbar “ 20 “ 16 “ These statistics are, however, of but slight value, inasmuch as the duration of the disease is not given in the various cases. And it may not be unrea- sonable to suggest that in some of the cases credited with no deformity, an “ angular curvature” may have in time developed. The deformity itself consists in a bending backwards of the column in the antero-posterior plane of the body, and its great feature is this: it is angular and median. The extent and prominence of the “ curvature” will depend not only upon the seat of the mischief, but upon the amount of hone lost in the anterior segments. A sharp and abrupt angle will usually indicate a severe but limited loss of bony tissue, while a more extensive and more rounded deformity will probably indicate a slight degree of destruction of many vertebrae. In some cases the bending of the column may be so severe that the two [tarts of the spine form a right angle with one another, or the anterior surface of the vertebra above the excavation may rest on the upper surface of the vertebra below it. When the disease is of long standing, the prominence of the deformity may he increased by the wasting that occurs in the muscles of the back. In certain cases there may be some slight lateral deviation of the spine in addition to the antero-posterior displacement. This condition would appear to be met with only in the lumbar and dorso-lumbar regions, and is due either to unequal destruction of the vertebrce, or to un- usual muscular action. In all cases compensatory curves are formed both above and below the seat of the deformity. It is only by means of such com- pensation that the patient can retain the erect posture. These curves are best seen when the disease is situate in the dorsal spine, and will obviously vary in degree according to the extent of the original deformity. In some cases of Pott’s malady involving the lumbar region, where the destruction of the bodies has been sudden and severe, no compensation is possible: the erect posture cannot be maintained, the column falls forwards, and the patient can only progress when upon his hands and feet, or knees. In nearly all instances the deformity develops slowly, but cases have been recorded in which the “ angular curvature” appeared with comparative sud- denness. In such cases—of which Michel gives examples—the deformity has usually appeared during some unwonted or forced movement, and has been due to a giving way of some of the supports furnished to the diseased parts, or to fracture of the posterior segments of the column at the seat of caries. Delpech, Helaton, and Louis all record instances where this sudden formation of the “ curve” has been associated with sudden paraplegia. The rapidity with which the deformity develops depends to some extent upon the patient’s movements, and upon the non-observance of rest. Shaw,2 however, records a case where no increase of the spinal deviation occurred during a period of fourteen years, although the patient was engaged all the while in the work