INJURIES OF BONES. 206 From what, has been said, it will be inferred that the prognosis will vary according to the circumstances of each case. It is certainly better for the surgeon to be very guarded in making promises or predictions as to the result, since the patient or his friends may be greatly disappointed at even a slight and unavoidable degree of deformity. A strong and serviceable limb is in the vast majority of cases obtained, but occasionally there is a permanent halt in the gait. The treatment of fractures of the shaft of the femur is a subject which has engaged the attention of surgeons for a very long time, and upon which much ingenuity has been expended. The end which has been most earnestly sought has been to devise means of making extension and counter-extension, for the purpose of overcoming the shortening which is the most obvious consequence of these injuries. Yet, by some this method has been wholly discarded, and the best results have been claimed from merely putting the limb in such a posture as to relax the muscles. At the present day, there are very able advocates for the use of lateral compression by means of solidifying bandages, to the exclusion of all direct extending apparatus. The adherents of these various plans have for the most part brought forward measurements, purporting to be accurate, of the limbs treated by them, in evidence of the completeness with which shortening was avoided. But I think that to speak of a shortening of an eighth, or even of a quarter, of an inch in the lower extremity, is a refinement beyond practical comprehension. I do not believe that ten, or even five, surgeons, examining a case inde- pendently, and without bias as to the method of treatment which had been pursued, would agree within an eighth or a quarter of an inch in their results. Hence I should decline to accept such statements implicitly, re- garding them as over-precise. Practically, if a limb is in good line and free from rotary displacement, a shortening of half or three-quarters of an inch is a matter of small moment. Extension and counter-extension ought, in my opinion, to be carefully and effectively made, and the length of the limb maintained as accurately as possible, attention being given quite as sedulously to the preservation of its proper line. It would occupy too much space to attempt to give here a full description of all the forms of apparatus which have been at various times proposed and employed in the treatment of fractures of the shaft of the femur, although the subject is really one of the most interesting in the history of practical surgery. I shall first describe the method of dressing these injuries which I myself use, and which is employed by many others, and then some of the modifications of it which may be required to adapt it to special cases. After- ward, I shall mention some other plans of treatment, and, lastly, will give briefly some historical points in regard to certain portions of the apparatus. When a patient with a broken thigh-bone has to be transported to a place where he is to be treated, whether to a private house or to a hospital, especial care should be taken to guard against needless disturbance of the fragments. A very good plan is to take a board about six inches wide, and long enough to reach from the axilla to the foot, and to place this on its edge along the side of the patient. The limb, having been drawn out as nearly as may be to its normal length, may be surrounded with a bundle of straw, or with a folded quilt or blanket, and then bound to the board with a number of broad strips of muslin or linen, the body being also confined in the same way. If another board is now slipped under the pelvis and lower extremities, the patient can be carried very comfortably. Arrived at the place of destination, a bed is prepared with a firm, hard mattress, perforated or not,1 and the patient’s clothes are removed. As far See page 56.