INJURIES OF BONES. 162 “was drawn considerably above the elbow-joint, by the contraction of the biceps musclereduction was accomplished, and the case is said to have done well. In speaking of the relative frequency of fractures in different portions of the radius, it will be remembered that I quoted statistics from Agnew and Hamilton, in which the bone was considered as divided into an upper, middle, and lower third. I venture to suggest that it would be better for practical pur- poses to study these injuries according as they affect the shaft of the bone above or below the insertion of the pronator teres, leaving fractures at or close to its lower extremity in a separate class. For there is no portion of the skele- ton in the fractures of which the influence of muscular action upon the pro- duction or maintenance of displacement is more distinctly traceable than it is in those of the shaft of the radius. The great function of this bone is pronation and supination, as may be clearly seen by a glance at the muscles which act upon it. One of these, the biceps, is indeed a flexor, but it is a supinator also. The supinator brevis acts upon the upper portion—almost, if not quite, half of the bone—the supi- nator longus upon its lower end. The pronator teres is inserted into about an inch of its outer edge at its mid-length, while the pronator quadratus acts in a supplementary way on the lower portion of the shaft. If now the shaft gives way between the tubercle and the insertion of the pronator teres, it must be obvious that, while this muscle will tend to rotate the lower fragment into pronation, and to drag it toward the ulna, the upper fragment will be rolled outward by the supinator brevis and biceps, the latter also tilting it up forward. The action of the supinator longus in opposition to the pronator teres will amount to nothing as soon as the continuity of the bone is lost; and the pronator quadratus will simply, by the contraction of its upper fibres, pull the lower fragment toward the ulna. If, on the other hand, the shaft is broken below the insertion of the pro- nator teres, this muscle will draw the upper fragment toward the ulna, but its rotating action will be opposed by the supinator brevis and biceps; the pronator quadratus will act in the same manner as before, but more strongly, as the fragment will be shorter. Here the displacement produced will lie an angle salient toward the ulna, while in the former case there will be added a rotation outward, as well as a tilting up forward, of the upper fragment. Clinical observation, as well as the testimony of museum specimens, will be found to support these statements, the practical bearing of which will pres- ently further appear. Malgaigne gives some curious facts as to the distribution of these fractures between the sexes. He found the radius broken in ninety-five males, and in sixty-five females but this proportion, three to two, was not maintained at all ages. “ The number of male cases to females is ten to one in infancy ; between fifteen and twenty it is fifteen to one. Thus up to twenty years of age this fracture is almost ex- clusively masculine. From twenty to forty-five, it affects women in pretty large num- bers ; twenty-two, in a total of seventy-two. But, after forty-five, another change occurs, and the fracture displays a marked preference for the female sex ; there being but twenty men to forty-one women.” As to the causes of these fractures, they would seem to be sometimes direct violence, sometimes falls on the hand. Malgaigne quotes from Van Nierop the case of a woman, aged thirty, who, after wringing out two large sheets, felt sharp pain in the forearm, when a fracture in the lower third of the 1 These figures include all fractures of the radius—not those of the shaft of the bone only, but those of its lower extremity also.