MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 916 Symptoms.—The disease usually commences with pain in the hack. This pain may be severe and radiating, and of the character of rheumatic pains. In Dr. Sturge’s case the onset of the pain was so sudden and severe as “to take away the patient’s breath.” It will soon be noticed that the back is becoming stiff, and that the patient has some little difficulty in stooping, or in moving the head. There is no tenderness of the parts, nor is there of necessity any actual pain when movements of the spine are attempted; but the stiffness is very conspicuous and irksome, and some “ rheumatic pains ” about the back may be more or less constant. After a prolonged rest the column will usually appear unduly stiff'; and on the other hand, after exten- sive movements, the back may, in the earlier stages of the disease, appear more lissome, and be moved with less discomfort. As time goes on, the patient begins to lose his upright carriage ; he appears diminished in height, acquires a constant stoop, and develops an antero-posterior curvature of the spine, with the convexity backwards. The cyphosis that results from this disease is generally well marked, of regular outline, and often of considerable extent. Its conspicuousness, moreover, is accentuated by that wasting of the sacro-vertebral muscles that in time ensues. The curve may be of such a character that the patient prefers to support himself with a stick when walking; the abdomen projects, and the shoulders appear often unduly pro- minent, owing to the scapulae being more or less separated from the chest- wall in consequence of alterations in the thorax. If the upper cervical ver- tebra1 are involved, the movements of the head become limited to a variable extent, the chin is poked forwards, and that constrained position is assumed which is familiar in cases of disease about the summit of the column. The rigidity of the spine, when the malady is well developed, is usually very marked, and may be absolute. The thorax becomes more or less rigid, and may assume the deformity detailed in the paragraphs on “ cyphosis.” The fixity of the ribs may depend not only upon the alteration in the dorsal spine, or the formation of osteo- phytes about the costo-vertebral joints, but upon actual anchylosis of those ioints. In the latter instance the breathing is entirely abdominal, as it was in the case recorded by Dr. Hilton Fagge, and alluded to above. In spondylitis deformans there are usually evidences of chronic rheumatoid arthritis in some other part or parts of the body. The duration of the disease varies. Its course is always chronic, and is to be estimated by years. The lighter grades of the disease have probably little effect in shortening the patient’s life, and, as is well known, a good old age maybe attained by those whose backs have been stiff'and painful, and bent, for a good number of years. When the disease occurs in early or in middle life, the prognosis is by no means as favorable. Life may be con- siderably curtailed by the malady, and indeed, if it assume by any means a severe form, death usually results in a comparatively few years. As regards treatment, it can only' be asserted that the condition is incurable, and that neither local nor general measures are of any permanent or substan- tial value. Some relief may be given by the treatment, such as it is, that is usually advised in chronic rheumatic arthritis, and an account of which will be found elsewhere.1 Caries and Necrosis. Caries and necrosis are both of common occurrence in the spinal column : but the former is, of the two, infinitely the more frequent. The large amount 1 See page 375.