52 INJURIES OF BONES. of the surgeon to disengage them. Especially is this apt to be the case when the fracture is situated close to a joint, so that one of the fragments is too small to afford much purchase. Sometimes the difficulty may be due to the entanglement of one fragment in a tendon, looped, as it were, around it. On the other hand, if the deformity is easily reduced, it is apt to recur with equal readiness. Very oblique fractures of the shafts of the long hones can generally be drawn into place without much trouble; but the causes of displacement have like facility of action, and a certain amount of shortening is almost sure to result. Fractures of the radius near the wrist, those of the femur near the knee, and those of the leg near the ankle (not in either case entering the joints), are very difficult to reduce, the first named especially; and they are often, no doubt, only partially brought into place; yet, when this is once accomplished, very simple retentive means will suffice to obviate the recurrence of the displacement. Under all circumstances it should he borne in mind that the fragments can only be restored by reversing the process of their displacement; they must go back by the same way by which they came into their false position. And it is of the utmost importance that the surgeon should know that the reduc- tion is complete; it is not enough that the outward form of the limb is restored, for this is sometimes deceptive. The soft parts may be pulled and stretched, and the swelling may mask the deformity, while the false relation of the fragments remains unchanged. Hence the most rigid examination should be made during and after the efforts at replacement, and the exact condition of things should be determined. If restoration he found to be impossible, the fact ought materially to influence the prognosis given to the patient and his friends. An essential part of the process of reduction, in most cases, is the making extension and counter-extension. In children, or with the smaller bones of adults, the surgeon may often accomplish this with his own hands, grasping the limb above and below the seat of the injury; at the same time with his thumbs he can push the fragments into position. But in larger limbs, and in all the more difficult cases, it is better to have one or two assistants to apply this extension, while the surgeon has both hands free to mould and knead the fragments. Rotary and angular displacements are to be corrected at the same time that extension is made, the sound limb being taken as a guide for the normal shape, and certain lines and landmarks, to be hereafter men- tioned, being kept in view as tests of the accuracy of the restoration. Some differences of opinion have existed as to the best way of making extension, whether the force should be applied as far from the fracture as possible, or close to it. The true rule would seem to he that in each case the surgeon should be guided by circumstances. In very muscular and closely knit limbs, as, for instance, in a fracture of the thigh in a powerful adult, it may be found necessary, in order to make extension, for one assistant to put the bend of the left elbow under the patient’s knee, and with his right hand grasp the patient’s ankle, flexing the leg; while, for counter-extension, another assistant may either have a towel or sheet folded and applied to the perineum, the ends being tied around a stout stick for him to grasp, or he may, if very strong, clasp his own hands together over the perineum. In loose-jointecl patients, traction at a distance from the fractured bone may simply put the ligamentous structures on the stretch; but in such persons there is apt to be less muscular resistance to reduction. With regard to the process of measurement, and the points from and to which measurement is to be made, details will be given in connection with the fractures of special bones.