688 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Ibid., p. 48. * N. Y Sun, June 4, 1882. proper level. So much at present concerning the immediate effects of these accidents. Among the remote effects of the lesions of the back, especially when they have been neglected or improperly treated, are permanent lameness of the back from chronic inflammation of the injured joints, and curvature of the spinal column from vertebral caries. Mr. Hilton thinks that severances of the vertebrae from the intervertebral substances, when inadequately treated, are particularly liable to give rise to vertebral caries.1 Among the possible consequences of sprains or wrenches of the vertebral column, spinal meningitis must likewise be mentioned. The following state- ment concerning a case, in which a wrench of the back was received while on board of a street railway car, has recently been printed, on apparently good authority, in a prominent morning paper in Hew York:— “ As one turns into Sixteenth Street off Union Square, on the west side, one notices the tan-bark laid thickly in front of a handsome house in the middle of the block. Here lies G. G., the popular soubrette of the Theatre Comique. She stopped a car a few weeks ago, and the conductor started it before she had fairly got on, giving her such a wrench and start that she felt at the time a severe pain in her back. From that day to this she has been unable to move, lying dangerously ill with spinal meningitis.”2 Sprains, Twists, and Wrenches in the Cervical Region.—Ho other cases of spinal injury or disease are so immediately dangerous to life as those in which the upper part of the cervical region is the seat of injury, but especially the first and second cervical vertebrae, or the space between them; for, when spinal paralysis results from injury or disease of this part of the cervical region, the nerves which cause the respiratory muscles to act are likewise paralyzed, and then complete stoppage of the respiratory movements, or death, instantly ensues. Mr. Hilton has reported a number of cases which give so much information of very great value to both surgeons and patients concerning this group of injuries, especially about their symptoms, conse- quences, and treatment, that my work were but illy done should I omit to mention them. Concerning a case where death from pressure upon the spinal marrow was impending, which ultimately ended in recovery, he says:— “ In 1850, I was requested by Dr. Addison to see, with him, a young woman, suffer- ing from injury in the upper part of the spine, the result of an accident. I found her almost pulseless, with great distress in breathing, loss of voice, inability to swallow, and nearly complete paralysis of the arms and legs. She had had, from the early part of her illness, severe pains spread over the back of her head and neck, increased on pressing the head downward upon the spine. Her symptoms had gradually arrived at this stage of danger, without benefit of medical treatment. I might here say, that the difficulty of breathing and deglutition had so greatly increased of late, that it was thought necessary, or to her advantage, to lift her up more and more in the bed; but the change of posture seemed only to add to her distress in breathing and swallowing. These were the difficulties for which my assistance was requested. She was then propped up in bed by pillows at her back, with her head inclined somewhat forward, or dropping upon the chest. As the impediment to swallowing was almost an insur- mountable difficulty, I was desired to examine the throat, but I could not discover anything wrong in it. It was our opinion that her life was in imminent, or perhaps, instant danger. She was paralyzed, and could not swallow ; her voice was excessively feeble, and her pulse not very perceptible; she scarcely breathed at all, and was not quite conscious. It was evident that something must be done without delay. Believ- ing that her symptoms resulted from the odontoid process of the second vertebra press- ing upon the spinal marrow, close to the medulla oblongata, I advised that she should be made to lie down immediately. On saying to her, ‘ You must lie down in bed,’ she