ANCHYLOSIS. 417 The operator must carefully watch the direction of his chisel, and the depth to which in various positions he has sunk it; and so must cut through, or very nearly through, all the circumference of the bone except at its posterior part, very near to which lies the artery. This part is to be broken by giving the leg a quick but not violent jerk, in the direction of flexion. Extension, combined with traction, may now be employed to bring the limb either straight or half-straight, according to the directions above given, and while it is held in this posture, a plaster-of-Paris bandage is applied and allowed to harden, the greatest care being taken in regard to position, not merely as to the degree of extension, but also as to the position of the foot. Rotation of the tibia on the femur not unfrequently occurs during knee-joint disease; osteotomy affords an opportunity of correcting it. Nothing has as yet been said about dressing the wound, because on that subject, and on the desirability or otherwise of the spray, etc., I wish to say a few words. A year or two ago, I used to perform all my operations under the spray, and dress the wound with all the Listerian complications. I never do so now, and I believe that the wounds heal more quickly, and certainly the patients have less pain. Under Listerism, the many folds of gauze make a great lump at the place of operation, and this renders it rather difficult to judge of the symmetry of the limb. Also, a window has to be made in the plaster-of-Paris case, for removing the drainage-tube and redressing the wound. I now treat my cases on a less complicated sys- tem. Immediately after fracture of the bone, the wound is syringed out with a saturated solution (five per cent.) of boro-glyceride; a few strands of catgut are introduced about half an inch into the wound, to act as a tem- porary drain; a thin pad of cotton-wool, soaked in the same fluid, is laid over the wound; through the middle of this pad is placed an India-rubber tube, one-eighth of an inch in diameter, and two or three inches long ; the plaster- of-Paris bandage is then applied, but, when it reaches the level of the wound, a piece of Fig. 670. copper tubing is slipped over the India-rub- ber, so that it may not be compressed and thus rendered impervious. I call this my irrigation-tube ; through it I inject, with an ordinary glass syringe, about a drachm of solution of boro-glyceride, daily for the first three days, afterwards only occasionally. Since I have devised this method, I have never seen the wounds, but I believe that they have all healed in about six days. This plan is a great saving of time and trouble to the surgeon, and saves pain to the patient, since in using the Lister method, a window has to be made some time during the first week, and it is just during this period that, although while the limb is still it is quite comfortable, movement gives a good deal of pain. _ To place entirely straight, after simply dividing the femur, a knee which has been fixed at an acute angle, is rarely wise (see p. 416); even if all danger of gangrene from compression of vessels be disregarded, and though we may feel sure of firm union, yet the subsequent pain, for a certain period, is the more severe and the more prolonged, the greater the change in vol. iv.—27