TUMORS. 568 peculiarly liable to fibroma are the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Many of the cases of multiple fibroma—fibroma molluscum, for example—commence during childhood. A fibrous tumor usually grows slowly, but may in the course of years attain a considerable size and a weight of many pounds. Large size is, however, by no means usual; many of the fibromas tend rather to affect a very small size. Thus, in the breast, unless the tumor be complicated with cysts, it is generally not much larger than a walnut or a Tangerine orange. The epulides are generally very small. The tumors of the skin and nerves are insignificant as regards their size. The growth of fibrous, like that of fatty tumors, is prone to be unequal, and sometimes intermittent during long periods of months or years. Appearance after Removal.—As might be expected, the appearance of fibrous tumors varies exceedingly, and depends in great measure on their origin and situation. The firm kind is usually encapsuled, cuts firmly or toughly, and almost with a gritty section, and presents, when cut, a glisten- ing aspect. The naked eye can easily discern fibrous bands traversing the section in various directions. In some tumors these bands are disposed irregularly; in others they assume the appearance of concentric laminae ar- ranged around one or many central points ; and in others, again, they form whorls around many centres. Some of the firmest tumors, which are as hard as cartilage, present on section an almost homogeneous aspect, so closely are the tissues set of which they are composed. Some of the soft fibromas, on the other hand, resemble mucous tumors, and are almost as soft as jelly. Such tumors, after removal, exude clear fluid, which slowly oozes from them, until at length there remains only a soft, pulpy tissue, less than one-fourth the size of the original mass. These tumors, those of the vulva especially, are sometimes of considerable size. As in the macroscopic, so in the microscopic characters, there is a marvellous variety in fibrous tumors, not only between the hard and soft tumors, but between different specimens of hard fibroma. Even the same tumor may exhibit several kinds of fibrous tissue side by side, and the proportion of cells to fibrous tissue is liable to considerable variation. The form of fibrous tissue most frequently observed is, perhaps, fibres larger and coarser than those of typical, wavy, fibrous tissue, arranged to form parallel, but not wavy bundles. The bundles cross each other, anastomose, and interlace, but often leave fissured spaces, sometimes of large size. Between the bundles, or even between the individual fibres, there are frequently a homogeneous or finely granular connecting substance, and oval nuclei or cells. In some instances the cells are spindle-shaped or stellate. The fibrous tumors of the breast and those of the lower jaw (epulides) almost invariably contain many large oval nuclei or nucleated cells. A few tumors consist almost entirely of broad bands rather than fibres—bands as broad as narrow bundles of the wavy tissue. Some fibromas, especially those of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, are composed largely of the typical wavy tissue, containing larger and more numerous cells than normal, wavy, fibrous tissue. In some of the fibromas of the breast and periosteum, the tissue consists of a vast number of delicate fibrils, not arranged in bundles, unless it be in very narrow bundles, and dis- posed in strangely irregular fashion. Of this more unusual form a sketch (Plate XVIII. Fig. 2) is introduced to show the extreme confusion of the dis- position. Another very unusual form I have seen in a tumor of the forearm of a young girl, where it had grown some years previously in, or close to, the seat of a slight injury. The tumor was quite hard, about the size of a large walnut, perfectly inclosed in a thick capsule. It appeared to be entirely