420 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. terror, horror, or the necessity of escape from imminent danger, often ban- ishes the malady suddenly, at least for a time. One of the mental states which seems most frequently thus to influence the neurosis is religious fervor and excitement, combined with the presence of some visible or tangible object of faith. Many, indeed the majority of patients, have a certain control over their pains and troubles—can either repress or aggravate them—and they are themselves more or less conscious of this power. If by the indulgence of compassionate but over-anxious friends they are encouraged to make the worst of their pains—to fret over and nurse them—they will almost inevita- bly get more severe; while a firm but not unkind ignoring, or at least not fostering, of their troubles, tends greatly to their alleviation. Symptoms.—Very rarely are any joints attacked with hysteric neuralgia, save the hip and the knee. Three points are more especially characteristic, viz., absence of inflammation or swelling, presence of much pain with extreme surface tenderness, and anomaly in location. In regard to inflammatory signs and swelling, their absence must not be taken as absolute, for occasionally a slight redness and a very little swelling may be detected; but not at first, only after the pain has lasted some time. The redness, if it occur at all, is evanescent, and in some cases vanishes a few minutes after the part is exposed to the air, and perhaps may return again before the examination is over ; it certainly seems to me to come on when the patient’s attention is strongly fixed on the part. The swelling, if present, is merely dermal; it may he moved over the subcutaneous parts, and therefore, though visible to a trained eye, can hardly he felt or verified by tape measure- ment. Heat is absent, unless it have been artificially produced by rubefacients or by warm coverings to the limb. The fourth symptom of inflammation, pain, is abundantly present, according to the patient’s account; and in conse- quence of this pain she declares herself to be lame. Now, since all signs of disease except pain are absent, or only very slightly marked, it follows that any conclusion as to the disease is chiefly to be drawn from studying the accounts which the patient gives of that symptom. In this study, some little management and tact are necessary; when, for instance, a girl or young woman between the ages above specified, complains of a joint, which, without sprain or other traumatism, without rheumatism or cold, has become rather suddenly painful, the surgeon, without prejudging the case, should have in his mind the possibility of hysterical neuralgia; having ascertained the history, whether or no the uterine functions are well performed, and whether the suffering increase about the catamenial periods, he may let the joint be uncovered, and, looking at it a while, may very gently brush his finger-tips over the surface. If this act cause a start, and an ex- pression of pain, his suspicions will be much confirmed. Afterwards, the patient may be questioned as to the painful localities; these will nearly always be found to differ from those of real disease. Moreover, if the flat hand be laid very gently on the spot indicated, and then the pressure be slowly increased, even until it is pretty considerable, it will be found that the heavier is better borne than the lighter contact. The joint-surfaces may be pressed, even jarred together, without eliciting any complaint, as long as the superficies of the joint be not touched, more especially if the patient be made to believe that an examination of some other part of the limb is being made. In some cases, movement is painless, and occasionally free within certain limits; in other cases it is resisted by voluntary or emotional muscu- lar contraction, the sign’s of which are evident to both eye and hand. But— and this is an important circumstance—movement produces in many hysteri- cal joints a fine, slight crackling, which might, unless the fact were known,