INJURIES OE BONES. 128 One point of importance in the mechanics of the upper arm is the attach- ment of the forearm muscles, especially the extensors and supinator longus, the action of which, when the elbow is flexed, is to draw forward the lower part of the humerus, and thus to increase the forward angular deformity when this bone is broken anywhere below its middle. The effect of the con- traction of these muscles is even more marked, as might be supposed, in frac- tures near the lower end of the bone, in connection with which it will be again mentioned. In fractures of the humerus in children, the periosteum, by reason of its comparatively great thickness, may escape complete rupture, and there may he but little displacement. The same is generally the case in adults when the bone is broken by muscular action, or by slight violence. Sometimes, however, the fragments may be very widely separated, and occasionally the overlapping is so marked as to materially shorten the arm. In fractures by great violence, especially if compound, this condition of things may give much trouble. Pierson1 gives a striking instance of this kind:— “ A seaman was brought under my cai’e, who, forty-five days before, while at sea, had fallen from the maintopsail-yard upon the deck of the vessel, fracturing the hume- rus obliquely. The superior fragment penetrated the skin, and, after ploughing a furrow in the plank half an inch deep and two inches long, was finally broken off in it. On my first visit this fragment, which was about three inches long, was presented to me, which the captain assured me he had had much difficulty in extracting, two days after the accident, from the plank in which it had embedded itself.” This man recovered with anchylosis, partial in the shoulder and complete in the elbow ; the arm was, of course, shortened. Syme2 has reported a case of fracture at or about the middle of the hume- rus, the head of the bone being at the same time luxated into the axilla. The patient had fallen through a trap-door into a cellar, entangling the arm in a ladder as he fell. Reduction was effected by firmly splinting the bone, and theu attaching an extending band above the seat of fracture. The subse- quent progress of the case was satisfactory. The symptoms of fracture of the shaft of the humerus are the same as those of the long bones generally: pain, loss of power, preternatural mobility, often deformity, and generally crepitus. Scarcely any fracture is less likely to pre- sent difficulties in diagnosis. As to the course of these cases, in most of them union takes place favorably in from four to six weeks; but it must not be forgotten that the humerus has afforded more instances of pseuclarthrosis than any other bone in the skeleton. In Agnew’s tables, containing 685 cases of non-union, there were 219, or a little less than 32 per cent., in which the humerus was the bone involved. Out of the 219, the exact seat of the lesion is not stated in 52, leaving 167; and of these, 17 are said to have been of “ the upper third” or “ the surgical neck,” and 1 of the external condyle. Hence the shaft of this bone would seem to have been the seat of non-union in 149, or nearly 22 per cent, of the whole number. Fractures of the humerus in children sometimes unite with great readiness. Thus, among the cases reported by Berry,3 there were three in which this bone was affected ; in one consolidation had occurred on the lltli day, and in the other two on the 13th. as twenty-eight to one. Therefore, when a sixty pound dumb-bell is put up from the shoulder, the force exerted by the triceps muscle is shown thus : 1680 pounds, or 630 pounds 2 more force than is required to raise 150 pounds by flexion.” 1 Remarks on Fractures, Boston, 1840. 2 Edinburgh Medical Journal, July, 1849. 3 New England Med. Monthly, March 15, 1883.