DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 296 the patient warmly with blankets, and cause him freely to perspire. It is probable that were a surgeon called, upon the first manifestation of the other forms above named, one of these methods might cause the attack to abort; at all events, my observations go to prove that considerable sweating will both shorten exanthematous synovitis and relieve the pain. Purgation, in all these cases, should only be employed when the alvine con- dition necessitates its use, or when the excretions are particularly foul. It is true that a certain amount of elimination may be effected, but we must re- member that absorption will at the same time be stimulated. Thus much for the general management; as for the local treatment, it must, in severe cases and while the danger is very imminent, be limited almost entirely to the use of some light support; such patients lie sometimes apathetic, and perfectly still, but at other times there is much jactitation. Under these circumstances, to apply any strict restraint would be imprudent; to maintain it, usually impossible. The arm may, however, be bandaged to the side, a pad or cushion being interposed, when the shoulder is affected; when the hip is attacked, the use of weight-extension is the best treatment, since, while restraining, it yet yields to movement. For like reasons, in disease of elbow or wrist, or knee or ankle, the limb should be placed in some light splint and sling. Besides these mechanical means, it may be desirable, when the genital passages or the neighborhood of the wound have been cleansed by irrigation or injection, to apply the latter mode of treat- ment to the periarticular tissues also. But, when the urgent pyrexia is past, the joint-affections often become very lingering; indeed, some of them, as, for instance, the urethral and catamenial varieties, usually assume that character from the first, while other forms often exhibit a tendency to run into suppuration, or to terminate in rapid anchylosis; this is especially the case after scarlatina. Hence, in all these cases retentive apparatus is desirable. At first, and while any heat is present, or while the points of special tenderness are impatient of pressure, those appliances which keep the joint at complete rest should be used ; afterwards, and particularly in those maladies which most tend to anchylosis, the forms of splint which prevent pressure, while permitting a certain amount of movement, are pre- ferable. In protracted cases, where a certain low form of fever continues for a lengthened period—when the bodily powers have been so weakened that we cannot much move the limb, or the patient, without danger—one of those forms of splint which facilitate the retention of the limb in various positions should be employed. In such an apparatus, the limb can be kept in perfect quietude at an angle which is changed every twenty-four or forty-eight hours, so as to prevent true anchylosis, and so as to cause the bands of a false anchy- losis to be as lax as possible. Strumous Synovitis. Struma is a state of the body which is usually inherited; it is not a dis- ease, but a condition which renders many of the tissues (lymphatic, connec- tive, epithelial and endothelial) very prone to respond to slight sources of irritation, by prolonged inflammations tending to suppuration and caseation. A child who is strumous, although bearing certain characteristics that mark the constitution, may for years, perhaps altogether, escape disease, but if some excitation, traumatic or otherwise, arises, the resultant malady will present the diathetic type. How the marks above referred to are produced by certain characteristics in the nutrition and growth of the connective, lymphatic, endothelial, and epithelial tissues. They are of two varieties: