EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 474 interspaces, and taking care not to injure the musculo-spiral nerve, which, if exposed, should be carefully held out of the way with a retractor. The bone having been reached, the periosteum is divided and separated with the han- dle of the knife or with the elevator, and the ends of the fragments are then successively turned out and cut off with the chain-saw or small resection-saw, as may be found most convenient. Two fresh bone-surfaces having been thus obtained, the resected ends of the fragments are drilled, and a strong silver wire introduced and twisted to serve as a hone-suture. The external wound is then closed and lightly dressed, and the arm placed upon a bracketed or other convenient splint, so arranged that the dressings can be renewed with- out removing the whole apparatus. The wire which joins the fragments usually becomes loose in the course of five or six weeks, and may then be untwisted or cut, and gently withdrawn. When the external wound heals, the limb may be put up in a plaster-of-Paris bandage until osseous union is firmly established. Dr. Macewen, of Glasgow, has reported a very interesting case in which reproduction of a humerus was effected by the transplantation of grafts of bone taken from other patients. My individual experience in resection of the shaft of the humerus is limited to two cases : one of ununited fracture, with necrosis at the seat of injury, in which I operated in the manner above described with entire success ; and one of severe gunshot fracture, in which, during the early days of the war, I adopted this operation in the case of a sol- dier of the 20th Massachusetts regiment, who had been wounded at the battle of Antie- tam. The case promised well for a week, when profuse secondary hemorrhage occurred, requiring amputation, from which the patient happily recovered. I also advised the operation in a case at the University Hospital, in which our house surgeon, Dr. R. H. Harte, successfully resected the protruding fragment in a case of otherwise irreducible compound fracture ; and at the same hospital I directed the after-treatment of a case of ununited fracture successfully operated upon, in the manner described, by my col- league, Professor Agnew. The statistics of excision in the shaft of the humerus, for gunshot fracture, are not very favorable, the mortality of all the cases recorded during the war of the Rebellion having been, according to Drs. Otis and Huntington,1 28.6 per cent., as compared with a mortality after amputation through the upper arm of only 23.8 per cent.2 In many instances, the preserved arms appear to have been less useful than was at first anticipated. 0. Heyfelder has tabulated 89 cases of this operation, for all causes, of which 17 ended in death and 16 more in failure; the unsuccessful results were therefore about three-eighths of the whole number. Successful “ total excisions” of the humerus have, according to Professor Gross, been recorded by Langenbeck, Billroth, and J. B. Cutter, of Rew Jersey. Table Showing the Results of Excision in the Shaft of the Humerus for Gunshot Injury.3 Period of operation. Cases. Recoveries. Deaths. Undeter- mined. Mortality per cent. Primary 487 326 145 16 30.7 Intermediate ..... 93 64 29 ... 31.1 Secondary ..... 41 36 5 12.1 Unknown 75 51 12 12 19.0 Aggregates .... 696 477 191 28 28.6 Op. cit., Part Third, Surgical Volume, page 875. 8 Ibid., page 877. 3 Ibid., page 875.