REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. 877 proved, by rest and by the use of electricity, so far that, in October, he could support himself and walk without help, though his gate was very vacillating, from want of power to direct the muscles. No numbness remained in the legs. The right arm continued in the same state as on admission. The left arm was weak, and, at times, he had cramp in the muscles, and involuntary closure of the hand. The sphincter partially paralyzed. Aspect pale and emaciated ; the whole muscular system much atrophied. He remained in the hospital until June, 1852, his symptoms fluctuating between im- provement and relapse. He could walk about the ward by the aid of a stick, with a feeble gait, his right arm hanging loosely, supported only by the ligaments of the shoul- der-joint. In October, 1852, he was readmitted to the hospital. In a few weeks after- ward, the left arm was quite paralyzed, and he lost the little remaining power over the sphincters and legs, and became universally paraplegic. He often complained of a sharp pain in the back of the head, and in the upper part of the neck. On January 19, 1853, bronchitis supervened, from exposure in moving him from one ward to another ; though trifling in degree, the distress occasioned by it was inexpressible, owing to paralysis of the intercostals [and inability to raise the phlegm by coughing]. A remission of his chest-symptoms occurred until March 14, when they again became aggravated. His distress was indescribable. Ineffectual efforts to expectorate were constantly made; pulse, 120 ; respiration, 36 ; face congested. There was complete paralysis of the walls of the chest, as well as of the extremities, and general anaesthesia, yet great pain when the body or limbs were roughly handled (hyperaesthesia). Frequent spasms in the legs ; arms not so affected. Urine constantly dribbling. The integuments over the sacrum became slightly abraded, but no slough formed. This patient’s miserable existence was protracted until April 12, 1853, nearly two years after he entered the hospital, and seven years after he was injured. Autopsy Remarkable atrophy of the whole muscular system, and of the tissues gen- erally. Pia mater (cranial) and brain-tissue rather watery. On removing the arches of the vertebrae, the whole spinal cord appeared to be large and swollen ; in the cervical region the theca was evidently distended by it. The vertebrae and ligaments were not affected. On laying open the theca, there was exhibited a general enlargement of the cervical portion of the cord, which, on transverse section, had an unusual appearance. The columns had a yellowish tint, and were distended by a soft, vascular, translucent growth, parts of which were firmer, and of an opaque-yellow hue. This growth was not defined, but passed insensibly into the degenerated gray substance, which, from the floor of the fourth ventricle to the filum terminale, was pale and swollen, and had much the physical character and consistence of thick boiled starch. This soft starch-like sub- stance, under the microscope, was seen to consist of round, oval, and elongated granular nuclei, imbedded in a slimy blastema. At the filum terminale, where the more normal characters of the gray substance were preserved, these nuclei were scattered amongst the softened tubercles with exudation-cells. The vascular growth in the cervical region consisted of degenerated nerve-tissue, nuclei and nucleated cells, as in the fibro-plastic growths. The opaque part was little else than granular matter and oil-globules. There was no lesion of the membranes of the cord, nor was the continuity of the columns destroyed, though in the cervical region they were spread out, and slightly softened in parts. The nerves arising from the cord in the cervical and lumbar regions, examined microscopically, had the normal structure. The upper lobes of both lungs contained tubercular masses and scattered tubercles; bronchial tubes dilated; their lining membranes deeply injected and contents purulent. Hepatic tissue congested and fatty. The remaining organs were all healthy. In this example the spinal meninges were not inflamed (as the autopsy showed), and the symptoms developed were purely those of chronic traumatic myelitis, commencing in the cervical portion of the cord. These symptoms, in general, consisted of a slowly progressive, though somewhat fluctuating, abolition of the functions of the spinal cord. There was progressive sensory and motor paralysis, which, after the lapse of some years, terminated in com- plete paraplegia. It seems that there was no pain observed until the end drew near, when “complete paralysis of the walls of the chest, as well as of the extremities, and general anaesthesia” had already been established, “yet