DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 715 ulceration; or, at least, must have become so much softened as to have quite lost their consistence and strength. Dislocation of the atlas upon the axis very often occurs. The neck is dis- jointed at the atlo-axoid articulation more frequently than it is at the junc- ture of any two cervical vertebrae beside them. The considerable variety and wide extent of the movements of the head and neck, which are executed at the triple articulation between the atlas and axis, and the peculiarities in the anatomical structure thereof which enable these different movements, particularly the rotatory ones, to lie performed, much increase the chances for dislocation to occur at this compound vertebral joint, notwithstanding the remarkable strength of the apparatus itself. Moreover, in almost every instance where sudden death is caused by the luxation of a cervical vertebra, the displacement of bone which crushes or fatally compresses the spinal cord is found within the spinal foramen of the atlas or axis. But, generally, in such cases, it is found within the spinal foramen of the former, and there the act of crushing or strongly compressing the spinal cord is effected by the odontoid process of the latter. Dislocation of the first upon the second vertebra is always forward, and may be, or may not be, complicated with fracture; but, even when compli- cated with fracture, the dislocation is usually the more important lesion, inas- much as it generally is the bone displaced by the dislocation, which presses the cord from behind against the odontoid process in front, and thus places life in sudden peril. The special consideration, however, of fracture as a complication in such cases is, for the moment, deferred. Dislocation of the atlas upon the axis, without fracture, that is, pure dislo- cation of the first upon the second vertebra, also not unfrequent-ly occurs. It appears with probably about the same frequency as dislocation combined with fracture of the same bone. In the first variety of pure dislocation occur- ring at the atlo-axoid articulation, that is to be noticed in this place, the atlas is thrust or displaced forward because the transverse, accessory, and lateral ligaments have all been simultaneously ruptured by external violence, and nothing remains to hold the odontoid process in contact with the articular fossa, intended for its reception, on the anterior arch of the atlas. To pro- duce this variety of dislocation the expenditure of great force is obviously required. The following example will materially aid in illustrating this acci- dent :— Lieut. J. Alman, Troop I, 4th Cavalry, was killed, March 17, 1868, in a collision between a row-boat, which was carrying him to Jefferson, Texas, and a steamboat. He was struck by the paddles of the wheel and carried under. His body was once thrown to the surface by the eddies of the water, and then sank. Every effort was made to secure his remains, but without avail, until the sixth day after the disaster, when the body, in a very advanced stage of decomposition, rose to the surface. An autopsy revealed a dislocation of the atlas upon the second cervical vertebra, with rupture of the transverse ligaments, and the odontoid process impinging upon the spinal marrow.1 In this case, the strength of the odontoid process was greater than that of the transverse and other 1 igaments combined. Hence, when the triple articu- lation to which they belonged was subjected to a great strain, they gave way and allowed dislocation forward of the atlas to occur, with crushing of the spinal cord against the odontoid process of the axis. The strength which the odontoid process manifested in this case does not appear to have been excep- tional ; for Dr. Stephen Smith, after making numerous experiments that bear on this point, comes to the following conclusions: (1) In a healthy condition 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871.