DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 342 change the posture of the limb, he would be relieved ; and if he be bold and fortunate, this really happens; but sometimes such movement is, or seems, impossible. The patient has to be taken home; perhaps a surgeon moves the joint, and at once relieves him; or he goes to bed unrelieved, and, if he fall asleep, probably wakes in the morning to find that nothing is left of his trouble but a little aching, and perhaps some swelling of the joint.1 This sort of attack is attributed to the body having intruded between the joint surfaces, which it forces apart. Volkmann declares this to be most im- probable, and believes that the body gets jammed somewhere between the sides of the joint-end and the synovial membrane ;2 but in opposition to this idea it must be noted that on account of the imperfect fitting of the femur to the tibia, the gliding motion of the latter bone over the condyles is exactly the sort of movement that would be most likely to entangle a loose body. Moreover, if the body lay during such an attack between the syno- vial membrane and the outer surface of the bone, surely it would in some one of the many reported cases have been found; but I find no record of such a discovery during an attack. It is quite true that the loose body is some- times so large that we can hardly conceive it to be capable of getting between the bones. But then there is no doubt that equally painful symptoms would be caused by its slipping into the intercondyloid notch, and becoming entan- gled between a crucial ligament and the bone, or between the two ligaments. When the surgeon sees a patient just after one of these attacks, he had better, if the joint be pretty full of fluid (for synovitis frequently sets in), postpone any search for the loose body until the sac is nearly empty. Even under favorable circumstances the body may not be at once detected ; it may lie in some cranny, and there be quite concealed until dislodged. Generally, it is well to explain the condition of things to the patient, and beg him to spend occasional leisure minutes in a “mouse-hunt” for himself; but if the surgeon search for it, this must be done with the lightest possible touch, and with a hand acutely alive to any change of form or abnormal projection. When such a projection is found, it must not be directly pressed upon, but is to be surrounded at a little distance by several fingers of both hands, which are then made gradually to approach each other until all channels of escape are cut off; then a finger of each hand can be used to feel the body, to impel it hither and thither, examine its size, consistency, etc. The most common places for finding these bodies are the lateral surface of the outer condyle, and next that of the inner condyle; but I have also found them in front of the femur, just above the patella, and once or twice on the tibia just inside the ligamentum patellae. When by care the existence of a movable body in connection with a joint has been made out, the surgeon must ascertain whether it is really inside the articulation ; in many cases, and especially when the substance enjoys a wide range of motion, this is very easy. But some that are really in the joint move but a very little way, and there are about the knees of some persons certain irregularities of the fascia, or lipoinatous nodules, which have a degree of mobility, and might easily be mistaken for intra-articular bodies; for in- stance, that fold of the fascia which covers the vastus externus, a little way above the outer edge of the patella, has frequently, to my knowledge, been taken for a movable body in the joint. jSTo lump should be considered as moving within the joint if its range of motion be so restricted that it is always found in one place, with its long axis always in the same direction, 1 This sort of attack is sometimes due to the subluxation of a meniscus, or to some other internal derangement of the knee. 4 Loc. cit., S. 580.