MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 960 this kind:1 The patient, a man aged 35, had an extensive syphilitic ulcer of the pharynx, that had destroyed the soft palate and exposed the anterior arch of the atlas. This process of bone necrosed en masse. Other instances of pharyngeal ulcer associated with hone-disease in the cervical spine are evi- dently secondary to the osseous lesion, and due to extension forwards of the destructive process. Through these ulcers, or through the abscesses after evacuation of their contents, sequestra have been discharged or removed by operation. Thus, in the case just mentioned, the whole of the anterior arch of the atlas was removed through the pharynx as a sequestrum. Mr. Keate2 has given an account of a like operation. Mr. Bryant3 records the case of a woman who coughed up, as a sequestrum, the odontoid process, and who, nevertheless, made a good recovery. The same surgeon has also seen “ the anterior half of the atlas, with its articular facets,” expectorated, and a cure follow its elimination. Mr. Hilton also details the case of a patient who coughed up the anterior arch of the atlas, the sequestrum haying escaped by way of a pharyngeal ulcer.4 (6) The symptoms that depend upon implication of the cord and the upper spinal nerves are very varied. Some of these symptoms have already been alluded to in dealing with the matter of pain, and I now propose to consider some of the graver evidences of this complication. The period at which these symptoms make their appearance is very uncertain. The disease may run its entire course, and end in cure, without cord-symptoms of any kind having been observed; or, on the other hand, such symptoms may be among the earliest evidences of the malady. The first evidences of these nerve-com- plications may be very trifling and obscure, while in not a few cases the first and oidy sign of injury to the cord has been sudden death. Such instances of sudden death are, probably in all examples, due to a giving way of the trans- verse and odontoid ligaments, whereby the atlas, bearing the entire weight of the head, slides forward upon the axis, and thus crushes the lower part of the medulla. In most instances, however, the symptoms develop very slowly, and proceed from bad to worse in progressive cases. There may at first be tingling or darting pains in one or other of the limbs, usually in the upper extremities. This may be followed by a feebleness that may pass on to more or less complete paralysis. Some few cases are recorded where pain and weakness have appeared in both arms and in both legs at once. The para- lvtic symptoms may be preceded by spasmodic contractions of various muscles, and by convulsive movements of the limbs. In the case recorded by Dr. Lochee and Mr. C. II. Moore, and quoted above, the fingers and wrists were contracted in the flexed position, and a like continuous spasm was noted in the feet; there was muscular weakness, but no paralysis. In a case seen by Mr. Shaw, “ the muscles became affected with tonic spasm; the whole body was so rigid that on turning the patient in bed she rolled with the stiff- ness of a corpse having rigor mortis; that condition lasted for a month ; it gave place gradually to ordinary paralysis, from which she eventually recovered.”6 The paralysis may vary greatly in extent; it is apt to be general rather than local, and although some patients become paraplegic merely, and others exhibit no more extensive paralysis than loss of power in one arm, yet the bulk who show motor defects show those defects over an extensive series of muscles, and exhibit a condition that varies from general muscular weak- ness to general paralysis of parts below the neck. Sensation is much less frequently impaired than motion, and would appear to be scarcely ever im- ' Med.-Chirurg, Trans., vol. xxxii. p. 64. 1849. 3 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 281. 6 Loc. cit., p. 145. 2 Medical Gazette, vol. xii. 1835. 4 Op. cit., p. 113.