FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 229 While it is very probable that the importance of flexing the limb strongly upon the body may have been overstated by some writers, it seems to me that surgeons generally would be unwilling to forego the advantage gained by complete relaxation of the muscles on the front of the thigh. But in order to secure this, it is not necessary to place the limb at an angle of less than about 130° with the axis of the body. It is, however, essential that the knee should be kept in the extended position, and this becomes very irksome from stretching of the posterior muscles, if the hip-joint is strongly flexed. So generally has the propriety of this posture of the knee been recognized, that almost all surgeons have included a back-splint in their appliances for dealing with fractures of the patella. By some the ordinary single-inclined plane Is used, so arranged that the degree of elevation of the foot may he altered at the will of the attendant. Others have employed a trough of tin, gutta percha, binders’ board, or some like material; while many prefer a board, either sloped off above and below, or padded, so as to fill up the hol- low of the ham. If such a board is used, it should he of suitable width for each portion of the limb, very slightly hollowed out along the middle, and at its ends the edges should be carefully bevelled off so as to make no pressure upon-the skin. Plaster-of-Paris bandages have been used by some surgeons, and the starched bandage is highly recommended by Erichsen; but neither of these can, in my opinion, be safely employed, except in the later period, when the patient is beginning to weary of confinement, and union has so far progressed as to he in a measure assured. Hamilton quotes several cases in which the injudi- cious use of plaster of Paris, or of a silicate bandage, seemed to be the clearly assignable cause of very imperfect results, and one has been recorded1 in which gangrene ensued, and amputation had to be performed. I will merely mention that some surgeons on the Continent of Europe have resorted to what must, I think, be regarded as an unjustifiable practice—the aspiration of the knee-joint for the removal of the effused liquid, by which it is apt to be distended for a few days after the accident. Such interference is not only theoretically attended with risk, but it has been actually proved so. I do not refer to the rare cases in which a formidable arthritis has already been set up, and in which there is an existing danger from the products of inflammation within the joint, although as to even these there are conserva- tive surgeons who would hesitate to adopt such measures; but to those cases in which the effusion is a mere temporary inconvenience, and in which nature will do the work of relief as surely and much more safely, if not as promptly, as any surgical instrument. For a few days, then, until the swelling of the joint has subsided, the best course is to place the limb at rest on a back-splint, and to employ suitable means for allaying the local irritation. Evaporating lotions, lead-water and laudanum, or hot water-dressing, may be made use of, the choice being determined according to the age and strength of the patient, the season of the year, and perhaps other circumstances. Upon the disappearance of the effusion into the joint, means must be adopted for approximating the fragments. Should the tendency to separa- tion be very great, an attempt should be made to control it even from the outset; for although the bringing of the fragments together may be impos- sible, and even inadvisable for fear of injury to the joint, yet the subsequent coaptation may be rendered easier. The best way of doing this is by means of a compress of folded lint, having around it an envelope of adhesive plaster, the adhesive surface outside; this being placed on the skin just above the 1 Am. Journal of tlie Med. Sciences, Feb. 1840; from the Gaz. Medicate, 1839, No. 28.