515 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. which had been received one year before. The joint was much swollen, and the limb was useless, but there was not much pain, and, as customary in this variety of arthritis, not much impairment of motion. Excision was performed in the ordinary way on May 13, six or seven ligatures being required, and the limb being subsequently dressed as in my other cases. (Jn the eighth day, all the ligatures and sutures were away, the wound was mostly united, the limb was in excellent posi- tion, and everything promised an uninterrupted recovery. On the thirteenth day (May 26), without any obvious cause, profuse secondary hemorrhage occurred, the wound being stuffed with clots, and the dressings saturated with blood. Knowing that no large vessel had been divided in the operation, and unwilling to interfere unnecessarily with the progress of repair, I did not open the wound, but contented myself with applying an ice-bag ; d elevating the limb. The bleeding did not recur, the clots which had formed, gradually became disintegrated, and were spon- taneously discharged, and the wound healed by granula- tion. In July the patient could walk with the support of a simple pasteboard splint, and in August even this was dispensed with, bony union of the resected bones being by this time completed. The patient was retained in hospital until October, 1875, a photograph, from which the annexed illustration (Fig. 743) is taken, having been obtained before his discharge. He was seen shortly afterwards in the neighborhood of the hospital, taking an active part in a stone fight with other boys. In the next case, one of excision for gelatinous arthritis, in an adult, I was obliged to abandon the attempt to preserve the limb; amputation of the thigh was adopted as the only means of saving life, and was followed by rapid convalescence. Excision of the Knee for Gelatinous Arthritis of three years' standing; Recurrence of Caries; Amputation; Recovery—J. W., an Englishman, 28 years of age, and a machinist by occupation, was admitted to the Episcopal Hospital on January 27, 1876, suffering from disease of the left knee-joint of three years’ duration, but which had in- capacitated him from going about for only a few months. The case was recognized as one of gelatinous arthritis in an advanced stage, the joint being much swollen and mis- shaped, doughy, and fluctuating; it was painful and tender to the touch, with starting pains at night, and relaxation and manifest disorganization of the ligamentous struc- tures. Extension was applied by means of a weight and pulley, and the limb placed at rest in a long fracture-box, while the joint itself was dressed with various topical remedies of a soothing and resolvent character, tonics, and a moderate amount of stimu- lus, being at the same time administered internally. During February, it became evi- dent that intra-articular suppuration had occurred, and the joint was accordingly tapped with an exploring trocar, giving exit to a considerable quantity of partially purulent fluid. Although some relief was afforded by the various measures above referred to, no per- manent improvement occurred, and in the early part of March, as the patient’s general health was failing, it became obvious that more radical interference was required. Ex- cision was determined on, rather than amputation, because the morbid action in the joint was strictly confined within the limits of the articulation, and because there was at least no positive evidence of the existence of any visceral complication. Accordingly, on March 9, 1876, the patient having been brought under the influence of ether, I excised the joint in the usual way, making a single transverse incision below the patella. The operation presented no peculiar features except that it was attended with unusually free bleeding, requiring the application of eight or nine ligatures. The ligamentous and synovial tissues were found, as had been anticipated, reduced to a gela-