369 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. may be left behind, when, the disease being overpassed, healing has been completed. Upon the data thus gathered must be founded the decision as to the advisability of amputation or excision. But if, on the contrary, the examination reveal commencing lung mischief, a very careful estimate of its stage, and of the possibility of its retrocession, must be formed. A certain, possibly only a small amount of bronchial or perilobular change can undoubtedly be repaired if the source of suppuration be at once eliminated. Conclusive signs of tuberculization, and a fortiori of the existence of cavities, would of course debar us from any operative mea- sures. In regard to lardaceous disease of abdominal organs, I am able to speak very positively, for several cases have shown me that a liver, even so enlarged that its edge lies below the level of the umbilicus, will recede when the flow of pus is at once prevented; even a spleen large enough to reach half-way to the middle line will diminish under the same circumstances. In order to appreciate the state of the kidneys, examination of its secretion should be made on three or four consecutive days. If all the casts be of the largest size—if there be absolutely none of the smaller sizes (and several specimens should on each occasion be examined1)—and if the albumen in the test-glass do not amount to more than one-quarter of the depth of the fluid, we may operate with fair hopes of success. But these remarks apply only to young patients; to those under twenty- five, still more to those under fourteen. Moreover, they take for their basis the postulate that suppuration can be at once stopped; hence, for such cases amputation is the one operation to be advised, and excision is as a very general rule inadmissible. III. Arthritis Deformans. This name is preferable to rheumatic gout, or chronic rheumatic arthritis, because it does not imply a pathological relationship, which is by no means proven ; the term “ rheumatoid arthritis” may be less objectionable, because the disease is in some of its symptoms—but only in some, and not in its anatomy—a little like rheumatism. The disease chiefly attacks elderly people, though occasionally exceptions to this rule occur, which are traceable to some febrile disease, or, and these are the most frequent exceptions, to a disturbance or suppression of the catamenia. It has a considerable predilection for the male sex, and is most com™011 amono the poorer classes, who are badly fed, and much exposed to vicissitudes of weather.2 It is generally multarticular, but not infrequently uniarticular, and then it usually attacks the hip-joints of old men. The malady, then commonly called “ morbus coxee senilis,” has frequently a trau- matic causation. Some of the patients are prematurely old, depressed in health, and feeble; others are rosy and cheerful, with excellent, appetite, and with quiet sleep.. In some, the urine deposits plentiful lithates; in others, though the fluid is too acid, no such deposit takes place. Some persons are attacked at a perfectly definite moment of time, and the malady runs pretty quickly up to a certain not very advanced point, the further steps being slow. In other persons it commences very insidiously, and its progress from the 2 t?16 Sma^est casts sink, as a rule, quickest, and lie at the lowest part of the sediment. Haygarth, the first who noticed this disease (Nodosity of Joints. London, 1S05), made a directly contrary statement, namely, that it most commonly attacked women of the wealthier class. Brodie described it as very prone to attack the little-worked and over-fed upper servants ol great houses ; he evidently did not properly distinguish the malady from true gout. vol. iv.—24