678 INJURIES OF TIIE BACK. These examples well illustrate the usual course of ordinary contusions of the back, when they are treated with quietude, nourishing food, and ano- dynes, as required. But, these excellent results are not always so easily, nor so speedily obtained, by even the best-devised plans of treatment; as the follow- ing case, in which a severe bruise of the sacral region was followed by perios- titis and sub-periosteal abscess, will serve to show:— Private Thomas Morgan, Co. A, 42tl Infantry, aged 34, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Niagara, N. Y., October 2, 1867, the wheel of a loaded cart having passed over his pelvis on the previous day. There was swelling, together with extensive ecchymosis, of the integuments over the upper part of the sacrum, and he complained much of pain. He also was not able to walk. A stimulating lotion was applied to the contused part, and anodynes were administered. A tumor, which formed in the injured part, was several times evacuated by incisions. The patient likewise suffered from chills and fever. By November, his general health had improved under expectant treatment; but the wound of operation was still open. On December &, he was per- mitted to do light duty. On the 27th he was returned to hospital; the wound was swollen, inflamed, and freely discharged dark purulent matter. The swelling having subsided by January 13, 1868, and the condition of the wound remaining unchanged, an incision three inches long was made down to the diseased structure, which was found to be a hard cartilaginous growth containing osseous deposits, between which and the periosteum the purulent matter had been lodged, and had been escaping there- from by means of an opening. On dissecting out this morbid growth, and touching the walls of the residual cavity with nitrate of silver, the wound was closed with adhe- sive strips, and a compress was applied. But little suppuration followed; and, on the 28th, the wound being nearly healed, the patient was returned to duty.1 Not unfrequently, however, the degree of injury is much more considerable than it was in either of the above-mentioned cases, and the process of repara- tion then consumes much time, on the one hand, or a fatal result ensues from sloughing of the injured part, from long protracted suppuration, or from septicaemia, on the other. One of these conditions is very apt to obtain in cases where the injury is inflicted by the missiles of Avar. A striking example of violent contusion of the soft parts in the dorso-lumbar region came under my observation at Stanton Military Hospital, during the late civil war. The patient, who was a soldier, tall, broad-shouldered, and very strongly built, aged about 30, was injured by the explosion of a shell while lying on the ground face down- wards, probably in line of battle. He thought that the butt-end of a shell had struck his back. On examination, there was found centrally situated in the dorso-lumbar region, a circular portion of the skin fully six inches in diameter, that was very much discolored by ecchymosis, although Avholly unbroken, was raised up considerably above the surrounding surface, and exhibited fluctuation distinctly when the fingers were applied to it, because a copious extravasation of blood into the subcutaneous connec- tive tissue had taken place. So there was in reality present an immense lnematoma, having a flattened shape, and a diameter of at least six inches, the product of an exceedingly powerful blow on the middle of the back, which did not break the skin. The treatment consisted of quietude, a nourishing diet, the administration of anodynes, and the application of camphorated oil to the injured part. But, notwithstanding the care taken to prevent it, the integuments sloughed off throughout the whole of the circular space above mentioned, and the extravasated blood was completely discharged thereby, leaving, however, a healthy granulating surface fully six inches in diameter. Simple dressings with unguentum resin* wex-e applied, the supporting plan of internal treat- ment Avas continued, and the sore rapidly cicatrized. When his recovery was far advanced, the patient was transferred to a northern hospital, and thus passed out of my sight. Ibid., p. 108.