EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 512 In the next case, the disease, though of shorter duration, had run a more acute course, the joint having suppurated, and being open at the time of the operation. Excision of Right Knee for Chronic Arthritis with Intra-articular Abscess; Re- covery with Useful Limb.—The subject of this case, Henry S , was a young man, eighteen years of age, who entered the Episcopal Hospital on January 4, 1872. He had been suffering from disease of the right knee-joint for one year, during the last three months of which the articulation had been suppurating and discharging exter- nally. The joint was greatly swollen, and the surrounding soft parts much infiltrated with the products of inflammation, but as the diseased action seemed to be limited to the articulation itself, and as the patient’s general condition was satisfactory, it was thought proper to make an attempt to save the limb by excision. Accordingly, on January 11, 1872, the patient being thoroughly etherized, the joint was laid open by a single, transverse incision below the patella, when this bone was removed together with the articulating extremities of the femur and tibia, the articular cartilages on both of the latter being found to have been almost entirely destroyed. But two liga- tures were required, and, the wound having been closed with wire sutures and dressed with oiled lint, the limb was carefully adjusted on a posterior bracketed splint in the usual way. The greater portion of the wound united by adhesion, and, though convalescence was delayed by the formation of several super- ficial abscesses, the progress of the case was upon the whole satisfactory. In January, 1873, one year after the operation, the patient walked with crutches, without any support to the resected limb, which was an inch and a half shorter than its fellow. There was still slight motion of flexion and extension at the knee, but no lateral movement whatever. There were two or three small sinuses, with superficial caries, but not connected with the site of excision. On January 21, the patient fell and sustained a fracture of the fibula of the resected limb, but did not injure the knee, thus furnishing a pretty good test of the sufficiency of the repair which had taken place. This accident was recovered from in a few weeks, and by March 25, the patient walked with a single crutch; on April 30, the sinuses were nearly healed, and he walked readily with a cane, and for short distances without even that support; and on May 4, he was made an out- cisioijU'^ligh^mo'tio'u ^]ire- patient. I heard from him afterwards at intervals, the last time served'. ° about four years after the operation ; his limb had long been healed, and he Avalked readily with a cane ; he supported him- self by peddling vegetables from a cart, and came several miles to town, twice a week, to go to the theatre. The appearance of the resected limb is shown in the annexed illustration, from a drawing by Dr. Martinez. (Fig. 738.) Though I have always endeavored to secure bony union after excision of the knee-joint (believing it to he safer to do so), yet I have in two cases suc- ceeded in obtaining very useful limbs, while slight motion still remained in the direction of flexion and extension; indeed, provided that there be no lateral movement, such a result is by no means disadvantageous, the slight yielding of the limb antero-posteriorly enabling the patient, I think, to walk with a less apparent limp than if the part is entirely immovable. Arthritis of Left Knee, the Result of Injury ; Abscess communicating with Joint; Excision; Rapid Recovery with Useful Limb—James H., a boy nine years of age, was admitted to the Episcopal Hospital on November 16, 1871, suffering from an “ in- jury” probably a contusion—of the knee, which was followed by arthritis, and by the formation of an abscess in the thigh, immediately above the joint, with which Fig. 738.