311 STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. unless prevented by art, becomes more bent, and at the same time more painful; the child is more cautious in using the limb, and perhaps wakes up occasionally at night, crying.1 The surgeon, who, if careful, will have kept measurements of the part, finds the joint increasing, the limb wasting, and the child looking more worn and out of health. He will be aware that his patient is getting worse, though no new symptom has arisen. The second stage is now imminent, its advent being marked by starting pains. These have been already referred to (see p. 306), but they merit here a fuller description, since they are most frequently met with and most perfectly developed in those forms of joint diseases which originate in struma, not be- cause the diathesis has any direct connection with this symptom, but because scrofulous diseases attack more especially children in whom the spinal motor system is very mobile. At first, and often throughout the case, these pains only come on when the patient is sinking to sleep; he is quite placid, and apparently not suffering, when suddenly he twitches as though startled, and breaks into a sharp scream of pain, crying for some time before he again tries to sleep; this may be repeated several times before at last complete uncon- sciousness comes on. Some children dread these starting pains so much that they keep themselves awake as long as possible; but it is difficult, since means of comparison are wanting to such young persons, to make out exactly what the pain is like.2 It seems as though it did not at once subside, since (but this in some cases may be mere alarm) the crying usually goes on for some time before the child tries to sleep again. This symptom may be taken in strumous synovitis to indicate commencing ulceration of cartilages.3 4 Moreover, the extent and intensity of these pains are the measure of the amount and rapidity of the ulceration. When this symptom has lasted a certain time, another, which I have been accustomed to call intra-articular tenderness, makes its appearance. My observations, clinical and anatomical, lead me to believe that this symp- tom never occurs unless, the articular lamella having given way, the bone eancelli are open to the joint. In seeking for this phenomenon, very great care is necessary to avoid any movement of the joint, which often causes pain, but not of the sort in question. Neither must alarm or dread that something painful is about to be done, be mistaken for real pain. About this time generally, but sometimes during the latter end of the first stage, the distal bone of the joint may be moved on the proximal one in abnor- mal directions. The tibia, for instance, may be made to glide sideways, or to rotate a little on the femur; the ulna will also glide laterally on the humerus, etc. This symptom is, according to its extent, of evil augury; occurring early, it shows unusually rapid invasion and softening of the ligaments; occurring at a later period, and to a greater extent, it shows that the tissues have been much involved, and that degeneration has set in. Both these symptoms may be combined with subluxation or complete dislo- cation* which is much more common and of earlier occurrence at certain joints than at others. In many cases the shoulder is slightly displaced for- 1 This is not the sort of pain to be described hereafter ; the waking is not witli a sharp, sudden cry, but there are at first restless movements in half sleep, and then a slow commencement of weeping, which usually is before complete awakening. An older patient described them to me the other day as being like what is felt when a den- tist thrusts a hard instrument against an inflamed and carious tooth. . 3 stall see hereafter that in epiphyseal joint-disease it has not quite the same meaning, since hyperaemia of the joint-end is in that malady a very early condition, not a secondary effect of chondritis. 4' Some bones, as the ulna at the elbow, are, by their formation, precluded from pathological luxation. r °