FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 147 When the services of a skilled mechanic can he had, some form of bracketed splint, one portion to fit the front of the arm, and the other that of the fore- arm, may he employed. Or, by a little ingenuity, the surgeon may adapt a strip of tin, of sheet-zinc, or of hoop-iron, so as by means of a plaster-of- Paris bandage to control the limb properly. In either case, a sufficient space should be left opposite the wound for the application of suitable dressings. When there is much discharge, cleanliness requires that the renewal of tiie dressings should be frequent; and it is well to protect the adjacent edges of a plaster-of-Paris bandage, either by a strip of oiled silk folded over them, or by a coating of varnish. As to the character of the dressings to be employed, nothing need be said here, the subject having been fully discussed in previous portions of the En- cyclopaedia. Before dismissing the subject of fractures of the humerus, I wish to add a case which came under my notice too late to be mentioned in its proper place. It is recorded by Mr. R. Jones,1 and was that of a man, age not given, who fell from a height, and in falling grasped at a door. He thus sustained a subelavicular dislocation of the right humerus, which bone was broken at the middle, and a dislocation backward of the elbow. The fracture was secured in splints, and the dislocation reduced. Some effusion occurred in the elbow- joint on the third day, but was rapidly absorbed; and the movements of both elbow and shoulder were free and painless in six weeks. He had previously dislocated both hips, and on three occasions the left shoulder. Fractures of the elbow, properly so called, in which not only the lower por- tion of the humerus, but the upper portions of the bones of the forearm, are involved, present certain special features which entitle them to separate con- sideration. They can, however, be more suitably spoken of after the discussion of fractures of the last-mentioned parts. Fractures of the Bones of the Forearm. Taken collectively, the fractures of this part of the skeleton constitute a very large proportion of the whole number of these injuries. Wide differ- ences exist, however, between the two bones of the forearm, as well as between the different portions of each, in regard to their liability to fracture. Thus, the ulna by itself is rarely broken, especially at its lower part; the radius by itself is almost exempt above, but fractures near its lower extremity are among the most common of accidents. Both bones may give way at once, to a crush- ing force, in any part of their length; but more frequently they are broken by indirect violence, somewhere near the middle, or below it. The order of frequency of these accideuts.may therefore be stated as follows: The radius alone near its lower end; both bones about their middle third, or in the upper part ot the lower third ; the olecranon ; the coronoid process ; the radius alone near its upper end ; the ulna alone in its lower part. _ How these differences, far from being unaccountable and as it were capri- cious, find a clear explanation in the anatomy and mechanical conditions ot the forearm and of the bones themselves; as does also the fact, at first sight strange, that the thickest and seemingly the strongest portion of each bone is the one which most frequently gives way. 1 Lancet, April 28, 1883.