FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, COSTAL CARTILAGES, AND STERNUM. 87 on the right side were fractured about an inch from the sternum ; the perichondrium was entire in the sixth, but torn anteriorly in the seventh. M. Broca1 is reported to have mentioned to .the Societe Anatomique a case in which the sixth, seventh, and eighth cartilages on the right side were fractured by muscular action. The patient, a porter, had a sack of peas on his shoulder, when another sack was suddenly laid upon him. The weight bore him forward, and in raising himself against it he sustained the injury, the result of which is not stated. Gurlt quotes from Chaussier the case of an officer, aged 48, who had a diastasis of the cartilage of the left upper false rib, produced by a fit of coughing; there was a hernia of the lung as large as a hen’s egg. He cites also Monteggia’s account of a very thin man, aged 70, in whom the cartilages of the second and third (true) ribs had been separated from the ribs themselves, also by coughing. When these fractures do not prove immediately fatal by reason of the damage involved to the thoracic viscera, they may heal like other lesions of the same kind in other parts. Sometimes, however, they result in serious impairment of respiration, and consequently of the general health. Of this the following case affords a good example:— A cavalry officer2 was injured in the right side by a fall from his horse, in July, 1864. Three months later his case was reported as “fracture of the ribs, which have not yet united.” In 1870, he was examined by a pension surgeon, who certified that “ the sixth and seventh ribs on the right side were fractured and dislocated from the sternum, and, not being properly adjusted, an imperfect cure was the result. There is a projection of two inches outward from the chest at the ends of those two fractured ribs, which are not joined to the sternum. The muscles which move the arm are weakened, and exercise causes pain.” Seven years afterwards, it was noted by an ex- amining board that the pensioner had “ an anxious expression of countenance ; dis- tended nasal alae; respiration easily disturbed ; loud resonance and weak respiration in right lung, indicating emphysema.” Macleod3 mentions the case of a man “ hit by a round shot on the edge of the breast- plate, which was so turned inward as to fracture the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs on the left side, close to the sternum. The skin was not wounded. He walked to the rear, and complained but little for two hours, when he was seized with an acute pain in the region of the heart. His pulse became much accelerated, and he grew faint and collapsed. A distinct and sharp bellows-sound accompanied the heart’s action. He died in seventy-two hours from the receipt of the injury, the pain and dyspnoea, which had been so urgent at first, having abated for some hours before death. The heart was found to have been ruptured to an extent sufficient to allow of the finger being thrust into the left ventricle. The obliquity of the opening had prevented the blood escaping into the pericardium, which contained about two ounces of dark-colored serum.” From the cases now quoted, it will be perceived that the injuries in ques- tion have much in common with fractures of the ribs. Union takes place, according to Gurlt. by the formation of spongy bone around both fragments, or in the interspace between their outer walls, the broken ends remaining quite passive.4 A number of specimens exist in various museums illustrating this. Gurlt says, on the authority of Mal- gaigne and Klopsch, that in dogs and rabbits the divided cartilages unite by fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous substances; but that in large animals, as in the horse, the rule is the same as in man. The treatment must be immobilization by means of adhesive plaster. Mal- 1 Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Review, Oct. 1856. 2 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Part III. Surg. Vol., p. 649. 3 Notes on the Surgery of the War in the Crimea, etc., Am. ed., p. 204. 4 Interesting and instructive articles on this subject, by Prof. Bennett, may be found in the Dublin Journal of Medical Science for March, 1876, and for October, 1877.