771 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. recently been applied in a number of instances. Professor Konig, of Got- tingen, lias an article in Ho. 7 of the Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, for 1880, on the application of the “ Thorax Gypsverband” for fractures of the spine, and recounts therein three cases, in all of which there was considerable displace- ment, with but very slight, if any, nervous symptoms. In each of these three cases, the patient was suspended sufficiently to correct the deformity, and a long jacket reaching down to the trochanters was put on; and every one of them made a complete and rapid recovery. The cases were all recent and simple. Dr. W. Wagner, however, reports two similar cases in which, after the application of the jacket, intense pain in one instance, and paralysis in the other, appeared in the lower extremities, so that it was necessary to remove the apparatus. In one case it was reapplied subsequently, with comfort to the patient. Both patients recovered.1 Possibly, the failure of the first application of the jackets, in the last two instances, was due to not exactly reducing the displacement of the fragments prior to fitting the jackets, so that the apparent want of success was caused not so much by the apparatus itself, as by the failure to apply it properly. At all events, no great harm was done, for recovery was not prevented in either instance. Obviously, this plan of treatment is not appropriate for cases in which there are bed-sores, or in which inflammatory disorganization of the spinal cord is already far ad- vanced. But, for simple, uncomplicated cases of spinal fracture, in which the injury is recent, it seems likely to prove of great service, and undoubtedly is in improvement on any of the old methods of treatment now in vogue for such cases. When the body-temperature rises to 102° F., or more, and persists, what is to be done? Possibly, in cases where the mercury stands at 102° or 103°, the trunk and extremities may be sponged with diluted alcohol, from time to time, with advantage; and, in cases where it rises to 105°, or more, and the extinction of life is threatened by the body-heat itself, it may be advisable to use the “ cold-water pack,” carefully noting its effects, meanwhile. When the body-temperature sinks below the normal limit, whether the coldness be confined to the paralyzed parts or diffused over the whole system, care must be taken in applying artificial heat—e. g., bottles of hot-water, heated bricks, or sad-irons, etc.—lest the parts to which they are applied become burned from the negligence of the attendants. Gunshot Injuries of the Vertebrae. Soldiers are sometimes killed in battle by gunshot injuries of the cervical vertebrae. Dr. Otis2 reports two instances of this sort that he had himself seen, in which “ the ball lodged in the cervical spine,” among the bodies of those lying dead on the field of battle before Hew Berne. Gunshot injuries of the spinal column may thus quickly destroy life: (1) By dividing or crush- ing the spinal cord above the third cervical vertebra, that is, above the roots of the phrenic nerves, thereby completely and instantaneously arresting the respiratory movements ; and (2) By opening the vertebral artery, in some part of its course within the canal formed by the vertebral foramina in the trans- verse processes of the six upper cervical vertebrae. Mr. Shaw3 has placed on record, together with a wood-cut, the following example, which admirably illustrates the first of these two modes in which 1 Medical Times and Gazette, December 18, 1880. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 603. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 395.