34 INJURIES OF BONES. burst. The patient died exhausted five years from the date of the first fracture ; the autopsy disclosed an enchondroma. Otto (Seltene Beobachtungen zur Anatomie, etc.) speaks of a woman who, two years before her death, sustained a fracture of the humerus, which united, but remained painful and became greatly misshapen ; there was de- veloped a tumor (clearly an osteoid chondroma) which acquired acolossal size. Ducluzeau (Lebert, Traite d’Anat. Pathol.) removed from the rib of a man an enchondroma, which had taken its origin from a fracture of the bone several years previously. Lan- genbeck (Deutsche Klinik, 1860) disarticulated the shoulder of a man aged 23, on account of a tumor which I recognized as an osteoid chondroma, and which began a year and a half after a fracture caused by a fall.” Adams1 has recorded the history of a man who twenty-five years before his death broke his humerus ; nineteen years afterward he strained it, and it remained weak; four years after this a swelling was perceived, which grew rapidly, so that amputation was thought of, but declined. The tumor ulcerated and discharged a glairy fiuid; at the time of death its circum- ference was equal to that of the body. It was composed of enchondromatous, colloid, and compound cystic elements. It is perhaps scarcely proper to include among the cases now under con- sideration those in which, fracture occurring in a person already affected with malignant tumor, the constitutional disease manifests itself afresh at the point of local injury. Here the fracture merely serves as a nucleus, as it were, around which deposit takes place, precisely as may be observed in other cases of hurts. Sometimes, indeed, it may be questioned whether the bone may not give way because its texture is already impaired by the de- velopment of disease ; as in one instance recorded by Morton,2 in which the woman having already a mammary tumor, the left humerus gave way as she turned in bed, and “ shortly afterwards the tumor was noticed at the seat of fracturedeath occurred within three months. The symptoms and diagnosis in these cases need hardly he discussed, and the prognosis is unfortunately but too clear. As to treatment, it must be based upon general principles ; often there is no chance for anything but palliative measures. Amputation may sometimes save suffering, and delay the fatal issue.3 General Prognosis of Fractures. Various circumstances must be taken into the account in forming a prog- nosis in any case of fracture. Among these are: the character and amount of the injury to the bone, its simple or compound character, its extent, the presence or absence of comminution, the nearness of the lesion to a joint, the amount of damage done to the soft parts. The age and previous history of the patient are also to be regarded. From a consideration of all these points, some idea may he formed as to the chances of saving the patient’s life, as well as of preserving a useful and sightly limb. With regard to the influence of the local conditions of the injury on the prognosis of fractures, it scarcely needs to he enlarged upon here, as it has been already set forth in the discussion of the phenomena and varieties of those injuries. As to age, it may be said that the fractures of children gene- rally unite with great readiness, and that the ultimate result is apt to be the complete restoration of the shape and functions of the limb, although an ex- Trans. of Pathol. Society of London, vol. i. p. 344. 2 Supplement to Catalogue of Penna. Hosp. Museum, p. 19. 3 The reader may consult with advantage : Tausch, Zur Casuistik der vom Callus geheilten Frakturen sich entwickelnden Grescliwiilste. Halle, 1881.