SYNOVITIS FROM ABSORPTION OF MORBID MATTERS. 295 other antiseptic. But since the tissues around the wound certainly contain, and will, if left uncared for, generate, fresh contagium, some means of annul- ling or minimizing this production must be used. I have found the best method to be by interstitial injection, using for this purpose a tubular needle, perforated not only at the end, but in several points at the sides; the collar of the needle either tits a syringe holding about an ounce, or by means of an India-rubber tube may be connected with a glass one of J or f inch diameter.1 The needle is introduced into those parts where lividity is present, where veins are enlarged, or in the course of veins, and by predilection above the wound, and is moved somewhat while the fluid flows; from one to three fluidrachms of a 3-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid may be safely injected. While this treatment is being conducted, a portion of the urine from each micturition should be put aside to be examined before another injection is made; if the urine does not assume the inky appearance due to carbolic-acid poisoning, the dose may be repeated, and, when desirable, even increased.2 On each occasion, care must be taken not to let all the fluid used accumu- late at any one point, but to spread it over a certain district; and on each repetition of the injection, a fresh part must be chosen until the vicinity of the wound is exhausted, and then the series may recommence. In the mean time, the temperature must be reduced by the administra- tion of suitable remedies. If the skin be dry and hot, an effervescent solu- tion of citrate of ammonium is very valuable.3 It may be given every three or four hours for one or two days and nights, or until the skin becomes moist. Afterwards, or even at the beginning, if the surface is not at the commencement markedly dry, we may administer large doses of quinine. In giving the drug for this purpose, it is better not to temporize, in view of the grave condition with which we have to deal; a little headache or tempo- rary deafness is unimportant, and I would therefore recommend 20 grs. given in one dose, to be followed by a like amount in two hours, or if the case be severe in one hour; and then, if the temperature fall, after an equal interval by 10 or 5 grs., according to the effect produced; at the same time, a stimu- lant—brandy, champagne (especially if there be sickness), or sherry—may be properly administered. If no parenchymatous injections of carbolic acid be used, perhaps even when their employment produces no sign of poisoning, another drug may be administered by the mouth—and I believe myself to have seen it productive of benefit—namely, the sulpho-carbolate of sodium, in scruple doses. There is no doubt, as shown by the odor of the breath and the occasional discoloration of the urine, that this drug becomes absorbed into the blood, and must in so far render that fluid unfavorable to the life of septic fungi. In tfie general treatment of less acute forms of this malady, such as urethral or catamenial synovitis, less drastic remedies are necessary. I may be per- mitted to say, that the analogies with the rigors occasionally following cathe- terization, are not to be ignored. Those shiverings are successfully treated in one ot two ways: We may either immediately give one or two large doses of quinine ; or we may administer a glass of very hot spirit and water, cover 1 The length of a column of fluid, an ounce in quantity, contained in such a tube, insures considerable pressure on the liquid in the needle. 2 Since introducing boro-glyceride as a surgical dressing (see Lancet, May 13, and Brit. Med. Journal, Aug. 26, 1882), I have had no opportunity of testing its value in pyaemia, but as it is a powerful a,septic it would probably be followed by good results. As it is not a poison, more entire and wide-spread saturation of the tissues would be possible, than with carbolic acid ; but powerful as boro-glyceride is in preventing sepsis, it is not, I think, as potent as carbolic acid in counteracting a putrefactive action already set up. J Made by mixing solutions of 25 grains of carbonate of ammonium in a tluidounce of water, and 20 grains of citric acid also in a tluidounce of water.