SPECIAL VARIETIES OF CYST. 663 labium, the lip, and the floor of the mouth, is to open the cyst freely, squeeze out the contents, and apply solid nitrate of silver, or some similar caustic, to the inner surface of the sac. Even after this severe treatment the cyst some- times tills again, and requires a repetition of the process, or the introduction of a seton. Removal of the cyst cannot be recommended on account of the difficulty of dissecting the whole of it away, for it is often thin-walled and very adherent to the surrounding structures, while its situation and the hemorrhage which invariably occurs render it, in the case of cysts of the mouth and labium, exceedingly difficult to complete the operation successfully. Serous Cysts.—The best examples of serous cysts are met with in the con- genital cystic tumors of the neck, to which the name cystic hygroma has been given. They sometimes form large and single cysts, smooth-walled, thin- walled, and containing a clear, thin fluid, in most instances colorless; but, more often, a cystic tumor is observed, formed of an irregular mass, of con- nective tissue, in which are several cysts, neither of them, perhaps, of larger size than a common nut or small walnut. The outline of such a tumor is usually ill-defined, and, if an attempt be made to dissect it out, it is found exceedingly difficult, or even impossible, to distinguish the exact limit of the growth. Some of these cysts are probably formed by distension and fusion of areolar spaces of the connective tissue ; but, since most, if not all, of them are lined with endothelium, it is thought that they are developed rather by distension of lymphatic spaces than of mere areolar spaces in the tissue. As many of the spaces, formerly regarded merely as areolar, are now known to be lymphatic spaces, the difference in origin assigned to these congenital cysts is rather apparent than real; it is not that they arise by the distension of a different set of spaces, but that we know better the nature of the spaces which, distended, form the cysts. The occurrence of congenital hygroma, though far more frequent in the neck than elsewhere, is, by no means, limited to the neck. I have seen a simple cyst of this kind in front of the sternum, and another precisely similar in the axilla, and large cystic tumors, such as are described above, in the arm and thigh. Nor, although these tumors are pro- bably all congenital, are they always first observed during infancy, or even childhood. The large single cysts are best treated by puncturing and injecting them with tincture of iodine as a common hydrocele is treated ; or a seton may be passed through the cyst and left in till sufficient inflammation has been ex- cited. This method is not, however, free from danger, even fatal inflamma- tion having been excited by the presence of the thread. The cystic tumors are very troublesome to treat. The individual cysts which they contain may be treated like simple cysts ; but the surrounding connective tissue, if it be not growing, may be more safely left than meddled with. If it he increasing, it is generally best to try and remove it in spite of the difficulties arising from its diffused character. I have myself seen death result from the passage of setons through such a tumor, three days after their introduction. The pres- ence of the setons set up a violent general inflammation of the tumor, asso- ciated with grave constitutional symptoms, to which the patient, a young child, speedily succumbed. Serous cysts are frequently met with in the breast, less often in the testicle. In the testicle they almost invariably occur as cysts in tumors, and are formed by dilatation of the glandular structures of the organ. In the mamma, although many of the cysts also occur in combination with solid tumors, and are almost always developed from the glandular structures, yet simple cysts, independent of any solid growth, are of tolerably frequent occurrence. Some of these cysts are also developed by distension of the ducts and acini of the