FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 237 tures, except that the wound must be dressed. If small, an attempt may be made to close it; but if large, and if the joint-cavity be opened, I think that thorough washing out with carbolized water should always be resorted to. Afterward, the closure of the wound ought again to be aimed at, as it may be obtained unless suppuration ensue, in which case experience teaches that effective drainage gives the best results ; this may be accomplished either with a fine rubber-tube, with horse-hair, or with a few strands of carbolized silk. As dressings, lead-water and laudanum, carbolized water, or an ice-bag (in hot weather especially) may be employed. Irrigation has been preferred by some surgeons, but cannot always be conveniently arranged so as not to wet the clothing and bed, on account of the position of the limb. The question of amputation or of excision of the joint must sometimes come up when the patient is young, and the local injury very severe, but it can hardly be appropriately discussed here. Perhaps it is in these cases that the use of Malgaigne’s hooks, or the resort to the suture, is most available; yet I cannot but think that other means should first be tried, and that they will often be found efficient. Very generally, after the first stage of the case, and especially if suppura- tion is established, a stimulant and supporting treatment is obviously demanded, and must be kept up during a long and tedious convalescence. Fractures of the Bones of the Leg. All authors agree that these injuries are of very common occurrence; but there are some curious differences noticeable between the statistics derived from different sources, as will appear from the following data, chiefly ob- tained from Guilt:— Lonsdale, out of 1901 cases, gives 289, or about 15 per cent, of the leg. Gurlt, among 1631, found 283, or over 17 per cent. Blasius, out of 778, found 139, or nearly 18 per cent. Middeldorpf, out of 325, gives 59, or a little over 18 per cent. Matiejowsky, among 1086, gives 293, or nearly 27 per cent. Agnew, among 8667, found 2315, or nearly 27 per cent. Malgaigne, out of 2328, found 652, or 28 per cent. Lente, among 1722, gives 579, or nearly 34 per cent. If the reader will take the trouble to compare these statements with those quoted on page 186 from the same sources, but in reference to fractures of the femur, he will see that the figures given by the different institutions, for the latter bone, are not in the same ratio to one another as those above quoted for the leg. But these discrepancies can only be stated as facts, difficult, it seems to me, of explanation. Fractures of the leg are divided into those which affect both bones, those of the tibia alone, and. those of the fibula alone. These again are found to differ in frequency; both bones being involved far oftener than either bone singly. These differences are marked enough to warrant their presentation in a table as follows d— 1 The percentages in this table have reference to the fractures of the leg only, and in stating them they are given approximately, neglecting fractious.