TUMORS. G50 but secondary tumors have been observed in the lungs, the liver, the supra- renal capsules, and, in one instance, in one of the ribs. The infrequency of dissemination may be ascribed partly to a general disinclination of squamous- celled carcinoma to become generalized, partly to the rapidity with which carcinoma of the tongue causes death. Among the cases not submitted to operation, it is rare to meet with one in which life has lasted longer than eighteen months, and a very large number die within twelve months. As death usually results from some cause connected with the horribly advanta- geous situation of the disease, the carcinoma cannot be supposed to have run its natural course; and it may, on that ground, be assumed that sufficient time has not been allowed for dissemination to occur. Nowhere do the argu- ments which are employed in favor of early and free operation apply with greater force than in regard to the tongue. For the disease is confined, in the large majority of cases, throughout its whole course, to the tongue and to the neighboring structures and glands. It is thus far a local affection, and if it be treated before it has become a very wide-spread local affection, it may be thoroughly removed. Experience shows clearly that a certain percentage of patients may be saved by operation. Thus, of 70 patients who were subjected to various kinds of operation, and in all of whom the nature of the disease was proved by microscopic examination, 7 are shown by my tables1 to have been quite well more than seventeen months after the operation, most of the seven several years. One patient died four years afterwards of an entirely different dis- ease, and in one case the tongue again became affected six years after the re- moval of a carcinoma. I have lately learned that two more of the 70 pa- tients are still alive and well, although several years have elapsed since the operation in each case. The evidence furnished by collected cases further goes to show that life is prolonged by operation, and is made more comfortable even when the disease recurs in the tongue, or when the patient dies from affection of the lymphatic glands. Carcinoma of the Face.—A great contrast to the carcinomas of the tongue is found in those of the skin of certain parts, and particularly in those of the skin of the face. The upper half of the face, especially, is liable to two forms of carcinoma, the squamous-celled and the spheroidal-celled; or, since there is some doubt of the precise relationship of the latter, perhaps it would be more correct to regard it merely as a modification of the former, and to consider all the carcinomatous ulcers of the face as belonging to two varieties of squamous-celled carcinoma, one typical, the other modified. The typical epithelioma commences frequently as a wart or mole, which, spontaneously, or after injury or irritation, enlarges, and then breaks down and ulcerates. The ulcer thus formed bears the characters of an epithelial ulcer, and is recog- nized by its unhealthy surface, devoid of granulations and often scabbed over, and by the induration of its base and edges, which are often raised, irregu- larly thickened, and sometimes everted. The disease occurs in men far more frequently than in women; always in adult men, and generally in those advanced in years; but I have once seen it in a man 29 years old. Its course is slow, but it spreads gradually along the surface, and at the same time slowly deepens. It does not tend to affect the lymphatic glands, nor, as far as I am aware, does it become disseminated. But the life history of the disease is but im- perfectly known to us, partly perhaps because it has not been deemed suffi- ciently important or interesting to call for special study and description, partly because so much confusion has reigned, and still reigns, in respect to the relation between this disease and that of which I am about to speak. 1 Sarcoma and Carcinoma, p. 156.