INJURIES OF THE BACK. 874 of head not allowed. Old adhesions over the surface of the upper lobes of both lungs. At lower part of left chest, about a cupful of purulent fluid was found. Parenchyma of both lungs stuffed with softish, yellow, miliary tubercles, equally diffused from apex to base. Kidneys large ; their cortical portion studded with miliary tubercles. The splenic tissue similarly affected. Heart and liver healthy. The phenomena of subacute, traumatic, spinal meningitis, when it runs a chronic course to a fatal termination, tire well shown by this case. The symptoms characteristic of the disease were pain in the affected part of the spinal column, increased by suddenly twisting or bending it; also pain felt in the peripheral extremities of all the spinal nerves issuing from the affected part of the spinal column, particularly in the abdomen, in the loins, and in the lower extremities. The abdominal pain was attended with hot and dry integuments, and probably, if carefully looked for, oscillations of temperature would have been observed. These peripheral pains arise from the excitation of the sensory filaments of the corresponding spinal nerves by the inflammatory action that is going on, within the spinal canal, in the membranes of the cord adjoining their roots ; for instance, in cases where such peripheral pains are felt at the epigastrium, the sensory filaments of the sixth or seventh dorsal nerves are excited by the inflammatory process in the spinal arachnoid and pia mater investing them before they enter the intervertebral foramina. When the sensory filaments of the eighth or ninth dorsal nerves are irritated in this manner, the peripheral pains are felt lower down in the abdominal walls, in the parts thereof which are supplied by the irritated nerve-fibres ; and when the sensory filaments of the remaining dorsal, or of the lumbar nerves, are excited in a similar manner, the peripheral pains are felt still lower down, in the respective terminal extremities of the excited nerve-filaments. Excita- tion (intra-spinal) of the motor filaments of the spinal nerves arising from the same cause, in this case, was denoted “by frequent spasmodic twitehings of the extremities,” by the “tense” and “hard” condition of the abdominal muscles which arose from tetanoid (tonic) spasm thereof, and by the per- sistently stiff or contracted feeling in the muscles of the extremities, particu- larly the lower ones, which doubtless was present, and would have been re- vealed by asking the patient about it. The altered sensations of the patient in this case, the “tingling” and the “ numbness” in his feet and hands, and the acute sensation produced by “pinching” his legs (hypenesthesia) after paraplegia had set in, were due either to inflammatory excitation of the cord-substance by the contiguous membranes, or to compression of the cord-substance by the inflammatory products effused in the meshes of the spinal pia mater. The vesical paralysis, the alkaline urine, the anaesthesia (insensibility) and motor paralysis (or paraplegia) which appeared near his end, were caused by compression of the cord-substance effected in the way just mentioned. The inflammatory effusion was found at the autopsy of this case, as usual, under the so-called visceral layer of the spinal arachnoid alone, that is, in the interstices of the pia mater, but principally on the posterior surface of the cord, to which it had probably settled by gravitation. The exudation itself did not contain pus-corpuscules, and would have been capable of becoming organized, if it had not caused death by its quantity, and by the compres- sion which it exerted upon the cord substance. The tubercular infiltration of the pulmonary, renal, and splenic tissues, which was revealed by the autopsy, must be held to have probably resulted from the pathological state of the spinal cord-substance. But, among the remote effects of spinal injuries, chronic spinal meningitis, combined with chronic myelitis, and running their joint course pari passu,