185 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 2 British Med. Journal, Dec. 31, 1881. •end. I had to cut through the soft parts of the side of the finger to liberate the hand. Amputation was unavoidable, and was performed the next day, with an excellent ultimate result. The symptoms need hardly be detailed, as they are those of fractures gener- ally, and from the small amount of covering of the bones are readily to be made out. On account of the strength of the flexors, the deformity is apt to be an angle, salient at the back of the finger; but this rule is not uniform, as the fracturing force may drive both fragments toward the palmar surface. Occasionally these fractures are complicated with dislocation, but this, except in the thumb, is in general reducible without great difficulty. Union almost always takes place without hindrance; but I have reported1 the case of a child three years old, who had two years previously sustained a fracture of the first phalanx of the thumb, with the subsequent formation of a false joint, and on whom an operation was performed with success. Necrosis of the fragments sometimes occurs, especially in compound and comminuted fractures; and in these cases more or less thecal inflammation is very apt to ensue, and may travel up and even beyond the wrist. Under the most favorable circumstances some degree of stiffening and deformity is often permanent, although it may not interfere with the usefulness of the finger. Stoker2 showed to the Pathological Society of Dublin the skeleton of an index-finger, illustrating union of a fracture of the second phalanx. The first phalanx was entire and healthy; the articulation between the first and the second had disappeared, and there was firm osseous union between these bones. Strong ligamentous union existed between the second and third phalanges. Occasionally patients find fingers which are thus stiffened so much in the way that they are anxious for their removal; but in general they learn in time to disregard their presence. A far greater annoyance is sometimes caused by the twisting of a broken finger, so that it either crosses another, or constantly rubs against it in the movements of the hand. As to the treatment of these cases, a good deal of ingenuity has been ex- pended upon the devising of splints of various kinds. I believe that the best plan is to employ a piece of sheet zinc of suitable size, bent up so as to fit the palmar surface of the finger; this being very carefully padded and applied, may be secured by means of the best procurable adhesive plaster, or by a band- age imbued with a solution of silicate of potassium. If sheet zinc cannot be had, small strips of wood may be employed, carefully padded, and placed one on the dorsal and one on the palmar surface of the finger. As a- temporary expedient this would answer perfectly. When no other means of solidifying the bandage can be had, flour and white of egg may be employed. The finger should be slightly flexed, but at the joints only. Passive motion may be carefully and gently made at the end of ten days or two weeks. In cases of compound fracture the question of amputation comes up, and must be settled on general principles. Excisions are not available here, and if any portion of bone must be lost, it is better to remove the finger. I have several times seen very unsatisfactory results follow the less decided course. Fractures of the Lower Extremity. These injuries differ from those of the upper extremity in some important respects. As a general rule, they involve the necessity of confinement, often keeping the patient in bed. The greater size of the bones renders the repair a more tedious process, and entails some additional dangers, as for example, 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1875.