852 INJURIES OF THE BACK. 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., August 17, 1671, pp. 21, 22. colon. In sucli cases, the distended belly is tense and elastic; and, on per- cussion, it sounds like a huge bladder or a drum filled with air. This kind of abdominal tumefaction has with much propriety been called tympanites, because, when struck, it sounds like a drum. The intestinal gases accumulate, within the digestive tube'in such cases, because the muscular wall of the abdomen and the muscular coat of the intestines, being paralyzed in conse- quence of the spinal lesion, are no longer able to contract and thus expel them; and since, through loss of contractility, the abdominal and intestinal muscles can oiler no effective resistance to the accumulation of these gases, it often goes on until the abdominal distension becomes enormous. The tympanites in such cases is symptomatic of the spinal lesion; and, when enormous or even very considerable in degree, it is usually a fatal sign. But tympanites always tends in such cases to embarrass the patient’s breathing by opposing the descent of the diaphragm during the inspiratory movement; and, when it is very considerable, it causes corresponding dys- pnoea. It is, however, in those cases of spinal injury where the paraplegia extends up to the root of the neck—those cases wherein the respiratory move- ments are performed by the diaphragm alone, and where consequently the respiration is said to be diaphragmatic or abdominal—it is in such cases that tympanites does the most harm, and often aids with no inconsiderable force in shortening life, by increasing the difficulty of breathing, which perhaps is already very great. Many cases have been mentioned or referred to above, in which this very thing occurred. But probably the most notable example was presented on page 816. The case Avas that of a cavalry soldier, who in a brawl received a shot-wound of the neck, which fractured the spinous pro- cess of the last cervical and the laminae of the first dorsal vertebra, opened the spinal canal, ruptured the theca vertebralis, and drove several small frag- ments of bone into the substance of the spinal cord. In this case, “ the par- alysis of the abdominal and intestinal muscles allowed an accumulation of gases to take place within the intestines, to such an extent as greatly to aug- ment the already existing difficulty of respiration. It was found expedient to introduce an elastic tube, from time to time, through which the gases found vent, when pressure was made, externally, on the abdomen.”1 Tym- panites, therefore, not unfrequently constitutes in cases of spinal injury a complication which urgently demands the surgeon’s attention. Treatment.—The kind of tympanites in question is always symptomatic of some affection of the spinal cord which, as a rule, interrupts its reflex- motor, as Avell as its conducting functions. The nature of this central ner- vous affection should be ascertained, and, if possible, the disease itself should be removed ; Avhich can often be done, if it consist in concussion, congestion, or one of the less severe types of inflammation of the spinal cord or its mem- branes, by carrying out the corresponding plans of treatment which have already been laid down in these pages. 'When immediate relief from the tympanitic distension is urgently de- manded, it has been proposed by some surgeons to resort to the operation of paracentesis, performed on the descending colon with a long narrow trocar and canula; but, inasmuch as this operation is never, in my opinion, justifi- able, I shall not take space to describe the steps that pertain to it. The best way to let the wind out in such cases is by introducing a flexible tube of suitable size and length, through the anus and rectum into the sigmoid flex- ure of the colon, as was originally done, I believe, with success in analogous cases, by Dr. O’Beirne, who used an oesophagus tube for the purpose—a method which likewise was successfully employed in the case just related,