FRACTURES OF THE HAND. 183 2 Op. cit., p. 506. 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 918. violence fracture of these bones alone should occur, inflammation of the neighboring joints would be very apt to follow. The injury would scarcely present any distinctive features, and would be amenable only to the same treatment as a severe contusion of the part. Unless caries or necrosis should ensue, or the inflammation extend to the synovial membrane between the rows of carpal bones, no permanent disability would be likely to result. Fractures of the Metacarpal Bones.—These are not very unfrequent in men of the laboring class. They are sometimes met with in machinery acci- dents, and then are almost always compound. Indirect violence, either from falls on the hand, or from striking a blow, is a common cause of the simple fractures. I have seen one case, in a powerful sailor, in which necrosis had ensued upon a fracture of the fourth metacarpal bone, sustained by striking another man on the jaw. Malgaigne quotes from Velpeau an instance in which “ a water-carrier had his fore and middle fingers pulled upon by a carter with such force as to break the third metacarpal bone.” He also quotes from Dupuytren a case in which fracture was due to forcible bending backward of the bone: “ Two men were trying which could pull back the other’s wrist; their fingers were interlocked, the heads of the metacarpal bones directly opposed to each other, and the phalanges bent back and press- ing firmly against the dorsum of the hand; the stronger of the two broke his adversary’s third metacarpal hone.” Usually only one bone is broken, and the experience of surgeons seems to have been strangely different as to the one most likely to suffer. According to some, it is that of the index finger; according to others, the fourth or fifth. Agnew says that he has never seen tfacture of the first named, nor have I; but Hamilton records a number of cases observed by himself. I have said that these injuries were apt to affect men of the laboring class, but Agnew1 says that he had one case in a child of three years, and another in a man of eighty-five. Hamilton mentions one in a boy of eight, and another in a young lady of eighteen. Children, from the smallness of the bones, the slight leverage therefore afforded, and their customary protection from the violence apt to cause such fractures, are, in great measure, exempt from them; and the same may be said of women. The seat of fracture, in cases due to direct force, may be at any point; in such as are produced by indirect violence, the bone is most apt to yield a little below its mid-point, so that the distal fragment is slightly the shorter. The line of fracture is oblique, the proximal fragment being bevelled at the expense of its palmar face. The symptoms are pain and deformity, the distal fragment and head of the bone sinking, so that the knuckle seems to be as it were effaced; there is a dor- sal projection at the seat of fracture; abnormal mobility may be very distinct, but is sometimes only slight; crepitation may be felt, but obscurely, from the small size of the bone. The proximal fragment is comparatively fixed, and in the examination the distal fragment must be grasped between the surgeon’s thumb and finger, applied on the dorsal and palmar surface of the head of the bone; or it may be moved by means of the finger. As to the diagnosis, although Sir A. Cooper2 says that the appearance is that of dislocation, I have never seen a case in which a mistake could be made between the two lesions. If there is no prominence at the seat of frac- ture, there will always be tenderness there, and perhaps a sense of yielding under firm pressure. Cases may, however, occur in which the fracture is situated very near the head of the bone, and especially if swelling comes on