VOL. IV.—1 ( 1 ) THE INTERNATIONA! ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF SURGERY. INJURIES OF BONES. BY JOHN H. PACKARD, M.D. SURGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL AND TO ST. JOSEPH’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Fractures. The main function of the bony skeleton and of its accessory cartilages is passively mechanical.1 They constitute a framework for the suspension and protection of the viscera, and for the utilization of muscular force in the per- formance of all voluntary movements, as well as in the automatic function of breathing. By their construction and arrangement, the bones and cartilages are adapted to bear all the strain put upon them in the ordinary course of life, but they are sometimes subjected to violence beyond their power of resistance, and fracture or breakage is the result. A very large proportion of the cases which present themselves to the surgeon, whether in hospital or in private practice, are those of broken bones; and for this reason, as well as on account of the gravity of the conditions often in- volved, and the probable permanency of any untoward result, it is a matter of much moment that this subject should be thoroughly studied, and in the most practical manner. An accurate acquaintance with normal anatomy is essential; and no opportunity of examining fractures, whether in the living body or in the dead, in recent or in old specimens, should be neglected. Clin- ical experience, such as is gained in hospitals, is of great value, as are also mechanical ability and dexterity in the adaptation and application of appa- ratus. The habit of gentleness of touch, and of firm and skilful handlin'-- of injured parts, should be sedulously cultivated. It may be said further, that out of no other class of cases have arisen so many suits for malpractice. The reason of this is not difficult to perceive. 1 Rindfleisch has recently pointed out.the important part taken by the marrow of bones in the formation of the red corpuscles of the blood ; but this has not yet been shown to have any surgical interest.