601 SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. Round-celled Sarcoma.—The round-celled sarcomas are composed of round cells embedded in a granular or homogeneous basis-substance, which is some- times traversed by bands of fibrous tissue. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 7.) There is no definite arrangement of the cells. The vessels are often mere fissures between the cells, but more often possess a thin wall composed of a single layer of spindle-cells. Spindle-celled Sarcoma.—The spindle-celled sarcomas consist of spindle- shaped, or oat-sliaped, or fibre-like cells, generally disposed so as to form bands or trabecula?, which cross, anastomose, and interlace with one another. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 8.) The vessel walls are formed of one or more layers of spindle- cells. Two varieties of spindle-celled sarcoma are sometimes recognized, ac- cording as the cells are very large or very small. Giant-celled Sarcoma.—The giant-celled sarcomas are so named because a large part of their bulk is made up of flattened masses of protoplasm, con- taining from two or three to thirty, forty, or even more, nuclei. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 9.) These are the myeloid cells of Paget. In their most perfect and typical form they occur in the tumors of bone. The giant-cells of soft tex- tures have, for the most part, less clearly defined outlines, less coarsely granu- lar contents, more grotesque shapes; and those of tubercle present a peculiar disposition of the nuclei, which are generally arranged in a single row towards the periphery of the cell. Around and between the giant-cells of myeloid tumors, there are always round, oval, or spindle-shaped cells. Mixed-celled Sarcoma.—The mixed-celled sarcomas are composed, as their name implies, of cells of various shapes (Plate XIX., Fig. 11), or are partly round-celled, partly spindle-celled. This term has been introduced in order to designate a subclass which includes a number of tumors not properly belonging to either of the preceding subclasses, on account of the irregularity of their structure. Modified forms of these four varieties of sarcoma, particularly of the round- celled and spindle-celled, are not uncommon. Of these, the most important are the following :— Alveolar Sarcoma.—A round-celled sarcoma having an alveolar structure somewhat resembling that of carcinoma. (Plate XX. Fig. 21.) The cells are generally of large size, and between them can often be distinguished a deli- cate reticulum. Lymphosarcoma.—The cells and reticulum resemble those of lymphatic glands. (Plate XX. Fig. 20.) The cells are, however, sometimes much larger than lymph-cells. The lympho-sarcomas usually originate in structures in which lymphatic or adenoid tissue naturally exists, but this is not an invariable rule. Glioma.—Its structure is very similar to that of the lympho-sarcomas, but the cells are usually of smaller size. (Plate XIX. Fig. 10.) The gliomas are derived from the neuroglia or connective tissue of nerve-centres. Plexiform Sarcoma ; Cylindroma.—A round-celled sarcoma presenting the following peculiarities of structure: (1) Cylinders, or irregularly-shaped masses of cells, surrounded and separated by (2) a hyaline or very finely fibrillated substance, often very abundant; (3) a polygonal form of cells; (4) an absence of intercellular material. (Plate XX. Figs. 22 and 23.) These peculiarities of structure appear to be due to a hyaline transformation of fibrous bands or tracts of tissue throughout the tumor. The hyaline substance, occupying much more space than the tissues which it has replaced, presses