478 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. equal certainty if no operation had been performed, and not improbably would have occurred at a still earlier period after amputation:— Arthritis of Left Elbow in an Elderly Man; Excision ; Death from Exhaustion on Thirty-third Day This case occurred in a man, B. F., fifty-six years of age, a native of this country, and a blacksmith by occupation, who entered the surgical wards of the Episcopal Hospital on January 26, 1867. He had been sent into the medical wards the day before, under the impression that he was suffering from rheumatism, and the true nature of his affection was not ascertained until the visit of the attending physician, Dr. James H. Hutchinson, upon the next morning. When I first saw the patient his condition was as follows : There was great swelling about the left elbow, and the joint evidently contained a considerable amount of fluid. There was not much pain about the part, and no grating perceptible upon motion of the articulation. The patient’s general state of health was fairly good, though he was feeble and looked much older than most men of his age. This was accounted for by the fact that for some years before entering the hospital he had led a life of much hardship, and it was hoped that under more favorable circumstances an opportunity would yet be afforded for recovery through the efforts of nature alone. For nearly six weeks there seemed to be some improvement, with occasional relapses, but at the end of that time it became evident that the ligamentous structures of the joint were becoming rapidly disorganized, and distinct grating on rubbing together the opposing joint surfaces showed that the articu- lar cartilages were undergoing absorption, while the patient’s constitutional condition began to deteriorate coincidently with the progress of the local disease. When it became manifest that the elbow-joint was hopelessly disorganized, it became a question whether the limb should be sacrificed, or whether an effort should be made for its preservation by resorting to excision. The latter mode of treatment was adopted on account of the limitation of the diseased action to the joint itself, and because, in the unfavorable general condition of the patient, it did not appear that an amputation would be much less hazardous than an excision. The patient was accordingly brought under the influence of ether on March 20, 1867, and, the joint being fairly exposed by an H-incision, an inch of the lower extrem- ity of the humerus, and an inch and a quarter of the ulna, with the head of the radius, were removed by means of a Butcher’s saw, and a considerable amount of disor- ganized tissue clipped away from the floor and sides of the wound with the large knife- bladed forceps described by the same eminent surgeon. A good many ligatures were required to arrest the hemorrhage from small vessels which had been enlarged by inflam- matory action, and, the edges of the wound having been brought together with points of the lead suture, the limb was placed in a well-fitting fracture-box and the patient restored to his bed. The relief from pain after the operation was most marked, and for a week or ten days the progress of the case was as favorable as could be wished; but from this time, though with occasional improvement, the patient gradually failed, and death, which occurred on April 22d, seemed due to exhaustion and general diminution of vital power rather than to any positive complication or sequel of the operation. Though the soft parts had united to a considerable extent, there was no attempt at union between the ends of the resected bones, and an autopsy showed that there was slight ulceration of the mucous lining of the bladder, possibly following the use of the catheter, which it had been necessary to employ frequently during the last period of the patient’s life. The next case was a more promising one for the operation, and doubtless would have terminated successfully but for the outbreak of tuberculous menin- gitis—an affection which, as every surgeon knows, is one of the causes of death which, in these chronic joint-affections, must always be taken into account in the matter of prognosis. Excision of the Right Elbow-Joint for Disease in a Young Adult; Death from Tuberculous Meningitis.—This patient, J. D., a man twenty-five years of age, was ad- mitted to the Episcopal Hospital on December 1, 1869, and first came under my care in January, 1870. The right elbow was the joint affected in this case, and the patient had been disabled by its condition for five or six months. The origin of the disease could not be ascertained, but the peculiar, globular shape of the part, the painless char-