INJURIES OF BONES. 166 Another essay which has attracted much attention, and which has shed additional light upon the mechanism and pathology of these lesions, lias been published by Pilcher,1 of Brooklyn. I may perhaps mention also a paper of my own, read before the surgical section of the American Medical Association, in 1878,2 the views contained in which will be presented, together with those of the authors previously named, in the following pages.3 The brief sketch now given is that of a very great and important change in professional opinion. Luxations of the wrist, which were formerly sup- posed to be of very common occurrence, and described in detail, in at least four varieties, have been relegated to a place among the rarest lesions ; while fractures of the lower portion of the radius are recognized as of extreme frequency. A careful study of the shape of the bone will render the study of its fractures much easier. In speaking of it, it will be supposed that the hand is hang- ing by the side, with the palm looking forward, so that the anterior surface is the palmar and the posterior the dorsal, that the inner edge is the ulnar, and that the carpal articulating surface is downward. Adduction is bending the wrist so as to bring the hand toward the median line, or the side of the little linger, abduction bringing it toward the outer or thumb-side; in the former case, the angle on the ulnar side, between the hand and forearm, and in the latter, that on the radial side, is rendered more acute. Points to be noted are the projection of the radial styloid process, and the fact that it is normally at a lower level than that of the ulna ; the sudden swell of the bone downward, just above the joint, so that there is an enlarged portion, as com- pared with the shaft, somewhat irregularly cubical in shape; and the forward curve of the anterior wall of the bone, making a decided concavity in its outline if looked at from either side. This conformation is sometimes more and sometimes less marked. The fact that the most frequent cause of frac- ture of the radius, low down, is falling on the palm of the hand, may readily be seen to explain its comparative infrequency in childhood, as the weight is smaller and the levei’age less than in similar accidents in the adult. In youth, epiphyseal separations, although not often met with, are not unknown; and at all later periods of life the bone gives way with great readiness. Both sexes are alike liable to these injuries. As already said, in a vast majority of the cases the cause is a fall on the palm of the hand; in a few, however, the back of the hand comes to the ground, and the difference in the effect produced is of no small importance, as I shall try to show hereafter. Direct violence is, I think, still more rarely assignable as a cause; Malgaigne quotes one case from Ilublier, in which a young girl, whose wrist had been caught between a carriage-pole and a wall, had a transverse fracture of the lower part of the radius, the lower fragment being also split vertically into two parts. Authors have expressed very divergent views as to the lines of these fractures. Without quoting these at length, I may merely say that the practical result of the examination of cases and specimens seems to me to be that the lines of breakage are almost infinitely various. Sometimes the bone gives way almost exactly transversely, the fragments being, however, serrated or notched ; some- times the fracture is oblique from before backward, or from within outward, or part of it may run in one direction and part in another. Sometimes the separation takes place very close to the joint, sometimes farther from it. 1 Transactions of the Med. Society of the County of Kings, March, 1878. 2 Published in the Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1879. 3 The reader will of course understand that the above list is not intended to embrace all that has been written on the subject, which has been of course dealt with in systematic works, as well as in short articles containing reports of cases, suggestions in regard to treatment, etc.