538 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. overcome when they once had occurred, without giving great pain, and with- out the complete re-application of the apparatus.”1 It is advantageous to fix the limb in the splint before closing the wound. By so doing the surgeon can readily rectify any little displacement of the bones that may occur during the application of the splint, as he has the parts constantly under observation. I can fully bear out the claims put forth by Dr. Watson in favor of the apparatus which he has designed for the treatment of excision of the knee- joint, and I cannot do better than quote from his work a description of the apparatus: It consists essentially of two parts: (1) A suspension-rod made of iron or steel, extending from the groin to the extremities of the toes; at the ankle-joint it is bent at an angle to the outline of the foot, and over the situation of the knee it forms a bow or arch. To the upper surface of the rod are riveted one or more hooks, by which the limb can be suspended from the running pulley of a Salter’s swinging cradle. As an improvement, I have had attached to the under surface of the bar two square pieces of tin, one Fig. 757. Modification of Watson’s front splint. situated at the upper part, three inches below the groin, the other over the upper surface of the leg; these give additional firmness, and do not add ma- terially to the weight. They prevent the bar from being displaced or twisted during its application. (2) The second part of the apparatus is made of a Gooch’s splint, specially prepared, the laths being somewhat thicker than those ordinarily employed. The splint can be cut out to fit the limb; it should not be too wide, but sufficiently so to surround about two-thirds of the limb’s circumference. Laterally, it should be cut out on either side opposite the situation of the wound, leaving a sufficiently broad shelf to give support to the popliteal space. The inferior extremity of the splint is made of the shape of a horse-shoe or stirrup, sufficiently wide to admit the foot, this being supported by the two projecting pieces which pass down on each side of the malleoli. In this way the heel is protected from pressure, and the foot held firmly and amply supported. Dr. Watson gives two forms of back splint, Fig. 758. Back splint fitted to limb. either of which may be selected. In one, at its outer part, the splint is left a little long and rounded, so as to adapt itself to the os innominatum, to 1 Excision of the Knee-Joint, page 17. Edinburgh, 1867.