409 ANCHYLOSIS. amount of abduction gained by the above sections is sufficient; if not, be must examine the state of the deeper adductors, which, if tense and firm, must also be divided. He takes a tenotome, with the usual length of cutting-blade, but with a blunt portion from 2£- to 3 inches long; he introduces this at the same puncture, just outside the adductor longus tendon, and placing bis left index finger on the anterior part of the tuber ischii, glides the blade down- ward (the patient being in the supine position), until be feels its approach through the skin. Now the edge is to be passed, close to the bone, towards the margin of the ischio-pubic ramus, withdrawing it slightly at the same time, so that, by successive acts of sweeping inward and withdrawal, the long and short adductors are in great part peeled away from the bone. In some cases, it will then be found that the peetineus causes obstruction, when its outer fibres, the chief impediments, may be easily severed through the same puncture. The operation completed, the patient is to be put to bed with the thighs well apart, and kept in that position by means of a sheet laid over them, with sandbags. If, previously, flexion was well marked, and has been with diffi- culty overcome, a firm, but not hard, horse-hair pillow should be placed under the buttocks. In some cases weight-extension may also be advan- tageously employed. Passive movement should commence early, if a mova- able joint be desired. It may, however, be necessary to repeat the induction of anaesthesia. Cautions.—Such operations as these should never be undertaken too soon after the subsidence of hip-disease. When the original disease has been of long duration, and when there is demonstrably real shortening, with consider- able projection of the trochanter, great caution must be used, since both the head of the femur and the acetabulum are probably much changed in form. To make sure that the pelvis is fixed, and does not follow the movements of the thigh, this must be more especially watched in extension (see page 384). In making sections of the muscles, the tenotome must be kept very close to the bone; if the division be made through the bodies of the muscles, some little distance from their origin, a good deal of blood is poured into the cellu- lar tissue, and much ecchymosis of the inner part of the thigh takes place. This does not occur if the muscular origins be peeled away from the pubis and ischium. Knee.—Method.—The knee is commonly fixed in flexion ; the muscles and fasciae on the posterior part of the limb are shortened. The surgeon must first determine whether the patella is fixed to the condyles—generally, if at all, to the outer one; he must also ascertain if subluxation exists. If the patella be fixed by broad, bony anchylosis, the joint itself had probably best be let alone,1 unless the surgeon is prepared to sever the patellar connection with chisel or saw; if it be attached by fibrous bands, these may be divided by a strong tenotome, passed carefully in the direction of the bony surface. This is best done by two punctures if the fixity be considerable and the attach- ments probably pretty wide ; the one puncture should be at the upper outer, the other at the inner lower, edge of the patella; the knife from each should pass the whole length of the knee-cap, and should be carried obliquely inward and backward from the one, outward and backward from the other puncture, so that the two sections may meet in the position of the ridge that separates the two articular facets. After severance, the bone must be freely moved several times along over the parts beneath, to secure as much permanent mobility as possible. This operation should precede the main procedure by some days. 1 Another device of treatment will be mentioned hereafter.