FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 131 ture is above the middle of the shaft, the outer short splint may he extended upward into a shoulder-cap such as has already been described, and the roller continued upward, and made to form what is known as the “spica” of the shoulder, a few turns being carried around the upper part of the chest. Bandages imbued with plaster of Paris, or other solidifying material, have been used by some surgeons in fractures of the shaft of the humerus, but they afford no special advantage, unless, perhaps, in the rare instances where a patient must undergo transportation, or, in the later stages of the treatment, if the dressings cannot be often examined. If applied during the earlier period they need to be carefully watched, lest the swelling of the soft parts should subside, and the requisite control of the limb be thus lost. Let me again repeat, that the importance of so arranging the dressings as to secure the upper fragment can scarcely be overrated. The inside splint should extend well up into the axilla, only guarding against pressure upon vessels and nerves ; and the outer one should bear upon the hone in its whole length. Sometimes additional security may be given by placing on the exposed surface of each of the splints a strip of adhesive plaster, doubled, so as to present its sticky side outward to the roller, as well as inward to the splint. Sometimes it happens that extension is desirable to prevent overlapping of the fragments of the humerus. According to Swinburne,1 this is the only thing needful in the treatment of these injuries; and he recommends the em- ployment of an apparatus which certainly has the merit of simplicity. This consists in a board-splint, applied either on the outer, inner, or posterior surface of the arm, and attached to it below by loops of adhesive plaster for extension. Counter-extension is made from the axilla. Ingenious splints on the same principle, but provided with ratchets for lengthening them, have been devised and used by Lonsdale,2 Yedder,3 and others. The objection to all of these lies in the fact that the axilla is made the resisting point for the counter-extension, and that it is wholly unreliable for this purpose. Harlan4 obtained great advantage by applying the counter-extending ad- hesive strips obliquely over the chest and back. lie used in one case a wooden splint for the outer side of the arm, with a bracket screwed into its upper end for the attachment of the counter-extending hand; and in the other, an iron bar of suitable length, bent at both ends. Hr. II. A. Martin5 has employed an apparatus in which, while the counter- extension is obtained by strips applied to the front and hack of the thorax, the splint itself consists essentially of a double iron bar, the two portions of which are movable upon one another by means of a ratchet and pinion, worked by a key. I have myself attained the same object by employing a wooden splint applied to the outer side of the arm, but extending several inches beyond it upward and downward, the counter-extending adhesive strips being'simply wound around the arm above the seat of fracture, while the extension was made in like manner from below. 1 Treatment of Fractures of the Long Bones by Simple Extension. Albany, 1861. 2 Op. cit., p. 174. 3 Vedder’s splint may be found described and figured in the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part II., Surgical Vol., pp. 812 and 822. There is also here mentioned an ingenious expedient, suggested by Dr. Foster Swift, which consists in fastening together two forked branches so as to get a fork above and another below, to which the extending and counter-extending bands may be attached. Under some circumstances this idea might be car- ried out with very great advantage. 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, Part II., Surg. Vol., pp. 509, 562. 5 Ibid., p. 822.