SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 707 cerned. His urine, however, was passed voluntarily, the bladder and abdominal muscles being unaffected. The upper extremities, also, were not paralyzed. On the following morning (Monday) it was found that the paralysis had readied a higher point, that there was retention of urine, and that catheterization was necessary. Afterward, the paraplegia continued steadily to advance, travelling up the trunk, involving the upper extremities, involving likewise all the respiratory muscles excepting the diaphragm, and, finally, attacking the origin of the phrenic nerves, when he imme- diately ceased to breathe. He died on Wednesday night, somewhat more than three days after the accident. His bowels were moved only once, and then by enema, on Tuesday morning. He complained of pain only in the lower part of the neck, and exhibited signs of severe suffering whenever his head was moved. There was tender- ness under pressure, and considerable swelling in the lower and back part of the cervical region. But no displacement or irregularity of the spinous processes, nor of any other parts of the vertebrae, could be detected. His mind was clear to the end. The autopsy revealed a very extensive effusion of blood within the theca vertebralis, which distended that membrane and compressed the spinal cord throughout almost the whole of its extent, namely, from the cauda equina up to the superior cervical region. The spinal cord itself was not wounded. The theca vertebralis was ruptured to the extent of about one-third of its circumference, in the lower part of the cervical region. The ligaments connecting the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebras exhibited much laceration. A fissured fracture also passed longitudinally through the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebra. There was not much displacement of bone, certainly not enough to press on the spinal cord in any way, and not enough to be cognizable by external examination. The blood found within the theca vertebralis was, for the most part, extravasated from the vessels of the cord—that is, from the arterise spinales, anterior and posterior ; but, no doubt, some blood from without had entered the cavity of the theca vertebralis through the ruptured aperture in that membrane. It was, however, evident that the paraplegia had slowly crept upward in this man’s body, just as the effused blood accumulated in the thecal cavity, commencing in the lower end thereof; and, that death had resulted from compression of the spinal cord, arising from this cause. In the very instructive ease which has just been related, there was a longi- tudinal Assuring of the last three cervical vertebra', as well as such a lacera- tion of the ligamentous tissue and neighboring bloodvessels as is often found in cases of sprains, from contusions and violent flexures of the vertebral column. Still, the case practically belongs to the same category as sprains and wrenches of the vertebral column, because several vertebral articulations did, in fact, sustain the lesions which characterize this form of injury, and examination during life did not and could not reveal any lesion of the verte- bral column, excepting the sprains of the vertebral joints. Moreover, if in this case there had been no intra-thecal hemorrhage, and no compression of the spinal cord, or had the effusion of blood been moderate, and had it been fol- lowed by absorption, the patient’s recovery might easily have ensued; and had his recovery so ensued, the fissures in the last three cervical vertebrae would never have been discovered, and the injury would have been considered as merely a sprain or wrench of the back. But, at all events, this example illustrates in an excellent manner the clinical history, that is, the symptoms which are likely to present themselves, in fatal cases of compression of the spinal cord from the extravasation of blood within the spinal dura mater, where life is prolonged for three or four days. To illustrate compression of the spinal cord from hemorrhages which occur externally to the spinal dura mater, Mr. Shaw relates at much length the case of a woman, aged 60, admitted to the Middlesex Hospital under his care, in March, 1841, having been injured in the back by falling down a flight of steps shortly before:—