591 ANGEIOMA OR VASCULAR TUMOR. these tissues, make the diagnosis of neuroma still more difficult. Fibrous and sarcomatous tissue are largely represented in these compound tumors, and pure nerve-tumors are much more rare than compound growths. The sarcoma-tissue is usually spindle-celled, and the spindle-cells are often so fine and slender that they may well be mistaken for embryonic nervous tissue, and thus the suggestion of Billroth may be justified, that sarcoma should include not only embryonic connective tissue, but also embryonic nerve (and muscle). The ganglionic tumors, like the fibre-tumors, are generally mixed growths, and, in addition to nerve-fibres, contain fibrous or other tissues mingled with the ganglion-cells and neuroglia which form their essential structure. The cells are round, oval, or stellate, are often of large size, and resemble the normal nerve-cells. Metamorphoses and Combinations.—Of the metamorphoses and diseases of nerve-tumors we are not in a position to speak. The combinations have been more than once alluded to. Fibrous tissue is of almost invariable occur- rence ; sarcoma-tissue is a frequent combination; mucous tissue is by no means infrequent. The second, and perhaps the third of these tissues may, perhaps, be regarded as young nerve-tissue, and so the tumor may be looked on as an embryonic tumor which is partly organized. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The clinical characters of neuroma resemble those of fibroma and sarcoma so closely that it appears at first impossible to distin- guish between them. The diagnosis of neuroma from fibroma is, however, unimportant, for the neuroma, like the fibroma, is a perfectly benign tumor. Treatment.—The neuromas which grow upon nerves may be removed, like fibromas in similar situations, without, in most instances, serious damage to the nerve. The tumor is generally encapsuled, and may easily be freed from its attachments to the nerve. A longitudinal incision through the epi- neurium, and a few touches with the knife, always in a longitudinal direc- tion, suffice for its speedy and complete removal. Where the tumor is more intimately blended with the nerve, it is sometimes necessary to remove a portion of the latter, after which an attempt should be made to fasten the divided ends together, and tints maintain the continuity of the nerve. The neuromas of the brain are beyond the reach of treatment. The com- pound growths in which nerve-tissue is more or less largely represented, require no other treatment than that which is dictated by the general prin- ciples which guide the treatment of the tumors of the atfected part. It is to be noted that pain does not, contrary to what might have been expected, constitute an important symptom of neuroma. It was at one time naturally imagined that the painful subcutaneous tumors would prove to be, at least in part, nervous. But this expectation lias not been fulfilled, for these tumors usually do not contain nerve-tissue; and, moreover, cannot in many instances be demonstrated to bear a close connection to a nerve. The bulbous tumors which form about the ends of nerves in stumps, certainly are extremely sensitive. But these tumors, although they often contain a fair proportion of nervous tissue, are chiefly composed of fibrous tissue. They can scai’cely therefore be regarded as true neuromas. Angeioma or Vascular Tumor. The angeioma is a tumor composed chiefly of vessels, or of spaces into which vessels freely open. These tumors are recognized under the common