815 TRAUMATIC MYELITIS. hours until the indication is fulfilled), and by giving opium or morphia in such doses and at such intervals as will suppress the rachidian pain. The inflammatory process is to be combated by exhibiting one or two purgative doses of calomel at the outset, by abstracting blood locally with leeches or cups, by applying cold to the overheated back, and by administer- ing saline drinks of a cooling, laxative, and diuretic nature. At a later stage, potassium iodide in full doses, and counter-irritation by vesicants or by the actual cautery should be employed. The remedy, however, which is most efficacious to remove meningeal congestion is ergot, provided it be given in sufficiently large doses; while that which is most effectual to pre- vent the exudation of serum and the formation of plastic lymph (and thus to save the spinal cord from undue pressure), is opium, or morphia, also given in adequate doses. Xo attempt should be made to relax the tetanic spasms by administering chloroform or any other anaesthetic; such medication did no good what- ever in two cases which are mentioned above, and it probably hastened the end in each. But morphia combined with the bromides of calcium, sodium, potassium, or ammonium, and chloral hydrate, may be used for this purpose. In treating the paralysis attending the chronic forms of the disease, the bichloride of mercury, in doses of gr. T'Tr every eight hours, often does good. Strychnia is not admissible, and it clearly did harm in one case above related. Traumatic Myelitis.—As cerebritis is true inflammation of the brcdn-suh- stance, so myelitis is true inflammation of the corcl-substance, and as cerebritis presents a marked contrast to cerebral meningitis (or what is popularly known as “inflammation of the brain”) in respect to extent, acuity, and phenomena, so true inflammation of the cord-substance differs widely in the same particulars from spinal meningitis (or what is sometimes known as “ inflammation of the spinal cord”), which has just been described. Both cerebritis and myelitis are always caused by a wound or an injury in the widest sense of the term—that is, by some local irritation of extra- cerebral or extra-rachidian origin. The skull or the spinal column may have been struck or concussed; it may have been penetrated by a cut, a stab, or a fracture, which has directly damaged the brain-substance or the cord-sub- stance ; or a focus of inflammation and suppuration, originating in the neighborhood of the brain or the spinal cord, may have been propagated to its tissues at the point of contact; or, finally, the plugging of a vessel by an embolou, or a thrombus, or the rupture of its coats from atheromatous disease, etc., may have caused a circumscribed, punetiform hemorrhage, followed by inflammation as a secondary consequence. In myelitis, and in cerebritis, the behavior of the parenchyma proper of the spinal cord and brain is the main point to be attended to; this is usually said to undergo purulent liquefaction; and the statement is so far true that a deposit of pus is usually found to occupy the place of the rachidian or the cerebral substance. “The phenomena of acute myelitis leading to abscess are exactly similar to those of encephalitis [or cerebritis]. The form of the affected part varies with the [nature of the] injury. Fractures of the spine usually crush the cord ; inflammation and suppuration take place around the crushed part, and isolate it from the healthy tissue.”1 Many examples of traumatic myelitis have already been mentioned in this article. Symptoms.—The acute form of the disease is often ushered in with a dis- 1 Rindfleisch, op. cit., vol. ii. pp. 324-330.