SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 617 a short interval, but only by round-celled sarcoma. Dissemination may take place in all forms of sarcoma, but, as in sarcoma of the bones, it is most widely spread and earliest in the case of the round-celled tumors. The subcutaneous tissue and the bones are selected particularly by the round-celled tumors, but all three forms met with in the testis attack the lungs. The diagnosis of sarcoma of the testis will demand consideration in the article devoted to diseases of that organ, but attention may be here directed to one or two important points. The unequal consistence of the tumor, and, sometimes, its fluctuation without any sign of inflammation ; the fact that the body of the testis is affected ; and the absence of all history of syphilis and struma, taken in connection with the age of the patient, are the most valuable and reliable symptoms. The presence of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, which sometimes occurs in large quantity, may obscure the characters of the tumor, but the removal of the fluid allows an examination to be made. In very doubtful cases the tumor itself may be punctured. Bright blood flows freely through the canula from malignant tumors. The diagnosis between sarcoma and car- cinoma cannot in most instances be made; but when both testes are affected, or when the jiatient is a child, the disease is certainly not carcinoma. The prognosis of all sarcomas of the testis is grave: it is most grave for round-celled sarcoma, and for sarcoma in children. Children appear seldom to escape a fatal issue: in them the glands are early affected, and castration is rarely early enough performed. In adults, the course of the disease is not in all cases so rapid; and the prognosis, therefore, is not quite so bad. The only treatment on which the faintest reliance can be placed is that of castration, performed high up, and at as early a period as possible. If the cord be obviously diseased, the operation will be useless, for the disease will certainly recur locally. Affection of both testes does not of necessity preclude operation, but the chances of success are proportionately diminished. Even when the glands are already enlarged, and when no hope can be indulged of completely removing the disease, castration may yet be performed for the temporary relief of the patient. Sarcoma of tiie Tonsil.—The tonsil is subject, apparently, only to one kind of sarcoma, the round-celled, or the variety lymph o-sarcoma. (Plate XX. Fig. 20.) The entire tonsil enlarges and projects into the fauces. The dis- ease usually attacks adult males between the ages of twenty and sixty years. On section, the tumor is generally soft, easily broken down, juicy, vascular and darker-colored than the normal tonsil. With the exception of slight fatty degeneration and mingling with fibrous tissue, or perhaps fibrification, the tumors are very free from secondary changes. The disease rarely affects more than one tonsil. The tumor commences insidiously, but grows rapidly, and in the course of a few weeks projects as a rounded mass as far as, or across, the middle line of the fauces. The mucous membrane covering it is often livid, and not infrequently ulcerated, but deep ulceration and sloughing of the tumor are rare events, 'flic growth is prone to invade the adjacent structures, the palate, and the tongue. The cervical glands become enlarged, usually at a very early period ; in three months after the first appearance of the tumor, they are often already extensively diseased. The tumor of the tonsil may be felt deep down from the outside of the neck. As the disease advances, deglutition is seriously interfered with, articulation becomes indis- tinct, and stiffness of the throat and neck gives rise to great complaint. Death may occur within a few months of the outbreak of the disease, or may be delayed for about a year, but few patients survive more than twelve months. In the few instances in which a post mortem examination has been made, the liver has been once found to be affected, and the lungs once or