925 pott’s disease of the spine. rally allowed that the process is to he classed as a caries, but the great matter in dispute is, whether that caries is simple or tubercular. A vast amount has been written upon this subject, and a good deal of it to very little pur- pose. Many pathologists have insisted that there is a distinct tuberculosis of the spinal column, while they have at the same time allowed that in many instances the process is non-tubercular. Most elaborate distinctions have been pointed out as serving to distinguish the simple from the tuber- cular caries: but these distinctions, falling short (as they have until quite recent time) of microscopic demonstration, are for the most part useless and delusive. It has been urged that in the tubercular process the cavities formed are peculiar in their depth, in their walls, and in their contents. The pres- ence of caseous collections has been considered absolute demonstration of tuberculosis, and little opaque specks have been pointed out in the inflamed bone as veritable tubercles. It is now known that tubercles in inflamed bone are bodies not to be criticized by the unaided eye, that the minute opaque specks are but altered inflammatory products, and that caseous matter by no means of necessity indicates a tubercular change. It is well known that tubercular action cannot be judged of merely by the destruction it effects, nor by the outline assumed by the excavations that it leaves. It is also well known that the simple factor of chronicity can so modify the inflammatory process as to lead to a great diversity of appearances. The question then still remains, Is the pathological process in Pott’s disease tubercular or not? If by “tubercle” be meant the “primitive or elementary tubercle” of Ivoster, the “tubercular follicle” of Charcot, or the “submiliary tubercle” of other authors, and if the presence of this body constitutes a tuberculosis, then is the caries in Pott’s disease very often tubercular. In the fleshy granulations of the diseased bone, and in the altered soft parts that lie about it, genuine tubercles have been detected, and Lannelongue has quite recently demonstrated the manner in which the carious action spreads by the development of tubercular tissue. It may, I think, be considered as distinctly proved that a local tuberculosis takes a part in at least some of the cases of Pott’s disease, and, as far as I have been able to see, it probably takes a part in quite the majority of all cases. Unfortunately, a very grave and often most inappropriate clinical meaning has been attributed to local manifestations associated with tuber- cle. Any individual who presents tubercle in his body, is considered to be possessed with a very fatal ailment, and to be liable to death from the devel- opment of some more general and widespread form of tuberculosis. Into the nature of tubercle-producing processes I cannot now enter, but I have endeavored in the book already alluded to, to assign to them a somewhat more simple significance than they are usually credited with. As a matter of fact, the bulk of patients with Pott’s disease, even if they do present tubercle in the spinal bones, do not die of general tuberculosis. Indeed, as far as my own experience goes, that form of death is tolerably unusual. Then again the fact must be recognized, that tubercle-producing processes may undergo spontaneous cure, and are, when quite local, susceptible to treatment. This has been fully demonstrated in the matter of scrofulous glands, which often present the most perfect forms of tubercle. I have endeavored elsewhere to show that tubercle is no neoplasm in any other sense than that it is an in- flammatory neoplasm, and that it is the outcome of a peculiar and distinctive inflammatory process. The main features of this inflammatory process are these: it is usually chrc >nic, and is apt to be induced by very slight irritation, and to persist after the irritation that induced it has disappeared. The exudations in such a process are remarkable for their cellular character, and for the large size of