623 ENDOTHELIOMA OR ENDOTHELIAL TUMOR. chiefly of cells resembling epithelial cells, and the sand bodies in them are apparently calcified epithelial, or rather endothelial, globes. It is possible that certain rare conditions of the tunica vaginalis belong also to the category of endotheliomata. Thus a case is described bjr Dr. Cauchois,1 of an affection of the testis and the tunica vaginalis, in which the latter became the seat of fungosities adherent to its inner surface. These were examined by MM. Ranvier and Thaon, who found that they contained amyloid corpuscles, similar to those occurring in glioma and fine retiform tissue. M. Ranvier termed the disease u sarcome nevroglique,” on account of the resemblance of its structure to that of the gliomas. The cases respecting the nature of which there appears to be the least un- certainty, are the tumors of the larger serous membranes, the pleura and the peritoneum. Schultz2 and Eppinger3 have each described cases in which these membranes were much thickened and stiff from cancerous transforma- tion. The general characters of the disease, and even the microscopic char- acters up to a certain point, were those of a carcinomatous disease; but, although the cells were epithelioid, and were apparently arranged in alveoli, there were circumstances which pointed strongly to the belief that they were derived from the endothelium of the membrane, and that the alveoli were sections of communicating tubes filled with cells. By the endothelium of the membrane must be understood, not merely the cellular covering of the membrane, but the germinating cells around the stomata, and the endothelium of the lymphatic vessels which are entered from the stomata. These tumors were malignant—fatal not merely from their situation, but by producing metastases. Both the pleura and the peritoneum were affected in one case, and secondary affection was observed of the lung and the liver, the muscles of the back, and the axillary glands. In another case, in which both pleura and peritoneum were involved, the primary disease was presumably of the peritoneum, and the mesenteric and retro-peritoneal glands were also secon- darily affected. Klebs has described4 a bloodvessel-endothelioma of the pia mater, but the evidence does not seem to me conclusive that the disease really owned the origin attributed to it by the author. And Block5 has recounted a case of pigmented endothelioma of the liver with secondary nodules in the heart and kidney. Amongst others, the view of Krister must not be forgotten, that carcinoma of the skin is of endothelial origin.6 If this view be accepted, then there may be added to the many sarcomas which are not improbably of endothelial origin, a large section of the carcinomas, and the class endothe- lioma will swallow up a large part of the sarcomas and carcinomas. The symptoms of endotheliomas of the serous membranes are so blended with the symptoms of inflammation and of visceral disease, that even the fact that the disease is a tumor formation may be difficult or impossible to ascertain. The symptoms of endotheliomas of the more external parts are, thus far, only known to resemble the symptoms of other malignant diseases of those parts. Of the diagnosis, therefore, nothing can be definitely stated. The prognosis seems to be in most instances bad. The treatment depends, naturally to a large extent, on the character and situation of the part affected. In the large majority of cases no hope can be entertained of cure, or even of relief, by operation ; for, even should these tumors of the serous membranes be removed, there appears every reason to believe that they would speedily return. 1 Hull, de la Soc. Anat., 3e sfir. t. vii. p. 289. 1872. 2 Archiv der Heilkunde, Bd. xvii. S. 1. 1875. 3 Prag. med. Wochenschrift. Bd. i. No. 4 und 5. 1876. 4 Prag. med. Wochenschrift. Bd. i. No. 6. 1876. 15 Archiv der Heilkunde, Bd. xvi. S. 412. 6 Die Entwickelung der Carcinome. Wurzburg, 1869.