TUMORS. 558 especially valuable in the case of tumors situated deep in the substance of an organ like the mamma, where it is sometimes impossible to be certain whether solid or fluid is present. It is employed, too, when the question lies between an abscess and a softening carcinoma, or a sarcoma which has become red and semi-fluctuating. The “ emporte-piece histologique” is not as valuable an aid to diagnosis as it was at one time hoped it might be; only a very tiny fragment can be withdrawn, not generally large enough to cut a section from; and even this fragment may be withdrawn from a portion of the tumor the structure of which is not characteristic. Moreover, the introduction of the emporte-piece is painful, and is not easily borne by patients, especially ladies, without the aid of anaesthesia. The diagnosis of malignant ulcers may often be made with unerring certainty by scraping the surface of the ulcer gently with a knife, and submitting the scraping to the microscope. This method can only be employed with advantage in the case of ulcerated, squamous-celled carcinomas (epitheliomas), the surfaces of which yield epithelial cells, and not unfrequently cell-nests. The cells are distinguished from the normal epithelium by the absence of typical characters. They vary much in size and shape; some larger than the normal cells, some smaller, some round, some oval, some angular, and others tailed. The nuclei are large, as compared with the size of the cells, and many of the cells contain two or several nuclei, or even several smaller nucleated cells. Almost all the cells are very granular. Mingled with these altered epithelial cells are blood and pus corpuscles, debris of decaying tissues, and, in some situations, schisto- myeetes. But the epithelium forms the characteristic and preponderating element. When it is uncertain whether an ulcer is epithelial, or tuberculous, or syphilitic, the diagnosis of epithelioma may by this means be usually made without difficulty, for scrapings of tuberculous and syphilitic ulcers yield only pus and blood, with debris, and occasionally schistomycetes. Treatment of Tumors in General. The treatment of tumors can only be considered with reference to pallia- tion and operation, for few, if any of them, can be cured by medicine. Indeed, the only tumors which appear to yield to the internal administration of drugs, are some of the fatty outgrowths and certain glandular enlargements, of which it is by no means certain that they are really tumors. A tumor may be removed or destroyed for one of the following reasons: pain, inconvenience, disfigurement, damage or danger to important structures, danger or detriment to health, danger to life (immediate or remote). A tumor may be removed for all these reasons, and few tumors are removed for only one among them. Tumors are frequently removed chiefly on account of the pain of which they are the seat: the “ painful subcutaneous tumors,” for example—small, fatty or fibrous tumors, exquisitely painful and tender. Small cysts and tumors seated in the eyelids are occasionally removed on account of the inconvenience or annoyance which they occasion, even when they scarcely at all disfigure, and are not painful. For the same reason, a working man will desire to be rid of a cartilaginous tumor of the phalanx of his finger; it interferes with the due performance of his work. Disfigurement and the fear of disfigurement often demand the removal of a growth which might otherwise be left untouched. For this reason sebaceous cysts of the scalp, which have attained a moderate size, are removed from the heads of ladies who are otherwise scarcely inconvenienced by them. A rodent ulcer of the face is very freely removed or destroyed, in some instances chiefly with the object of saving an eye which is imperilled by its gradual growth. The