27 PHENOMENA AND SYMPTOMS OF FRACTURE. and give the impression of loose grating, and yet the fragments may be closely held together. I recently saw an instance of this in an old lady of eighty-five, who died some weeks after sustaining a fracture of the cervix femoris; during life and after death, the crepitus was so distinct as to lead to the belief that the fragments were very movable, yet, when the bone was re- moved they were found in accurate apposition, and hardly any sound could be elicited. Crepitus is of course wanting when the fragments are not in contact, as in fractures of the patella and olecranon, if one portion of the bone is drawn up so as to leave a wide gap, and in some cases of overlapping. I feel constrained here to enter a protest against the employment of undue efforts to obtain crepitus. Should it not be readily felt, the surgeon should fall back upon the other means of diagnosis ; as by persisting in the attempt to move the fragments upon one another, lie not only gives present pain to the patient, but may do harm by producing or increasing displacement. When once the surgeon in charge has perceived it, he ought not to unneces- sarily elicit it, again and again, as I have sometimes seen done, to satisfy either himself or others. Swelling is very apt to follow upon the occurrence of fracture, especially in superficial bones, and in the neighborhood of joints. It is due to inflam- matory effusion, and takes place very rapidly, sometimes almost immediately. Ecchymosis nearly always shows itself in the vicinity of a fracture, and is often owing to the rupture of small vessels in the soft parts, just as in any other bruise. But when a bone is broken, its vascular medulla is torn across ; and hence there comes on gradually an extravasation of blood, sometimes staining the skin a deep mottled purple, almost black, and extending along the limb for a great distance. This secondary effusion of blood is much more significant than that which shows itself within the first few hours after the injury. It is usually very slowly absorbed, and may often be still percepti- ble as a green and yellow discoloration, even after the fracture has been alto- gether repaired. At the same time with this extravasation, there may appear upon the sur- face of the skin, especially in weakly patients, blebs or bailee of various size, sometimes very large, distended with serum more or less stained with blood. These are often a source of great alarm to the patient, and even to the inex- perienced surgeon; but if carefully let alone, they will shrink away in time, and the cuticle either becomes i’e-attached, or a new cuticle forms before the old one is cast oft. It is a bad practice to open them, as they may then give rise to troublesome and intractable sores, interfering with the treatment of the fracture itself. Nutritive Changes.—Certain local, atrophic changes have been observed in cases of fracture, and may be mentioned among the phenomena attending injuries of this class, although they are by no means constant Curling1 speaks of atrophy of one fragment as not uncommon, and gives a list of twenty- four specimens illustrating this condition, which, however, is certainly not often present in such a degree as to attract attention. Guenther2 claimed that the growth of the nails on the affected limb was arrested during the pro- cess of union; but his observation has not been substantiated by the expe- rience of others. I have myself reported3 two cases, one in the leg and one 1 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xx. 2 Gazette des Hdpitaux, Nov. 24, 1842. (Malgaigne.) 8 Ain. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1874.