908 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. use of rigid corsets, that, while mechanically supporting the spine, tend to discourage a proper development of the spinal muscles. The cyphosis of adults may depend upon many causes. It may be induced by an employment that involves prolonged arching of the back, or prolonged stooping, or bending forwards of the head, or it may depend upon chronic rheumatic arthritis of the spine (spondylitis deformans). In most cases, however, the cyphosis of adults is secondary to some previous morbid condi- tion, and is therefore “ symptomatic,” rather than “ essential.” Thus, any disease involving frequent or prolonged dyspnoea may lead to some cyphosis as the result of an attempt to increase the chest capacity by an arching of the dorsal vertebra1. Asthma and emphysema are not infrequently associated with this form of curvature. Chronic painful atfections of the ab- domen may lead to cyphosis as to a means of relieving pain by avoiding pressure upon tender parts. Thus Follin and Duplay1 enumerate metritis and chronic peritonitis among the causes of cyphosis. Muscular rheumatism, either by directly causing contraction of the flexors of the spine, or by rendering the extensors painful and thereby to some extent useless, may lead to this posterior curvature of the column. Jacques Del- pech2 records the case of a man, aged 25, whose back became so arched and rigid from rheumatism that he could not support himself without crutches. Gymnastic exercise was advised, and in time a complete cure followed. Cyphosis is very common in the aged, and especially among the laboring classes. It depends in many instances upon a general enfeebling of the mus- cular system, with probably some loss of elasticity in the elastic tissues. Not infrequently it is the result of chronic rheumatic arthritis, and the case figured by Dr. Agnew,3 of an old woman with general cyphosis so severe that when in the sitting posture her chin touched the knees, was probably of this nature. In other instances the arching of the back has been determined by the patient’s employment, or by some of the causes just detailed. Lastly, it must be remembered that cyphosis may be hereditary, and this remark especially applies to a limited cyphosis of the upper dorsal region. Pathological Anatomy.—Cyphosis may be general or partial. If general, the whole of the spinal column is involved, including even the lumbar region, but this form of the disease is quite rare. The great majority of the cases of cyphosis are of limited extent, and are restricted to the dorsal region. Such instances of limited cyphosis consist indeed merely of an increase in the natural curve of the dorsal spine. The curvature is most usually about the centre of the dorsal region, the summit of the curve being represented by one vertebra among the 5th, 6th, 7th, or 8th ; and of these it would appear that the 6th dorsal vertebra is the one that most commonly marks the greatest point in the curvature.4 The curve, however, may involve the upper dorsal region alone, or the dorso-lumbar region alone, or all the vertebrae from the cervical to the lumbar may be implicated in the deformity. It is also to be remarked that cyphosis may coexist -with lateral curvature of the spine or scoliosis. In the slighter forms of the disease, there is merely some relaxa- tion of the vertebral ligaments, with a separation of the laminse and spinous processes, but without any gross alteration in the bones themselves. In marked and confirmed examples of this deformity, the anterior common liga- ment is found to be contracted, while the posterior ligaments of the column are relaxed. The individual bones have become altered so that the bodies of 1 Traite elementaire de Pathologie Externe, tome iii. p. 726. Paris, 1868. 2 De l’Orthomorphie, ou Recherches sur les difformitfe et sur Part orthopedique. Atlas. Paris, 1828. 3 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. page 867. Philadelphia, 1881. 4 Bouvier et Bouland, Diet. Encyclop. des Sci. Med., art. Racliis. (Deviations.) Paris, 1874.