FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 207 as possible, the exact seat of fracture is now determined, and the amount of shortening is ascertained by measurement. A strip of good adhesive plaster, about three inches wide, and long enough to reach from the seat of fracture down one side of the limb to four inches below the heel, and up along the other side of the limb to the point of fracture again, is well warmed and applied, leaving a loop of eight inches below the sole of the foot. In this loop is placed a piece of thin board three inches square, and close to it, at either side, a small slit is cut in the plaster, through which a cord or strip of bandage may be passed. Three or four transverse strips of adhesive plaster, or a roller, may be applied to keep the longitudinal strips in exact contact with the skin. A pul- ley is now placed at the foot of the bed, either on a tripod with one long foot, extending under the bed, and two at right angles to it, or on a rod attached to the bedstead frame with a clamp. An ingenious apparatus for attaching the pulley has been devised by Dr. Sheppard.1 One form of it is intended for cribs or beds with high foot pieces, the other for the ordinary iron bedstead in use in hospitals. I have sometimes screwed the pulley into the foot-board when the bedstead was so made. In the case of some iron bedsteads, a pulley may be made with a spool and a piece of wire, the latter being run through the former, and then bent up and curved into two hooks to catch on to the bar of the bed-frame. The patient is now to be placed in the bed, the foot of which is elevated a few inches by means of a couple of bricks ; the cord is passed over the pulley, and the surgeon proceeds to make extension and to adjust the fragments. Sometimes the services of assistants are required in doing this, and occasion- ally anaesthesia must be induced. If the limb be a very muscular one, and the displacement great, one assistant may grasp the foot and another the upper part of the thigh; the force used must be very gentle and gradual, and, while it is exerted, the surgeon carefully handles the fractured part, and coaxes the broken ends into their normal relation. Sometimes, in old people, or in persons of no great muscular development, the adjustment is readily made, and as easily kept up by moderate traction. But in the strong, or in those whose nervous systems are excitable, a good deal of power has to be exerted. The weight to be used depends greatly upon these circumstances; sometimes it is but small—perhaps two or three pounds—and again it may require ten or twelve pounds to overcome the muscular resistance. One, two, three, or tour bricks may be thus used, or bottles of sand, or regular weights placed in a frame; the latter device is adopted in some hospitals. Sand-bags, to give lateral support to the limb, are of great service; they are made of muslin, are long enough to reach, one from the heel to the peri- neum, the other from the heel to above the crista ilii, and should be ten or twelve inches in circumference. They ought not to be too tightly stuffed, but should be capable of adaptation to the outline of the limb. Whenever the patient is restless, or if there is a tendency to angulation of the thigh forward or outward, or both (it very seldom bends inward or backward), one or more “coaptation-splints” maybe employed. Binder’s board or felt answers best for this purpose, a piece of suitable size being soft- ened in hot or cold water, and moulded to the normal shape of the thigh ; after which it is to be carefully padded, and applied with a roller, or with three or four wide adhesive strips.2 If the foot shows any tendency to dis- placement, whether outward or inward, this must be carefully corrected, as it indicates rotation of the lower fragment; and the proper position must 1 Medical News, Jan. 7, 1882. 2 The plaster should always be cut for this purpose in the length of the piece, and not across it, lest it should yield and stretch.