432 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. The method is worthy of consideration whenever the presence of a mode- rately thin stem is suspected. Chondroma.—Closely allied to, perhaps an incomplete form of, the above, are the ecehondromata that occasionally occur in youthful patients, about the edges of epiphyseal junctions; they are rare and unimportant, seldom attain- ing, unless by ossification they become exostoses, any inconvenient size. At page 340, a certain form of loose body in the joint is described as an ecchon- drosis growing from articular cartilage. More important are enchondromata. All cartilaginous tumors grow by preference from bones, yet occasionally they have been found in soft parts, as the mamma, or testicle. Enchondroma of bone may be in its origin either peripheral or central; the former variety is the more rare, and commences later in life, but sometimes it is. not possible, even by anatomical examination, to distinguish between a peripheral tumor growing into the medullary canal and a central enchondroma growing outward. Clinically, they are absolutely indistinguishable; but the former is generally single, the latter multiple. A peripheral enchondroma commences in the fibrous layer of the periosteum, or in the more superficial layers of the bone ; it both increases outwards, and, probably by pressure, invades likewise the osseous structure, penetrating into the medullary canal or cancellous struc- ture. Central enchondroma commences in the medullary cavity, or cancellar portion, and after invading a certain district of those parts, causes absorption of the bone walls, and presents itself outwardly. Either form then appears as an irregularly round or ovoid tumor, nodular on its surface; sometimes remarkably so. It is sessile on the bone, but not so immovably as an exostosis, the elasticity of cartilage giving a sort of springy mobility, very different from the feel of a bony tumor; this quality also imparts to the lump, when pretty strongly compressed, a resiliency which the quite unyielding resist- ance of bone does not afford. When the tumor approaches the surface, and the skin is stretched tight over it, a slight translucency may aid the diagnosis. The favorite seats of enchondromata also assist their recognition; thus half the cases occur on the bones of the hand and foot, but five times as often on the former as on the latter; in either situation the tumors are multiple. The next seat of predilection is the tibia; nearly equal are the femur and humerus; the lower jaw and the pelvis stand next. Although, as actual tumors, these growths may not make their appearance till at a later age, they probably begin at a very early period of life, their growth being slow. Every museum possesses at least one specimen of a hand crippled and deformed by a number of enchondromata growing from the phalanges or metacarpus, sometimes also from the ulna or radius. Enchon- dromata affect the joints by their proximity, but do not involve them in disease. Even in these cases of multiple growth, the joints, though the bulk of the neighboring tumors may affect their mobility, are left unaltered. This neoplasm is often mixed with myxoma, sarcoma, or carcinoma; many also, which appear unmixed, are prone to mucoid and cystic degeneration; either circumstance gives greater gravity to the prognosis. Pure, undegene- rated enchondroma is, as a very general rule, benignant, though instances of systemic infection have occurred. Recurrence in loco changes this character- istic, for such a condition is very apt to be followed by general infection.1 1 Recurrence must be carefully distinguished from mere continuance of growth in a part of the tumor not removed. The histology, diagnosis, and prognosis of tumors are treated in a part of this Enclyclopaedia especially devoted to the subject; here we have to do with them merely as they affect the joints. I have not included among tumors of joints the various false bodies de- scribed at page 339.