400 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. as backward towards the sacral canal, and may commit great ravages before invading the sacro-iliac joint; or it may extend laterally, and very rapidly involve the synchondrosis. Another form of the disease attacks ah initio the lateral surface of the sacrum, or more rarely the auricular face of the ilium. After a certain time suppuration is set up, and the resultant fluid finds its way to the surface in one of four directions. It may, if the disease be low down on the sacrum, appear about the anus, simulating an ordinary ischio- rectal abscess. If higher on the front of that bone, it passes along the pyri- formis muscle, and points behind the great trochanter. If at the posterior part of the synchondrosis, it shows itself over the sacrum. While in some cases it appears under Poupart’s ligament, I am unable to specify the exact place of caries which produces pointing in that locality. Hot unfrequently the pus has not sufficient exit at the spot first selected, and then points also in one of the other places. The abscess being opened, a probe may be passed along its cavity, and may, in certain cases, impinge upon dead or diseased bone. This happens more frequently when the opening is either behind the sacrum or at the groin. It is generally impossible to touch the site of disease when the pus has pointed either behind the trochanter or near the anus ; but I have twice succeeded in doing so from the former place, once from the latter. The prognosis of all these cases depends on the locality of the disease, and on the mode of termination taken by the inflammation. The malady which is above described as spinal caries affecting the sacrum, terminates, as a rule, sooner or later in death, which is generally lingering, and ultimately due either to exhaustion, to lardaceous disease of the viscera, or to pulmonary complications. The disease affecting primarily the lateral surface of the sacrum, or the ilium, is of worse prognosis the further forward the disease is situated. In quite young people the inflammation may end in necrosis, which is more hopeful than caries. Symptoms.—The first signs of sacro-iliac disease differ considerably, accord- ing to the particular part involved. In some cases the earliest symptom is pain along the soiatic nerve; and this, when the disease affects the front of the sacrum, and before it encroaches on the joint, may be for a long time the only complaint; nor, indeed, at this stage, is any clear diagnosis possible. Suspicion as to the condition may lie aroused by pressing from the front of the abdomen backward. This in sciatica does not, but in sacral disease occasionally does, cause pain. Succussion and percussion at the back of the sacrum are frequently painful in commencing caries. Examination by the rectum affords, unless the disease be too high, useful information, pressure backwards causing considerable pain. If the disease do not spread laterally, but simply erode deeply towards the sacral canal, the symptoms are very obscure, and the diagnosis exceedingly difficult. When the lateral surface of either ilium or sacrum is affected, a peculiar instability, lameness, and weakness of the lower limb is produced; the pelvis, too, becomes oblique, and the leg of that side is apparently lengthened, rarely shortened.1 In this state there is some resemblance to hip-disease; but the diagnosis is not difficult, because there is no fixity of the thigh. It is true that movements may be painful, but if an assistant fix the pelvis without too much pressure, the pain ceases, or is mitigated. If the patient be directed to raise himself on the toes, and then suddenly to come down with a sharp jog 1 I saw in one case, in a lad of 14, a shortened limb with a large abscess behind the trochanter. The shortening amounted to nearly 1^ inches, and on this account the possibility of the disease being sacro-iliac was doubted. The boy was very ill when he came into the hospital, and died in about three weeks. On post-mortem examination, extensive disease on the front part of the sacrum was found, involving deeply the right synchondrosis.