INJURIES OF BONES. 32 a ter go, generally found in a copious extravasation of blood. Drs. Saundby and Earling, in a recent article,1 quote papers by Boettcher and D. J. Hamil- ton, in 1877, Dejerine, in 1878-9, Duret, Sinclair, and Jolly, in 1879, and Mansell-Moullin, in 1881. Dejerine is said to have seen ten cases, and to have produced fat-embolism experimentally upon animals by means of sponge-tents or laminaria-tents introduced into the bones. Sinclair is quoted as authority for the statement that fatty embola were found in 10 per cent, of the bodies examined at the Pathological Institute at Strasbourg; but it should be remembered that post-mortem clots containing fat-globules may readily be mistaken for true fatty embola. The former have been repeatedly met with in autopsies upon diabetics with “ milky blood.” Symptoms of Fat-embolism.—From the accounts given by Scriba and others, who have had opportunities of studying this subject clinically, it would seem that fat-embolism comes on as a sort of secondary shock, within two or three days of the receipt of the fracture, and therefore earlier than venous throm- bosis usually appears. Its onset is marked by transient attacks of dyspnoea, with irregular action of the heart, slight haemoptysis, and at first shallow respiration, at times interrupted by deep sighing inspirations; subsequently the peculiar form of breathing known as “ Obeyne-Stokes” respiration,2 manifests itself. Collapse, with marked pallor of the skin and mucous membranes, soon ensues; spasms of various kinds, or paralyses, generally bilateral, and dimi- nution of reflex irritability, have been noted. The chest is free from dulness or rales. Fat has been detected occasionally in the urine. As to the tem- perature in this disorder, the accounts of observers vary. According to Scriba, it is lowered; but Skirving3 records a case in which it was at first noted at 100°, but increased to 104°, and after death reached 105°. In another case seen by Saundby and Barling, in 1881, the temperature was 101.8°. Secondary abscesses do not form in fat-embolism. Czerny thinks that this condition is a constant attendant upon cases of fracture, but mostly in very slight degree, and without inducing any distinct symptoms. Minich4 says that it occurs in all cases of fracture except in chil- dren, who are exempt from it by reason of the small amount of fat contained in their skeletons. Scriba is of opinion that it may go through several cycles, and that its injurious effect is due solely to the blocking of the vessels of the brain, since this was observed in all the fatal cases. Minich shares this view as to the cause of death ; but it seems as if the interference with the function of the lungs must be at least contributory, if it has not a large share, in inducing the fatal result. The diagnosis of this pathological condition can hardly be very obscure in any case in which the symptoms as described are well pronounced ; and the prognosis, under such circumstances, must obviously be extremely grave. As to the treatment of this affection, the intra-venous injection of sulphuric ether would seem to be clearly indicated; and diffusible stimulants might be given by the month. I am not aware, however, that any definite line of medication has yet been pointed out. Stiffening of neighboring joints is a very common sequence of fractures, and may be attributed to various causes. In some cases, violence is inflicted • 1 Journal of Anat. and Physiology, July, 1882. s “ It consists in the occurrence of a series of inspirations increasing to a maximum, and then declining in force and length, until a state of apparent apnoea is established. In this condition the patient may remain for such a length of time as to make his attendants believe that he is dead, when a low inspiration, followed by one more decided, marks the commencement of a new ascending and then descending series of inspirations.” (Stokes, op. cit., p. 324.) * Lancet, Oct. 7, 1882. « Lo Sperimentale, Marzo ed Aprile, 1882 (quoted in Medical News, Nov. 11).