265 SYNOVITIS. causing flattening of the buttock and pendulousness of the fold of the nates, are among the most familiar signs of hip-joint disease. In ball-and-socket joints, both sets of capsular muscles, both inward and outward rotators, are thus contracted. This contraction is active, that is, is a shortening of the oapxo? of the muscle, and is, I believe, closely connected with that sensibility to false positions or over-strain ot joints which is called “muscular sense,” and which always calls into play an instantaneous, often tremulous, muscular effort. This contraction is not to be confounded with “ contracture,” as, twenty years ago, I named that secondary effect of continuous muscular shortening which consists of gradual shrinking of the sarcolemma and other mere fibrous elements to the abridged dimensions of the active constituents of the muscle. Several results follow this over-tension of muscles, and among them two are for our present purpose important: namely, a constant tendency of the limb to become more and more flexed, even to an abnormal degree, and an amount of pressure on each other of the opposing spots of cartilage, greatly conducing to their inflammatory ulceration. But it must be especi- ally remarked, that both sets of muscles, both flexors and extensors, undergo atrophy; the limb above the inflamed joint wastes rapidly up to a certain point; the flexors chiefly by fibrous, the extensors by fatty degeneration. At this point we may leave the anatomy of acute synovitis ; that form of disease, be it simple or serous, sanguinolent or purulent, very seldom merges into suppurative synovitis, which, when it occurs, begins nearly always with an inflammation distinctly characteristic of suppuration, while a sanguinolent may become a serous, and that a purulent synovitis, the one merging into the other without any distinctive line of demarcation. Whenever suppuration of a joint follows what has appeared to be a less aggravated malady, the com- mencement has very generally been traumatic, the effused fluid strongly sanguinolent, the initial pain very severe, and pyrexia well marked. Dry synovitis is a disease of very obscure etiology; it rarely attacks any joint other than the knee, is not unfrequently traumatic, and is most often observed in persons of a rheumatic constitution, though it is not to be taken as a mere rheumatic inflammation. Volkmann terms it croupous, and it cer- tainly coincides with an absence of fluid contents or of marked swelling, and with the presence of a hard, leathery condition which can hardly be otherwise produced than by the coagulation of fibrin in and about the synovial membrane. We have seen that the persistence of pain in a limited spot of a joint which has suffered from an ordinary but severe synovitis is, in all probability, due to the presence of a coagulum, which, having formed in the fluid, has become deposited on the synovial surface ; and the very severe suffering of dry syno- vitis appears to be due to a coating of the. whole inner surface by a firm tough lining of fibrin, which glues together all the synovial folds, recesses, and fringes; nor does such deposition confine itself to the interior of the joint, but invades also the periarticular tissues ; nay even the tendinous sheaths, fibrous or cellular, are likewise involved, so that the tendons become adherent for a considerable distance. A case of dry synovitis of the wrist-joint, which I un- fortunately only saw rather late in the disease, was strongly characterized by firm tendinous adhesions a considerable distance up the arm and down to the phalanges. Generally this disease ends, even after long suffering, in resolution, occasionally with rapid absorption of the fibrin, so that but little stiffness may remain; but more often considerable stiffness, both intra-articular and extra-articular, results. Occasionally the disease ends—indeed it has consider- able tendency to end—in true anchylosis of such rapid production that it takes even watchful surgeons by surprise. The extremely rapid production of true anchylosis is very remarkable; it can only occur in one of two ways,