DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 306 described, upon the distal bone, pro- duces not merely flexion, but a gradual gliding of the lower joint surface upon the upper, towards the side of flexion, producing pathological dislocation, or, since it is rarely complete, subluxation.1 At certain joints, dislocation may oc- cur in other directions than those of flexion; for instance, the tibia may be displaced outward on the femur, this being due to unusually powerful ac- tion of the poplitens muscle. Now when these contractures have persisted a certain time, another set of neuro- muscular phenomena, commonly called starting pains, arise; they are clonic spasms affecting the muscles about the joint, or,when severe, those of the whole limb. Their commencement tallies, in point of time, with the hyperaemia of the cancellous bone-ends that ac- companies cartilaginous inflammation. I proved this coincidence many years ago, and a long course of careful ob- servation has confirmed that view. They appear to me exaggerated manifes- tations of that muscular sense that warns us of excessive pressure on joint surfaces, or of pressure in unusual and hurtful directions, and are like that ■ general spasm of all the muscles of a limb which occurs when a false cartilage, intruding between the bones, causes violent pressure on points of their surfaces. Thus, since the period when the bone-ends become hypersemic is not fixed, so is the advent of starting pains variable. It is always earlier in joint-diseases that begin in the bone, than in those that commence in the synovial mem- brane. The pains are accompanied by increasingly rapid wasting of the limb: during mere quiet contracture it was chronic ; during starting pains, and in direct ratio with their severity, it becomes acute. The etiology of these pains, the way in which hypertemia under the car- tilage may produce them, is very difficult to elucidate; they appear to me to be due to perturbed reflex action of an excited spinal cord, occurring at a time when the cerebral controlling power is withdrawn. Thus, sleep, though we think of it chiefly as it affects the mind, must also influence the spinal cord, but more slowly. Many persons twitch when going to sleep ; this happens chiefly after overfatigue, or when the health is somewhat depressed.2 Now, the flexor muscles of a diseased joint are, and have been for some time, in a state of persistent contraction ; it must be that those muscles are overfatigued, or in an analogous state, and in all probability a certain district of the spinal cord is overexcited. Twitching of those muscles, therefore (in the period when the brain is asleep, but the cord still awake), is a highly probable event. But this twitch, which is of no importance, or is not remarked, during ordi- nary circumstances, drives the bone-ends together with some force, and, when they are rendered tender by disease, produces a state of pain, which in its 1 The pathological luxation of the liip is, probably, due to other causes besides muscular con- traction. 2 The commencement of many spinal diseases, for example, locomotor ataxia, is marked by severe twitching. Fig. 637. Consecutive or pathological dislocation of tibia backwards at knee.