061 DISEASE OF THE ATLO-AXOID REGION. paired without motor defects ; but with extensive paralysis there may be con- siderable anaesthesia. In the cases of wide-spread paralysis, there is usually loss of control over the bladder and rectum. A fatal termination may be preceded by certain cerebral symptoms—ver- tigo, headache, vomiting, convulsions, and epileptiform attacks ; or death may be sudden, from a suddeu crushing of the cord in the manner above detailed. In addition to these particular symptoms, the patient with disease of the upper cervical spine may exhibit certain general symptoms—such as fever, marasmus, hectic, fatty and amyloid degeneration of viscera from long-con- tinued suppuration, etc. Differential Diagnosis.—In the diagnosis of disease in the occipito-atloid and atlo-axoid regions, the following sources of fallacy must be eliminated: Muscular rheumatism in the cervical region may cause stiffness of the neck, with pain on movement, and has been mistaken for the graver malady. The spinal disease, however, is most common in the young, at an age when this form of rheumatism is quite uncommon. The rheumatic affection is associ- ated with a good deal of tenderness on pressure, a symptom absent or but slightly marked in the spinal ailment. Steady pressure of the head vertically down upon the vertebral column will not increase the pain in muscular rheu- matism ; nor is that pain as much aggravated by jolts and sudden movements as it is in the spinal affection. The neck, in severe muscular rheumatism, will be quite stiff, but in the more deeply seated disease, rotation of the head may remain comparatively free, while nodding is impossible, and vice versa. The rheumatic affection is associated with no deformity, such as projection of the spine of the axis. It may be attended with pains in the limbs, but these can easily be differentiated from the nerve-pains in the spinal disease. The pro- gress of the case and the effects of treatment will readily remove in time any difficulties in diagnosis. A deep-seated cervical abscess, associated with rigidity of the neck, pain on movement, etc., may cause error in diagnosis, and the source of the abscess may be wrongly imputed. The simple cervical abscess does not tend to cause rigidity of the neck until it is well advanced, whereas the abscess due to spinal disease will have been preceded by rigidity of the parts for perhaps a considerable time. In the simple abscess, the neck is apt to be drawn to one side, a position uncommon in the spinal affection. In the simple abscess the pain is not apt to be increased by carefully applied pressure to the vertex; there will be an absence of spinal deformity, of post-pharyngeal mischief, and of cord and nerve symptoms. Lastly, the source of the non-spinal abscess may be made out, and a positive diagnosis be thus established. Torticollis, phleg- mon of the neck, and glandular disease are enumerated by some authors as affording possible sources of fallacy in diagnosis; but the points of resem- blance between these affections and the spinal malady are not sufficiently close to merit further notice. Prognosis.—The progress of the disease varies considerably both as to the manner and the rapidity of its advance. Within a short time from the com- mencement of the disease, the patient may be bedridden ; and, on the other hand, cases are met with like one recorded by Shaw, where a patient, a servant-girl, continued her work without inconvenience until the deformity, due to the sliding forwards of the atlas on the axis, was well marked. On the whole, the prognosis in this malady is grave, the seriousness of a case depending mainly upon the implication of the cord. Although the majority of the deaths from this disease are due to nerve-complications, a fatal "result may be brought about in other ways. Thus, the patient has sometimes died VOL. iv.—61