DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 364 and looks thin; the sinus is tortuous, whence there may be difficulty in touching the diseased surface with a probe, and when the carious surface is touched, a fresh flow of blood ensues. When the disease is necrosis, the pus, not large in quantity, is nearly laud- able ; the granulations surrounding the si- nus-mouth are large, flabby, and not very brilliant, and do not bleed with extreme readiness; the skin around is normal; the sinus is short and fairly straight ; the diseased bone does not bleed on con- tact with the probe. A peculiarity of the abscess-openings in children, which is, I believe, due to the slow formation of pus, and which I have been accus- tomed to connect with fatty osteitis, is detachment of the skin for a long distance around the opening. The same thing oc- curs to the skin over suppurating tuber- cular glands of the neck. One may pass a probe introduced through an opening of, for instance, -j inch circumference, and let it travel under the greatly thin- ned skin in a circle extending on all sides from J to f- inch away from the margin of the wound. This skin, de- tached from subjacent parts, continues to get thinner, until it becomes perfor- ated with little pin-hole openings; and ultimately it may give way altogether. But the skin over the abscesses of fatty osteitis does not become discolored for a long time; that over tubercu- lous glands is reddened much sooner. ISTow, the joint which has become diseased by way of the bones, and by secondary affection of the synovial membrane, comes in this stage to be in the same state as one which, having been the seat of synovial disease, has now also involved the bones ; and the one malady, like the other, may tend either to further destruction or may retrograde. The signs and symptoms of either course are identical with those described at page 312 et seq. With them are combined certain alterations in and dangers to internal organs, and thus to life; but as long as these remain absent, the joint-trouble in itself does not kill; and even after severe local ravages all morbid action may cease, leaving not disease, but the results of disease, behind. There is no doubt that a vast number of persons recover from very severe joint-aftections. In institutions with which I am connected, many inmates are under my super- vision with one, sometimes with two, limbs scored with old abscess-scars, very numerous, near to and distant from the marred and generally anchylosecl joint, and indicating an amount of past disease which I, without such experi- ence, and influenced only by what I see in hospital, should have thought could hardly be survived. The moral is instructive, and will be again referred to very shortly. But the surgeon must not be content with considering the joint alone; he must frequently go further, and examine into the state of lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys, to detect the earliest signs of tubercular or of lardaceous disease. To the surgeon experienced in these matters, additional morning and evening irregularity of the temperature, niglit-sweating, a red flush on the cheek (often only on one), bounded by a clear defined edge,