DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 729 4 Op. cit., p. 204. 3 Ibid., p. 66. of this kind to justify the proceeding being adopted when the danger is imminent.”1 Dupuytren, on the other hand, affirmed that such attempts were very dangerous, and that he had often known patients to perish while the extension was being made (Hamilton); from which the legitimate infer- ence would follow that reduction was, in such cases, a proceeding too hazard- ous to be admissible. I have, however, serious doubts as to Dupuytren’s assertion being well-founded, for I do not find any case whatever reported in detail, which Dupuytren could personally have known, wherein the patient perished while extension was being made. Ho instance of the sort is mentioned among the 394 cases which are embraced in Professor Ash- hurst’s tables, nor elsewhere, as far as I am informed. Moreover, an inspec- tion of Professor Ashhurst’s tables clearly shows that “ in the treatment of dislocations in the cervical region, the mortality has been nearly four times greater when constitutional or general treatment has been relied on exclu- sively, than when attempts have been made to reduce the dislocation by ex- tension, rotation, etc.”2 An inspection of the same tables also shows that in the treatment of dislocations, in the whole spinal column, “ the proportion of deaths has been almost three times as large when general treatment has been exclusively used as when extension has been employed. The results of those cases which have survived have also been, as a rule, more satisfactory after extension than without it.”3 I have already mentioned several instances in which reduction was successfully employed in the treatment of cervical dis- locations, in some of which recovery wrould otherwise have been utterly hopeless. It seems to me that the inference is fairly warranted, from the foregoing considerations, that extension (combined, of course, with rotation or pressure as required) should be employed in every case of spinal dislocation, or of spinal fracture with dislocation, where the spinal functions are disturbed. When the diagnosis is not clear, it will be better to adopt this mode of treatment than to reject it, and I should be disposed to try it in every case where either shortening or marked angular displacement was found. (Ashhurst.) It seems to me, also, that in recent years the current of surgical opinion has, with justice, strongly set in favor of treating spinal dislocations, those with as well as those without fracture, by reducing them. Professor Porta, after carefully analyzing twenty-seven cases in point, comes to the conclusion that the first indication in the treatment of vertebral dislocations as in that of other dislocations, is to reduce them. Mr. Bryant (1878) says: “ I have seen several cases in which marked relief was afforded by this course, and the records of surgery contain many more. Practised with discretion, extension of the spine is doubtless a valuable means of treatment.”4 Whenever it is applicable, the best plan of effecting reduction consists in making extension and counter-extension by the gradual traction of assistants, whilst the surgeon endeavors to effect manual replacement. Generally the patient’s muscles should be kept relaxed by anaesthetics during the operation. In all cervical cases where the dislocation is disposed to return, extension should he continued for some days after the operation, by means of a weight of about three pounds attached to the patient’s head with strips of plaster, and a band to suspend it from the head of the bed. By so doing recovery might have been effected in a case mentioned by Mal- gaigtie:— A man was injured by a weight falling eight or ten feet, upon his neck. There was no paralysis, but the injured part of the neck was stiff, and moving it caused great pain. Delirium appeared on the third day; and, in five days after the accident, the man died* 1 Science and Art of Surgery, p. 293, Am. ed. 1854. 2 Op. cit., p. 64.