248 INJURIES OF BONES. others, have thought that a sufficient degree of extension was effected, even in fractures of the thigh, by firm lateral support and compression; this they would obtain by bandaging, with or without plaster of Paris, the limb being placed in such a posture as to relax the muscles. The experience of most sur- geons, however, would lead them to seek more direct methods, in cases where shortening was seriously threatened ; and a variety of appliances have been proposed and employed for tbe prevention of this evil, chiefly modifications of those already described in connection with the treatment of fractures of the thigh. The method which I myself employ consists in the use of adhesive plaster, with the side-splints already spoken of. Extension may be made by means of the side-splints, as follows: Four strips of adhesive plaster are cut lengthwise of the piece, and of length and breadth corresponding to the size of the limb—for an adult, about eighteen inches long by two inches wide. Each of them is then split up from one end for about half its length; the end which remains whole is next folded on itself, the adhesive surfaces in contact, and a small slip of wood is placed in 'the loop so made. A slit is now cut close to the bit of wood, through which a loop of bandage may be passed. The split ends being applied so as to embrace the ankle below and the upper part of the leg above, the strips are brought round the ends of the splints, and the correspond- ing pairs tied together on the outside of the latter. Extension is made by the two lower strips against counter-exten- sion by the two upper, the force being in- creased or lessened by drawing the strips of bandage more or less tightly. This plan I have employed especially in cases of fracture near the ankle-joint, but I think that it will be found effectual whenever the bones are broken, at whatever point, so obliquely as to threaten overlapping and consequent short- Fig. 628. Side-splint for making extension in fractures of the leg. ening of the limb. Figs. 628, 629. It may be better understood by a reference to the cuts, Fig 629. Extension-splint adjusted. A marked projection forward of the upper fragment of the tibia is some- times observed, in cases especially where the fracture of this bone is very oblique. By elevating the heel, this prominence is, generally, almost if not altogether made to disappear; or perhaps it would be more correct to say that the lower fragment is thus caused to follow the upper, so that they are