INJURIES OF BONES. 76 hard labor and bad habits. Hemorrhage very rarely ensues to a troublesome degree, unless in very bad compound fractures, in which the facial artery is wounded. Stephen Smith1 reports a case in which, on the twentieth day after fracture of the body and ramus, the patient lost a pint of blood, prob- ably from the inferior dental artery. Necrosis of detached fragments, with loss of teeth, is a common consequence of severe fractures of the lower jaw. Abscesses often form, and may even prove fatal. Thus Mr. Abraham2 exhibited to the Pathological Section of the Academy of Medicine in Ireland, a jaw fractured on the right side at the mental foramen, on the left side from behind the last molar tooth to the angle. The patient, a man aged 36, had been knocked down, and kicked while on the ground. “ On the fourth day after the receipt of the injury he got out of bed, walked from his house a short distance, and returning fell dead at his own door. The fracture at the angle was found to he compound, communicating with the mouth; and an abscess traced from the parotid region down along the carotid artery into the pericardium, had formed in connection with it.” Richet,3 in 1865, called attention to the occasional occurrence of putrid infection (septicaemia) as the result of fractures of the jaw with laceration of the alveolar periosteum, and Chassaignac stated that he had seen and pub- lished similar cases. Salivary fistula is said to have sometimes occurred after compound fracture. Treatment.—This may be a very simple affair, or it may require great mechanical skill and ingenuity on the part of the surgeon. Sometimes reduc- tion is readily effected, and maintained with ease by bandaging; sometimes, although the fragments can be replaced without difficulty, they resume their faulty relation the moment they are left to themselves. Sometimes the obstacles to reduction are very great. One case is recorded by Lonsdale,4 in which a woman had the jaw fractured by a blow with a poker; “ there was great difficulty in getting the two por- tions to lie in apposition, and the cause was not discovered till two or three days after the receipt of the injury, when, on passing a probe down, a tooth was felt jammed between the fractured surfaces; as soon as it was withdrawn, the ends of the bone came easily into contact.” Sometimes splinters become wedged cross-wise between the fragments. I have already mentioned having had to divide the muscles just behind the symphysis in one case, in order to effect reduction ; and my belief is that in very many cases, even with the best apparatus that can be devised, muscular contraction is not wholly overcome, but a certain degree—too slight it may be to produce obvious deformity— remains. The great object to be aimed at is, so to restore the form of the bone that the teeth shall come into proper apposition with those of the upper jaw, and thus to insure to the patient the ability to masticate food. It is by no means always easy to judge of the degree of accuracy of the reduction, during the progress of the treatment; and the surgeon will do well as early as possible— say about the third week—to cautiously test the question by removing all apparatus, and, carefully supporting the broken bone below, bringing it up so that the line of the teeth, upper and lower, can be compared by means of the finger inserted into the mouth. Should there be any defect in the apposition, it may be much more readily corrected at this stage than at any later period. 1 New York Journal of Medicine and Surgery, January, 1857. 2 British Medical Journal, December 23, 1882. 3 Gaz. des HSpitaux, 1865 ; Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1866. 4 Practical Treatise on Fractures, p. 229.