906 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. The most interesting examples, however, of lipomata in this region are afforded by those that have communicated with the spinal canal, a complica- tion of great rarity. Mr. Athol Johnson has reported the case of a child aged 10 months, from whose sacral region he excised a fatty tumor that was increasing, and becoming ulcerated on its surface. The mass was found to extend into the spinal canal through a hole in the sacrum large enough to admit a forefinger. Within the canal the mass was found adherent to the membranes, from which it had, indeed, to he dissected off. The child recov- ered from the operation. The only evidence of cord complication previous to the operation was an occasional convulsive movement in the right leg.1 Mr. Thomas Smith has recorded a case of congenital lipoma growing from the coccyx, that is said to have closely resembled a spina bifida. The mass was at birth the size of a small egg, but in four months it had reached the size of a foetal head. It was successfully excised by Mr. Smith.2 These tumors, except in those rare instances where they encroach con- siderably upon the pelvic cavity, should be removed at as early a period as convenient, and no better means is afforded for such removal than by excision. Caudal Excrescences.—These are of two kinds: (1) bony appendages com- posed of supplementary coccygeal vertebrae; and (2) certain fibrocellular tumors that assume the form of a tail. Of the former kind Molk gives two examples. Of the latter several instances have been furnished. The tumor in these cases grows from the coccygeal region, and is composed usually of fibrocellular tissue. It contains no bone, and springs from the subcutaneous connective tissue. Being long, narrow, and perhaps pointed, it resembles the tail of some animals. Gosselin3 quotes a case where the appendage was five centimetres (two inches) in length, and was curled forwards along the perineum. Chauvel4 also gives a case where the excrescence was of the same length, and of the thickness of a little finger. These tumors are all readily removed with the knife. In addition to the works of Braune, Holmes, Hutchinson, and others already alluded to, reference may be made to the following monographs dealing with the subject of congenital sacro-coccygeal tumors: Molk, Des tumeurs congenitales de Pextremit6 inferieure du tronc, Strasburg, 1868, These, 3e serie, No. 106. Duplay, Des tumeurs congenitales de la region sacro-coccygienne, Arch. Gen. deMed., 1868, tome xii. Wag- staffe, St. Thomas’s Hospital Beports, N. S. vol. iv. (1873), page 213. Antero-posterior Curvatures of the Spine. Under this term are included two precisely opposite conditions, viz., cyphosis, or a curving of the spine backwards, and lordosis, or a curving of the column forwards. Cyphosis.—In this condition there is abnormal curvature of the column, or of some part of it, directly backwards; and as the term “ curving backwards of the spine” is open to some varied interpretation, it is necessary to add that, in all cases, the abnormal curve has its convexity directed posteriorly. Cy- phosis may involve the whole of the column, although, as a rule, but a portion of it is implicated. In the majority of instances, indeed, it consists merely in an exaggeration of the posterior curve that normally exists in the dorsal region. Cyphosis may be temporary or permanent. 1 Path. Soc. Trans., vol. viii. page 16. 2 Ibid., vol. xxi. page 334. 3 Clinique Chirurgicale, tome ii. p. 665. 4 Art. in Diet. Encyclop. des Sci. Medicales.