23 VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 8 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, May, 1847. Sometimes union has already taken place at the time of birth; as in the case reported by De Luna.1 A woman aged 32, at the middle of the ninth month of pregnancy, fell down stairs, striking her belly against a wooden tub. Pain, not very severe, and faintness followed. The child, when seen by the reporter, was four weeks old, and had “ fracture of the clavicle near the acro- mial extremity, united by bony callus, with considerable overlapping.” In one case recorded by Rodrigue,2 the humerus was dislocated, and both bones of the forearm of the same side were broken and firmly united at an angle of about 45°. Sometimes the fragments have projected, and have been felt by the mother irritating the walls of the womb. Although the bones in many instances have become solidly united before birth, it occasionally happens that no union takes place. Thus, a case is recorded by Mr. H. Smith3 in which the tibia and fibula, broken within the womb, were still ununited when the child was seven years old. One curious instance is quoted by Gurlt,4 from Maeder, in which a woman seven months pregnant fell from the top of a ladder, and subsequently lost, at first blood, afterward blood and water, from the vagina; she had also persistent pains in the belly, but no loss of general health, and her confinement was normal. Her child, a strong boy, was born wanting the left upper extremity from the mid- dle of the arm, where the white bone protruded through a reddish-brown, moist, but not bleeding or suppurating wound, which soon healed up. The separated limb came away with the after-birth; it seemed to have undergone maceration. This case, which stands alone, as far as I can ascertain, admits of only one explanation, which suggests itself. It is scarcely worth while to dwell here upon the cases in which very nume- rous fractures have been seen in the foetus, as in most of them there is no ques- tion that they were the result of diseased conditions of the skeleton, and it is probable that this was the true explanation in all. Sometimes it is clearly from deficient ossification between the diaphyses and epiphyses. Thus, Barker5 reported a case in which all the long bones of the extremities were broken, and the frontal, parietal, upper part of the occipital, and squa- mous portion of the temporal were absent. On examination, the skeleton was found deficient in inorganic matter, except in certain enlarged portions which contained an excess. Brodhurst,6 in a paper read before the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, suggested the connection between these lesions and other congenital defects, such as distortions of the feet and hands. In the discussion which followed, Messrs. Little and Pollock spoke of cases which they had seen with defi- ciencies of fingers and toes ; and Mr. Adams said that the limbs in such cases did not grow normally. Davies7 has reported a case in which a man, grown up when seen by him, had had an intra-uterine fracture of the leg, in which this defect of growth was very marked. - Of fractures sustained during birth, very little need be said. They are some- times caused by the powerful expulsive contractions of the uterus; as in a case reported by Vanderveer.8 But they are for the most part due to the 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1873. 2 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, January, 1854. 3 Trans, of the Pathological Society of Loudon, vol. xviii. 1867. 4 Op. cit., Bd. i. S. 222. 6 British Medical Journal, Sept. 26, 1857. 6 Med. Times and Gazette, April 7, 1860 ; Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xliii. 7 British Medical Journal, Oct. 17, 1857.