197 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. by means of adhesive plaster, carried along the entire limb, and attached below to a cord running over a pulley and having a weight at the end of it. This weight need not be more than two or three pounds, and should never be sufficient to annoy the patient. The object is not so much to draw the limb down, as to steady it, and prevent any increase of the shortening. Sand-bags should be placed along the sides of the limb, and the foot should be supported as nearly upright as possible. By elevating the foot of the bed on bricks, the weight of the body is made to afford counter-extension. My own prac- tice is to direct the patient, after ten days or two weeks, to sit up in bed a little while each day, the extension being kept up; thus preventing the hip- joint from becoming stiffened. Excision of the detached head of the bone has been proposed, but I know of but one instance1 in which such a procedure has been adopted, and in that the result was a useless limb. It seems to me that this operation could only be justified in cases in which suppuration had taken place, and that even then its advantage would be questionable. The same may be said of the operative measures proposed, and in a few instances carried out, for fastening the frag- ments together, and avoiding the non-union so apt to ensue after fractures in this region. Such a course would be useless in the old and feeble, and unne- cessary in younger persons, in whom fairly satisfactory results can be obtained by less difficult and less dangerous means. Fractures of the neck of the femur may occasionally be complicated with luxation of the head of the bone. Such a case was met with by Thornhill,2 who effected reduction, by means of pulleys, at the end of six weeks. Tunne- eliff3 has reported the case of a farmer, thirty years old, who was caught under a falling tree, and had a fracture of the cervix, the head of the bone being also displaced into the sciatic notch ; reduction was accomplished by manipulation on the thirty-eighth day. Another instance was recorded by Douglas.4 It was observed after death in the body of an old fisherman, who had twelve years previously sustained a hurt. The head of the femur was in the groin, under the middle of Poupart’s ligament, “the femoral vein and artery being to its outer side and upon itthe neck of the bone was broken outside of the capsule. In these cases the luxation must have been first produced and then the fracture; for otherwise there would not have been purchase enough to dislodge the head of the bone. Mr. Henry Morris5 recently reported to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society a case of impacted fracture of the neck of the femur, in an old man who had for years had an unreduced dorsal dislocation of the same thigh. Under examination the impaction was broken down, and union occurred with the limb in a much better position. Occasionally, but very rarely, the vessels sutler. Thus, Brainard6 mentions a case in which aneurism of the femoral artery was developed as a result of fracture of the cervix femoris produced by a blow against a wheel; the external iliac artery was successfully ligated. Robinson7 reported a similar case, in which an operation was proposed, but refused by the patient, who died. No autopsy could be obtained. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the femur may be mentioned here. It is very analogous to fracture of the neck of the bone close to the head, but * Howe, Med. Record, Nov. 16, 1878. In the Index Medicus for May, 1882, there is a reference to a work by Wiesenthal : Ueber operative Beliandlung intracapsularen Schenkelhalsbriiche durch Excision des abgebrochenen Gelenkkopfes. Halle, 1881. 1 have not had access to it. 2 London Med. Gazette, July 20, 1836. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1868. 4 London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, Dec. 1843. 5 Lancet, Feb. 18, 1882. e Am. jour. 0f the Med, Sciences, Oct. 1843. 7 London Medical Gazette, June 28, 1834.