REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. 875 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1858, pp. 194, 195. must likewise be mentioned. The following example will serve to illustrate the phenomena of traumatic spinal meningitis and myelitis, when they are subacute, and run a chronic course together to a fatal ending. Sir W. Gull* relates the case of a coal wagoner, aged 49, who was forced backward from his seat by striking his head against a beam, whilst driving under an archway; several ribs on the left side were fractured. Some months afterward, he began to suffer pain extending from the occiput down over the shoulders ; and, in about a year, the muscles of the upper extremities began to waste. After two years, incontinence of urine gradually came on. He was admitted to Guy’s Hospital, February 11, 1857, three years after the accident. He then presented a remarkable example of muscular atrophy without actual paralysis. The upper extremities were principally affected. The extensors of the right hand, the muscles of the thumb, and the interossei were extremely wasted. The wrist dropped. The muscles of the shoulder and arm, including the pectoralis major and minor, were much wasted, but in a marked degree less so than those of the forearm and hand. Very slight diminution of sensation. He could still lift the arm over the head. The left arm was similarly, but less affected than the right, as far as regarded muscular atrophy, but there was. numbness through the whole arm down to the fingers, and the patient suffered severely from neuralgic pains in it which greatly depressed him, and which he described as a compound of smarting and numbness. The trapezii, serrati postici superiores, rhomboidei, and all the long mus- cles of the neck and back, were remarkably atrophied. The spinous processes were very prominent. No deformity nor tenderness on pressure at any point. Theintereos- tals were so weak that the only respiratory movement was through the diaphragm. The supra-spinati were atrophied, but not to the same extent as the infra-spinati and the levatores angulorum scapularum. The legs were wasted and weak, but he was able to walk. Sphincter weak. Dribbling of urine. Constipation. The thorax looked narrow and ill-developed from the wasting of the pectorals, the intercostals, and the erectores spinm muscles. The muscles of the back of the neck, and the sterno-mastoids, were so weak that the head could not be supported erect. Sight dim ; drooping of left eyelid. Frequent hiccough for many months. After admission, his principal complaint was of pain in the left arm from the clavicle to the fingers. He described it as a severe smarting with a sense of numbness. His distress from this cause was very great. Early in March, febrile symptoms set in ; tongue became dry and brown ; frequent hiccough and vomiting; pain in left arm severe. On March 25th, he died, more than three years after the accident Autopsy.—The cranial arachnoid was opalescent, with spots of white, from fatty degeneration, mottling the more opaque parts; subarachnoid fluid in excess ; ependyma of lateral and fourth ventricles granular, m the latter extremely so. The spinal dura mater was much thickened on the posterior surface of the cord ; the arachnoid adhered to it in patches along this surface, and was much thickened by the effusion of lymph of an old date. Sections of the cord, examined with the naked eye, gave no distinct evidence of disease. There was a slight yellowishness of the posterior columns, with increased vascularity and thickening of the pia mater covering them. In these columns, but especially in the right one, an abundance of granule cells was discovered by the microscope. The exudation was greatest in the middle and lower thirds of the cervical enlargement The gray substance was hypenemic. No exuda- tion into its tissue, nor into the anterior columns. The ventricle of the cord was enlarged and distended with delicate granular nuclei. The affection of the cord ap- peared to be secondary to chronic inflammation of its membranes, and to chronic changes in the ependyma of its ventricle occurring in common with changes in the ependyma of the fourth and lateral ventricles of the brain Hypostatic congestion of both lungs, several lobules consolidated from recent pneumonia, some grayish. Other organs healthy. The phenomena attributable to myelitis which presented themselves in this case were rather peculiar, and consisted of blunted sensibility (anaesthesia), paralysis ol the sphincters with obstinate constipation, diminished motility