477 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. knife. The operation is completed by removing the extremity of the hume- rus, just above the condyles, and the articulating ends of the radius and ulna, with Butcher’s saw. The appearance of the wound after the bone-sections have been completed, is seen in Fig. 702. It is important, if possible, to Fig. 702. jfj/fii Excision of the elbow-joint; the operation completed. retain the attachment of the biceps muscle, and therefore the tubercle of the radius should, unless itself diseased, be preserved, the bone being sawn through immediately below its head. Prof. Bigelow also preserves the external and internal condyles of the humerus, removing merely its articulating surface. The operation having been completed, all bleeding vessels are secured with ligatures, the wound closed with sutures (after the introduction of a drainage- tube), and then lightly dressed, and the limb placed either upon an Esmarch’s bracketed splint,1 or, which I have found to answer every purpose, an ordi- nary, internal, angular splint, well padded and secured with bandages, so arranged that the wound can be uncovered for inspection without disturbing the whole apparatus. It is desirable to keep the ends of the bones pretty well approximated until the external wound has united, and therefore an obtuse-angled splint (about 135°) answers a better purpose than one which is rectangular. On the other hand, in order to avoid anchylosis—much more to be dreaded in these cases than the so-called “flail-like” union, which, indeed, from what I have person- ally seen of the operation I should be disposed to look upon as a myth—the splint should not lie worn longer than is necessary for the wound to become fairly consolidated, and I have, in children, advantageously dispensed with it as early as the eighth day after the operation. When the splint is removed, the patient may carry the arm in a sling, during the day, and have it laid upon a soft pillow at night. I do not know that I can further illustrate the subject of elbow-joint excision better than by appending abstracts of a few cases which have been under my own care. I have resorted to this procedure in ten cases (one of these a par- tial excision) with four deaths, but one, or at most two, of which, can, how- ever, be fairly attributed to the operation. In the following case death was probably hastened by the excision, but I believe would have followed with See Vol. II. page 162, Fig. 263.