INJURIES OF BONES. 116 This may he explained in great measure by the fact that the fragment is supported by the coraco-clavicular and coraco-acromial ligaments, as well as to some extent by the long head of the biceps. But the tendency is for the fragment to be merely tilted downward by the action of the coraco-brachialis, the short head of the biceps, and the middle head of the triceps; with the result of somewhat flattening the shoulder, and thus producing an appearance at first sight simulating downward luxation of the head of the humerus. This fracture may be, as in the case quoted by Gurlt from Duverney, com- plicated by fractures of the ribs; and from the violence requisite to cause it, other bones also in the neighborhood are apt to suffer. Fracture of the glenoid cavity has been, in most of the recorded cases, observed in connection with luxation of the shoulder, the latter being the lesion seemingly of most importance. But in one instance, reported by Assaky1 to the Societe Anatomique, the history is given as follows: “ A man, aged 65, got a fall, striking his shoulder against a beam lying on the ground ; he was taken to the Hopital de la Charite, where the interne thought he detected and reduced a subcoracoid luxation. About a month afterward the man died of pleuro-pneumonia; and at the autopsy there was found a stellated fracture of the glenoid cavity, the fissures, three in number, extend- ing back into the substance of the neck of the bone, where union had occurred with superabundant callus, composed of fibrous tissue with osseous deposits. A fracture of the acromion also existed, at which suppuration had taken place; there were some irregular bony deposits in the neighborhood.” The diagnosis of these fractures has been incidentally referred to in con- nection with their symptoms. It is generally not difficult to determine the fact of the bone being broken, by the tenderness on pressure, the loss of cer- tain motions of the upper arm—especially those upward and backward, the abnormal mobility of the bone when grasped above and below, the detection of distinct irregularities of outline, and the crepitus elicited, especially by rotating the arm. But to make out the precise line or lines of separation is a matter of far more difficulty. I had in my ward at the Episcopal Hospital, in 1882, a man who had had a heavy beam fall on his shoulder, in whom a fracture could be plainly felt at the posterior edge of the scapula, but it could not be traced any further forward. Fracture of the neck of the bone is distinguished from luxation by the facts that the humerus is freely movable in every direction; that the hand can be placed on the opposite shoulder, the elbow being kept at the side; that the displacement is readily corrected, but as readily reproduced; and that crepitus is present. The analogy between these cases and those of double vertical fracture of the pelvis is very marked. When the coracoid process alone is broken, the fragment can be grasped and felt to be movable upon the rest of the bone; the crepitus, if perceived, gives the sensation of smallness of the surfaces in contact; and the action of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles is lost. Hamilton cites a number of instances in which the diagnosis was clearly established, both by himself and by others; and dissections have been made, which set beyond a doubt the fact that this fracture may occur. Yet very careful examination is requisite before it can be asserted to exist in any case. Fracture of the acromion, when it takes place, is not difficult of detection, by means simply of the pain, tenderness on handling, loss of power (from pain), mobility, and crepitus. Many of the museum specimens, which are * Le Progres Medical, 11 F6v. 1882.