( 667 ) INJURIES OF THE BACK, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN, SPINAL MEMBRANES, AND SPINAL CORD. BY JOHN A. LIDELL, A.M., M.D., LATE SURGEON TO BELLEVUE HOSPITAL, NEW YORK ; ALSO LATE SURGEON U. S. VOLUNTEERS IN CHARGE OF STANTON 0. S. ARMY GENERAL HOSPITAL ; INSPECTOR OF THE MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, ETC. The region whose injuries are to be considered in this article, embraces the posterior part of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, or, in other words, the posterior part of the whole trunk excepting the head. The organs con- tained in this region are, (1) the spinal cord, with the spinal meninges and the roots of the spinal nerves; (2) the vertebral column, from atlas to tip of coccyx inclusive; and (3) the muscles both great and small which are attached to the vertebrae, together with the integuments that cover them. The welfare of these organs is a subject of extremely great importance, inasmuch as their integrity, considering them as a unit, is essential to the very existence of man as an animal. I cannot emphasize this point in any better way than by calling attention to the fact that the vertebral column is the first portion of the skeleton to appear in man, and the centre around which all other parts of the skeleton are produced; that the spinal cord is the first formed portion of the nervous system, and the centre to which all other parts of the nervous system are appended; and that the chorda dorsalis of the embryo “ forms the basis around which the vertebral column is deve- loped.” At first, the vertebral column is a simple cartilaginous tube which surrounds and protects the primitive trace of the nervous system in the em- bryo ; but, as it advances in growth and organization, it becomes divided into 33 distinct pieces constituting the vertebrae; of which 24 are called true and 9 false. At a still later period, the false vertebrae coalesce, the upper 5 of them to form the sacrum, and the lower 4 to constitute the coccyx, the process of coalescence being completed at maturity or the termination of growth. The true vertebrae, however, do not coalesce; but, placed one above the other, they constitute a flexible tubular column, composed of ring-shaped bones alternating with lenticular disks of firm yet elastic intervertebral substance, and bound together by broad, thin planes or bands of ligamentous tissue, many of which are also elastic. The vertebral tube is lined by the spinal dura mater, or theca vertebralis, which is continuous with the cerebral dura mater above it, and contains much cerebro-spinal fluid in which the spinal cord, attended by large plexuses of veins, hangs suspended from the base of the brain by its attachments to the pons Varolii, as it were, in a well. The cerebro-spinal or sub-arachnoidean fluid also keeps up a constant and gentle