TUMORS. 654 syphilis, and the absence of the characteristic lesions of tubercle. In doubtful cases, where it is important that a diagnosis should be made, a tiny portion of the growth may be removed with the laryngeal forceps for examination. The disease may prove fatal in the course of a few months, but, in spite of tbe cruelly advantageous situation of the growth, this rapid course is the ex- ception, not the rule. It is not unusual for a patient, in the absence of any accident, to live for two to three, or even more years. This long duration depends unquestionably on the slow progress of the disease, and the slight tendency to dissemination, while the immediate danger of suffocation is averted by the performance of tracheotomy. In advanced stages of the disease the new growth may perforate the cartilages of the larynx, and form a distinct swelling in the neck. Although the tendency to dissemination appears to be remarkably slight, the cervical lymphatic glands are in many instances affected. Unfortunately, those surgeons who have published cases have not always been sufficiently alive to tbe importance of noting, or at least of in- cluding in their reports, a statement of the condition of the glands. The evidence on this point, therefore, is not nearly as complete as it might easily have been made. But the conclusion which must be drawn from the study of a large number of cases, is that the statement of Krishaber, is, in the main, correct, that the glands are affected by extrinsic, not by intrinsic carcinomas. Until within the last few years, the treatment of carcinoma of the larynx was solely palliative, and consisted of tracheotomy and the use of soothing local remedies. But, lately, removal of the disease by extirpation of the whole, or part, of the larynx has been practised. A large number of cases of this operation were collected by the late l)r. Foulis, who laid before the London meeting of the International Congress, in 1881,1 a table of cases of extirpation of tbe larynx, twenty-five of which were for carcinoma.2 The results of the operation are not sufficiently satisfactory to encourage surgeons to continue its performance. All the patients died save two or three—within a few months from recurrence of the disease, or within a few days from the immediate results of the operation. Of the three patients who did not die from either of these causes, the periods through which they had respec- tively been watched were seven months, four months, and about three months. Nevertheless, it is quite possible that earlier operation and a more careful selection of cases, with special reference to the intrinsic origin of the tumor, may yield a very different result, and that the operation, thus limited, may become justly popular. [Of 56 operations for carcinoma, tabulated by Dr. J. Solis Cohen,3 40 proved fatal, and more than half of these within the first fortnight. In only 6 cases were the patients known to be alive a year after the operation.] The foregoing examples will serve to show that carcinoma, like sarcoma, is influenced largely by the nature and relations of the part in which it takes its origin—even more, probably, than by any other single condition. They prove that the course and duration of the disease are largely influenced by its origin ; that dissemination depends, probably, in great part on the origin of the tumor; and, above all, that the affection of lymphatic glands depends, not on the structure of the tumor, as was formerly taught, but on the cir- cumstance that a tumor of a certain structure has been developed in a certain part. IIow largely these considerations must in future influence the progno- sis and treatment of malignant tumors, needs scarcely to be stated. 1 Transactions, vol. iii. p. 255. 2 Dr. Burow has collected a still larger number of cases in the Archives of Laryngology, 1883. 3 Trans. Coll. Phys. Pliila., 3d s., vol. vi. p. 353.