912 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE, matter is to determine the cause of the deformity ; but as this subject would involve a discussion of the symptoms of many very difficult diseases, it can hardly be dealt with in this place. The treatment, in perhaps the majority of instances, is simply negative. In many cases the lordosis is compensatory to some permanent and incurable de- formity, and is an advantage rather than a detriment to the patient. In few cases, indeed, is it of itself a cause of any great trouble to the individual who presents it. It would be obviously absurd to attempt to treat the lordosis depending upon abdominal tumor or pregnancy, although the curvature some- times due to obesity may perhaps be lessened by supporting the pendulous abdomen with a proper belt. Cases due to prolonged false position of the spine in connection with some special employment, may obviously be relieved by discontinuing that employment. Lordosis depending upon muscular weakness may be treated on the general plan advised in speaking of cyphosis. In no cases—except, perhaps, in those of contirmed paralytic lordosis—are instruments of any kind desirable, and even in these cases they can do little more than help to retain the spinal column erect. The Rachitic Spine.—Before leaving the subject of antcro-posterior curva- tures, some slight notice may be taken of the common changes in the spinal column in rickets. For a full account of the pathology of this disease, and of the various defor- mities which it causes, the reader is referred to the article on Rachitis,1 and to that on Orthoptedic Surgery. The spine in rickets may become the seat of certain curvatures that are nearly always in the antero-posterior direction. The nature of the curve is, to a great extent, influenced by the age of the patient at the time of its commencement. It must be remem- bered that at birth the vertebral column is without curve. The natural curve, such as it is, of infancy, is a general curving of the back, a slight cyphosis. This curve is seen when the infant is placed in the sitting posi- tion, and is the natural effect upon the column of the superincumbent weight. The earliest deformity of the spine in rickets, the deformity that appears at a time before the child begins to walk, is simply an exaggeration of the natural infantile curve. When the rickety child assumes the sitting posture, the whole back becomes curved from the neck to the loins. This curve is by no means permanent, and, indeed, at once disappears if the patient be suspended by the arms. It is due simply to a disproportion between the weight the column has to support, and the means it possesses to effect that support. The essential and primary defects in the column itself depend upon certain changes in the bodies of the vertebrae, upon certain defects in their growth and method of development, in the yieldings of enfeebled liga- ments^ in the failure of still more enfeebled muscles, and, as some would add,2 in an abnormal softness of the intervertebral disks. The cyphosis of rickets is most marked in the lower dorsal region, is seldom severe, and is not very apt to become permanent and irremediable. Indeed, as the child begins to walk, fresh mechanical influences are brought to bear upon the column, and the abnormal curvature may be replaced by the normal curves of the developed spine, or by an exaggeration of those curves. If the child has commenced to walk at the time that the rickety change involves the spine, then the defor- mity produced will, as first hinted, consist in an exaggeration of the normal curvature that should develop when the child is first able to support the body in the erect position. Thus a lordosis in the lower segments of the spine 1 See Vol. 1. page 251. * Senator, Art. Rickets, Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Medicine, vol. xvi. page 194.