947 pott’s disease of the spine. 4 Op. cit.. p. 18. the abscess is opened, and out of 28 cases reported by Michel, where the time of the evacuation of the abscess was known, death followed in 20 days in 10 instances. The same author also gives the following as the causes of death in 44 cases of spinal abscess. In 14 cases death resulted from tuberculosis of the lungs. In 16 “ “ “ “ marasmus. In 5 “ “ “ “ sloughing of the limbs from oedema. In 4 “ “ “ “ pyaemia. In 2 “ “ “ “ arachnitis. In 2 “ “ “ “ pus in the medullary canal. In 1 “ “ “ “ pneumonia. In some cases the patient dies from extension of the mischief in the cord, or from actual inflammation of the cord or its membranes. Any thoracic complication is apt to be dangerous in those cases of Pott’s disease which are associated with deformed chest. Among the less usual causes of death, may be mentioned hemorrhage, as in a case observed by Legouest,1 where fatal bleeding occurred from the vertebral artery in an instance of cervical caries, and as in another case re- corded by Fuller,2 where the abdominal aorta was perforated. [The editor3 has recorded a case of psoas abscess which ended fatally through hemorrhage from a branch of the internal iliac artery.] Death has also occurred from suffocation due to the sudden discharge of a spinal abscess into the bronchi, and from like unusual causes. Treatment of Pott’s Disease.—This may be considered under the heads of local and general treatment. Local Treatment.—The treatment of the spine in Pott’s disease has been for a considerable period a subject of dispute, and is still a matter upon which much difference of opinion exists. These differences involve, however, rather matters of detail than general principles, and it is more than probable that they will become still less conspicuous when our knowledge of the pathology of the disease is more distinct. The indications for local treatment are well expressed by Mr. Fisher, in his essay on this deformity. They are: “ First, the obtain- ing a condition of immobility for the diseased bones ; secondly, the relieving them from the pressure caused by the weight of the body above ; thirdly, the relaxation of local muscular contraction; and, lastly, the restoring of the spine, as far as possible, to its normal condition.”4 With regard to this last indication, the term “ normal” must be used in a very modified sense. A consolidation of the diseased part is the issue hoped for, and a rigidity of the region is desired, that obtains in no normal spine. Moreover, the removal of the deformity must always be a secondary consideration in treatment. De- formity of some amount is necessary for substantial cure, and no method of treatment can be more injurious than that proposed for the sole purpose of removing the disfigurement. Local treatment with this object is the usual expedient of the “ bone-setter” who treats Pott’s disease. lie professes to recog- nize in the deformity a-dislocation of the spine, and proceeds to restore the parts by violent extension, and by manipulation of a no more gentle character. Under such measures the posterior segments of the column, upon which the main hope of cure depends, have been broken across, and sudden paraplegia, or even death, has been the result. The indications just mentioned may be 1 Gazette Hebdom., p. 76. 1861. 2 Ibid., p. 524. 1859. 3 Principles and Practice of Surgery, 3d ed., p. 662, Philadelphia, 1882.