713 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL spinal column that is dislocated. I shall endeavor to note any exceptions to this rule in regard to the displacement in spinal dislocations as they present themselves in the following pages. It may likewise be well to say here that in all pure dislocations of the ver- tebrae, certainly in all of them that are bilateral or symmetrical, the inter- vertebral substance is torn completely through; if it were otherwise, the body of the upper vertebra could not be displaced forward nor backward, nor in any other direction upon the body of the lower vertebra. Also, in dislocations of the cervical vertebrae complicated with fracture, the intervertebral substance is generally torn completely through, and the frac- ture is usually found in the spinous process, or laminae, or pedicles of the dislocated vertebra itself, but not in the body. In five successive examples of dislocation and fracture combined, Mr. Bryant found in each that the body of a vertebra was dislocated forward upon the one below ; that the articular processes were displaced, or separated from each other, at their joints ; and that in each there was a fracture through the spinous process or laminae of the upper or dislocated vertebra, the luxations having taken place at the under surfaces of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, respectively.1 Dislocations in tiie Cervical Region.—The ginglymoid articulation between the occipital bone and the atlas, which joins the cranium to the ver- tebral column, and is therefore called the articulatio capitis, is remarkably stable and difficult to unhinge by reason (1) of the cup-shaped depressions in the transverse processes of the atlas which receive the condyles of the occipital bone; (2) by reason of the seven ligaments, some of which are very strong, that bind the atlas to the occipital bone, and (3) by reason of the narrow limits to which the motions of the joint itself are restricted. Hence, Boyer declares that there is no example of a displacement of the articular surfaces of the occiput with the vertebral column, in consequence of external violence. Even the large carnivorous animals, which prey upon the smaller, and which have occasion to make very violent movements of the head, furnish no example of this kind. In falls upon the head, in which the neck is strongly Hexed, although several cervical vertebrae may be broken, the occipital bone is never luxated upon the atlas. In the bodies of persons who have died by hanging, the atlas is often found luxated upon the axis, but the occiput is never found luxated upon the atlas. Nevertheless, dislocation of the occipital bone from the atlas has been described; it is, however, extremely rare. For instance: (1) Lassus observed2 the case of a man, injured by a mass of hay falling on the back of his neck, who was stunned and paralyzed, and had convulsions of the upper extremities. He lived six hours. Dislocation of the occiput from the atlas, and rupture of the vertebral artery and vein were found. (Ashhurst.) (2) Paletta described3 the case of a peasant man, aged forty, who fell head-foremost from a tree, and was paralyzed. He lived five days. Fracture of the fourth cervical vertebra and dislocation of the occiput from the atlas were found. (Ashhurst.) (3) Bouisson mentions4 the case of a boy, aged sixteen, who was crushed under a cart, and taken out dead. Dis- location forward of the atlas on the occiput was found. The medulla was compressed, but not crushed. (Ashhurst.) (4) A case in which dislocation of the occipital hone from the atlas and axis occurred, is noted in St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. x. p. 313. (5) Dariste is credited5 with a case 1 New Syd. Soc. Retrospect, 1867-08, pp. 275, 276. 2 Pathologie Chirurgicale, t. ii. 2 Exercitationes Pathologicse. 4 Revue Medico-Chirurg. de Paris, t. ii. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 0. S., vol. xxiii.