(261) DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. BA’ RICHARD BAR WELL, F.R.C.S., SURGEON TO CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL, LONDON. Synovitis. In order that the movements of joints maybe both painless and innocuous, nature has clothed the ends of the bones which form them with cartilage, a substance singularly devoid of sensation, and very irresponsive to sources of irritation. Again, in order to bind those bones firmly together and to limit motion both in direction and amount, nature has employed a material which, on being tightened, does not cause pain nor respond to moderate tension by over-action and hypersemia. Both cartilages and ligaments, being destined to withstand pressure and traction, support those forces with considerable in- difference ; they are both very inapt to take upon themselves primarily any inflammatory action, though such action may spread to them from neighbor- ing parts. Hence, although in the dissecting or post-mortem room we occa- sionally find that the articular cartilages in a knee, shoulder, or other joint of a senile subject, are rough, velvety, villous, or even eroded, yet we find in such joints no other change, and inquiry, when it can be made, will show that during fife no articular trouble was observed. Even such slight appearance of dis- ease as this, does not occur by itself in the ligaments. Their structure seems incapable of independent morbid action, although it slowly takes part and shares in such as affects the common areolar tissue which binds together its fibres and permeates its meshes. The other two constituents of joints—bone and synovial membrane—are very differently circumstanced. The former, although not particularly sen- sitive to slight causes of irritation, is by its very function of weight-bearer and lever, exposed to many kinds of' traumatism; by its mode of growth, to many formative diseases; and by its constitution, perhaps by the function of its medulla, it is peculiarly susceptible to the influence of dyserasige-^to those of youth, of middle life, and of senility. The synovial membrane is one of the constituents of the body most prone to respond rapidly to slight irritants by intense reaction, and that reaction is usually strongly marked because its products, concentrated within a cavity, again affect the synovial tissue itself with painful and generally injurious tension. Hence it happens that whatever the theories1 concerning the origin of cer- tain diseases in the cartilages or ligaments may be, we do not find, either in the wards or in the laboratory, that joint-diseases begin in the most insensi- tive and sluggish constituents of the articular mechanism. The morbid appearances and the symptoms of an isolated chondritis or 1 The theories as to hip-disease commencing in the round ligament, and of arthritis deformans beginning in the cartilages, will he refuted hereafter.