170 INJURIES OF BONES. perceived, there is reason to suspect comminution. Maisonneuve1 records the following case: A woman, aged seventy, fell, striking the palm of her right hand. She had instantly great pain and tenderness of the wrist, and com- plete loss of power in the hand, which became swollen; but there was no defoi’mity nor crepitus. If, however, the hand was strongly extended, there was perceptible a yielding of the radius about an inch above the joint. She died on the fourteenth day, and the diagnosis of fracture was verified; but the periosteum on the dorsal face of the bone was untorn. The styloid pro- cess of the ulna had been wrenched off, and was adherent to the internal lateral ligament. Besides the “ silver-fork” deformity, there is in these cases an abduction of the hand, so that its radial border forms with that of the forearm an entering angle, and the ulna projects strongly on the other side of the wrist. This is due largely to the fracturing force, the hand being stopped while the weight of the body continues to drive the upper fragment downward and forward, and thus to push it into the cancellous tissue of the lower. It is easy to see that in the majority of cases the impact comes chiefly upon the radial side of the palm, in falls upon the hand, and hence that the penetration of the lower by the upper fragment would naturally be greater on that side. But this is in fact a shortening of the forearm on this margin by a change in the posi- tion and plane of the lower articulating surface of the radius, and the angle of the hand with the forearm must be correspondingly changed. The ulna does not move; it cannot, by reason of its very close articulation with the humerus above. Hence, it seems to me incorrect to speak of luxation of the ulna as an element of this lesion; it is the hand which, with the lower frag- ment of the radius, assumes a new position with regard to that bone. And in strictness the ulna should not be said to project, although the expression may be retained as a matter of convenience. Perhaps I may best speak here of the views of Prof. Moore, of Rochester, who maintains that “ luxation of the ulna” is the key to the pathology and treatment of the lesion in these cases. It has been already stated that there is often a twisting of the wrist along with the mere over-extension which breaks the radius, and when the change of angle between the hand and fore- arm, just spoken of, takes place, there must of necessity be also a change in the relations between the carpal bones and the lower end of the ulna. And by entanglement in the annular ligament or a tendon (generally, I think, that of the extensor carpi ulnaris), the correction of this latter displacement may be rendered very difficult. Admitting, however, that such a state of things exists, as claimed by Prof. Moore, in one-half of the cases, it seems to me that its absence in the other half certainly makes it secondary to the lesion which is always present. With all deference to his learning and practical ability, I am myself unable to accept his theory, to which I believe the above statement does justice; of the treatment based upon it, which has some great merits, more will be said presently. It has been already stated that swelling takes place very rapidly after frac- ture in this region. When the lesion involves the articular surface, or in other words enters the joint, there is copious effusion into this cavity, and active inflammation may be set up. And in any case the sheaths of the ten- dons are thus distended ; besides which, although at a somewhat later stage, the subcutaneous areolar tissue becomes the seat of lymphization, and some- times, especially in feeble or aged persons, of oedematous fulness. Simultaneous fracture of both radii near their lower extremities has been observed in many instances, the reason of its frequency being obvious. 1 Clinique Cliirurgicale, tome i. p. 164.