INJURIES OF BONES. 42 serious than many simple fractures. And as soon as, by the process of granu- lation or by adhesion, the soft parts have closed in over the bone, repair goes on as rapidly as if the fracture had been simple throughout. ISTo law can be laid down as to a definite difference between simple and compound fractures, in the length of time required for their repair. According to Cornil and Ranvier,1 in compound fractures— “ The changes occurring are identically the same as in osteitis ; at all the irritated points of the surface of the solution of continuity, the marrow becomes embryonic, and undergoes changes similar to those of a simple osteitis. Under the periosteum, the new embryonic marrow soon forms osseous trabeculae; five or six days after the accident they may be found. The Haversian canals opened by the fracture are enlarged through the absorption of the osseous substance limiting them ; the vessels and marrow which they contain contribute to the formation of the granulation tissue. The marrow in the central medullary cavity undergoes the same modifications, although more slowly. Thus, over the whole surface of the solution of continuity, there are formed granulations which enlarge and by uniting together constitute an embryonic or inflammatory tissue, in the midst of which osseous trabeculae are developed, as in the physiological method of ossi- fication. The needle-like points of the old bone seem always to act as a base for the new osseous formation. Growing in every direction, uniting one with the other and with the opposite fragments, they limit the spaces filled with the embryonic marrow. These spaces are gradually narrowed by the addition of new osseous layers, and con- solidation is brought about by a firm adhesion between the two fragments of bone.” It is very necessary to remark, that, while this distinction between the mode of union in simple and compound fractures is clearly to be discerned, the two processes are often combined in the same case. Thus, either from the very first or from a later period, the deeper portions of a broken bone may be entirely excluded from the air; and hence in these the repair goes on by the method described for simple fractures, by the ossification of lymph or plasma passing through a stage of more or less complete develop- ment of fibrous or cartilaginoid structure. At the same time, granulations are forming about the exposed portions of the injured bone, and here the uniting medium, the callus, will be the direct result of the ossification of those granulations. Cicatricial tissue will he developed for the repair of all the damage to which the air finds access, and will take on the structure of the parts united. At first the scar in the skin will be closely adherent to the new-formed reparative bone; indeed, it sometimes remains so perma- nently. But in many cases there is a gradual stretching of the intermediate layer, until a very good imitation of normal areolar tissue allows the cuta- neous cicatrix to play freely over the bone even where the fracture existed. This, however, corresponds in time to the later stages of the modelling process. Defects in the Process of Repair of Fractures. In the vast majority of cases of fracture of the long bones, osseous union takes place in due course. As the surgeon from time to time, during the period of treatment, handles the limb, he finds the fragments less and less movable upon one another, until at last they do not yield at all, and the patient himself becomes able to exert some muscular power upon the restored bone. Clinical observation has determined pretty nearly the average period at which, under ordinary circumstances, consolidation may be looked for in the several por- tions of the skeleton; and in general we do so expect it. But cases are met Op. cit., p. 210.