845 DISORDERS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Congestion of the spinal cord coining on some days, it may be, after falls or blows upon the lower part of the spinal column, sometimes causes paralysis of the detrusor muscle, with retention of urine, when no such paralysis fol- lowed the injury. Myelitis causes incontinence of urine because it destroys the tonic centre for the sphincter vesicse, and thus paralyzes that muscle, as well as the sphincter ani, etc. Alterations of the urinary secretion very often arise from injuries and diseases of the spinal cord. Briefly stated, these alterations consist of alka- linity, which is often excessive; of the presence of an abnormally great quan- tity of the phosphates; and of the existence, in the urine, of blood, pus, and mucus. Occasionally the urinary secretion is entirely suppressed in such in- stances. It has long been noticed by surgeons that, after fractures of the vertebral column with consecutive lesions of the spinal cord, the composition of the urine very frequently and very rapidly becomes altered. In almost all cases of traumatic myelitis, it soon presents a remarkable alkalinity. I have also reported two cases of spinal injury with marked displacement between the fifth and seventh cervical vertebrae, and paraplegia, in which it was observed on the second day after the accident that the urine when withdrawn by catheterization had a strongly ammoniacal odor, that is, was strongly alkaline, although that operation had been thoroughly performed as often as needful ever since the accidents. A great many cases have likewise been mentioned in the foregoing pages, in which, soon after the reception of spinal injuries, the urinary secretion was found to be alkaline instead of acid. Sir B. C. Brodie1 especially called attention to the characteristics presented by the urine in the case of persons stricken with traumatic paraplegia. He observed the urine to be alkaline, and to exhale a fetid, ammoniacal odor at the moment of emis- sion, on the second, on the third, and on the eighth day. Soon afterward, this secretion contained blood-clots, muco-purulent matter, and deposits of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphates. It would be easy to collect from authors of repute a very great number of analogous cases. I shall mention but two additional observations. Dupuytren pointed out that, in cases of spinal fracture with lesion of the cord, the catheter when allowed to remain in order to guard against retention quickly became coated with a calcareous incrustation. Mr. Shaw2 relates the case of a young man who had fracture of a dorsal vertebra and complete paraplegia, caused by falling from a tree. Extensive sloughs formed on the nates, but they healed, and he appeared to be recovering with paralysis, after surviving eight months. During most of this time his water flowed continuously into a urinal, and the catheter was not used. Eventually, however, his urine became turbid and fetid; and he died with symptoms of aggravated disease of the bladder. The autopsy revealed a discolored and shreddy state of the vesical mucous membrane, with five phosphatic calculi as large as pigeons’ eggs,, and coated with mucus, in the bladder; also phosphatic calculi were found impacted in the calices, and lying loose in the pelvis, of each kidney. The alkaline and phosphatic characters of the urine are met with in lesions of the spinal cord so constantly, that their presence must be mainly due to the operation of some single cause which acts efficiently in nearly all the cases. Some hold that this condition of the urine is caused principally by the introduction of septic matters from without into the bladder. But this 1 Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, 1836, p. 148. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 401, 2d ed.