251 INJURIES OP BONES. 6 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870. 6 British Med. Journal, Feb. 11, 1882. was difficult; in the other, the patient dying in thirteen hours, the con- dition was verified by dissection. When the fibula gives way by extreme abduction, there may be either a rupture of the internal lateral ligament, or a tearing off of the tip of the inner malleolus—sometimes of a larger portion. When the opposite condition obtains, the malleolus may be broken off by the forcible impact of the tarsal bones against it. But these cases have already been discussed under the head of Pott’s fracture.1 The symptoms of fracture of the fibula are occasionally obscure. Some- times the patient can walk, but there is always some pain, by reason of the fragments irritating the muscles, or by the slight strain brought to bear upon the broken part in the balancing motion of which walking so largely consists. Pain on pressure is always present, and swelling and ecchymosis are very apt to-occur. Crepitus is generally very slight, on account of the small size of the bone, and there may be no perceptible deformity. Keen2 has pointed out, as a symptom of fracture in the lower third of this bone, a widening of the ankle, allowing of motion to a more than normal degree of the astragalus between the malleoli. This can be developed by grasping the leg above the ankle, at about the supposed seat of fracture, and then with the other hand taking hold of the astragalus itself. Malgaigne3 speaks of the widening of the inter-malleolar space, but only very casually. Fractures of the fibula are sometimes attended with other serious symptoms, especially when the upper portion of the bone is involved. Duplay4 has reported two such cases, in workmen caught in machinery bands and thrown against a wall. Among many other lesions, “ there was found above the ordinary position of the head of the fibula a bony prominence, immovable, continuous with the tendon of the biceps. Below there was a manifest de- pression A few days later, a paralysis of the extensors of the foot and of the peronei muscles was noted, due doubtless to lesion of the external popliteal nerve In one case the diagnosis was verified post mortem; the other man left the hospital after several months, the paralysis remaining, as it still does.” M. Perrin mentioned a similar case in a rider whose horse fell with him, and caught his right leg beneath him for a moment. There was “ arrachement” of the head of the fibula, and very considerable diastasis of the knee-joint, with some effusion. Complete anaesthesia and paralysis of the anterior and outer part of the leg ensued. The ultimate result is not stated. Callender4 mentions two cases of compound fracture of the head of the fibula, in both of which amputation became necessary on account of the injury inflicted on the peroneal nerve. Barwell6 has recorded an instance in which fracture of the fibula was followed by the development of malignant disease. In the majority of cases, however, fractures of this bone unite favorably, and the functions of the limb are early and completely restored. As to the treatment of fractures of the fibula, it may often be almost iden- tical with that of other fractures of the bones of the leg. When there is no marked displacement, the limb may be simply kept at rest in a fracture-box, or done up with side splints, or with the Bavarian splint. It there is a strong tendency to either eversion or inversion of the foot, it may be cor- rected by placing a single long splint on the side toward which the foot is 1 A very elaborate memoir on fractures of the fibula was published by Maisonneuve in the Archives G^nerales de Medecine, for 1840, and was republished in his Clinique Chirurgicale, tome i. Paris, 1863. The reader may consult it with advantage. 2 Philadelphia Med. Times, Aug. 15, 1872. 3 Traite des Fractures, etc., tome i. p. 813. 4 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 17 Avril, 1880.