731 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL (3) A soldier1 fell from a horse; he was stunned, and had a cervical vertebra dislo- cated ; mobility of head was noted. Reduction was effected by extension and manipu- lation. He could walk again in three days, and recovered in eight days. (Ashhurst.) (4) A male child, aged 34 years,2 was injured by another child jumping on his back. He fell and had the third or fourth cervical vertebra dislocated, but no paralysis. The luxation was reduced by extension, and recovery ensued. (Ashhurst.) (5) Dr. J. Flogel3 reports a case in which a subluxation of the cervical vertebrae was successfully reduced. But, perhaps, the most suggestive example of recovery, by means of reduction, from an apparently hopeless dislocation of a cervical vertebra, is one to which I have barely alluded ; it certainly deserves further mention. Hickerman, of Ohio, found in the case of a girl one of the vertebrae dislocated, causing a prominence in the back part of the pharynx, opposite the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, and almost completely suspend- ing respiration and the action of the heart. He seized the head of the patient under his left arm and thus made extension, while with the index finger of his right hand he made pressure upon the projection in the pharynx. In about one minute the bone receded under the pressure, and immediately the respiration became natural. Re- covery was complete.4 As already stated, there are several similar cases on record. In striking contrast with these excellent results achieved by reduction, is the fact that among the 394 cases contained in Professor Ashhurst’s tables, no mention is made of even one case of bilateral or symmetrical dislocation of a cervical vertebra, attended with paraplegia from compression of the spinal cord by the displaced bone, in which recovery took place under the expectant treatment, and but few in which death was long deferred. But the restoration of a cervical vertebra, when luxated, to its normal posi- tion, is seldom easy, generally difficult, and sometimes almost impossible to accomplish, as the following examples will help to show:— Gaitskill5 is the authority for a case of complete bilateral dislocation of the seventh cervical vertebra, attended by paralysis, which in the upper extremities was only par- tial. The efforts at reduction failed and the patient died. Mention has also been made on one of the preceding pages of a case of luxation of the second cervical vertebra from the third, reported by Spencer,6 in which the attempt at reduction likewise failed, and in which, after forty-eight hours, the man died. (Ashhurst.) These two cases show that the surgeon who attempts to reduce luxations of the cervical vertebrte, must expect to encounter great difficulties at times, and should be prepared to overcome them ; this he can generally do by per- severing sufficiently in appropriate and well-directed efforts at reduction, while the muscles of the patient are completely relaxed by the inhalation of chloroform or ether. Having reduced the dislocation, and taken adequate measures (above men- tioned) to prevent its recurrence, as well as to provide against the falling for- ward of the patient’s head in such a way as to drag the spinal cord against the odontoid process of the axis, by placing a small, firm pillow under the neck, while the patient lies fiat on his back and extended in bed, the fulfilment of the second indication for treatment must next be attended to, which consists in moderating the inflammatory reaction at the injured joints, and preventing its spread to the spinal membranes and the spinal cord itself. Two examples have already been presented on the authority of Mr. Simon and M. Mal- gaigne, which go far to show that the spread, in such cases, of traumatic inflammation from the injured joints to the spinal meninges and the spinal 1 Journal de Desault, t. iii. 2 Journ. der Cliirurgie, 1822, Bd. iii. 3 Wien. med. Halle, 1864, S. 147 ; New Syd. Soc. Year-Book, 1864, p. 280. 1 Hamilton, Princ. and Pract. of Surgery, p. 315. 6 London Repository, vol. xv. 6 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. x.