399 DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. But if suppuration be more acute, and be attended by pyrexia, and by very considerable increase of pain, it will be necessary, for some time at least, to enforce recumbency, and to keep up extension with immobility, by means of one of the appliances already described; it may be desirable to carefully examine and correct the malposture under an anaesthetic,1 and, if so, this must be done with the greatest gentleness. At the same time, abscesses should be sought for, and, if of sufficient size and tenseness to be a probable source of pain, should be opened with proper antiseptic (not necessarily Listerian) pre- cautions, and then syringed and drained. In a few days or weeks, when fever has subsided, the patient may again be provided with a suitable splint, and allowed to go about. Intrapelvic abscess, especially if large, is a very serious condition in hip- disease, generally indicating necrosis, present or soon to follow, of the ace- tabular floor. Such disease, however we may treat it, by rest, tonics, and exercise, usually demands excision, and an opening, either by removal of sequestra or by trephining, through the acetabulum. Sometimes the abscess discharges itself either below Poupart’s ligament or through the ischiatic notch, and debris of bone may come away, and, after years of suppuration, the patient may recover. But, also, I have known such an abscess to open into the rectum or bladder. Every case of large intrapelvic abscess is attended with danger, either from bursting into one of the cavities above named, or from continuing for a lengthened period, profuse suppuration ultimately wear- ing out the patient. Suppuration in the hip-joint is a disease during which the surgeon must in great measure wait upon events, taking care to maintain the limb in good position, to keep the discharges free from putrefaction, to uphold the patient’s health and strength, and, if necessary, to seize the proper moment for excision, which, however, if patience and care be exercised, is not often needed.2 Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint. The synchondrosis between the sacrum and ilium differs from the joints with which we have hitherto had to do, inasmuch as there is here no true diarthrosis, but a half-joint—an amphi-arthrosis. The two bones are chiefly bound together by coarse-fibred ligament, but at the auricular part a layer of cartilage covers each bone. This is considerably thicker on the sacrum than on the ilium. Between the two, lies, in some persons, a yellow tissue, very like the central parts of the intervertebral substance. In other subjects a bursa occupies that situation.3 Hence, as the constitution of the joint is simpler than that of others, so also are its diseases. They are all due to osseous inflammation and its effects—caries, caries necrotica, and, when occa- sionally a larger sequestrum entitles the disease to be so named, necrosis. The locality, however, where these processes originate causes a very considerable difference, from what they present elsewhere, in their symptoms, prognosis, and treatment; and therefore cases of sacro-iliac disease, though simple in pathology, are, clinically, often extremely obscure. In many cases the inflammation and its resultant caries commence at the front of the sacrum, being exactly similar to spinal caries; only, as the con- joined parts of that compound bone are not movable on each other, no angular curvature takes place. The disease may spread upward and downward, as well 1 Tile possibility of subluxation (see p. 391) must not be overlooked. 2 The question of bip-excision, early or late, is treated of in another part of this volume. s For anatomical details, the reader is referred to an excellent monograph by Luschka • Die Halbgelenke des menschlichen Korpers.