721 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL Fig. 772. The respiratory movements indicated that the lesion of the spinal cord was below the origin of the phrenic nerves, and the total paralysis of the upper extremities that it was situated above the origin of the brachial plexus. The patient, thenceforth, was left undisturbed. He lay perfectly supine, breathing by the diaphragm alone, suffered no pain, and was able to swallow small quantities of fluids. His pulse which immediately after the accident was 78, in two hours fell to 72. About three ounces of turbid urine were withdrawn by catheter in the evening. He sank gradually, and died forty-four hours after the accident. Autopsy, five hours after death. Rigor mortis imperfectly established; sugillation general over posterior portion of body; ulceration over the sacrum had already commenced. The lower and back part of the neck exhibited slight tume- faction, yet sufficient to obliterate the depression which had been felt during life. The whole cervical portion of the spi- nal column was exposed by dissection, which revealed a dis- location forward of the fourth cervical vertebra upon the fifth. (The accompanying wood-cut, Fig. 772, clearly shows that the fourth cervical vertebra was dislocated from the fifth, and not the latter from the former, as stated in the report of the case.) The luxation was “ symmetrical.” There was a wide interval of one and a half inches between the spinous processes of the fourth and fifth vertebras, which caused the depression perceived at the first examination of patient. There was no fracture of the body, pedicles, or laminas of the displaced bone, but a part of the anterior tubercle of the right transverse process of the fifth vertebra had been snapped off. The ligamenta subflava and capsular ligaments connect- ing the fourtli and fifth vertebras had been ruptured, as well as the attachment of the ligamentum nuchae to these bones. The anterior and posterior common ligaments were not broken. There was a slight extravasation of blood external to the theca verte- bralis, and a considerable quantity between the theca and the spinal cord. At the point of luxation, the cord was bent at an abrupt angle, and its antero-posterior di- ameter reduced more than one-half by compression from the laminae of the displaced fourth vertebra against the body of the fifth, and by tilting forward of the upper four vertebras. The meninges of the cord were not torn, nor was the cord itself lace- rated, which may perhaps be accounted for by the fact that the wide separation of the laminae posteriorly allowed it to bulge out in that direction, and thus escape rupture. The lungs were generally congested, the left more than the right. The posterior por- tions were especially engorged ; but crepitation was nowhere entirely absent. The heart was slightly hypertrophied and all its cavities empty. The osteal specimen was removed and sent to the Army Medical Museum. It is represented in Fig. 772.1 Luxation forward of the fourth cervical vertebra upon the fifth. Spec. 549, Sect. I., A. M. M. The four upper cervical verte- brae are displaced far forward, and the axis of the vertebral column is also abruptly bent in the same direction at the place of luxation. The symptoms in this case clearly indicated that there was dislocation for- ward of a vertebra, with much displacement, somewhat below the middle of the cervical region, without much fracture. The completeness with which the skin and all the muscles below the neck, excepting the diaphragm, were paralyzed, denotes that the spinal cord was either severed or strongly com- pressed by the displaced bone. The autopsy showed that the antero-posterior diameter of the cord was lessened more than one-half by displacement for- ward of the fourth vertebra, and that the compression of the cord thus caused was supplemented by the extravasation of considerable blood between the theca and the cord. It is not improbable that the extravasation of blood, if it did not directly occasion, hastened by at least some hours the occurrence of death, by compressing the spinal cord at and above the origin of the phrenic nerves. It should here be stated that, in vertebral dislocations and ' Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871. VOL. IV.—46