781 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. pact of small-arm missiles, without any apparent Assuring of the laminae or bodies, etc., of the injured vertebrae, and without any serious lesion of the spinal cord. These patients all recovered.1 In some of these cases, spinal paralysis, too, was present at the outset, hut it probably arose from concus- sion of the spinal cord, for it soon passed away. Professor Aslihurst2 men- tions, in point, the case of a soldier, seen by himself, who was wounded by a musket-ball in the lumbar region. The missile entered to the left side of the spinal column, carried away the spinous process of a lumbar vertebra, and lodged; it was extracted from the right liip many months afterward. At first there was spinal paralysis. This soldier recovered and was transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps. Nearly two years subsequent to the casualty his back was yet stiff, and occasionally painful. Most of the 104 patients having gunshot lesions of the spinal column, who recovered and were returned to duty in our army during the late civil war, doubtless sustained merely frac- tures of the spinous or transverse processes. Indeed, the abstracts of the successful cases belonging to this category, which are presented in the sur- gical history of the war, strongly support this view. It is, therefore, but reasonable to conclude, that in cases of gunshot fracture of the vertebrae, the prognosis is very much less unfavorable when the lesion is restricted to the spinous or transverse processes, than|when other parts are involved. A few, however, of the one hundred and four patients having gunshot fractures of the vertebrae got more or less completely well again, when the bodies, or the laminae, or the vertebral pedicles were broken, and when the spinal cord was at the same time considerably injured. For, “ in fifty-four cases of gunshot injury of the vertebrae, complicated by traumatic lesions of the cord, forty-two were fatal, and twelve partially recovered and were dis- charged, with various degrees of physical disability. The cases of contusion and commotion of the spinal cord are not included in this category."3 * Some, at least, of those who were returned to duty must have been affected with contusion and commotion of the spinal cord, and with lesions of the vertebrae more severe than fractures restricted to their apophyses. Professor Paul F. Eve* reports two cases of gunshot injury of the spinal column, which the victims long survived, and in which the missiles remained lodged in the spine. Again, Surgeon C. S. Tripler, U. S. Army,5 * relates the case of an) officer who, in 1839, during the last Seminole campaign in Florida, was wounded in the loins by a rifle-ball, which penetrated on the right side, in a line with the junction of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebras, struck the spinal column, lodged, and was not extracted. There were complete paraplegia and priapism, with retention of urine and feces. He survived for twelve years. The paralysis, however, but slightly improved. The catheter, and laxatives or enemata, had to be used for about two years, that is, until, in 1841, he found that he could stimulate the bladder and rectum to contract by tickling the side of his penis behind the corona glandis.® M. Hutin, of the French Army,7 men- tions the case of a soldier, aged 20, who, in 1835, was wounded in the loins, in Algeria. The ball entered on the right side, near the first and second lumbar vertebras, and, lodging therein, was not extracted. There was immediate paraplegia. In three months the wound healed. This soldier survived the injury fourteen years, and died of Bright’s disease. An autopsy revealed the ball lodged in the spinal canal; it had severed the right half of the cauda equina and displaced the left half; medullary substance much 1 Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences, October, 1864, p. 315. 2 Op. cit., pp. 116, 117. 3 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 453. 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1868, pp. 103-107. 6 New York Journal of Medicine, 1851. 6 A case of shot fracture of the seventh dorsal vertebra, with paraplegia, is mentioned on p. 438, of the First Surgical Volume of the Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, in which tickling of the glans penis likewise produced urination, and partial evacuation of the bladder, by exciting the detrusor urinae muscle to contract. (See page 813, infra.) 7 Lancet, 1649.