234 INJURIES OF BONES. in which he opened the knee-joint, drilled the fragments, and fastened them together with silver wire. The operations were done with antiseptic precau- tions ; no bad symptoms ensued, and the final result in each case was satisfac- tory. Cameron1 gives the case of a man, aged thirty-five, in whom the broken patella had formed a wide ligamentous union, the fragments being, in exten- sion of the knee, three inches apart, and in flexion admitting the breadth of the hand between them ; he sutured them with thick silver wire, under anti- septic precautions, leaving a drainage tube in the joint. The result was satisfactory; eight months afterward the man had difficulty in flexing the knee, owing to the shortening of the parts in front.2 Other instances have been recorded, without a distinct statement as to the fact of interference with the joint. Thus Barling3 showed to the Midland Medical Society “ an adult patient who by a fall had torn the ligamentous union of an old fractured patella. By a longitudinal incision over the bone, the fragments had been laid bare, refreshed, and then approximated by a sin- gle silver wire suture, which was cut oil' short and left. The operation had been performed some weeks before, and the fragments were in good position. In course of time, Dr. Barling hoped that solid osseous union would take place.” Holmes4 records the history of an attempt to obtain bony union in a case in which the fragments were connected by fibrous tissue; an incision was made with antiseptic precautions, and a suture applied; the patient’s life was seriously endangered by suppurative inflammation. Other cases have been reported in various journals.5 One instance in which very little good seems to have been accomplished is recorded by Lloyd.6 The fracture was caused by direct violence ; the knee gave way about twelve months afterward, and again twelve months after that. Malgaigne’s hooks were then used, but without success, and incision, resection, and suture were employed, with division of the quadriceps tendon, of the tissues at either side of the bone, and of the ligamentum patelke. The suture was allowed to remain ; the fracture, however, was still ununited. Lund7 has proposed a plan of treatment combining the idea of Malgaigne’s hooks and that of suture of the fragments. He advocates keeping the limb extended, on a back-splint with a foot-piece, and slightly raised; a cold evap- orating lotion, or ice, is applied to the knee until nearly all effusion has sub- sided." Then, under anaesthesia, a strong screw-pin is driven into each frag- 1 Glasgow Medical Journal, April, 1883. 2 In the Index Medicus for August, 1883,1 find the following title : Henzelt, Ueher die Behand- lung der subcutanen Querfracturen der Patella mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung del- Punction des Gelenkes und der Knochennaht. Dorpat, 1883. (On the treatment of simple transverse fractures of the patella, with reference especially to puncture of the joint and suture of the hone.) The work itself I have not seen. 3 British Med. Journal, April 14, 1883. * St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1879. 6 Ward (British Med. Journal, June 9, 1883) records five operated on in the Leeds Infirmary, three having been cases of simple and two of compound fracture. I find also in the Index Medicus the following :— Weinlechner, Eine durcli Verschiittetwerden erzeugte Fraktur der Patella, welche das Gehen wegen weiten Ahstandes der Bruchstiicke und unwollstandiger Streckung des Unterschenkels hehinderte, kam nach seclismonatlichem Bestande durcli Resection und Naht der Bruchstiicke zur Heilung mit normaler Punction. (A fracture of the patella by direct violence which hindered walking by reason of the wide separation of the fragments and inability to extend the leg ; after six months the normal function was restored by resection and suture of the fragments.) Aertzl. Bericht der k. k. allgem. Krankenh. zu Wien, 1882. Sacre, Fracture ancienne de la rotule droite ; avivement; suture osseuse ; guerison avec anky- lose. (Old fracture of the right patella; freshening of edges ; suture of the hone; cure with anchylosis.) Journal de Medecine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie, Bruxelles, 1883. Wahl Naht einer Patella-fraktur. (Suture of a fracture of the patella.) Deutsche rued. Woclienschrift, Berlin, 1883. 6 Birmingham Medical Review, March, 1883. 7 Lancet, April 29,1882.