854 INJURIES OF THE BACK. upper lumbar vertebrae are fractured or dislocated. For instance, I have already related for another purpose, on page 796, the case of a derrick-man, aged 41, who had bis tenth dorsal vertebra fractured by being thrown from a cart, and was admitted into Bellevue Hospital two hours after the accident, in a state of profound collapse, with the pulse too frequent and feeble to be counted, and with the lower extremities and body completely paralyzed as to sensation and voluntary motion up to the sixth intercostal space; still, there was moderate priapism observed. I have likewise already men- tioned, on page 781, the case of an officer, which was originally reported by Surgeon C. S. Tripler,U. S. Army, and in which there was a shot-fracture of the spinal column at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions, attended with paraplegia, retention of urine and feces, and priapism. Furthermore, I have mentioned, on page 743, the case of a man, aged 25 (it was related by Hr. Parker), who sustained a dislocation of the twelfth dorsal upon the first lumbar vertebra, with slight fracture, in consequence of being struck by a falling door, and who had priapism as well as paraplegia; and, no doubt, in several other instances of inferior dorsal or lumbar fractures or dislocations of the vertebrae that are related or referred to above, there was priapism as well as paraplegia present. In addition to these observations, I will take space only to mention a case reported by Hr. Hutchison,1 of Brooklyn, N. Y., in which the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh dorsal vertebrae were fractured, in a man, aged 35, by fall- ing fifteen feet from a scaffold, and in which paralysis, priapism, etc., ensued; another case reported by MM. A. Pousson and F. Lalesque,2 in which a man, aged 40, sustained dislocation of the eleventh dorsal vertebra combined with fracture of its laminae, and in which, besides paraplegia, there were priapism, etc.; and a third case recorded by Mr. Hilton,3 in which a man, aged 30, fell through a trap-door, sixteen or eighteen feet, fractured his eleventh dorsal vertebra, and completely divided his spinal cord, with the effect of producing complete paraplegia, etc., as well as priapism, which appeared, however, on the second day. I have no doubt that if a search were specially instituted for the purpose, a considerable number of additional cases could be collected in which fractures or dislocations of the vertebra; in the lower dorsal and lumbar regions were attended by priapism, as well as by paralysis. This peculiar disorder of the male genitalia is, however, met with much more frequently in the cervical and upper dorsal regions than elsewhere, but it should also be borne in mind that fractures and dislocations of the vertebrae occur much the most frequently in these regions. It may be of interest to remark, in this connection, that Professor Agnew states that he has seen priapism present itself after injuries of the head,4 as well as after those of the spinal column. But priapism may likewise appear in cases of concussion or contusion of the spinal cord, and in consequence of those injuries. I have already pre- sented two examples belonging to this category on pages 790 and 792; one of these was reported by Sir W. Gull, and the other by Mr. Savory. In Sir W. Gull’s case, the only lesions of the cord observable were ecchymosis and hyperaemia, mostly in the gray sul(stance, opposite the fourth and fifth cer- vical vertebrae. The priapism disappeared in a few hours, but returned on the following day. In Mr. Savory’s case, there was complete loss of sensa- tion and voluntary motion in the lower extremities, and in the trunk nearly 1 American Medical Times, 1861. 2 Medical News and Abstract, March, 1881, pp. 179, 180. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. xi. t Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 829.