INJURIES OF THE BACK. 818 contained three pints of dark, bloody, stinking fluid. The muscular tissue in the lumbar region was very dark and softened, but contained no abscesses nor infiltrated pus.1 Death occurred three weeks after the infliction of the wound. The membranes and substance of the spinal cord, in this case, exhibited the signs of convalescence from inflammation, and that process must have run pretty high at one time, for the theca vertebralis had become strongly adherent to the spinal column. The spinal membranes were still congested, and the cord-substance looked very red, when exposed to view at the autopsy. Pathological Anatomy.—This reddened hue of the rachidian parenchyma is accounted for by the peculiar manner in which the vascular apparatus is involved. The intense hypersemia which ushers in the morbid changes invariably gives rise to a large number of minute eccbymoses; these, of course, are ecpially numerous when the hemorrhage is the primary and the inflammation the secondary phenomenon. Should the affected part undergo softening and purulent liquefaction, the extravasated blood mingles with the pulp, and imparts to it a more or less intensely red color. Hence, the term red softening is generally applied to parts affected by encephalitis (cerebritis), or by myelitis; but this term is equally applicable to other cases in which similar effects are produced by very different causes. The presence of pus is characteristic of the inflammatory form of red softening; so, too, is the pre- sence of an areola, from one to two lines in width, in which the parenchyma is studded with numerous bloody points, and swollen by a commencing puru- lent infiltration. (Rindfleisch.) But purulent softening had not yet appeared in the example just related; or, rather, the liypenemia of the rachidian parenchyma, which was very intense and accompanied by a great multitude of minute extravasations of blood, seems to have been passing away, that is, undergoing resolution or cure, the intensely red hue arising therefrom alone remaining. I have dwelt somewhat upon this case, because it. affords sure ground for the hope of obtaining a cure by timely medication in analogous cases of traumatic inflammation of the membranes and substance of the spinal cord. But when, on the other hand, resolution of acute liypenemia of the cord does not occur, either spontaneously or in consequence of treatment, purulent infiltration of the reddened tissue will ensue, and purulent matter will take the place of the rachidian substance. Concerning the manner in which the liquefaction occurs, no unquestionable theory can be advanced in the present anarchical state of our doctrines concerning suppuration. “We can but express suppositions, keeping a firm hold on individual facts of unquestioned certainty to serve as guides. Among these I include,” Rindfleisch justly observes, “ the passive behavior of the nervous elements in the suppurative process, and the intense activity of the vascular system in every stage of the disease. The nerve-fibres within the affected area are partly suspended in the pus as disconnected fragments, partly protruded from the walls of the cavity in a state of advancing maceration and decay. I have not been able to detect any traces either of fatty or of granular degeneration in them; drops of myelin separate from their surface; the axis-cylinders grow thinner by degrees, and finally disappear. The ganglion-cells of the affected part become darkly granular, and break up into splinters; I have often recognized well- marked fragments of them in the pulp.”2 From what source comes the purulent matter in such cases ? The same indefatigable observer remarks:— “ My own investigations have taught me that the pus first collects around those vessels from which extravasation [of blood] has occurred. In trans- 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 441. 2 Op. cit., vol ii. p. 325.