ARTHROPATHIES FROM INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 425 The patient, at the particular period of his disease which has been men- tioned, discovers one day that a limb is greatly swollen; the swelling gives no pain, and is unaccompanied by fever; examination reveals the presence of much fluid in the joint as well as in the surrounding parts, and a crackling sound is emitted on movement. In a few weeks all these symptoms may disappear, leaving the limb in the same state as before, save the crackling. In other cases the attack comes on as above without prodroma of any sort, except, in some cases, a slight amount of crackling. The swelling may run the same course, and may disappear in the same manner; but the joint is no longer normal. It may be simply deformed; it may permit manifold and irregular movements; its ligaments and capsule may be much relaxed ; the joint-surfaces may be greatly altered; or with, and, indeed, in consequence of, these changes, the limb may be dislocated. Again, and this is a most important factor in our appreciation of the disease, in certain cases the bones become exceedingly fragile and break with extreme readiness, the fractures readily uniting, but with exuberant and badly-formed callus. The diseased parts are remarkably free from pain, and, indeed, patients use their limbs, and even walk, in spite of the extreme changes now to be detailed. Morbid Anatomy.—On examination, the bursae around the joint are found large and relaxed, having evidently been greatly distended by fluid which had afterwards been absorbed. In one case1 the periarticular tissues are described as of a blackish color (noiratre); they are occasionally, in part, converted into bone or cartilage. The ligaments and capsule are distended and relaxed. The synovial membrane, thickened, grayish, and without dendritic fringes, contains sometimes a thick, citron-colored, sometimes a puruloid, synovia. In some cases false bodies, varying from the size of a pea to that of a pigeon’s egg, lie in the articulation.2 The cartilages over the whole or the greater part of the surface have disappeared, and the bone itself presents the appear- ance of being worn away. It is, in some cases, rather rough and furrowed ; in other cases, or at other parts in the same case, it is polished though not eburnated. Around the joint are frequently osteophytes, and sometimes out- growths from the margins of the articular surfaces. A case reported by Dr. Buzzard, showed a very singular condition which appeared like the ossification of a tendon; no opportunity for anatomical examination has as yet occurred, but the result of Dr. Buzzard’s careful clinical study may here be quoted:— “ W. is a man aged 30 ; if we let him lie upon his back, and measure the distance from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the tip of the internal malleolus, the tape shows a length of 33^ inches on the right side, whilst it indicates 35^ inches on the left. When the right foot is grasped, a moderate amount of traction easily reduces this disparity to one inch. On the other hand, when he stands with his bare feet on the floor, the difference in length is increased to three inches. As he lies, there is no marked inversion or eversion of the right foot, which tends, when it is absolutely left to itself, to roll slightly outwards; but he can easily control this movement, and even invert his foot with the greatest ease. He can extend his right lower extremity per- fectly well, but flexion of it upon the trunk is limited; other movements are easily performed. The upper and inner surface of the right thigh—Scarpa’s triangle—is distinctly rounded and prominent as compared with the corresponding part in the left limb, which presents the normal hollow. Turning to the hip, the patient being still recumbent, we find that the great trochanter is as nearly as possible on a level hori- zontally with the ilium, being evidently carried upwards by muscular action. The neighborhood of the hip is bulged and deformed by what examination with the hand ascertains to be a large collection of fluid in or about the hip-joint. If we lay hold of 1 Ball, G&z. des Hdpitaux, 1868, p. 507. 2 Westplial, Berlin klinische Wochensclirift, 1881, S. 415.