300 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. tubercle. With regard to this work and this doctrine, I can only say, while acknowledging fully and freely the great industry and patience involved in Dr. Schuller’s labors, that they require much confirmation. I cannot consider them in any way conclusive, concerning what for us just now is the important point, the origin of strumous synovitis in tuberculosis of the synovial mem- brane. This is certainly not the occasion, nor have I here the space, to enter into a detailed criticism of Dr. Schuller’s work; but I must point out that the history which I have given of strumous synovitis, is that of a very slow malady, commencing in children either a little weakened and depressed, or apparently in fairly good health, and who have either received a slight injury to the joint, or none at all. The right knees of Dr. Schuller’s rabbits and dogs, after they had received into their lungs a considerable quantity of tuberculous matter, were injured (“ contundirt”). “The leg did not undergo dislocation or torsion: partly because, although the ligaments were torn, very little or no blood was effused into the joint or the tissues ; partly because the bones at the epiphyseal lines were fractured ; that is to say, the epiphyses of both femur and tibia were torn away.”1 After injecting various forms of tubercular tissue into the animals’ lungs, and damaging their right knee-joints in the way described, Dr. Schuller found in the inflammatory products about the injured knees, sometimes histological elements which he considered tuberculous, at other times such as he thought doubtful (“vielleicht als initiale Tuberkel”), at others, appearances not even colorably tuberculous. Now it must be confessed that these animals (generally rabbits, which are prone to tubercular disease), artificially affected with acute tubercular in- toxication, aud at the same time with very severe traumatism of a joint, were in a state by no means analogous to that of a strumous child who has hereditary tendency to, or is actually ailing from, chronic tuberculosis, and who may have received slight or no articular injury. Dr. Schuller describes, excellently and minutely, various conditions of low, fungoid granulations which affected the “contundirt” joints; but, of course, he could not find, in these infected and often almost moribund animals, the same forms of inflammation as in healthy creatures receiving a like injury ; the process of inflammation in weakly systems tends to the production of fungous or pannus-1 ike forms, quite independently of tubercle. And not merely must the ill state of health in these animals be taken into account, but also the fact that embolic clots are very apt to lodge in the synovial tissues, especially if injury have rendered them hypersemic. But let us shortly examine the results of injections and contusions in 24 animals. Of these, five were infected with phthisical expectoration; these all showed changes considered to be tubercular.2 Six were infected with minute pieces of tubercular lung. Of these, one died on the fifth day, and one (a dog) was killed three and a half months subsequently; his internal organs “were extremely thickly beset with pearl-gray tubercles;” in the granulations of the injured joint were several white nodules, not as large as a pin’s head, and in one place other signs (“perhaps giant cells”) still less sig- nificant; the other four animals (rabbits), dying in from 15 to 34 days, 1 Op. cit., S. 19. 2 I will not here compare my histological experience with that of so practised a microscopist as Dr. Schuller, hut I confess to feeling by no means sure that many of the nodular cell-accumula- tions described in his work were tubercle. The anatomical characters of that material are not as yet determined ; certainly, giant cells cannot be accepted as conclusively characteristic. They arise in old granulations of almost any unhealed wound, where vascularity happens to be deficient, and by the same law in the persistent granulation-tissue of strumous joint or bone inflammation. I certainly could not, for instance, accept some specimens shown at the Pathological Society, as undoubtedly examples of tubercle. (Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxii. p. 174.)