FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 91 above, the rami of the pubis and ischium below and on either side, and the downward prolongation of the sacrum and coccyx behind. The ligaments which bridge across the gaps between these appendages add nothing to the security of the bone against fracturing forces. Of the whole framework, the strongest part is that where, in the erect position, the weight of the trunk is transmitted to the head of the femur; the sacrum, although thick, is com- posed in great measure of spongy bone, further weakened by the perforations for the sacral nerves, as well as by the terminal portion of the spinal canal. Fracture of the pelvis is not common in men, is rarely met with in women, and is almost unknown in children. The jmungest patient I re- member to have treated for such an injury was sixteen years old. Bryant, however, mentions two cases seen by him in children, and a few others are upon record. I may mention here that, notwithstanding the rarity of frac- tures of the pelvic bones, three cases were under treatment at one time in my wards at the Episcopal Hospital, in 1882; a sort of coincidence not unfre- quently met with in practice. Fractures of the appendages may occur without affecting the continuity of the pelvic girdle proper. They are generally due to direct violence. Thus the crest of the ilium may be broken off, in one or more pieces; the lower part of the sacrum may be fractured more or less transversely, or com- minuted ; or a portion of the ischium may be separated, this, however, being very rare. The lines of fracture vary almost indefinitely, as might naturally be expected. When a crushing force, such as the caving in of a mass of earth, a fall of rock or of coal in a mine, or the passage of a heavy wheel over the lower part of the body, is brought to bear upon the whole pelvis, the bone may give way at two or more different points. One or the other side of the ring may be especially acted upon, or the stress may be exerted directly across, either antero-posteriorly or laterally. In any case, however, the pubis would seem to yield first, in its horizontal ramus, when there must be a fracture also somewhere between the symphysis pubis and the tuber ischii. Next, if the force acts antero-posteriorly, the tendency will be to open out the lateral arc of the bone, which may be broken at or near the sacro-iliac junction. Thus a portion of the sacrum may be torn away, or the lesion may he con- fined to the os innominatum. Cases of the former kind have been very fully discussed by Voillemier, in two instructive papers.1 According to him, ver- tical fractures of the sacrum very generally belong in the category of “frac- tures par arrachement,” or what we should now call “ sprain-fractures.” That is, by the immense strain brought to bear upon the pelvic ring, the sacro-iliac synchondrosis being too strong to yield, the spongy substance of the sacrum is actually torn across. The mechanism above described is regarded by Tillaux2 as that which uniformly prevails in the production of these fractures; and his view is sup- ported by the fact that in all cases of multiple fracture of the pelvis (and there is no portion of the skeleton so liable to this form of injury), the ante- rior segment of the ring suffers. The annexed cut (Fig. 598), taken from a specimen (without history) in the Mutter Museum, will give a good idea of the usual characters of this fracture.3 A few years ago I saw a case in which double fracture of the pelvis had been produced by lateral pressure in a somewhat curious way. The man 1 Clinique Chirurgicale, pp. 77 et 107. 2 Traite d’Anatomie Topographique, p. 82!). 3 Kusmin, in an article to which I have not been able to obtain access (Ueber Beckenfrakturen, Centralblatt fur Cliirurgie, Jan. 6, 1883; from Wiener med. Jalirb., 1882), gives the results of experimental researches on the mechanism of the production of these fractures.