6 INJURIES OF BONES. that during the progress of the disease the bones had undergone nutritive changes which- greatly diminished their resistance. This subject was subsequently investigated by Charcot and His followers, witli their usual thoroughness and success. The period of fracture is usually preceded by two or three paroxysms of lancinating pain of unusual severity; and at the same time the limb is found swollen, and with all the symptoms of osteo-periostitis, and fracture occurs on the slightest movement of the limb, or in the entire absence of any movement or other external cause. The femur is more frequently fractured than any other bone, the seat of fracture being frequently the neck of the former ; but the bones of the leg, arm, forearm, and, indeed, almost every bone of the limb and trunk, have been found fractured, including the vertebral column. Multiple fractures in the same patient are by no means uncommon, and in a case published by Charcot, the patient, towards the close of life, could scarcely move in bed without frac- turing some one or other of the few bones which had not been already fractured. Damaschino has drawn attention to the fact that the spontaneous fractures of ataxies reunite very readily and rapidly, with an enormous formation of callus.” ■ Dr. Debove, in a communication to the Paris Hospital Society, observed that in bis practice at the Bicetre, be bad frequent occasion to see fractures in the subjects of hemiplegia, these fractures always occurring on the hemi- plegic side, there being every reason to believe that changes took place in such cases in the osseous tissue, rendering it more fragile. In one case of chronic hemiplegia he found that not only the fractured bone itself, but all the bones on the same side, had undergone such change. They were less heavy than on the sound side, the medullary canal was larger, and the sub- stance of the diaphysis was less compact. Examined histologically, the Haversian canals were found much dilated, and the bone porous. Chemical examination also showed that the diaphysis contained a larger quantity of fat. These fractures usually consolidated rapidly, the callus being somewhat voluminous.1 It would seem clear, from the foregoing, that there is in many forms of cen- tral nervous disease, including hemiplegia, paraplegia, locomotor ataxia, gen- eral paralysis of the insane, and perhaps other allied conditions, a state of defective nutrition brought about in the bones, whereby they are rendered either softer or more brittle, and which causes them to yield very readily to slight fracturing forces. Very possibly, further study of the subject may throw additional light upon the whole series of changes; but the statement just made is an embodiment of what is now known with regard to it. Rachitis, or rickets, a disease supposed by most writers to be almost wholly unknown in this country,2 has been not unfrequently observed as a predispos- ing cause of fracture by British and Continental surgeons. It affects children chiefly, and is manifested by softening and distortion of the bones, with en- largement of their articular extremities. It may be that such cases often occur among the lower classes of our negroes, the parents being ill-fed, poorly clothed, and often strumous or syphilitic; and that the deformed limbs so commonly seen in that race among us, are the traces of congenital rickets. Hamilton3 mentions a case seen by him in 1853, in which, in an infant four days old, born of a healthy mother and at full time, “nearly all of the 1 Medical Times and Gazette, Oct. 29, 1881 ; from Gaz. des Hdpitaux, 20 Oct. 1881. 2 See the article on Rachitis, by Dr. J. Lewis Smith, Vol. I. p. 251. In the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for January and April, 1872, the reader may find an admirable discussion of this disease by the late Dr. John S. Parry, who says he “ has been irresistibly forced to the conclusion that rachitis is scarcely less frequent in Philadelphia than it is in the large cities of Great Britain and the continent of Europe, and that it should occupy just as important a place in our mortuary lists as Hillier conceives that it should in those of the registrar-general of England.” 3 Practical Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, 6tli ed., 1880, p. 33.