223 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. broad layer of fibrous tissue. The distance between the upper and lower fragments is fully 3J inches, the three other fragments occupying interme- diate positions. The surfaces of the fragments have been a good deal rounded off, but are still quite irregular.” The patient in this case was known to have twice fractured the bone. Gross1 figures a specimen in the museum of Prof. Joseph Pancoast, in which there are three fragments, with intermediate bands. No history of double fracture or of re-fracture is given. Lonsdale speaks of having seen a man who “fell and struck his knee against the edge of a curb-stone; the fracture took a direction so as to leave the lower portion projecting angularly upwards, fitting into the upper.” In comminuted fractures, there is not unfrequently a line of separation more or less transverse, and the lower fragment is again divided by one or two splits running downward from this main fracture. An anatomical point of importance is well set forth by Tillaux2 in regard to the connections of the patella. He describes the “lateral ligaments” of the bone as continuous with and arising from the ligamentum patellae. Strongly attached to the lateral borders of the patella, where they (the liga- ments) are very thick, they pass backward, surround the condyles, and are inserted into the fibro-cartilaginous capsule with which the gastrocnemii are connected. These lateral ligaments, he says, “constitute a powerful protec- tion for the front of the knee, and play an important part in fractures of the patella, according as they are more or less torn. When they are but slightly torn, or not at all, as happens in fractures by direct violence, which, indeed, are the rarest, they hold the fragments together; if, on the other hand, they are much lacerated, the unopposed quadriceps muscle drags the upper frag- ment upward, until it may be separated from the lower by several fingers’ breadths. This point must be taken into the account in estimating the value of different methods of treating these fractures, since in the one case the frag- ments remain in contact, of themselves, while in the other it is difficult to control them even with the best contrived means.” When transverse fracture of the patella occurs, the lower fragment remains in place, being attached to the tibia by the very strong and unyielding ligamentum patellae. But there are two agencies by which the upper fragment may be separated from it, so that there exists a perceptible gap between them. One, already alluded to, is the contraction of the quadriceps muscle; the other is effusion of serum, and sometimes of blood also, into the. knee-joint. Both of these, it must be obvious, will be limited in their action by the lateral ligaments of which I have just quoted Tillaux’s description; but the muscle may be powerful enough to tear the ligaments, and thus to produce the displacement. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether it is not in this way that laceration of the ligaments always occurs, since they can seldom be directly ruptured by the fracturing force except just at the edges of the bone; yet having given way here, their further tearing can scarcely require any very great force. Once torn, how- ever, the greatest obstacle both to muscular action and to effusion into the joint is removed; and separation of the fragments will very soon take place. It must not be forgotten that the strength of these ligaments varies in different individuals; and it is doubtless for this reason, as well as because of the varying degi’ee of the violence sustained, that in some cases there is at once a wide gap between the portions of the bone, while in others the frag- ments remain almost in contact until inflammatory effusion occurs in the joint. Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson3 maintains that the quadriceps extensor muscle ' System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 1000. 2 Anatomie Topographique, p. 1103. Med.-Cliir. Transactions, vol. lii. 1869.