10 INJURIES OF BONES. Op. cit., table on p. 9. 6 Brit. Med. Jouru., June 26, 1880. times, the left six ; the right leg nine times, the left once ; the right arm four times, the left three; and the left forearm once. Her sister, six years old, had had nine fractures since the age of eight months. Neither of her parents nor their families had shown any such susceptibility, nor had it appeared in another sister, or in two brothers. Agnew1 mentions a child seen by him who had twice broken the same thigh; he was one of a family of six children, every one of whom had suf- fered from fracture, two of these three times each. The father had had syphilis, a fact which was supposed to account for the fragility of the bones of his offspring. Gurlt quotes from Axmann another case, in which three brothers showed this tendency to the occurrence of fracture. Of fragility affecting the bones in several generations, a very few instances have been given, but they are beyond doubt.2 Goddard3 saw a boy aged twelve, who had had fourteen fractures, all from slight violence; his mother had broken her right thigh once, and her left live times; and her brother, at thirteen years, had suffered two fractures of one thigh, and nine of the other, as well as two of the arm. “ These people,” says the record, “ are of very short stature, and have small bones.” Pauli4 gives the history of a family in the parish of Offenbach, “ three of whom had twice, and one thrice, broken an arm and a leg, while one had live times suffered fractures of one or another limb, slight force only having been as a rule sufficient to produce the lesions. Both the father and grandfather had had bones broken. The family were otherwise healthy, and presented no discoverable dyscrasia. It is remarkable that none of them sustained frac- tures before they were eight years of age. The fractures united very quickly, so that the callus was generally perfectly firm by the end of three weeks. But if the same bone was broken a second time, union did not take place.” In a case reported by Greenish,5 a boy aged 18 had himself had thirteen fractures; his grandfather had had “ numerous” fractures; his father one; his uncle two; his five cousins (children of his uncle), eight, four, four, four, and three respectively ; his own brother, two. One uncle and his two daugh- ters had escaped. [The editor has recorded a case in which, without apparent reason, seven- teen fractures had been sustained by the bones of the right lower extremity;. when this patient came under observation, multiple encliondromata had been developed in the foot and ankle.] A few words may be said on the influence of age, sex, and occupation upon the liability of individuals to fracture ; they are so closely connected in this respect that they may be considered together. Until about the age of puberty, the habits, plays, and occupations of boys and girls are very much alike, and one might naturally suppose that their bones would be broken with about equal frequency, Yet according to Mal- gaigne, from two to five years of age, “ the number of girls affected with frac- ture was nearly double that of the boys ;” while Gurlt6 gives the proportion: from one to four years 1J times as many, and from five to eight years 2^ times 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 718. 2 Ekmann’s case, quoted by Gurlt from Acrelius (A. D. 1788), seems to me not to belong in tlie present category, but to have heen simply an instance of hereditary rachitis, as far as the vagueness of the account enables one to judge. 3 Gibson, op. cit., vol. i. p. 236. 4 Untersuchungen und Erfahrungen im Gebiete der Chirurgie, 1844 ; quoted by Gurlt, Handbuch der Lelire von den Knoehenbruclien, Bd. i. S. 149.