INJURIES OF THE BACK. 768 •other parts. He died from a slough (bed-sore) on the nates, one year and eleven days after the accident. Necroscopy showed union by bone, and the spinal cord nearly severed by a fragment of bone which had pierced the theca vertebralis. An instance of dislocation of the first, and fracture of the second lumbar vertebra, in which the patient survived the lesion for three and one-half years, and the specimen from which was exhibited at the Pathological Society of London by Mr. W. Wagstalfe, lias already been mentioned above. Professor Agnew1 gives, with a wood-cut illustrating the lesion, the case of a young man who was caught at the Kensington Depot, Philadelphia, between the platform and a car, in such a way as to fracture the spinal column in the mid-dorsal region, with comminution ; yet, notwithstanding that the spinal cord was completely divided by a permanently displaced vertebra, he survived the accident for six months, and perished at last from sloughing of the nates. Le Gros Clark2 relates a very instructive case in which the fourth lumbar vertebra was fractured through both pedicles, while its processes were all comminuted, and its ligaments ruptured, so that the body of this vertebra was dislocated forward and down- ward, and took up a new position in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, the upper and lower surfaces of both vertebrae being in the same planes ; although the injury was at first attended by complete paraplegia, the sensibility was restored entirely, and the motility partially, in five weeks. Death ensued in the seventh week, in consequence of sloughing or acute bed-sores. A highly suggestive feature of this case is the fact that, notwithstanding the enormous displacement which occurred between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra;, the spinal cord was not much injured, and the paraplegia soon passed away. The following is in the same vein ; “ In one case,” says Mr. Hutchinson, “I found the trunks composing the cauda equina lifted a third of art inch on a bridge of bone, formed by the displacement of a fractured lumbar vertebra; but they were in no degree compressed, and, excepting a little ecchymosis in their pia mater, showed scarcely any trace of injury.”3 A very practical inference from facts such as these is that, however great the displacement and the paralysis may be in cases of fracture or dislocation of the spinal column, we have no right to assume at the outset, during life, that the spinal cord is irreparably or even severely injured thereby. These clinical histories and accounts of autopsies have been presented, aside from their general value, with a special intent to show that, in cases of ver- tebral fracture and dislocation, the surgeon is justly entitled to approach the question as to what their treatment should he, with something more of hope for obtaining a happy issue by appropriate treatment, than most text- books on surgery would seem to encourage. Treatment of Fractures of the Vertebrae.—The successful management of cases in which the spinal column is fractured, chiefly depends on the following points: (1) On preventing those intra-thecal extravasations of blood which destroy life by compressing the spinal cord. (2) On preventing or subduing spinal meningitis, and abscess between the theca vertebralis and the hone. (8) On preventing or subduing ascending myelitis, and all inflammatory dis- organizations of the spinal cord. (4) On conducting the bed-sores, and the vesical and renal inflammations, which are apt to complicate such cases, to a favorable issue. The victim should be carefully picked up, and carried from the scene of the accident home, or to a hospital, on a stretcher, on one extemporized from a settee or a shutter, etc., or in an ambulance, every precaution being taken against increasing the injury of the spinal cord, that was mentioned while 1 Op. cit., vol. i. pp. 827, 828. 2 British Med. Journal, October 3, 1868. 3 London Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 360.