SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 379 sium than to other antisyphilitic remedies, and especially does this remark apply to such maladies as commence in the perisynovial or bursal tissues. Also, it is to be borne in mind that constitutional syphilis confers upon its subjects great tolerance of iodine. Such patients are not only able to take, but even liourish and get fat upon, such quantities as a drachm, or even occa- sionally on three drachms, of the salt per day. Nor does it appear to me that less than half a drachm in the same period has any effect, either on the disease or on the patient. I cannot speak in quite the same terms of this remedy in the form of disease which brings with it gummatous formations; iodine, though still valuable, exerts less manifest influence in these cases, and, if the patient be debilitated, it should be combined with a tonic, and more especially with arsenic. The synovial or perisynovial form of joint-syphilis, thus treated, will get well in from three to six weeks, if at the same time rest by means of splints be enforced ; if much intra-articular effusion exist, pressure, and in severe cases puncture also may be added. But as in all manifestations of constitu- tional syphilis, recurrence is very common. The syphilitic arthritis resulting from bone disease (not from mere periostitis) is far more severe and more last- ing. The same plan, with modifications in the constitutional remedies, must be employed. But the case must be watched, lest symptoms of intraosseous abscess should be overlooked. To pierce the bone merely on suspicion that a circumscribed gumma might be found, would be unjustifiable ; but it would be equally unjustifiable to leave an abscess, syphilitic or otherwise, to open into the joint-cavity. It is to be remembered, however, that wounds of syphi- litic persons heal, as a rule, badly and slowly ; hence no paracentesis of the bone should be undertaken unless the signs of abscess are very unmistakable. Under such medicinal management as above indicated, a large proportion of patients affected with syphilis may stave off or keep in abeyance the recur- rent attacks of the malady, while during the intervals their health may be fairly good. As the disease wears itself out or yields to the action of drugs, the intervals become longer and more free from trouble, the attacks shorter and less severe. But occasionally patients are not thus fortunate; there are some who, in spite of antisyphilitic remedies and tonics, constantly get worse, so that, though there are exacerbations and mitigations, there are no longer any distinct intermissions. These patients are generally such as have been in the early stages neglected ; more rarely, at the present day, overdosed with mercury; occasionally this obstinacy is due to a combination of syphilis with struma. Very frequently, and in all classes of society, aggravation of the disease is due to irregularity of life, and especially to overindulgence in stimulants, a fault to which the patient is disposed by the depressing influence and accompaniments of the disease. In these cases I have found great benefit to be produced by sending the patient to such baths as Harro- gate, which as a sulphur spring is valuable, to the Sohlbad of Kreuznaeli, or to several waters in the Pyrenees, which, especially if there be a tubercu- lous complication, have frequently so far altered the conditions of the disease that, though not cured, it has become amenable to treatment. Joint-disease, connected with hereditary syphilis, is only known in the form of syphilitic dactylitis; even this more usually commences in the shaft than in the joint-end of the phalanx. Nevertheless, it frequently spreads to the joint; indeed, always does so, if two contiguous phalanges be involved. It is typically a gummatous affection, and may even be taken as a type of the process described above. Sometimes it occurs in acquired syphilis.1 1 See Vol. II. p. 544 ; Keyes, Treatise on Venereal Diseases, p. 175.