239 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. mentions that “ an instance of fracture of both bones of the leg by muscular action, in a man forty-two years old, has been recorded by Hevlhard d’Arcy.” Hamilton says “ Eight times I have found the bones broken by muscular action alone.” It does not often happen that both bones are fractured at the same level; very generally the iibula yields at a higher point than the tibia. Sometimes the fractures are very far apart, so as really to constitute separate lesions, as in two specimens mentioned by Stoker.1 Here the tibia was broken low down, and the fibula high up, the obliquity of the two fractures being in con- verse directions. These cases, rare as they are, are not without analogues in the forearm. Occasionally the leg is broken in more than one [lace, when the violence is very great, as in some machinery accidents. Bransby Cooper2 saw a case in which both bones of the left leg were fractured in three distinct places ; the patient, a man aged forty-eight, had had his leg crushed over the side of a boat by the falling of a heavy weight; amputation was proposed, but he declined to submit to it, and although for a time his symptoms were very threatening, he ultimately did well, his convalescence being considered established by the eleventh week. In a specimen without history, in the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital,3 “ the shaft of the tibia presents three nearly equidistant, slightly oblique fractures, and several small fragments have been broken oft’ from the bone. There are also three equidistant frac- tures of the shaft of the fibula, the upper two of which are oblique, the other transverse.” A similar specimen is in the Pathological Cabinet of the New York Hospital.4 The fibula is “broken near its upper end, while the tibia has been traversed by several very oblique fractures at and below its middle, separating the shaft into four fragments, all of which are firmly united by bone deposited between the opposed surfaces and in the cavities left by pro- jecting angles.” Fractures of both bones of the leg at their upper part are always due to great direct violence, such as the passage of a wheel, the caving in of earth, entanglement in heavy machinery, etc. These fractures may or may not in- volve the knee-joint, and their exact mechanism is often difficult to determine. When the knee-joint is involved, it sometimes seems probable that the tibia first gave way across its long axis, and then that the lower or shaft portion was forced into the upper, bursting it into two or more fragments. The line of separation is seldom exactly transverse, but it is not often very oblique. Occasionally the fibula escapes; but this is a matter of small moment, not affecting the gravity of the injury, or influencing the symptoms. In the Pathological Cabinet of the Yew York Hospital, there is a specimen* from a man, aged thirty-two, who had a compound fracture of the left tibia, caused by a blow from a heavy piece of iron. “ Both tuberosities are sepa- rated from the shaft by a line of fracture running across the bone an inch or so below the joint, and a small portion of the internal tuberosity is still fur- ther separated by a fracture running from the first one up into the joint.” When both bones are broken in the upper thirds of their shafts, the frac- tures are as a rule oblique, and they are apt to be more nearly on a level with each other than when the injury is lower down. In the latter case, as before stated, the fibula is generally broken higher up than the tibia. By far the largest number of cases, however, affect the bones of the leg either at or below the middle. I have said that the line of breakage is most generally oblique; yet it is not always so, and one or two specimens of 1 British Med. Journal, Dec. 24, 1881. s Catalogue, p. 42 ; No. 1174. * Catalogue, p. 116 ; No. 226. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1836. 4 Catalogue, p. 122 ; No. 243.