SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 4 Loc. cit., pp. 362, 363. 708 end of the left kidney, which extended into the hilus. The patient died six- teen days after the injury, of tetanus ; and, at the autopsy, a great part of the torn kidney was found to be softened. Sometimes, the liquid voided by urination, in these cases of renal injury, consists of almost pure blood, as was specially noted in the following in- stance :— Private Henry Greene, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, entered hospital at 6 P. M., December 15, 1870, at Fort Quitman, Texas, having been run over by a wagon at 8 A. M., while on his way to Fort Quitman from Eagle Springs. It was thought that both wheels of one side had passed over his right hip and thorax. The patient was suffering, when admitted, from shock and extreme depression. His extremities were cold, and he was almost pulseless at the wrist. But he was perfectly conscious; the beating of his heart was feeble but regular, and 104 per minute ; respiration 44. Death from shock and internal hemorrhage ensued at 7.30 A. M. of the following day, “ the patient hav- ing passed, through the night, a quantity of nearly pure blood from the bladder.” Autopsy, ten hours after death.—“ A large effusion of blood into the abdominal cavity was found, and a longitudinal rupture of the right kidney, throughout nearly its entire extent. The bladder was normal and empty.” The liver also was ruptured through almost the whole of its antero-posterior diameter, following the junction of the right with the left and quadrate lobes, to within an inch of its anterior margin. The sternum was fractured at the junction of its upper and middle third. The eighth rib (right), too, was fractured two inches in front of its angle.1 Dr. Roddick reported the following case in which pure blood was passed, and ex- hibited the specimen. A healthy woman, aged GO, had fallen down a long flight of stairs, and was picked up insensible. There was no wound, but on recovering con- sciousness she complained of great pain in the right loin ; vomiting began, and, in spite of all treatment, continued to the end. The bowels became tympanitic and refused to act. Pure blood was passed from the bladder during the first twenty-four hours ; sub- sequently, the urine was mixed with blood, and on the fourth day it was nearly clear. Rupture of the kidney was diagnosed, and ileus was suspected on account of the obstruc- tion of the bowels and their great distension, though no tumor could be felt. Rectal injections were employed without any benefit. At the autopsy a large clot of blood was found surrounding the right kidney, which presented a laceration on the border, extending into the pelvis of the organ. The kidneys were firm and slightly granular. The bowels were distended but not obstructed; it was thought that perhaps the large blood clot might have pressed upon the ascending colon and produced the obstruction.2 Prognosis.—TIsematuria from contusions and sprains, or wrenches, of the lumbar region is, in most instances, not a very dangerous symptom ; for usually it disappears in the course of a few days, without leaving any trace of organic disease of the renal tissue behind. Concerning hsematuria from this cause, Le Gros Clark says that among the many cases he has witnessed, he has never had reason to suspect that nephritis or organic disease followed in any.’’3 On the same point Mr. Shaw remarks: “ When such an important gland as the kidney has been crushed and broken, to such an extent that hemorrhage goes on from a rent in it for several days, it might be thought probable that the damage would be followed by ulterior bad results, especially that inflam- mation—nephritis—would ensue. But extensive observation negatives tins view; general experience shows that when patients recover from the imme- diate effects of hsematuria brought on by sprain of the spine, they are not more prone than others to renal complaints.”4 In regard to hsematuria from sprain of the back, Mr. Bryant observes: “ It is not generally a very serious 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., August 15, 1871. 2 Medical News, November, 18, 1882. * British Medical Journal, October 3, 1868.