375 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. stricted, it is not entirely abolished. The patient can lift the limb a little from the bed ; he can rotate it slightly outwards, and also a little inwards ; the buttock and thigh are not merely flaccid, but are also wasted. The patient, too, can, if he please, put some weight on the limb, though with pain. When the history is quite reliable, the slow advent of lameness in the disease is entirely different from the onset of the lameness in injury ; but when a man with arthritis deformans of the hip has suffered some traumatism, and is also malingering, the above marks will afford the means of diagnosis. We will take up again the conditions of the disease as it progresses in several joints; patients thus suffering may, nevertheless, continue in very excellent general health, but the joints already affected become gradually more immo- bile, while other articulations are one after another involved. In some cases, the patient is at last incapable of moving almost every limb ; fortunately the temporo-maxillary articulation is rarely involved. But I have seen several patients in whom almost every joint of the body has been so stiffened that they have had to be moved from bed to chair and back again, being entirely unable to assist themselves in the least degree. Treatment.—The treatment of arthritis deformans is by no means satisfac- tory, more especially when the disease is already pretty firmly established; hence, early recognition is of great importance, although sometimes from its very nature impossible. In other cases, however, the presence of the malady, commencing in a subacute form with joint-pain and a certain pyrexia, toge- ther with very acid urine, depositing, perhaps, the red sand, may be suspected, and such cases may be advantageously treated with the alkalies or neutral salts. Aperients, but not purges, should be used, and the diet regulated, but not always in the same direction. When the patient, feeding largely on animal food, takes little or no exercise, we should adopt a treatment directly opposite to that which is recpiired when the disease occurs in the poor and under-fed. But the condition of system is essentially one of debility, and all remedies, both in the subacute and chronic forms, should be prescribed in accordance with that view of its etiology. Tonics therefore, as a very general rule, are to be advocated. Iron is not well borne by the digestive system; but quinine, either as a solid or dissolved by means of citric acid, or, if this be not tolerated, the extract of cinchona, is useful. But arsenic is probably the most valuable of such medicines, and in many cases appears to exercise a retarding effect upon the disease. I believe that I have seen benefit from small doses of the perchloride of mercury, given occasionally for short intervals. Guaiacum, combined with ammonia, appears most useful when the affected parts are cold and clammy. Also valuable are certain mineral waters, especially those that, like the Woodhall Spa, contain iodine or its salts; the waters of Bath, Buxton, Harrogate, Vichy, Aix, and Carls- bad, are likewise useful. The local treatment is to vary according to the condition at the moment. The subacute and painful commencement or interludes, are best treated by rest; if the pain be not severe, mere lying in bed will be sufficient, but if any particular joint be peculiarly painful, a light splint may be applied. If there be inflammatory symptoms, two or three leeches may be employed ; but com- presses steeped in hot water, or in a solution of bicarbonate of potassium, ten grains to tbe ounce, with a like quantity of dilute hydrocyanic acid, are better, as being less debilitating. Local applications of belladonna also give relief; blisters, too, may be employed, especially in such cases as are marked by considerable effusion. When the malady is chronic throughout, as also in the chronic intervals