958 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. that in disease of this region of the column, the first three cervical nerves may readily be implicated, and, as the branches above named are all sensory nerves, the distribution of the pain may be very definite. The two occipital nerves are branches of the second cervical; the great auricular and super- ficialis colli, of the second and third cervical; and the descending nerves, of the third and fourth cervical. Thus the two occipital nerves are the two most likely to be irritated, together with those parts of the great auricular and superficialis colli that are formed by the second cervical. The third nerve can only be implicated when the disease extends to the lower part of the axis. The distribution of pain, therefore, may be of some value in localizing the mischief. As the upper cervical nerves lie close to the bone where they issue from the spinal canal, it can well be imagined that they are early and readily affected by any inflammatory changes in those bones. Thus, then, among the first signs of disease in this region is pain about the back of the head and upper part of the neck, or about the sides of the neck and sometimes in the ear, or less frequently about the shoulders and upper part of the chest. The pain varies in intensity in different cases, is commonly neu- ralgic in character, and often very severe. It is made worse by any pressure upon the head that brings the occipital condyles forcibly on to the spine, and by movements that concern the joints of the first two cervical vertebrae. It is often increased also by any sudden movement or any jolting of the column. Ililton says that the pain in disease of the lower cervical, the dorsal, and the lumbar spine, is “almost always symmetrical,” but that in disease involving the first two joints of the column it is unilateral: and that this feature serves to point out which side of the vertebrae is involved.1 (2) In all cases, a certain amount of stiffness in the neck becomes apparent, and is among the earliest and the most striking symptoms of the disease. The movements that are limited will depend to some extent upon the parts involved. If the occipito-atloid joint be alone implicated, all nodding move- ments of the head will be arrested, while some rotation of the head will still be possible. If, however, the disease involve only the atlo-axoid articu- lation, then will all rotary movements be checked, while the nodding mo- tion may still be effected. As a matter of fact, however, both of these movements are usually more or less arrested in disease of this region, no matter how limited it may be. The parts are so intimately related that movement of one joint can hardly fail to disturb the other joint, and while nodding movements may possibly be effected without great discomfort in atlo-axoid disease, it is very improbable that rotary movements could he made with a like ease should the malady attack the upper of the two arti- culations. In most cases, the greater part of the whole of the cervical spine is riffid. If the patient be asked to turn his head, he effects the movement by rotation of the dorso-lumbar spine, or by turning of the entire body ; and any nodding movement of the head he replaces by a bending or bowing movement of the trunk. (3) Swelling about the nape of the neck soon becomes obvious, and this may be such as to obliterate the suboccipital fossa. It varies greatly in amount in different cases. The swelling may involve some part of the side of the neck, appearing very deeply seated, or it may occur in the post-pharyngeal region. In the latter region it may cause early dysphagia. The more super- ficial swelling may be associated with some tenderness, and, in thin subjects and in acute cases, with some decided increase in the temperature of the skin. (4) After the disease has existed for a variable period, some deformity usu- ally becomes obvious. Before this, however, takes place, the patient will Lectures on Rest and Pain, third ed., 1880, page 92.