DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 374 knee, the same may be noticed of the thigh. With this flaccidity, rapid wasting is also combined. Gradual immobility becomes more and more decided, and at the same time crepitus, distinctly bony and occasionally very rough, can be perceived; in some cases this is so harsh that it can be heard at even a distance from the patient; shortly afterwards, abnormal mobility can very often be detected. Although space will hardly permit details as to the peculiar deformation of each joint, yet of two it may be desirable to speak more particularly. Of all parts the wrist and hand are the most frequently affected, probably because the most exposed. These ex- tremities are also of use in diagnosis as offering a certain characteristic, and that often when they are by the patient supposed to be exempt. This charac- teristic is adduction of the fingers. At the meta- carpo-phalangeal joint, the index is most affected, and often previously to the others, so that it tends to overlap the middle finger on its dorsal aspect. A little after this the back of the wrist comes to have a hollow look. The radius and ulna, but more especially the latter, which is much enlarged, pro- ject. Then follow those enlargements and uneven projections on the knuckles which caused Hay garth at first to speak of “nodosity of the joints.” The first phalanx of the thumb becomes strongly flexed on the metacarpus, while the inter-phalangeal joint is straight. After a time are slowly developed very singular distortions and positions of the fingers, which render the hand utterly useless. The hip may be affected together with other joints; the diagnosis is then simple, being aided and guided by the generally crippled condition ; but when that articulation is involved alone, there may be some ambiguity. For instance, it has happened to me more than once that, a man having received a blow or suffered a fall on the hip, lias declared that previous to the accident he could walk perfectly well; the position of the limb and the crepitus have caused the condition to resemble fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone; but the wasted and flaccid muscles, with certain other symptoms, have negatived such a diagnosis. Afterwards I have elicited from the patient’s friends that he has walked lame for years. Therefore, and because histories are not always reliable, it is very important to be able to distinguish accurately the uniarticular disease—the morbus coxae senilis. The limb is rotated outwards, divergent from its fellow, and shortened— the shortening being in part real, but also in great measure produced by elevation of the corresponding side of the pelvis. The thigh can generally be drawn a little downward, and may also be slightly pushed up again; also, by placing the fingers deeply behind the trochanter, the thumb in front, the neck and head of the bone will be found to have some abnormal mobility backward and forward.1 These symptoms might all depend on fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. The disease, however, is distinguished from that injury, by the fact that although in the former voluntary motion is considerably re- Fig. 651. Arthritis deformans of hand. (After Canton.) 1 These symptoms depend upon enlargement of the acetabulum, the usual lesion of arthritis deformans at this place. There are, however, it should be known, a few cases in which the cavity is deepened, and in which the osseous outgrowths from the edge of the socket lock the neck in very firmly ; and in such cases the last-named symptom would be absent.