EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 491 named, hip-joint excision seems to me an unsuitable operation. Dr. J. W. Howe, of Hew York, has recorded a successful excision of the hip for un- united fracture. The first suggestion of hip-joint excision was made by Charles White, of Manchester, in 1769, but the operation was not actually performed until many years afterward, by Anthony White, of London, in 1822. The case recorded by Schlichting, in 1730, often spoken of as an excision, was a sim- ple extraction of the caput femoris through a dilated sinus, and Schmalz’s case, in 1816, was of the same character. Anthony White’s case was one of deformity following the spontaneous cure of hip-disease, and a simple osteo- tomy would have been better than excision, which was, however, quite suc- cessful. The fatal operation attributed to Hewson, of Dublin, in 1823, ap- pears to have been of the same character. The first excision 1'or gunshot injury was performed by Oppenheim, in 1829; the first excision for necro- sis by the elder Textor, in 1834 ; and the first excision for hip-disease by Sir Benjamin C. Brodie, in 1836. The operation was introduced in France by M. Roux, in 1847, and in this country by Prof. Bigelow, of Boston, in 1852. The first successful hip-excision in military practice was performed during the Crimean War by Surgeon O’Leary, in 1855. Various incisions may be adopted for this operation: The single longitu- dinal, the curvilinear, the crucial, and the |—shaped incisions, all have their advocates, but, upon the whole, I am dis- posed to give the preference to that re- commended by 0. Heyfelder, the pecu- liarities of which can be seen from the annexed illustration. (Fig. 716.) The wound begins a little above and behind the great trochanter, towards which it passes in the line of the fibres of the glu- teus maximus muscle, and then, curving around and behind the trochanter, ex- tends downwards and a little back- wards, terminating over the lineaaspera between the insertions of the gluteus and the vastus extern us. By this inci- sion, two irregular flaps are formed, the loosening of which affords abundant room for the future steps of the opera- tion, while it entails no transverse divi- sion of muscular fibres. If spontaneous dislocation have already occurred, the head of the bone may now probably be at once protruded through the wound, but under other circumstances, the cap- sule of the joint must be opened, and the ligamentous structures cautiously divi- ded with the probe-pointed knife ; in cases of hip-disease, the ligamentum teres will have usually disappeared, but in traumatic cases it must be severed before the caput femoris can be protruded. The head and neck of the bone being free, the femur is to be rotated first in one direction and then in the other, while the muscles attached to the trochanters are shaved off close to their insertions, and the limb is then forcibly adducted and pushed upwards, so as to make its upper extremity project through the wound, when it is cut through with the chain-saw just below the great trochanter. (Fig. 717.) Fig. 716. Heyfelder’s Incision for excision of the hip-joint.