143 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. even here, unless the tilting of the lower fragment, before spoken of, can be prevented, there will be some limitation of movement. Moreover, this limi- tation is permanent, and not to be diminished by any treatment; which is not usually the case with mere stiffening of the joint. I have occasionally seen in adults, after injuries of this kind, the stiffening recur from time to time, unless guarded against by continual exercise; and it is, of course, well to mention the possibility of such a result beforehand. The treatment of fractures of the lower portion of the humerus presents difficulties of a very serious nature. Supposing the diagnosis to have been clearly made out, the object of the surgeon must of course be, in accordance with general principles, to correct any existing deformity, and to maintain the fragments in their normal relation until union shall have occurred. But plain as the indications are, the fulfilling of them is by no means easy, nor, as before stated, are the results apt to satisfy either the surgeon or the patient. The difficulties referred to are four: to keep the fragments in contact and at rest; to prevent the formation of an angle, salient anteriorly ; to maintain the oblique line of the articulation by avoiding upward pressure on the inner portion of the joint-surface of the lower fragment; and to obviate stiffening of the elbow. As to the first of these difficulties, it is due to the extreme shortness of the lower fragment, which gives very little purchase to any confining apparatus ; in the case of T-fractures, or separations of the trochlea, the tendency is to a forcing apart of the articulating surfaces, or, what is equally bad, a gaping of the fractured portions above, and, perhaps, the insertion between them of part of the upper fragment. In epiphyseal disjunctions, the correct posi- tion of the detached portion is almost wholly a matter of conjecture, and must of necessity be so, until a favorable result affords proof of it. Now, if an anterior angular splint, or two lateral ones, be carefully applied to a sound arm, it will be found that a certain amount of rocking motion can be given, with the effect of loosening somewhat the upper portion of the bandage; should the same thing be done in a case of fracture, it may readily be seen that the part of the limb below the breakage is converted into a bent lever, the short arm of which is the lower fragment; and upon this a very slight amount of force applied to the hand will act most powerfully. Hence, scarcely any good can be expected from means of fixation of this kind, un- less bound on so tightly as to endanger interference with the vascular supply, or with the innervation of the limb. The force of this statement is still greater, if the fact is considered that the parts about the elbow are apt to be largely swollen at the time of the first dressing, and that a daily subsidence of the swelling must be looked for, so that the controlling power of any apparatus is continually becoming less and less, until the inflammation has gone down and its products have been absorbed. Of the second difficulty I have already spoken at some length, so that it need not be further discussed at present until the details of treatment are taken up. The third difficulty is one which has been more fully appreciated of late years than formerly. Dorsey, as already said, pointed out the frequent occur- rence of deformity from the substitution of an angle, salient outward, for the normal one, salient inward; and Allis has recently, with much force, called attention to the same point. Yet it seems to me that the real source of the trouble is the want of recognition of the obliquity of the line of the articu- lation, and the application of dressings, no matter in what position—flexed or extended—which press straight across the front of the joint, and thus by their posterior bearings push the trochlea upward, and force the upper