SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 689 replied, in the smallest possible voice, ‘ Then I shall certainly be killed ; I can’t get my breath.’ Seeing there was no time for contention, I told her our opinion was, that, if not placed longitudinally in bed, she would in all probability die in a very few minutes. Being paralyzed, or nearly so, she could offer no resistance to my purpose; and I shall never forget the weight of the responsibility, when I took hold of her, desired the pillows to be removed from her back, and, supporting her head and shoul- ders in my arms, slowly placed her upon her back, nearly flat upon the bed, with her head upon a thin pillow, some additional support to the hollow of her neck, and two' sand-bags, one on each side of her head, to prevent any lateral or rolling motion. Here was a patient in the greatest possible danger, and 1 do not hesitate to express the opinion, that, if the head had fallen forward, say half an inch, she would have died in an instant. Her sense of suffocation was soon relieved by the horizontal position, and she remained lying down during six months uninterruptedly, at the end of which time all the serious symptoms had disappeared. She was then allowed to move about the ward, with caution ; and, a few months afterward, left the hospital, well, with the exception of a stiff neck, most probably depending on anchylosis, or bony union, be- tween the atlas and the axis. In this case, nothing but complete rest was employed as a remedy; rest was the only element of success in the treatment, and I think it is a very striking example of its power to prolong life, by enabling Nature to repair her injuries undisturbed.”1 In tliis case, the sprain or wrench of the joints between the atlas and the axis was followed by chronic inflammation of these joints, of a destructive character, which, happily, terminated in a cure by anchylosis, under the benign influence of prolonged rest. The severe pain over the back of the head and neck, which helped to mask the vertebral lesion, for some time, was due to irritation of the occipitalis major and minor nerves, and, perhaps, of other branches of the anterior and posterior cervical plexuses of nerves, also. Mr. Hilton continues in a most instructive vein:— “ I will now direct your attention to another case of diseased cervical vertebras (also caused by a hurt), which terminated in sudden death. It is that of a little child, five years and five months old, seen by me in 1841. She was a small, delicate, unhealthy girl. She had been accustomed to ride a good deal in the country, with her mother, in an open carriage, and was thought, in that way, to have caught a cold in the back of the neck, which became gradually stiff and swollen, accompanied by pains in the head and neck. These pains were believed to be rheumatic, and the treatment em- ployed had reference only to that impression, which was supposed to be supported by some pain experienced in the limbs, with cramps and stiffness in walking. She fre- quently suffered from fever and loss of appetite, and had been under medical treatment during many weeks, the symptoms slowly increasing in severity. The mother told me afterward that she had thought her an obstinate child, and that she sometimes threat- ened to punish or to shake her well because she would not take her food. I have no doubt, if she had done so, she would have killed the child. Upon careful examination, I thought I made out the case to be one of disease between the first and second cervical vertebrae, or thereabouts. I say thereabouts, because the parts were too much swollen, and too pain- lul, to admit of a more accurate local investigation. There was pain at the back part of the head, in the course of the great occipital nerve; pain behind the ear, in the course of the great auricular, and of the small occipital; pain in the higher part of the neck, on rotation of the vertebrae upon each other; and pain in the same vertebra, probably the first, secondhand third, by pressing the bones upon each other. She had some diffi- culty in deglutition, and the voice had lately changed its character, and become more feeble, indicating that the pneUmogastric nerves, and possibly the spinal accessory, were involved in the mischief. I bus, having, in common with the surgeon in attend- ance, recognized the real nature of the case, directions were given that the child should be placed upon her back, with her head resting upon a thin pillow, and some additional ' Op. cit., pp. 60, 61 VOL. IV.—44