201 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 9 British Med. Journal, June (3, 1857. curved shape, the direction of fractures in this region is apt to be oblique from above downward and from behind forward. A few instances are on record of almost longitudinal fracture. Thus, in the Warren Museum, there is a speci- men1 described as follows: “ The upper portion of the femur, showing a recent and very oblique fracture at some distance below the trochanters; and from it a longitudinal split upwards, and through the great trochanter. Also a fracture of the neck, just above the trochanters.” A specimen which is in the Lyons Museum, and photographs of which Mr. Morris showed to the Pathological Society of London,2 is said to present a fracture extending “from the neck to the lower third, dividing the bone into two almost equal portions, which had united by a few narrow bands of bone.” A case of very oblique, almost longitudinal, fracture in a lad, which became the occasion of legal proceedings, has been reported by Dr. Hunt.3 Spiral fractures have been sometimes observed, as well as fissures; in either case the part affected is more apt to be either the upper or the lower than the middle portion of the bone.4 Sometimes the bone is broken in two places, as in a specimen in the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital,5 in which “ the upper fracture runs obliquely from within outward, and from below upward, about two inches below the trochanter major; the lower one being a jagged, slightly commi- nuted fracture about three inches above the condyles.” ^ Maigaigne mentions that in the Musee Dupuytren there is an example—the only one known to him—of a triple fracture. He does not describe it further. The causes of these fractures are very various. Direct and indirect vio- lence, and muscular action, have all been observed, the second perhaps rather more frequently than either of the others. Cases of so-called spontaneous fracture are more common in the femur than elsewhere, by reason of the great leverage afforded by the length of the bone. One of the most remarkable of these was recently reported by Rankine.6 It was the case of “ a child aged six years, who, as the mother reported, was simply walking across the floor, when its leg doubled up, the child falling instantly to that side.” The femur was found to he fractured in the middle third. The mother declared positively “ that she was looking at the child walking over the floor at the time, and that there was no stumbling or any- thing, but otdy the leg seemed to double by the mere act of walking. It may be mentioned that the child did not seem to he in the best of health, although nothing very particular could be detected about it.” Another case, in" a vigorous man aged thirty, is recorded by Gfosselin.7 I have treated a man, about twenty-five years of age, who fractured the shaft of the femur in pull- ing on a boot; he had done the same thing previously by stepping down from a chair; there was no evidence whatever of constitutional taint or disorder.8 Humphry9 records a singular case in which a woman aged fifty-six was twice 1 Catalogue, p. 183, No. 1074. 2 Lancet, Nov. 5, 1881. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. 1879. 4 These spiral, spiroid, cuneiform, helicoidal, or screw-like fractures, as they have been variously named by the authors who have treated of them, are certainly interesting,' but I must confess! have never myself seen a specimen of the kind in the femur.' Holthouse and Morris (Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed. vol. i. p. 1021) give a good description of them, with references lo the somewhat scanty literature of the subject. From that source I derive the following : Gerdy, Ghirurgie pratique, tome iii. ; Fere, Fractures par torsion de la partie inferieure du corps du Femur; Raullet, Des Fractures hfilicoidales (These), I860. 6 Catalogue, p. 31, No. 11356. 6 Lancet, March 31, 1883. 7 Clinical Lectures on Surgery, Stimson’s Translation, p. 188. Philadelphia, 1878. 8 The reader will find an interesting paper “On Fractures of the Femur in Adults, without pre-existent Osseous Disease,” by Clarence Foster, in the Med. Times and Gazette for July 17, 1880 ; and another by Vallin, in the same journal for Nov. 6, 1880, taken from the Gazette Ileb- dom. de Med. et de Chir. (Paris), 10 Sept. 1880.