INJURIES OF THE BACK. 8U4 4 American Medical Times, 1861. 5 Lancet, April 6, 1867. fibres anteriorly and posteriorly, and were congested above and below the rent. Clots of blood were found diffused near tlie fracture. The lower por- tion of the cord, severely lacerated, was drawn up into a bundle at the seat of injury, entirely deprived of the membranes. The tubular nerve filaments were seen to be curiously dissected out by the pus in which the cord was bathed, forming a leash which is well shown by the preceding wood-cut. Briefly stated, the vertebral lesion consisted of a transverse fracture extend- ing through the body and pedicles of the first lumbar vertebra, with its spin- ous and left transverse processes impinging upon the cord. The latter may have been driven into that position by the force of the original blow, as well as by injuries sustained in transportation.1 The cause of death apparently was septicaemia arising from gangrenous bed-sores. Occasionally, too, the cord is completely severed by a vertebral dislocation or fracture. For instance:— Malgaigne2 3 4 mentions a case by Melchiori, in which a mason fell from a height upon his back. There was complete forward bilateral dislocation of the tenth dorsal vertebra. He survived the injury for one day only. The autopsy showed that there was no frac- ture, but that the spinal cord was divided. (Ashlmrst.) Dr. Parkman* presented to the Boston Society for Medical Improvement, a specimen in which the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebras were fractured; the third and fourth were also displaced or projected in front of the sixth and seventh, and were co- ossified in that position. The cord was completely divided; still the patient survived for two months. In very rare instances, a splinter from a fractured vertebra severs the spi- nal marrow, as happened in a case related by Abernethy, already mentioned, and in the following:— Dr. D. S. Conant* reports the case, already mentioned above, of a man, aged 55, who was blown off from rigging by wind, and who struck on his shoulders. There were frac- tures of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, paralysis, chill, and delirium. Blisters formed on both thighs, before death, which occurred in six days. The autopsy showed that a splinter from the first lumbar vertebra had divided the cord. (Ashhurst.) It may be of interest to state that, in nearly all the fatal cases of disloca- tion or fracture of the spinal column collected by Mr. Bryant at Griiy’s Hospi- tal, the vertebral injury was complicated with some structural lesion of the spinal cord; and that, in at least three-fourths of these fatal cases, the cord was irreparably injured by the mechanical pressure of the displaced bones, or by the effusion of blood into its structure.® It is believed, however, that, under favorable circumstances, the nerve- fibres when divided in lacerations (incomplete) of the spinal cord from simple fractures and dislocations, as well as in incised wounds, may unite again, pro- vided that they are not displaced too much, just as the filaments unite again in the nerves of the face and extremities, when divided by accidental wounds or by surgical operations. To support this view, the condition of the cord which was revealed by post-mortem examination, several months after the original accident, in a case recorded by Dupuytren of vertebral fracture with injury of the cord and paralysis, where recovery had taken place, may here be cited:— Charles Millie, aged 21, was admitted to the Hotel-Dieu, in 1825, with paralysis of the extremities and bladder, caused by a fall upon the back of his neck. After two months and a half of entire rest, combined with venesection, cupping, and leeching, he recovered, 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., pp. 426, 450. 2 Traite des Fractures et des Luxations, t. ii. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, N. S., vol. xxv. 1853.