329 GOUTY SYNOVITIS. immediate neighborhood of the affected joints. It is to be remarked that the deposit has but little affinity towards organs or parts of organs which are very vascular. Thus the cartilages and ligaments are first and most fre- quently affected; the synovial membrane itself is less often spotted with chalk-stone, and, when it is so, the fringes are very usually spared. After a time, or in some persons from the very beginning, tophaceous deposits, accompanied by inflammatory phenomena, takes place also in other organs; for instance, very commonly in the pinna and in the subconjunctival tissue of the lower eyelid, where they appear as little white beads, or in bursae, both deep and subcutaneous. But far more important are the very frequent and grave changes that take place in the kidneys. These occur very early; and it may even be argued that the true cause of gout lies in a functional derange- ment of those organs, which interferes with the excretion of uric acid. This derangement will be more fully described hereafter, but just now we are only concerned with the anatomical changes. A section of the kidneys shows, in the medullary portion, fine white streaks converging towards the hilus. These consist of deposits of urate of sodium, at first probably in the interior of the tubules, but afterwards between the tubules and extending into the cortical substance, and in advanced cases even to the surface, so as to be visible beneath the capsule. This deposit gradually induces a form of Bright’s disease known as the granular contracted kidney, which is accompanied by albuminuria. Furthermore, we have to consider certain affections not as yet shown to result from the physical deposition of urate of sodium, but certainly due to its presence: such are skin-eruptions—-eczema, psoriasis, urticaria, and sometimes erythema—as also peculiar and very possibly similar states of the surface of mucous membranes, causing catarrhal enteritis or gastritis, or a more severe form of intestinal inflammation. Some gouty persons, moreover, are trou- bled with a peculiar form of chronic bronchitis, culminating occasionally in acute attacks, and leading to stenosis of the smaller bronchi and to emphy- sema. Another grave lesion is a form of atheroma, with fibrosis of the capillaries, both producing vascular rigidity and tendency to rupture ; hence, apoplexy not unfrequently terminates a gouty life. Other functional de- rangements appear related to the morbid condition of blood, rather as cause than as effect; these are, besides the disturbance in the execretory function of the kidney, above alluded to, a certain turgid and congested condition of the •portal system, which gives rise to considerable derangement of digestion, with formation of much acid in the stomach and intestines, sour eructations, and the passage of flatus, together with a depressed and very irritable state of the nervous system. Mention has been made of deficient excretory power of the kidney. This more especially refers to the elimination of uric acid. It is one of the earliest manifestations, perhaps, with portal congestion, the very earliest manifestation of gout. A healthy man of 150 lbs. weight, should excrete on an average about 8 grains of uric acid, and 620 grains of urea, in the twenty-four hours.1 Flow, in the early stage of gout, that is, some weeks before the first attack, the amount of the former excretion is very much diminished, that of the latter not at all, or hardly at all, affected; afterwards, only slight traces of uric acid, or none, are eliminated, and the excretion of Urea is also much diminished, while some albumen begins to show itself in the urine.2 1 The average amount of urea may he taken at 1 drachm per stone (14 lbs.) of body weight in the twenty-four hours, that of uric acid at from 0.5 to 0.75 grain per stone in the same period : but both these constituents of urine, more especially uric acid, vary very much, according to the exercise taken, and the more or less nitrogenous quality of the ingesta. 2 For these peculiarities of the urine, see Cfarrod, op. cit. ; Lehmann, Pliys. Clieinie; and Bartel, Symptomatologie der Merenkranheiten.