899 SPINA BIFIDA. large and free, or when the contents of the cyst are other than simple fluid. If then only selected cases are considered suitable for this measure, its success must be estimated at a proper value. I am aware of no case of cure from iodine injection where it was distinctly proved that a free communication existed between the interior of the sac and the spinal canal, that could not be even temporarily cut off, and where at the same time the cyst contained the cord or some considerable portion of it. The methods of using this iodine treatment vary. Brainard, of Chicago, adopted the following plan: Six ounces of the fluid in the cyst were drawn oft’, and half an ounce of an iodine solution was then injected. This, after a few seconds, was allowed to flow out, the sac was then washed out with water, and the operation was completed by the injec- tion of two ounces of the original cerebro-spinal fluid that had been kept in the meanwhile at the temperature of the body. After the operation, pres- sure was applied. Brainard’s solution consisted of iodine, 5 grs., potassium iodide, 15 grs., and water, one fluidounce.1 Velpeau withdrew all the fluid in the cyst, and then injected a solution of tincture of iodine and water, after the manner adopted in the treatment of hydrocele. Morton’s method appears to have the advantage over both these plans, and is probably the most successful method of using iodine that has been proposed. Morton uses a solution of ten grains of iodine and thirty grains of iodide of potassium in one ounce of glycerine. The operation is not advised until the child has passed over the “ accidents of birth,” unless a speedy bursting of the tumor is threatening. A little of the cerebro-spinal fluid is drawn oft', and then from half a drachm to one drachm or more of the “ iodo-glycerine solution” is injected. This is allowed to remain in the cyst. The puncture is then painted with collodion. The operation may need to be repeated several times at intervals of a week or ten days, or longer. Some little inflammation commonly follows each injection, but it usually remains limited.2 If a good result follows, the mass shrinks, and soon ceases to give trouble. In a recent communication, Dr. Morton3 states that, as far as he knows, 29 cases have now been treated by this method. Out of this number failure has occurred in six instances only, and from this Dr. Morton argues that the iodo-glycerine solution treatment has brought about a saving of life to the extent of 79.31 per cent. Before, however, this very pleasing conclusion is accepted, it would be desirable to have more full details as to the exact condition of the various cases operated upon, and especially as to the anatomical relations of the parts concerned in the tumor. The failures from the injection treatment have depended upon inflammation involving the spinal membranes and cord, upon convulsions independent of such inflammation, or upon suppuration and premature bursting of the sac. (3) Ligature and (4) Excision.—These operations can only be undertaken in those comparatively infrequent cases where the sac is quite free from either the cord or any of the spinal nerves. The smaller the tumor, the smaller the bony hole, and the narrower the pedicle, the greater is the chance of success. The real danger is, that the inflammation incident upon healing and upon the closure of the aperture in the bony canal, may extend inwards and extensively involve the spinal membranes. It would be of no avail to detail the many modes in which these operations have been carried out. The ligature has been applied gradually, and it has been applied suddenly. The mass has been allowed to fall oft’, and it has been taken off at once with the ecraseur. Ex- 1 Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, vol. xlii. page 65. 1861. 2 See Lancet, vol. ii. 1876, pages 776 and 881. 3 Glasgow Medical Journal, 1881, page 401.