EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 454 feetly dry when it was closed; but a few hours afterwards, when the patient (a little girl) had become warm in bed, reactionary hemorrhage set in, and, in spite of all the measures that were adopted—including, finally, opening and plugging the wound with lint—bleeding continued, until the child fell into a state of exhaustion from which she never rallied. Hemorrhage having been controlled, the wound should he closed with sutures—leaving, however, ample openings for free drainage, which should be promoted, if necessary, by the introduction of Chassaignac’s tubes—and then lightly dressed with oiled lint, or with whatever material the surgeon may fancy, and the limb supported with a bracketed splint, or otherwise, in such a manner that the wound itself may be examined and dressed without unnecessarily disturbing the neighboring parts. If the olive-oil dressing be used—and I know of nothing better—it should be covered with oiled silk to keep it moist, as it is desirable that the wound should not be meddled with for at least forty-eight hours after the operation. The after-treatment of excisions is that of operations in general.1 In the case of adults, anodynes will probably be required during the first few days, but I have not usually found them necessary with children. Carbonate of ammonium should be given in from two to five-grain doses every hour, or every two hours, until reaction is fully established, and then a simple febri- fuge during the period of traumatic fever; after a few days quinine may be added, and may be combined with iron if suppuration he very free. Milk is the best article of diet at first, and, if there be nausea, should be slightly diluted with lime-water. In the later stages of the case concentrated food will he required, and probably alcoholic stimulants in quantities proportioned to the patient’s age and general condition. The most frequent causes of death after excision I have found to be tubercu- lous and amyloid disease—causes connected therefore rather with the patient’s state before operation than with the operation itself. If it be evident that the general health is failing to such an extent that repair cannot be hoped for, the surgeon should advise amputation, which may often be performed under these circumstances with the most gratifying results. But as long as the patient’s strength is fairly well maintained, the attempt to save the limb should not be discontinued on account of apparent want of improvement in the local condition ; a year, or even longer, is not too much time to devote to the after-treatment of a hip or knee excision, and even if caries, necrosis, or deformity should recur, all hope should not be abandoned, for a re-excision may sometimes be successfully practised in such a case. SPECIAL EXCISIONS. Excisions of Bones of the Head and Trunk. The operation of trephining the skull is an example of partial excision, and is sometimes treated of as such in systematic works on operative surgery. Its interest and importance, however, are so clearly dependent on the prox- imity of the brain to the part operated upon, that I shall not consider it in this place, but will refer the reader to the article on Injuries of the Head, where it can be more appropriately dealt with. Similarly, the operation of 1 See Yol. I. p. 452.