EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 460 have in this way each succeeded in removing the entire maxilla. In cases of non-malignant tumor, too, incision may sometimes be accomplished with- out external wound, as was twice done successfully by the late Mr. Maunder; and in any case of this kind it is very desirable, in order to preserve the symmetry of the face, to leave, if possible, the base of the jaw untouched— a mode of dealing with these growths which was practised long since by the late Dr. .T. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, and the importance of which has been more recently insisted upon by Mr. Heath. If, however, the whole thickness of the bone on one side be involved, excision may be conveniently performed by making a single incision along the base of the jaw, prolonging the wound, if necessary, in a line corresponding to the position of the ascend- ing ramus, and curving its anterior extremity upwards, toward, but not through, the prolabium. If the portion of bone which is to be removed should extend beyond the median line of the jaw, it would be necessary to pass a ligature through the tip of the tongue, so as to prevent its falling backwards when the muscles of the door of the mouth were divided. The facial artery is necessarily cut in the first incision, and should be immediately secured before proceeding further with the operation. The flap, formed as above directed, should now be carefully dissected up, and, after extracting a tooth on either side of the tumor, the inner face of the jaw should be cau- tiously cleared by separating the soft tissues of the mouth. The bone may then be divided on each side with the chain-saw, or, if preferred, a deep groove may be cut through the alveolus with a small, straight saw, and the section completed with cutting pliers. The part to be removed is then seized with the lion-jawed forceps and wrenched out of its place, any remaining attachments being severed with a few touches of the knife. If the angle of the jaw and ascending ramus be involved in the disease, it will be necessary to disarticulate the bone upon that side. Under these cir- Fig. 692. Excision of the lower jaw. cumstances the incision must be extended upwards as far as the articulation, when the bone, having been cut through in front of the tumor, is cleared by cautious dissection and then pushed downwards, in such a way as to render tense and thus facilitate the division of the attachment of the temporal muscle to the coronoid process; the jaw being now twisted somewhat out-