26 INJURIES OF BONES. be reproduced with equal readiness, and under such circumstances all the re- sources of the surgeon may be taxed to keep the fragments in proper place. A point which should always be borne in mind, is that the pain suffered by the patient may be very slight, although the bones are in very bad position. Hence the surgeon should by no means be satisfied that all is going on well because no complaint is made. Nothing but actual inspection of the injured part can assure him of its safety. This remark, however, does not apply to fractures of the ribs, or to such other fractures as are serious only because of the involvement of contained viscera. Pain is an almost invariable attendant upon fracture. It is due in part to the tearing of the soft parts, and to the inflammatory condition immediately set up thereby; in part to the irritation of the soft parts by the ends of the frag- ments ; and perhaps in part to the sensitiveness of the fragments themselves, or at least of the medulla. A peculiar, thrilling, numb pain, extending down along the limb to the fingers, is often complained of in fracture of the arm, from pressure of the lower end of the upper fragment against the nerve- trunks; and occasionally, but much more rarely, an analogous pain accom- panies fracture of the leg. I have once or twice seen cases in which the persistent pain was out of all proportion to the severity of the injury, in persons of very sensitive nervous systems, and liable previously to attacks of neuralgia; but generally the pain is not very violent, and subsides steadily with the reduction of inflammation. It is only apt to remain, under proper treatment, when the fracture is in a part such as the lower third of the forearm, where there are extensive theca) serous membranes; here there may be set up a sort of rheumatoid irritation, difficult to overcome, and productive of much suffering. A notion prevails extensively among the laity that fractures are most painful when they are “ knitting,” and that the ninth day is the time when this process is at its acme; I need hardly say that this opinion is wholly without foundation in fact. Persistent pain, or rather tenderness, over one part of a bone may become an important symptom in case of mere fissure. Mobility.—A greater or less degree of mobility at the seat of fracture is nearly always observable, and is more distinct the nearer the lesion is to the middle of a long bone. Of course the mobility referred .to is passive, and may be detected either upon an attempt of the patient to use the part, or by grasping the two portions of the limb, one in each hand, and then placing them at an angle with one another, or rotating them in contrary directions. It is upon this mobility that the loss of power after fractures is chiefly de- pendent. Crepitus.—Along with the mobility, if the ends of the fragments be in contact, there is developed a peculiar, rough, crackling or clicking sound, partly heard and partly felt, known as crepitus or crepitation. It is not always equally distinct, being sometimes masked, either by effusion of liquid or by the entanglement of soft parts between the fragments, sometimes les- sened by impaction. It is not present, for obvious reasons, in incomplete fractures. Bony crepitus should be carefully distinguished from what is known as soft crepitus—the crackling of dry tendon-sheaths—and from a very similar but smoother sound due to the rubbing of the dislocated head of a bone over the surface of another bone covered by periosteum. When clearly heard and felt, true crepitus is proof positive of fracture. Yet it does not always indicate accurately the degree of mobility. It may be quite loud,