pott’s disease of the spine. 935 Op. cit., p. 12. 2 British Medical Journal, vol. i. p. 913. 1881. (2) Loca Pain.—The symptom of pain, localized at the seat of disease, is of very uncertain occurrence, and is, perhaps, more often absent than present. For diagnostic purposes it is of no value. On this point, Mr. Fisher well observes that “ local pain in the back is much more frequently met with when no disease of the spine exists than when the vertebrae are affected.”1 In many cases no pain is complained of in the back, at the seat of disease, throughout the whole course of the ailment, and in other instances it is scarcely severe enough to draw comment from the patient. This local pain, when present, is ' usually deep seated, dull, uncertain in its duration, and worse at night and on vigorous movement. It is often much aggravated by any motion that jars the spine, and may he found to be made worse when the spine is per- cussed. Mr. Howard Marsh, speaking of this symptom, says that the pain may be felt either at the affected spot or below it, but very rarely above it.2 The pain, when present, is usually most obvious at the earlier stages of the disease, and ceases to be noticed when the spinal column has become more consoli- dated. It was the custom in less recent times to attach much importance to this local pain, and its recognition was accomplished in doubtful cases by pressing a hot sponge along the spine. This method of investigation has, however, been long proved to he useless. The pain to which reference is now made is due to inflammation of the bones, and proceeds, probably, directly from those tissues. It must be clearly distinguished from the severe, parox- ysmal, and often agonizing pain that sometimes radiates from the back, and is due to some nerve-irritation. In some cases, where the mischief is acute, there may he swelling and heat about the affected part of the spine. Such symptoms, however, are extremely uncommon. (3) The Spinal Deformity.—This deformity, the so-called “angular curva- ture,” is the most conspicuous symptom in Pott’s disease. The method by which it is produced has been already detailed in the paragraph on the path- ology of the disease. In many cases it is the first symptom noticed; and, indeed, in hospital practice it is unusual for a patient to be brought for treat- ment at a stage of the disease antecedent to the occurrence of the deformity. The deformity makes itself evident at an earlier period in some parts of the spine than it does in others, and the conspicuousness of the “ curvature ” is greatly influenced by its site. The deviation of the column is seen earliest when the dorsal region is attacked, the explanation being that the dorsal spine has already a normal curvature backwards. The spinous processes also, in this region, are of great length, and are soon rendered prominent by being separated somewhat from one another. In the lumbar region the deformity is very slow to appear, owing to the fact that the normal curve in this part of the column is directly forwards; and, moreover, there must be considerable destruction of the vertebral bodies before it can make itself evident. In the cervical region no regular deformity is produced. In this region the muscles are better able to support and balance the diseased segments, with the result that, as the destructive process advances, the head simply subsides vertically towards the trunk, and the column becomes shortened. In some cases—either from un- equal destruction of the bones, or from unusual muscular action—the cervical spine acquires a slight lateral deviation to one or other side. In any case, the marked rigidity of the column is very conspicuous. It will thus be seen that the deformity in Pott’s disease will be most con- spicuous, and will reach its greatest degree of development, when situate in