11 CAUSES OF FRACTURE. as many boys as girls. The two authors just quoted agree in saying that be- tween the fifteenth and twentieth years of life about eight times as many frac- tures occur iu males as in females. Malgaigne thinks that the disproportion then steadily diminishes, until “ beyond seventy-five years there are nearly twice as many fractures in women as in men but Gurlt makes the propor- tion between twenty-one and thirty 10 times, and between thirty-one and forty 11| times as many male as female cases. Then, according to the latter author, a decrease does occur, and from seventy-one to eighty the women are 2J times, and from eighty-one to ninety 7 times, as often affected with frac- tures as men. I shall make no attempt to reconcile or explain the differences between these estimates, coming from such distinguished sources. Children sustain fractures mainly as the result of falls ; but they are very liable to be hurt in this way, partly from their lack of muscular strength, partly from their heedlessness and love of adventure. Occasionally they put themselves in danger from the kicks of horses, or from being run over; I once had to amputate the arm of a little fellow, only seventeen months old, for compound fracture caused by the wheel of a passenger railway car. After puberty, the rougher sports of boys render them much more liable than girls, not only to falls, but to other forms of violence; and during adult life, many of the occupations followed by men are attended with numerous exposures from which women are almost wholly exempt. Our hospital wards afford daily evidence of the liability to fracture among painters, carpenters, masons, drivers, and laborers of all kinds. With the advent of old age, the habits of the two sexes become again much more nearly alike, and the accidents to which both are exposed resemble those which are apt to happen to children. Senile feebleness, and the timi- dity which comes with it, is curiously similar in its effect, in this way, to the ignorant and heedless weakness of childhood. And the slighter frames of women yield more readily to sudden strains, so that the excess in the number of their fractures is not a matter of wonder. jSTot only is the frequency of fractures influenced by the causes just dis- cussed, but their character also. In children and in the youth of both sexes, we have to deal mainly with fractures (sometimes incomplete) of the shafts of the long bones, and with epiphyseal disjunctions. In adults we meet with injuries of the former class, and (chiefly in the male sex) with fractures by crushing, as in mining, railroad, and machinery accidents, and falls from heights. Among old people, the bones are more apt to give way, from slight force, at weak points; thus in them fractures of the neck of the femur are very common. But these points will be again referred to more particularly. Drunkenness has been spoken of by some authors as a source of immunity from fracture; and in proof of this idea cases are adduced in which persons have fallen from considerable heights, while under the influence of liquor, without sustaining any injuries beyond contusions. But there are very many instances known in which sober people have likewise escaped fractures; and on the other hand, a large proportion of the patients admitted into hospitals, or treated in private, for this class of hurts, have received them while drunk. The only way in which intoxication can prevent fracture is by relaxing the muscles, and thus rendering the limbs flaccid. Under sucb circumstances one of the conditions of indirect force as a cause of fracture is set aside, and the bones, if broken, yield to direct violence or crushing. The influence ot season, and especially of cold weather, as a predisposing cause of fracture, was insisted on by some of the older writers, who main- tained that the bones were more brittle in winter. This idea need hardly be gravely refuted. When the ground is frozen hard, and rendered slippery by