413 ANCHYLOSIS. Gant divided with a saw the thigh bone a short distance below the small tro- chanter.1 In 1873, Volkmann introduced another method, removing a wedge from the outer part of the femur, and breaking the rest. Lately he has fol- lowed another more complicated procedure.2 In 1879, I used the chain saw to divide the bone above the great trochanter, modifying Sayre’s operation.3 Of these operations, most have been repeated: Sayre’s, I believe, only by him- self; Adams’s, by many operators ; Gant’s, by Dr. John Ashhurst and others ; Volkmann’s, only, as far as I know, by himself; my own, by myself and Mr. Cantlie.4 [The late Mr. Maunder divided the bone below the lesser trochan- ter with a chisel.] A rather more detailed account may be given of these various procedures. Dr. Rhea Barton made a rather large external wound, and simply divided the bone between the greater and lesser trochanters. In his modification of the operation, Dr. Kearney Rodgers took away a disk of bone, half an inch wide at its outer and three-fourths of an inch at its inner side. Dr. Sayre thus describes his operation:— “ An incision of about six inches was made over the trochanter major. The cut was slightly lunate, with the concavity looking downward. The lips were then sepa- rated, and the deeper structures, including the periosteum, were detached from the bone. A curved instrument armed with the chain-saw was passed around the bone, between the trochanters, and the femur first sawed transversely across. A roof-shaped piece was then sawed out of the upper fragment. In my second operation I sawed the curved section first, and should advise the operation to be performed in that way.”5 Mr. Adams calls his operation subcutaneous ; a claim which, considering the in-and-out movement of the saw, cannot be conceded. It is an osteotomy with a small wound, and is thus performed:— The instruments necessary are a knife in the form of a tenotome, hut with a very long, rounded or blunt portion, and a cutting blade of a little over an inch long; also, a saw, constructed on the same model. Both these are pro- vided with large, firm handles, usually pistol-shaped. The knife, introduced above and in front of the great trochanter, is carried downward and backward till it incises the periosteum and impinges on the bone ; it is then withdrawn, the saw is substituted, and this works until the cervix femoris is severed. The tensor vaginae femoris, the upper tendon of the rectus, and any other accessible resisting parts, are divided, and the limb brought down straight. Professor Volkmann’s method, first practised by him in 1873, is to make a rather long incision along the posterior edge of the great trochanter, to peel the periosteum from the junction of the neck and shaft as far as he can reach around the bone, to cut out with a gouge and chisel a wedge-shaped gap, and to fracture the rest; the femur is then brought down straight, and allowed to unite. His twelve patients all recovered with useful limbs.6 Lately he has in- troduced another method, whereby he hopes to obtain mobility at a new joint, which he endeavors to form by adding to the former procedure gougingout of the head and the remaining neck, rounding off the truncated shaft, and placing it in the reproduced cavity. Six patients thus operated upon by Volkmann are reported to have recovered with some flexibility at the false joint.7 My own operation is facilitated by the use of an instrument made on the model of a Bellocq’s sound, but larger; the spring, which is sharp at its ex- 1 Science and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 49. 2 Beitrage fur Chirurgie, S. 230. 3 Clinical Society’s Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 421. 4 Dr. Ashhurst performed, on the same patient, Adams’s operation on one side, Gant’s on the other ; [he has also operated, by one or other of these methods, in six additional cases, and in every instance with a satisfactory result.] 5 Op cit., p. 427. 6 Gross, System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. i. p. 1095. 7 Ibid.