752 INJURIES OF THE BACK. wagon while drunk. There was no apparent injury ; still, he could not rise in bed; and, in turning his head to he shaved, he suddenly died. Fracture of a cervical vertebra was found; and the cord was penetrated by a splinter. The lesion must of course have been not lower than the third cervical vertebra. Professor William Pepper1 relates the case of a girl, aged 19, who broke her neck by falling from a pie-cherry tree, and was admitted to the Pennsylvania Hospital twenty- four hours afterward. All power to move the extremities and muscles of the trunk was gone. Sensation, too, was entirely lost from a little below the clavicle downward. There was retention of feces and urine ; the bladder was much distended, no urine having been passed since the accident. The inspiration was entirely diaphragmatic, and 32. The facies indicated great respiratory oppression. Pupils normal; intellect clear; voice feeble, and frequently interrupted ; the tongue could be protruded at will, and moved in any direction. The cheeks were brightly flushed and very hot. The skin everywhere was much hotter than normal; pulse, small and frequent; temperature in axilla, 108.5°. “ She abruptly asked to be raised in bed ; her breathing became gulping and imperfect, and in less than two minutes she fell back dead.” Pulsation was still perceptible at the wrist almost one minute, and the cardiac sounds were yet audible between three and four minutes, after the last respiration. Autopsy The tissues surrounding the cervical vertebra were ecchymosed, and infiltrated with bloody serum, but no blood had escaped into the pharynx. There was a comminuted fracture of the atlas, the lateral masses being separated and the arches broken in two places. The fourth vertebra was luxated anteriorly from fracture of the articular processes. The paraplegia which attended the accident was due to the forward luxa- tion of the fourth cervical vertebra. The flushing of the face, and the great elevation of the body-heat were due to vaso-motor paralysis which resulted from injury of the sympathetic nerve. The sudden death was caused by punc- turing the spinal cord with fragments of the broken atlas, and compressing it against the odontoid process of the axis. Not improbably, the girl’s head slipped forward on the summit of the spinal column, when she was raised up in bed. The same accident occurred to this patient, on being raised up in bed, as befell one of Mr. Hilton’s patients and nearly happened to another (whose cases have already been mentioned), where the ligaments belonging to the articulatio capitis had been so extensively destroyed by disease, as to allow the head to slip forward and compress the spinal cord, with deadly effect, against the odontoid process of the axis. The sudden death of the patient whose case has just been related shows, that the same care is needed in cases of injury and in cases of disease of the first vertebra, alike, if the spinal cord be liable to sudden compression from the slipping or falling forward of the head, in consequence of the injury or the disease. The following example teaches the same important lesson;— Dr. H. F. Eberman,2 reports the case of a man, aged about 70, who, while descend- ing the steps from a hay-loft, slipped and fell, striking his occiput violently on the ground, and forcibly bending his head forward on to his chest. He lay insensible, for a considerable time. But, after recovering from the stunning, he arose, and placing both hands to his neck, walked to the bar-room of the hotel (half a square from the place of accident), where he remarked that he thought his neck was hurt, asked for a glass of whisky, and drank it. Then, he returned to the stable, and lay down on some hay ; in about half an hour he expired. Autopsy The transverse process on the right side of the atlas was found to be broken off; the third cervical vertebra was fractured transversely through its body, the right arch was broken entirely through, and the articulating processes on both sides were fractured through the middle ; the inter-spinous and posterior vertebral ligaments were ruptured ; but the spinal cord remained intact. 1 Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, April, 1867, pp. 438, 439. * Ibid., October, 1879, p. 590.