MYOMA OR MUSCULAR TUMOR. 589 of uterine fibroid may contain numerous and large cavities formed in this manner. The constant combination with fibrous tissue has been already mentioned. It is by far the most frequent of the combinations of muscle-tissue, but it is not the only one. In the prostate, gland-tissue frequently forms a part of the tumors, and in very varying proportions; for while some tumors are formed almost entirely of muscle, and contain very few gland-follicles, other tumors consist largely of gland-follicles with a very small proportion of muscle. Although most of the myomas are not plentifully supplied with vessels, some of them are so vascular that they have been regarded as combination- tumors of muscle and vessel. Symptoms of Myomata.—In spite of the small supply of vessels which most myomas possess, they are frequently associated with severe and frequent hemorrhage. But the blood appears almost always to be poured out from the vessels of the mucous membrane of the affected organ. It can scarcely be maintained that the hemorrhage depends on the nature of the tumor, for the symptom is well-nigh limited to the myomas of the uterus, those of the prostate seldom even bleeding slightly unless they have been injured. The difference is so remarkable that hemorrhage is reckoned an important symp- tom of fibroid tumors of the uterus; the absence of hemorrhage just as im- portant a symptom of enlargement of the prostate. Myomas are liable to ulceration, but the ulceration is more often of the mucous membrane covering them than of the substance of the tumor. The peritoneum is also liable to inflammation in the case of subperitoneal growths. Myomas occasionally slough, and are completely cast out, when a spontaneous cure of the disease may result. Myomas are, too, some of the very few tumors which undergo partial or complete resorption. Complete disappearance of a myoma is probably of very rare occurrence. Where shrinking has taken place to such a degree that the tumor has seemed entirely to disappear, it has been found, when the opportunity for examination has been given after death, that there has still remained a tumor, but of unimportant size. The shrinking may be due to cicatrization of inflammatory products, when the tumor becomes as hard as a scirrhous growth ; or it may probably be due to fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres, similar to that which occurs in the natural involution of the uterus. That it should be noticed chiefly or solely in tumors of the uterus, and should take place most frequently after the complete cessation of the menses, might almost be foretold from what is known of the natural changes which the uterus exhibits after pregnancy and after the change of life. Fortunately, with the diminution of the tumor the alarming symptoms of which it has been the cause frequently disappear, and the disease is practically cured. Diagnosis and Treatment.—The clinical characters of myomas can scarcely be considered here. External myomas are so rare, and so unimportant when they do occur, that an elaborate description of their characters would not be necessary even if it were possible. The symptoms of the muscular tumors of the uterus and prostate will be fully described in the articles on diseases of those organs. The diagnosis and treatment of the disease also falls more appropriately to the duty of writers on those subjects. It may, however, be said here that it is impossible to diagnose between a myoma and a fibroma, and this might be expected from what has been stated of the close relation and resemblance of the two diseases. It may also be said that a myoma is a perfectly benign tumor, and that the dangers associated with its presence