219 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. gcure by the swelling from effusion into the periarticular bursae as well as into the joint itself, lateral mobility just above the joint, and crepitus. When the case is seen very early, the diagnosis may present no great diffi- culty ; but from the extreme rapidity with which swelling comes on, and the complexity of the parts involved, the surgeon is rarely able to pronounce upon the nature of the injury without reserve. The gravity of these cases may be at once perceived. The knee-joint is of necessity involved, and must become the seat of inflammation, so that there is a great risk of anchylosis if the immediate dangers to life are surmounted. Hence a carefully guarded prognosis only should be given. The treatment must be directed in the first place to the rectification of any obvious distortion, and then to subduing inflammatory action. During the few hours succeeding the accident, indeed, there may be a very marked col- lapse, and this must be met as in any other case, bearing in mind the proba- bility of the occurrence of severe reaction in a succeeding stage. Complete immobilization of the joint, with moderate extension and coun- ter-extension, will I think commend themselves to the judgment of every one as the cardinal principles of the local treatment in these cases. As to the exact means to be employed, there may be room for the exercise of choice. My own preference would be for a well-fitted back-splint, and suspension in either Smith’s or ITodgen’s wire-frame ; but I cannot speak from experience, having never treated a case of this kind except complicated with other inju- ries which proved speedily fatal. Theoretically, I should think that the com- fort of the patient, as well as the retention of the fragments, would be pro- moted by a slightly flexed posture of the knee, while in the event of anchy- losis this would insure a better gait than could be obtained with the limb entirely straight. Should suppuration unfortunately occur, it would be neces- sary to decide between evacuating the pus and washing out the joint with carbolized water, and amputation; or in young subjects the propriety of ex- cision might be considered. Fracture of one condyle, although more rare than that of both, has been repeatedly observed. All the cases have been in males, and the result of direct violence. Malgaigne says that this lesion “consists in a nearly vertical division of the bone, striking the articular face near one or the other of the condyles, and directed from before backward, which goes up along the bone, deviating inward or outward, according to the condyle affected, and terminating two, three, or even four inches above the joint; the detached fragment forming a sort of pyramid, with the condyle for its base.” The external condyle was broken off in two cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper;1 in both, however, the shaft of the bone was also fractured across. In another instance, reported by Crosby,2 the separation of the condyle was due to a twist of the leg, and the fragment was removed by incision some months afterward. Here there may be, perhaps, a question as to the correctness of regarding the force as direct, but I am inclined to think that it was so. Hamilton mentions the case of a man aged forty, seen by him three months after the receipt of the injury; the fragment was then distinctly movable, and he was in doubt whether the fracture had involved the joint. Such a lesion would be analo- gous to fracture of the epicondyle of the humerus. Kirkbridc3 saw the ex- ternal condyle separated by the kick of a horse. 1 Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, pp. 241, 242. 2 New Hampshire Journal of Medicine, 1857. * Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, May, 1835.