169 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. this occurs, 1 think there is ample evidence, although it has been doubted by some writers. Fractures of the lateral margins of the articulating surface are less easily explained, but may be due to the sudden force brought to bear by violent contact of the carpal bones, and the same may be said of the rare instances of “ stellate cracks.” Upon the occurrence of transverse fracture in the way above stated, the area of the end of the upper fragment is less than that of the opposed surface of the lower; and the force continuing to act, the former is driven down into the cancellous tissue of the latter, and may split or burst it into several lesser fragments, thus comminuting it. Or, if this splitting does not take place, the compact wall may penetrate the spongy texture of the lower fragment, constituting an impaction. Experiments on the dead subject have been many times made by different observers, and always with the same general result, in support of the above statements. With regard to the occurrence of impaction, writers have been greatly at variance. Gordon says that in Colles’s fracture it is impossible. Callender says that thirty-six specimens in the various museums in London show de- formity in all clearly due to “ the impaction of the proximal into the distal end of the bone.” Voillemier thought the impaction so marked a feature of the injury that he would rank it among what he calls “ fractures by penetra- tion.” It. W. Smith argues that the appearances which led Voillemier to this opinion were due to deposits of new bone. This question seems to me to have been discussed at greater length and with more zeal than its import- ance really warrants. It cannot be settled upon the evidence of specimens of old and long-healed fractures alone, but lesions of recent date must be examined also ; and from both together I think the conclusion is unavoidable that impac- tion occui's in some cases, while in others it is wanting. Deposits of new bone may undoubtedly take place in some cases, simulating impaction, or increasing its apparent extent. Probably the experience of most surgeons will confirm the statement of Pilcher, that a fall on the palm of the hand may be productive of a mere strain of the ligamentous structures, of bruising or even of Assuring of the hone, or of actual fracture with separation, according to the grade of the force brought to bear in over-extension of the hand. The symptoms of this fracture are, as a general rule, very decided. There is great pain, and instant helplessness of the hand; the wrist is almost always deformed in a marked degree, and often both preternatural mobility and crepitus are present. Swelling comes on very rapidly, and, in some cases, there is ecehymosis, although, by reason of the thickness of the skin of the palm, this is not as apt to occur as in fractures in most other regions. The deformity requires special mention. It is such as might be expected from the bending backward of the lower extremity of the radius; the back of the wrist is humped up, and there is a corresponding depression at the palmar side, with a sort of creasing of the skin. Sometimes the dorsal prominence is distinctly greater at the radial side, the part having a twisted appearance. By Velpeau the deformity was said to resemble the back of a silver fork, and the comparison is not an inapt one. Taken together with the pain and loss of power in the hand, it is often in itself conclusive as to the nature of the injury. Preternatural mobility may usually be detected by grasping the patient’s hand (as if in shaking hands), and taking hold of the forearm; then flexing and extending the wrist. By the same manoeuvre crepitus is apt to be elicited, but it may be very slight. In the case of decided impaction, both of these symptoms may be but slightly marked; when they are very readily