593 ANG-EIOMA OR VASCULAR TUMOR. give rise to much discomfort. But, more frequently, they increase in size, and cause discomfort by producing noises in the ear of the affected side, or worse than discomfort by ulcerating and bleeding, sometimes profusely. Such tumors must usually he dealt with by operation; for pressure, even when it has been employed with extreme care, has seldom availed much. The main artery—in most instances the common carotid—may be ligatured; but, for the reasons which have been already stated, this course can seldom be relied on. The tumor may still continue to increase in size, and hemorrhage may be as severe as before the operation. The means which offer the best prospect of success are destruction of the tumor by the galvano-cautery, and complete removal. For the former, the cautery wire may be passed beneath the growth, heated, and made to cut completely through it. This proceeding is repeated until the tumor has been destroyed piece by piece. The heated wire greatly reduces the danger of hemorrhage, but does not entirely avert it. Even if there be no bleeding at the time of the operation, hemorrhage may occur with the separation of the sloughs. The alternative operation of complete removal is certainly the surest means of cure, but it is fraught with the gravest danger when the tumor is of large size. The supplying vessels should first be ligatured through an incision immediately around the growth, each vessel being separately taken up as it is cut through. When all these vessels have been tied, the tumor should be rapidly removod, and the vessels which enter its under surface as quickly as possible secured. The operation may be rendered less difficult and dangerous by the application of compression, during its performance, on the main artery of the affected part, and by the employment of the clamp-forceps which are used for the temporary arrest of hemorrhage during ovariotomy and similar operations. ISTon-Arterial Angeiomata.—The non-arterial varieties of angeioma are much more frequent than the arterial. They are indeed so numerous that a week never passes in the out-patient practice of a large hospital without pro- ducing at least one case. The venous and capillary nsevi are more frequently met with than the cavernous, not merely because they are more numerous, but because the cavernous tumors more frequently attack the liver, and such deep structures as the muscles, while the vessel-nsevi more frequently affect the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Characters and Course of Venous and Capillary Ncevi.—All parts of the surface of the body are subject to the occurrence of venous and capillary nsevi, hut the head and face,1 and the trunk, are more often affected than the extremities. They grow in the most unfortunate situations, the tip of the nose, the eyelids, the lips and cheeks, and the ears. They are very frequent on the hairy scalp, and about the neck and back. But their occurrence is not limited to the skin and subcutaneous tissue. They grow in and beneath the mucous surface of the lips and cheeks, the tongue, and the gums, and more rarely in the muscles, the bones, and even in the brain. They are almost invariably con- genital, or growths of early infancy ; for, when the history is not clearly one of congenital occurrence, it is that the tumor was first noticed shortly after the birth of the child, as a minute speck or dot. Whether it be congenital or of infantile origin, the speck or dot may remain stationary, or may increase in extent and bulk, or may take a third course and diminish in size, and gradually disappear. Most mevi increase in size, and of those that are cuta- neous, the manner of growth may sometimes easily be observed. The red patch or area which constitutes the disease increases at its margins by putting forth vessel-loops and culs-de-sac. But more frequently the disease, watched 1 [See Plate XVI., Vol. III. page 3(38.] VOL. IV.—38