214 INJURIES OF BONES. Compound fractures of the femur are always of serious importance, involving a good deal of shock, and presenting sometimes great difficulties in their treatment. When amputation is not indicated, the surgeon has to choose, among the various plans already described, the one which seems best adapted to the circumstances of the case. Often the plaster-of-Paris bandage, fene- strated so as to give access to the wound for the purpose of dressing it, and combined with suspension, presents great advantages. But in the majority of cases, the ordinary arrangement for extension, by the weight and pulley, will answer quite as well, allowing the wound to be dressed and the limb com- pletely supported. I believe this method, carefully carried out and properly watched, to be the best, except in cases of very restless patients, as for exam- ple those who have delirium tremens; for such the plaster of Paris, with moulded splints, may be temporarily employed with great benefit. Much depends upon the situation, size, and depth of the wound; and no general rules can be laid down which shall cover the various conditions presented by even a small number of cases. Fractures of the lower portion of the shaft of the femur are by no means as frequently met with As those higher up in the bone. They have, in most of the recorded cases, affected adult males. Opinions have varied as to their causes; Sir A. Cooper says1 that they happen “ when a person falls from a considerable height upon his feet, or is thrown upon the condyles of the os femoris with the knee bent.” Hamilton concurs with him; but Malgaigne says, “ These fractures seem to me to be chiefly produced by direct causes.” Probably the experience of different surgeons, or of the same surgeon at dif- ferent times, may differ in regard to this point as upon many others. Mal- gaigne had seen only two cases from indirect causes, but seven from direct. Among the former cases is perhaps included one previously published by him,2 to which, however, he makes no reference in his work; the fracture was due to rotation of the knee in an attempt to reduce a luxation of the hip-joint. However produced, these injuries present very various conditions, differing materially from those of other portions of the bone. At its lower portion, the femur broadens toward the knee, and just above the condyles swells out quite abruptly. Its cancellous structure resembles that of the lower portion of the radius, except that the downward direction of the lame 11® is more dis- tinctly marked; and I think that sometimes the “ cross-breaking strain” must be admitted as the true mechanism of its fractures also. Generally, the principal direction of the fracture is obliquely downward and forward; but Hamilton mentions an instance in which it ran downward and backward, and in which gangrene of the foot occurred, apparently from pres- sure of the lower end of the upper fragment upon the vessels. In one case, recorded by the same author, both femora were broken just above the condyles, by a fall from a fourth-story window, the patient alight- ing upon his feet. A very singular specimen, in the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital, is thus described :3 “ An oblique fracture, which commences at the linea aspera, about six inches above the condyles, and extends spirally inward and down- ward, completely circling the bone until it reaches within an inch of the con- dyle. The beginning and end of this line of fracture are united by two other lines of fracture extending upward from the lowest point until they reach the upper end of the spiral fracture. These have separated a bony fragment of the 1 Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, p. 244. 2 Gazette des Hopitaux, 15 Fev. 1838. 3 Catalogue (Supplement), p. 37, No. 114116.