EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 458 tant may, however, be employed with advantage. Ligation of the carotid may be rendered necessary by secondary hemorrhage, as in cases recorded by Mr. Wagstatfe and by Prof. W. H. Pancoast, of Philadelphia. Sir William Fergusson suggested that, as the chief source of bleeding was from the ex- ternal wound, the ascending process of the superior maxilla, with the alveolus and hard palate, might be notched, if not entirely divided, before cutting into the cheek at all, thus completing the most tedious stage of the operation before making any incision into those parts which were most vascular. (2) /Shock is not as much a source of danger in cases of excision of the jaw alone, as in those, like my fourth case above referred to, in which the jaw is removed as a preliminary step in the extirpation of retro-maxillary tumors. It is probably diminished by the employment of anaesthesia. (3) The entrance of blood into the air-passages, causing suffocation, is, on the other hand, no doubt more likely to occur when the patient is unconscious from the use of chloroform or ether, than if no anaesthetic be employed. It proved the cause of death in a case of retro-maxillary tumor operated on by Sir Prescott Hewett. To prevent such an accident, anaesthesia should not be pushed further than is really necessary, particularly in the latter stages of the operation, and an assistant should constantly clear out the mouth and pharynx with small sponges mounted upon short sticks. Nussbaum, regard- ing this as the chief source of danger in operations upon the jaw, advises the preliminary performance of a temporary tracheotomy, the glottis to be closed with a piece of oiled lint, and the anaesthetic to be administered through a tracheal tube. This plan has, with various modifications, been employed also by several other surgeons, but, I confess, seems to me adapted rather to complicate than to facilitate the operation; and I can but say the same of Rose’s and Burow’s suggestion, that the patient’s head during the operation should be thrown backward so far as to allow the blood to escape from the nostrils. Gluck and Zeller advise that the trachea should be divided trans- versely between its third and fourth rings, a few days before the principal operation, and that its lower end should be fastened externally. The con- tinuity of the windpipe is ultimately restored by a final operation after convalescence from those which have preceded it. This procedure is said to have been successful in dogs, and seems to me an experimental mode of treat- ment which might well be reserved for the corpora vilia of those animals. Trendelenburg and Gerster have devised ingenious tracheal tampons, to be used after tracheotomy, for preventing the entrance of blood and permitting the maintenance of anaesthesia through the tracheal wound. Stimson employs a tube to plug the larynx and pharynx during the operation, but introduces it through the mouth, and thus avoids the necessity of opening the trachea. The use of an anaesthetic, in the operation of removing the upper jaw, has been objected to by many surgeons, as likely to increase the danger of the proce- dure; but I think that with care in administration, the risk of anaesthesia may be avoided, and that the shock is apt to be less than if no anaesthetic be used, and, indeed, the operation is so dreadful a one to the patient, that I should hesitate to propose it without offering the benefits of anaesthesia. As to the choice between ether and chloroform, the latter agent is commonly preferred, on account of its vapor not being inflammable by contact with the hot iron, which is often required in the ultimate stages of the operation. But of late I have given the preference to ether in these operations, as in all others, finding that there is no risk of setting the patient on fire if only the precaution be taken to remove the anaesthetic from his face a few seconds before the cautery is applied. I have the patient thoroughly etherized before beginning, and then renew the anaesthesia after the tumor is fully exposed and bleeding from the external vessels arrested; then the ether-cone can be