RHEUMATIC SYNOVITIS. 321 in either the blood or the urine, and no microzyme has as yet been detected, nor does the disease comport itself like what we know of maladies thus pro- duced ; while the very varying circumstances which attend the occurrence of rheumatic fever, contradict the idea of a malarial origin. Some writers maintain that the malady is a neurosis, localizing it in the spinal cord; and certain points in the natural history of multarticular, acute and subacute attacks, tend to support such a doctrine. For the present, however, we must be content with studying the anatomy and semeiology of rheumatism, and shall he aided in our comprehension of subacute articular affections by first glancing at the phenomena of the acute disease. Acute rheumatism is a fever accompanied by severely painful, multarticular inflammations, and by profuse acid perspirations, during which the very scanty, high-colored urine contains a considerable excess of urea, and also a less excess of uric acid.1 The blood has the usual alkaline reaction, but contains a superabundance of fibrine, viz., instead of 0.2 (the normal percentage) 1.0 in a 100 parts. The joint-inflammations, though severe, are generally transient, and often metas- tatic, either to other joints or to internal parts, especially to the heart. The inflammations, whether articular or internal, are especially partial to fibrous tissues; they hardly ever lead to suppuration, but to thickening, to adhesion between opposed surfaces, and to fibrinous deposits and vegetations upon those which are free. The usual course of acute rheumatism is to get well, leaving neither joint- disease nor heart-disease behind; sometimes, however, the heart does not recover, and in some cases the patient appears cpiite well and remains so for a certain time, and then heart-symptoms slowly begin to show themselves. A similar sequence of events occurs in the joints; most patients get perfectly well,2 while certain other patients recover from the pyrexia and all constitu- tional symptoms, though in one or perhaps two joints inflammation con- tinues ; other patients appear perfectly well, but after an interval one joint, generally the knee, and occasionally other articulations also, become diseased. In the former of these conditions, all marked pyrexia having subsided, the one or perhaps two joints which remain affected, have within their cavities but very little excess of fluid, and even this is transient; but, on the other hand, there is a good deal of fibrous thickening of both synovial membrane and parts around, and even the neighboring bursse and tendinous sheaths do not escape. In the most marked cases, the fibrinous effusion lines the inner surface of the synovial membrane, massed into undulations separated by rugae running across or around the axis of the joint. There is no appearance of fringe-hypertrophy; indeed, these appendages are incrusted and overspread by the solid ettusion. There is some near relationship between this form of disease and dry synovitis (page 265), and, as in that affection, rapid anchy- losis may take place. Similar but much less rapid and excessive change appears to accompanv disease produced in very rheumatic persons by exposure, or by some slight traumatism, or occasionally to follow, but after an interval, acute rheuma- tism. At first there is a certain amount of intra-articular secretion, which becomes slowly or rapidly absorbed, giving place to synovial and periarticular thickening, which, though obstinate, also after a time disappears; but the condition is very prone to recur at irregular intervals, generally provoked by exposure, overexertion, or some indiscretion in diet, in still a third form 1 The deficiency of water thus excreted is probably in part due to the great quantity eliminated by the skin. 2 Save a proneness to rheumatic pains on any exposure, and an augmented liability to rheu- matic fever. VOL. IV.—21