555 MALIGNANCY OF TUMORS. does not intend to promise that the patient will never again in the course of his life be the subject of a fatty tumor, in the same region of the body as that from which the first tumor was removed. In this article, then, the term will be employed only in this sense, to denote the reproduction or re-formation of a tumor. It is, of course, impossible to say how long a period must elapse before a person can be deemed safe from the possibility of recurrence; but it may rea- sonably be considered that, if, twelve months after an operation, there is no visible or tangible sign of return, the operation is to be regarded as success- ful. It can scarcely be conceived that, during the period of a year, the dis- ease should be present, perhaps in a microscopic form, and lie dormant, and then break forth into active growth, and in the space of a few weeks or months produce a tumor of considerable bulk. In the histories of cases, recurrence is often made to appear much more tardy than it really is, by the absence of accu- rate information of the date of re-appearance of the tumor; and the period between the first and second operations is sometimes wrongly regarded as a period free from recurrence. Although recurrence is thus admitted to be due to incomplete removal, the operator is not, by any means, necessarily to blame, in all cases, for the recurrence of a tumor. Some tumors are so situ- ated that it is practically impossible completely to remove them; yet an operation is fully justified by the temporary relief which it affords. On this account polypi of the nose are taken away, even when the probability of their recurrence amounts almost to certainty. Other tumors appear to have been completely removed, and yet recur. Thus do many sarcomas which are inclosed in complete capsules. The tumors are removed, together with their capsules, shelling out like fatty or fibrous tumors; but the capsule does not serve to protect the surrounding tissues from contagion ; they are already inlil- trated with the elements of the tumor. And tumors which are not encap- suled, certain of the sarcomas and carcinomas, are often difficult thoroughly to define, and therefore difficult completely to remove. Malignancy of Tumors. The terms malignant and malignancy have been employed so frequently that it is desirable to define their meaning. Malignancy is expressed in one or more of three different ways: infiltration of adjacent structures, affection of neighboring lymphatic glands, affection of other organs and tissues. The first of these is, on the whole, the most important, for it is probably never absent, and is, in many instances, the only indication of malignancy. Thus the cancerous ulcer termed “ rodent,” neither affects the glands nor any dis- tant organ or tissue, but its malignancy is expressed in the local invasion of skin, adipose tissue, muscle, bone, the eye—in fact, of every tissue with which it comes in contact. Many malignant tumors appear to be strictly circum- scribed, and even confined within firm capsules; but microscopical examina- tion of the immediately adjacent tissues discovers elements of the tumor, and examination of sections of the tumor discovers fragments of normal tissues included in the morbid growth, and, as it were, partially digested by it. This property of malignant tumors renders their complete removal far more diffi- cult than that of innocent growths, but it has been already shown that recur- rence is not by any means exclusively a character of malignancy. Affection of neighboring lymphatic glands is a decided expression of malignancy, and is exhibited by every variety of malignant tumors under favoring circum- stances. Whenever it occurs it is the most reliable of the clinical indications of malignancy, for infiltration of adjacent tissues may be unrecognizable