725 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL instance, it is shown by nodding and rotating the patient’s head that the luxa- tion (if any) is not at the atlo-axoid articulation, but somewhere below it. Oftentimes, too, the body of the disjointed vertebra can be felt bulging for- ward into the pharynx, and this point in the examination is an important one to look after. As a rule, in these cases, the abnormal position of the salient points of the dislocated bone, as well as the rigidity and painfulness of the injured articulations, can readily be detected by a manual examination. But if there be preternatural mobility, and especially if there be crepitus felt in connection with the displaced bone, it will be strong evidence that fracture is present as well as luxation. 2. If, in cases of cervical dislocation, the spinal cord be not compressed by the displaced bone, nor otherwise injured, there will at first be no paralysis, and no subjective symptoms whatever, excepting the immobility, soreness, and painfulness of the disjointed articulations. In such cases, however, spinal paralysis may subsequently appear, and death ensue. Several instances of this sort are on record. For example:— Causse1 gives the case of a man who injured his neck by falling from a chariot on to the wheel. There was at first no paralysis ; only stiffness of neck and pain on bending it. On the third day, however, in turning his head he felt a crack, and became para- lyzed. Death ensued, and complete forward dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra was found. (Ashhurst.) It is not improbable that, in this case, the luxation was in- complete at first, but became complete on the third day, in consequence of the accident sustained in turning his head. Dupuytren likewise reports the case of a mason, aged 49, who fell backward down stairs, striking his head on a step; a bag of plaster came upon his breast. In conse- quence, his head was thrown forward and to the right, his neck was stiff, and the spinous processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebras could not be felt, while their trans- verse processes were abnormally prominent. At first there was no paralysis, but after- wards it came on, and in ten hours death ensued. The fifth cervical vertebra was found displaced forward with fracture of its processes, and the spinal cord was divided. It is not improbable that in this case, too, the luxation at first was incomplete, and the spinal cord being not compressed there was no paralysis; but, in a few hours, it became com- plete, because the cord was divided, perhaps from injudicious attempts to examine or to remove the patient, and then paralysis immediately appeared. The paralysis must have increased rapidly, for death soon ensued. In analogous cases, when spinal paralysis does not appear, recovery may take place. For example : Greenhow2 reports the case of a female, aged 25, who fell thirty feet, striking the head. She sustained dislocation of three or four upper cervical vertebrae, and was insensible for three days, but had no paralysis. There was a scalp wmund and fractured clavicle. She was under observation fourteen days, and recovered, but the deformity remained. Again, Professor Hamilton3 mentions the case of a man, aged 40, who w'as thrown from a wagon, striking the back of his neck. He was stunned for several hours; then paralysis came on. However, he did not die; but, after nine months, the spinous pro- cess of the seventh cervical vertebra was still displaced to the left side. His head also was bent forward and his neck was stiff; he could walk a few steps, but with fatigue; he likewise had pain in the legs, etc. (Ashhurst.) But if, in cases of cervical dislocation, the spinal cord he slightly com- pressed, or slightly bruised, or slightly torn, there will from the" outset he paralysis of the parts to which the injured nerve-filaments are distributed. Several cases belonging to this category, whose issue was fatal, are on record. It is not necessary to reproduce them. Finally, if the spinal cord be crushed or strongly compressed at the middle M^moire Medico-legale, etc. 2 Lancet, 1851. 3 Op. cit.