FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 163 radius was detected. O’Brien1 reports that he saw an oblique fracture of the bone, about three inches above the wrist, produced by muscular effort in aiding to lift a large cask. It is not improbable that cases of this kind are more frequent than would be supposed from the scantiness of the records. Prominent among the symptoms of fracture of the shaft of the radius is always loss of power in the hand ; although the patient may still be able to flex the fingers, and perhaps to pull or lift in some degree. But from what was before said as to the function of the radius, and the action of muscles upon it, it must be clear that the breaking of this bone cannot fail to render the hand useless, for want of pronation and supination. Deformity is usually present, the forearm having a curiously twisted look ; and if the hand is grasped and rotated, there is an odd sense of looseness in the limb, the patient experiences pain, and, unless the fragments are separated altogether, there is crepitus. I have never myself seen a case in which the latter symptom was wanting. The injured part quickly swells, and the other phenomena become much obscured. In examining a forearm for the detection of this or any other fracture, the best procedure is for the surgeon, after noting the position in which the limb lies, to grasp the hand with his corresponding hand, and bring it into semi- pronation ; then to run the fingers of his other hand along the ulna, with some pressure, so as to determine the soundness of that bone. Xext, applying his disengaged hand gently but closely to the upper part of the forearm, he rotates the patient’s hand, with slight extension ; the fragments will usually be felt to rotate upon one another, and at one point the movement will cause pain. Greater certainty is given to this manoeuvre, if the thumb of the surgeon is applied to the head of the radius, which may often be felt not to follow the motion of the hand as it normally should. The precise point of fracture may be determined by passing one or two fingers lightly but firmly along the bone; a certain yielding, with crepitus, will be felt when the spot is reached, and the patient will experience pain. When the fracture is below the mid-point of the bone, it can be much more readily perceived than above, where the examination must be made-through a greater or less thickness of muscular tissue. When the symptoms are ordinarily distinct, there can be little or no diffi- culty in the diagnosis ; but it may readily be imagined that if the periosteum should be untorn, and the fragments be thus held in contact, the fact of frac- ture might escape detection. Serious displacement would not under such circumstances be likely to ensue; and especially if, notwithstanding the absence of conclusive symptoms, the case were treated as one of fracture. I may mention that the rotation of the radius in an uninjured arm some- times gives rise to a sound somewhat resembling crepitus, either by contact of the head of the bone with the condyle of the humerus, or by friction of the tendons in their sheaths. Any error thus induced would, however, be on the safe side. From what has already been said, it will be perceived that the result of fracture of the shaft of the radius, if left to itself, would be likely to be the loss of much of the usefulness of the hand. If the bone were broken above the insertion of the pronator teres, the upper fragment would be supinated, and the lower pronated ; the upper would be tilted forward, and the lower drawn inward toward the ulna. It the fracture were below that point, the upper frag- ment might be but little rotated, but the lower would be drawn away from it, and from its shortness even more strongly pulled toward the ulna. And m either case the displacement of the upper end of the lower fragment would be favored at least by the action of the supinator longus muscle; of this a 1 Atlanta Med. Register, 1881.