47 DEFECTS IN THE PROCESS OF REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 1 Op. cit., p. 140. but I could not be sure that there was not a connection by very long and loose fibrous strips, between the ends of the bone. No case is known to me, in which complete separation has been placed beyond a doubt by dissection. Fig. 586. u False Joint or Pseudarthrosis.-—This term is strictly applicable only to cases in which there is formed at the seat of fracture an imitation of a normal articulation, as in the annexed diagram (Fig. 586). The perios- teum, and perhaps other fibrous tissues in the neighborhood, become thickened and developed into a sort of capsule. By con- stant motion upon one another, the fragments become rounded, one at the centre of the end, the other at the margin, so that one is convex and the other concave; and between them, within the newly-formed capsule, there occurs a secretion not unlike the synovia of a true joint. This state of things is more apt to occur, or, at least, has been oftener met with, in the shaft of the humerus than elsewhere; but it is not always easy to ascertain from the statements of wri- ters what the exact condition of the bones may have been in cases treated by them. And, indeed, it may be questioned whether it would not be well to retain simply the two terms, delayed union and false joint, the latter embracing all the cases in which, whether with fibrous union loose enough to admit of a wide range of motion, or with an imitation of a joint cavity between the fragments, there is obviously a permanent condition of mobility at the seat of fracture. With this understanding, which seems to have been already assumed by many writers, the discussion would be simplified, without any real sacrifice of scientific accuracy; since, in the case of fibrous union, we have an imitation of a joint in its great essen- tial, mobility, and, in the other case, we have but an imitation of the structures proper to a normal articulation. Clinically, the two conditions are the same (except in the treatment required, which is to be referred to again hereafter); they both differ from delayed union in the important point that the mobility in them is unattended with pain. Otto1 says that pseudarthrosis is not unfrequent in animals ; he has seen it in dogs, cats, a fox, and several birds. He quotes Greve as having met with one example in a hare, and Tenon with one in a cat. These were probably verified by dissection. Details of the various plans available for the treatment of the defects in the reparative process of fractures will be given in the section on the general treatment of these injuries. Diagram of false joint. Union with deformity is almost invariably the result either of want of treatment, of improper or negligent treatment, or of the restlessness of 1 be patient. It may be simply the perpetuation of the distortion impressed upon the limb from the time of the accident, or it may be a new displacement brought about by causes acting on the limb at a later period. Permanent deformity after fracture is by no means uncommon, and in some cases is absolutely unavoidable, by reason of the difficulty of maintaining the fragments in proper position. It may be very slight, or 'it may be so great as to entail upon the patient the most annoying disfigurement, and often very serious disability. Like that spoken of among the symptoms or phenomena of the original injury, it may be either angular, rotary, or lateral. One of the main objects of treatment is to prevent it; to keep the fragments of the