ACUTE ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. 347 medullary oil, also somewhat tinged. The substance of the bone itself is red and softened ; around it lies blood-stained serum intermingled with oil, with here and there a fugacious granulation. Outside this, and containing it, is the congested and softened periosteum, surrounded by muscles separated from each other by intermuscular spaces, in which turgid veins ramify amid red- dened serum and discolored extravasations. Up to this point it is possible, though unfortunately rare, that, retrogression may occur; the vascular turgescence may subside; the serum may rapidly, the extravasations more slowly, be absorbed; the intraosseous pressure may diminish, and then cease ; the periosteum may again come in contact and form connection with the bone; all the morbid conditions may clear up, and this without any necrosis or suppuration. But such an event is very rare; and, if it is to take place at all, retrogression must commence not later than the first week, for the next stage follows quickly—occasionally so quickly that this earlier stage, though doubtless no inflammation can produce pus at its very commencement, appears to be clinically indistinguishable from it. The next stage is the suppurative. It consists in the change of the mere exudative stage into that of pus formation. The districts which have been described above as occupied by extravasations and oil-globules mixed with serum, now contain the same elements, mingled with more or less discolored and generally offensive pus. But now come the points of chief importance in this change: The bone throughout a smaller or larger district dies, and the veins, already filled with soft, partially broken-down blood-clot, are exceed- ingly prone to absorb the unhealthy fluids, and produce rapid pyaemia. Whenever the diseased action takes place near the epiphyseal line—and, in- deed, this is the more usual situation—the junction is involved in the action, and the epiphyseal end of the bone is cast off; a circumstance which led Ivlose1 to name the malady “ Epiphysentrennung ” (separation of epiphyses); and this part, in the severe cases we are depicting, usually dies, and lies as a seques- trum among the discharges. Morbid Anatomy.—Such very acute osteitis is not common in England, but in certain parts of Europe it appears to occur in the form of an epidemic, and it was from this sort of case that Chassaignac and Klose drew their highly colored pictures. Its morbid anatomy may be summed up thus : In the bone cavity are found large districts of purple, intense hyperremia, with blotches of extravasation, and dark-colored and offensive pus, mixed with disintegrated medulla. Outside the bone are very much the same materials ; the bone itself, dying or dead, is of a greenish or black hue. All this is contained in a highly inflamed and distended periosteum, outside of which the soft tissues are soaked in a blood-stained serum or pus. The veins are turgid with semi-coagulated blood, discolored, and evil-smelling. The separated epiphyses lie bathed in pus at the ends of the bones. But generally the course of the disease, though more than sufficiently violent, is less acute than above described. The same, or probably less intense local changes are brought about more gradually, with a distinct incubation period—an interval of inflammation previous to pus formation—and then a slower suppuration, and a diastasis, whose more gradual steps may to a certain extent be followed, for sometimes this occurs in an in- complete form. Ulceration taking place all around the junction forms a deep groove, but not a complete separation, the epiphysis becoming twisted on the shaft. In certain other cases, again, the epiphysis by further ulceration be- comes entirely separated, but, owing to the slower method of the process, does Prager Vierteljahrssclirift, 1858.