GUNSHOT INJURIES OF TIIE VERTEBRAE. i Id 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 446. Sometimes the missile punches a ragged hole through the vertebral column obliquely from behind forward, and emerges from the body of a vertebra, having crushed the spinal cord in its course; as, for instance, it did in a specimen which the writer con- Fig- 779. trihuted to the Army Medical Museum, and which is represented by the annexed wood-cut (Fig. 779): The missile entered through the left intervertebral foramen between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, chipping the superior articular process of the fifth and the adjacent portion of the spinous process of the fourth, and fracturing the left transverse process of the fourth, passed obliquely forward and toward the right, and emerged from the body of the third lumbar vertebra on its right side. The patient survived long enough for incipient caries to appear in the injured bones.1 In the celebrated and historical case of President Garfield, the ball penetrated the first lumbar ver- tebra in the upper part of the right side of its body (Fig. 780):— The aperture by which it entered involved the inter- vertebral cartilage next above, and was situated just below and anterior to the intervertebral foramen, from which its ., Sh,°rmf sunshot fracture of the upper margin was about one-fourth of an inch distant. siie (a eonoidai musket-bail) attach- Passing obliquely to the left and forward through the ed. (Spec. 2532, Sect, i, a. m. m.) upper part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the bullet emerged by an aperture, the centre of which was about half an inch to the left of the median line, and which also involved the intervertebral cartilage next above (Fig. 017). Fig. 780. 12th Dorsal vertebra. 1st Lumbar vertebra. 2d Lumbar vertebra. Showing the hole made by the missile (a eonoidai pistol-ball) through the body of the first lumbar vertebra, in the case of President Garfield. A probe penetrates each orifice. 2.. The cancellated tissue of the body of the first lumbar vertebra was very much com- minuted, and the fragments were very much displaced. Several deep fissures extended from the track of the bullet upward into the lower part of the body of the twelfth dor- sal vertebra. Others extended downward through the first lumbar vertebra into the intervertebral cartilage between jt and the second lumbar vertebra. Both this cartilage and that next above were partly destroyed by ulceration. A number of minute frag- ments from the fractured lumbar vertebra were driven into the adjacent soft parts. On sawing through the vertebra; from behind, a little to the right of the median line (Fig. 781), it was found that the spinal canal was not involved by the track of the mis- sile. The spinal cord and other contents of the spinal canal presented no abnormal