FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 17'J » the hand, a twisting may take place which brings the four fragments into most complicated abnormal relations to one another. Occasionally the inter*- osseous ligament is torn at the time of the accident, or it may be penetrated by one of the fragments, and in either case a most puzzling and intractable entanglement may ensue. Fortunately, such embarrassing conditions are infrequent; in the great majority of cases the forearm is simply bent at an angle, the two bones remain- ing parallel. Most commonly the angle thus formed is salient on the dorsal surface. It will very readily be seen, however, that even a slight bending of the bones will do away altogether with the freedom of rotation of the radius upon which the use of the hand so largely depends; and this, whether one bone or both be involved. And if, in addition to the formation of an angle, there is rotation of either of the three fragments which can be so affected (for the upper portion of the ulna is fixed by its connection with the humerus), the limitation of movement may by this fact be made materially greater. Such rotation is most likely to take place in the upper fragment of the radius, acted upon by the biceps and supinator brevis; but it is not impossible that by pronation of the hand, aided by the pronator muscles, the lower fragment of this bone may be turned in the opposite direction. The position of the lower portion of the ulna may be slightly affected by the upper fibres of the pronator quadratus, drawing it toward the radius, but it is more likely to be influenced by the position of the hand. Whatever abnormalities of relation may be assumed by the fragments, and by means of whatever agencies, the action of the muscles passing down along the forearm can scarcely be ignored among the causes promoting displacement. These muscles, left to themselves, tend to shorten the forearm, and when the continuity of the bones is lost at any point, they must draw the fragments past one another, and in this way aggravate their distortion. The evils to be apprehended from the changed position of the fragments are not limited altogether to angulation of the bones. FTon-union may follow, and so far from the motions of the hand being hampered, the bones may be so loose as to be unavailable for any ordinary purpose. Or the wrong frag- ments may become attached one to another; or a mass of callus may be thrown out and fuse all the broken ends into a rigid and useless block. Rare as these unfortunate occurrences are, they have been met with, and illustrations of them are to be found in most pathological collections. The symptoms of the fractures in question are not often obscure ; deformity is sometimes present in so marked a degree as to reveal at once the nature of the lesion ; pain, loss of power in the hand, abnormal mobility, and crepi- tus, are seldom absent. Hence, the diagnosis need not be discussed. From what has now been said, it will be perceived that the consequences ot these injuries may be very disastrous, if, as in cases occurring at sea, no treatment can be had for some time; or if the surgeon be careless or unskil- ful, or the patient unruly. And although under favorable circumstances good results can generally be obtained, the chance of some degree of impair- ment of motion should always be borne in mind, and should qualify the prognosis given to the patient or his friends. The treatment must be based on general principles, but must be carefully adapted to the features of each case. It consists in the reduction of the fragments to their proper relation, and in maintaining them thus until they have become united. M hen the deformity consists in a simple bending of the forearm in either direction, it may often be corrected by the mere application of the surgeon’s hands; but sometimes it is necessary to make extension also. During any