757 FRACTURES OF TIIE VERTEBRAE. Corporal John B., Company C, 10th New York Volunteers, March 11, 1865, at lumbar regions by the falling Fig. 775. Hatcher’s Run, Va., was struck across the dorsal and limb of a tree which had been severed by a shell. He was knocked senseless, and remained so an hour or more, until he was awakened by the jolting of the am- bulance that carried hire to regimental headquarters. On regaining consciousness, he was unable to move the lower portion of his body, and complained of pain in the same parts. He was cupped, and bad mustard applied to the calves of bis legs and to the spinal region. The symptoms still continuing, he was blis- tered, and the blisters were dressed with lint. On the 19th, he entered Finley Hospital, at Washington; he was then semi-comatose ; there was complete motor paraplegia, but sensation was perfect. There was some febrile action, pulse full and bounding, and very severe diarrhoea; feces and urine passed involuntarily; both legs were very cold, the left slightly more than the right; skin moist, the blistered parts on each leg were suppurating slightly. The parts in the region of the sacrum were gangrenous. Opiates were given at night, and chlorides used to cleanse the gangrenous sore over the sacrum. Under the administration of astringents, the diarrhoea ceased by the 25th. The patient, however, continued to sink, and died on the 29th, apparently from exhaustion (septicaemia ?). Autopsy.—The first lumbar vertebra was found fractured entirely through its body at the upper third (Fig. 775), with each pedicle broken, and the left transverse and spinous processes impinging against the spinal cord, which was lacerated at the lumbo- dorsal junction. The spinal meninges were torn entirely across, excepting a few fibres anteriorly and posteriorly, and were congested above and below the rent. Blood-clots were found diffused in the tissues around the fracture. The spinal cord was lacerated in a singular manner, and a wood-cut representing it (Fig. 792) is. given on p. 803. Pare or simple transverse fracture of the first lumbar vertebra, caused by the limb of a tree falling upon the loins and back of a soldier. (Spec. 149, Sect. I, A. M. M. In this example, the fracture of the vertebral column, although it extended completely through the same(Fig. 775), and constituted a false point of motion, appears to have not been recognized until the examination after death. The principal cause of this failure to make a diagnosis, appears to have been the fact, that there was no appreciable displacement. Thus, the spinal symptoms were supposed to arise from concussion of the spinal cord; and the illusion itself was furthered by the fact that the paralysis was motor, but not sensory. The occurrence of displacement seems to have been prevented by the action of the lumbar muscles. Three cases of pure fracture of the dorsal and lumbar vertebras are mentioned by Mr. Bryant.1 In one of them the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebras were comminuted ; in another, the eighth, ninth, and tenth were fractured through their bodies and laminae ; and, in the third, the twelfth dorsal and three upper lumbar vertebras were extensively broken. In one of them certainly, and in all of them possibly, no displacement was to be detected by an external examination. The fragments appear to have been held in posi- tion by the ribs, and by the great muscles which are in relation with the spinal column in the dorsal and lumbar regions. But in other instances of pure dorsal and lumbar fractures, the displace- ment of the fragments is such that it can readily be perceived on making an external examination. For example ;— Dr. H. J. Bigelow2 gives the case of a young woman, aged 19, who jumped from a 1 New Syd. Soc. Retrospect, 1867-8, p. 276. 2 Am. Journ. of tlie Med. Sciences, N. S. vol. xxi.