INJURIES OF BONES. 232 of which is ascribed to Dr. Burge, of Brooklyn, is figured by Agnew. Callen- der,1 Hornibrook,2 and Grant3 have suggested simpler devices for merely drawing down the upper fragment by means of a weight and pulley. I think that instruments of this kind would scarcely be available in practice, unless with extremely tractable patients. Malgaigne’s hooks, intended to act directly upon the bone itself, and to keep the fragments in exact apposition, have been by some surgeons regarded with great favor, while by others they have been strongly condemned. The instrument, as used by its inventor and by others, myself among the number, consisted of a pair of steel plates, each carrying a pair of strong recurved hooks, and having on its upper face a block perforated with a female screw; the hooks having been inserted through the skin so as to catch, one the upper edge of the upper fragment, the other the lower border of the lower one, were brought toward one another by turning a male screw through the blocks, and the fractured surfaces were thus forced together. Within a few years, Mor- ton and Levis4 have employed these hooks, detaching them so as to make them into two independent pairs, or into a set of four movable hooks. The question with regard to them, however, is not of their efficiency, which is obvious, the modifications suggested being merely for convenience in appli- cation; it is whether their use is or is not attended with danger. On this point Agnew5 says:— “ Once have I seen death follow the use of this infernal machine, from an erysipe- latous inflammation extending into the joint, and giving rise to abscesses, both within and without the articulation. No advantage whatever results from the close contact of the fragments accomplished by the instrument; it is rather a disadvantage, as the ten- dency to refracture is increased by the very closeness of the union, the intermediate bond not being as strong as the ordinary fibrous tissue which fills the gap when the pieces of the bone are a short distance apart. Three times have I seen the union broken a few weeks after the patients treated by this method had been discharged from the hos- pital.” Hamilton6 quotes from Volkmann: “ That Malgaigne’s hooks have caused ulceration of the joint and death of the patient in a number of cases, is only too true; I, myself, know of two which occurred in the practice of friends, and which were never published, and another sad experience was met with in my own clinic a number of years since.” On the other hand, De Morgan,7 speaking from his experience with the hooks in the Middlesex Hospital, says “ there is no method of treatment which, with so little trouble to the surgeon or irksomeness to the patient, will produce such satisfactory results.” Hamilton, while he says that “ several cases have been reported of danger- ous or disastrous inflammation induced by the hooks,” thinks that “ in cases in which the original separation exceeds one or one and a half inches, and especially in cases of a refracture or rupture of the fibrous band, accompanied with great separation,” the plan is entitled to a further trial. In the case recorded by me,8 in which the hooks were used, they caused no inflammation of any moment, and by experiment on the dead subject I afterwards satisfied myself that there could be no risk, with ordinary care and skill, of wounding the knee-joint in their application. With the excep- tion of the cases referred to by Agnew and Volkmann, and one reported by 1 Practitioner, March, 1875. 2 Canada Lancet, Jan. 1876. 3 Edinburgh Med. Journal, Oct. 1876. 4 Medical News, Jan. 7, 1882. See, also, Surgery in the Pennsylvania Hospital, p. 274. 6 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 980. 6 Clinical Lecture, Med. News and Abstract, April, 1881. ^ British Med. Journal, May 24, 1842. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April and October, 1861.