301 TRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. showed spots on the synovial membrane which “may perhaps he regarded as initial tubercle.” Six were infected with portions of tuberculous lymphatic glands ; they died or were killed at various periods, from 12 days to 3 months, and though several succumbed to general tuberculosis, the utmost similarity that the joint-appearances bore to tubercle consisted in their presenting “ masses of round, oval, and caudate (birnenform) cells ranged together, having the appearance of heaps of epithelioid cells’’’’ and “ colossal giant-cells.” 1 Four were infected with lupus tissue ; of these none showed anything more char- acteristic of tubercle in the synovial membrane than “ quantities of round cells in the superficial layers of the synovial membrane.” Lastly, three were injected with tuberculous (?) synovial membrane; the joints of these, again, showed nothing characteristic of tubercle. Therefore, of the 24 injured and infected animals, we find that only those infected by sputum showed any clear marks of tubercle in the joint structures, save one dog infected with phthisical lung tissue.2 Actual, pulpelied tubercle injected into the lung appears to have had little or no effect in producing joint-tubercles, even though the animal died of tubercular infiltration of the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys.3 It is, of course, with so careful an experimenter as Dr. Schuller, not to be doubted that the material injected was what he intended, and that it was non-putrescent. But can this last condition—non-putrescence—ever be insured with sputum? The expectorations of phthisis contain, no doubt, a certain amount of tubercular matter. The same must be said of such lung- tissue, lymphatic glands, etc., as were used in these experiments ; but the ex- perimentalist assures us that these latter were as fresh as possible (thiinliehst friseh). On the other hand, the shreds of lung-tissue and the detritus of tubercle that form part of the expectoration of phthisis, are much changed, even before they become detached; then, while enveloped in pus or mueo-pus, they and the secretion are long exposed to currents of not very pure air, by which they are moved up and down the bronchi and trachea, until finally ejected in a state particularly likely to produce, in the blood of another animal, those dyscrasife of which embolic and other infarcts of synovial membranes form a notable and integral part. It appears to me very signifi- cant, that these particular injections should have been followed by so much more marked effects than others of equally or more tuberculous substances. Neither are the subsequent experiments, carried out with fluids cultivated from tuberculous tissues, in any way more convincing; indeed, in them lies another source of possible fallacy. They show that" a certain cultivated organic poison, derived from tuberculous tissues, produced in the lungs what was very possibly tuberculosis, but at the joints, again, the “perhaps initial tubercle,” and certain spots of which it could only be said that “they might be considered as tuberculous formations.”4 * How far Dr. Schuller’s investigations may go to prove the existence of a living organism as the generator of tubercle, does not concern us here ;6 our task is purely surgical, and in this place only concerns the joints. With regard to these, the experiments appear to show that, even while internal organs are deeply infected with acute and subacute artificial tuberculosis, the synovial membranes, even though severely injured, will resist the infection to such a degree that, as a rule, only doubtful or “ initial” signs of tuberculous action can be detected by either naked-eye or microscopic research. 1 The italics are Dr. Scliiiller’s. ^ Did space permit, i-t would be easy to show—this creature’s internal organs being stuffed with tuberde for three months—that the inflamed synovial membrane could hardly escape. One is a little struck to find that granulations from so-called tubercular joints had no effect. 4 Op. cit., S. 64. 6 It is curious that Schuller should describe and picture this organism as a micrococcus, oval or pear-shaped, and that Koch should call it a bacillus.