377 SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. not accompanied by fever.1 The effusion is clear or opalescent, sometimes fibrinous. When the synovitis has lasted long, or has returned several times, the cartilages, as in all synovitic disease, may be secondarily affected, and the distension may loosen the ligaments. But as the above autopsy and certain clinical observations, to be hereafter mentioned, show, the presence of gummous tumors or thickening is that which essentially gives character to the disease. Symptoms.—The symptoms of syphilitic synovitis, independent of bone- affections, are not, it must be confessed, very conclusive when taken alone, and the diagnosis must rest largely upon the presence of other syphilitic manifestations. At the same time, it must be pointed out that a person with syphilis may also have a joint-disease which is not produced by that affection, although perhaps a little modified by the poison.2 Nevertheless, there is, as Richet3 pointed out in 1853, and as the above case by Lancereaux shows, a syphilitic malady of the perisynovial and synovial tissues, having somewhat peculiar symptoms. The patient may or may not have at the period of joint- affection a plainly marked manifestation of syphilitic disease,4 but when the case is fully investigated, a scar, or, at least, some history of previous syphilitic trouble, can, in all cases, be discovered; for arthropathies are, as already stated, late lesions, more especially those arising from gummata. The knee or knees are distended with fluid, the enlargement being preceded by a sense of fulness and tension; but, at the time of effusion, they are remarkably free from pain, though feeling weak and unsteady ; there is very little tendency to that contraction of the flexor muscles, which is so marked a symptom in other acute joint-diseases. This important point is deserving of further elucidation: the ordinary chronic hydrops articuli is not accompanied by any marked pain, muscular contraction, or fever; but that malady is less rapid in its first in- vasion, and goes on slowly, gradually, and non-intermittingly increasing. The syphilitic perisynovitis, in its most characteristic form, attacks the part suddenly, usually causing considerable pain. The disease frequently disap- pears, or becomes greatly mitigated, to return with like symptoms again and again; or, if it do not intermit, the pain at all events ceases nearly or entirely; the effusion appears to have no relation to the pain, the patient being able to walk with little trouble, though easily tired. The joint may be subjected to passive movements without pain; but, in some cases, active movement is not quite painless. The limb bears complete extension more easily than flexion. By palpation, a certain thickening of the periarticular fibrous tis- sues may be perceived ; this is not evenly spread over the joint, but appears in the form of somewhat hard, yet doughy, lumps and plates, extending some distance beneath the skin. If the malady have been allowed to con- tinue for a long time, the relaxing effect upon the capsule is the same as in non-syphilitic, chronic hydrarthrus, producing a certain amount of abnormal mobility. In much-neglected cases the cartilages become eroded. The diag- nosis, even though in the most characteristic cases all these symptoms be present, can hardly be perfectly certain until the effect of antisyphilitic treatment has been observed. 1 Syphilitic affections, however, have been of late shown to be accompanied by an evening rise of temperature. See a report on the temperature of syphilis, Clinical Society’s Transactions, vol. iii. p. 170. It is probable that were the cases referred to in the text to be observed at the present day, that condition would be noticed. 2 ft is one of the results of any specialism that its professors are apt to draw many alien things within the confines of their particular sphere. I must confess that some maladies described as syphilitic appear to me very doubtful examples of syphilitic disease. 3 Memoires de l’Academie de M6decine, tome xvii. p. 251. 4 Riehet’s first patient had at the time no other mark save scars of chancre and bubo ; his third had buccal aphthae and enlarged testicle ; the condition of his second was more strongly characterized by condylomata. Of Yerneuil’s two patients, one was more evidently affected than the other.