737 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL accident, but has now been lying upon a water-bed for ninety days, and, to all appear- ances, is in a far better condition than he was one month ago. The patient is kept partly under the influence of morphia.” The following example, from being more fully reported, is much more instructive : A man, aged 21,1 fell from a chestnut tree, October 4, 1871, a distance of some twenty- five or thirty feet, striking the ground with his shoulders and back. When picked up he was insensible. On recovering consciousness, he complained of severe pain in the back, shooting round into the hypogastrium and left groin. About two hours after the accident, Dr. Simpson found him lying partially on his right side, with knees drawn up and almost immovable. His back was slightly bruised and scratched, and presented a deformity indicating apparently a displacement forward of the vertebras at the lumbo-dorsal junction ; sensation in lower extremities diminished, but not obliterated ; intense pain in back and in abdomen. Cold applications to the patient’s back were ordered, and that he should be kept as quiet as possible ; forty drops of licj. opii comp, every two hours, during the night. Next morning, Dr. Hasbrouck saw the patient in consultation. He recognized the partial dislocation of the last dorsal vertebra, but doubted the propriety of attempting to reduce it. He suggested, however, that potassium iodide, grs. v, repeated every four hours, should be added to the treatment. Urine was passed by the patient without assistance on the night succeeding the injury. After that, catheterization had to be practised twice daily, for the next ten days, when voluntary micturition, with some straining, was re-established. There was constipa- tion, which was not relieved by enemata, nor by purgatives per orem, until a hardened mass of feces in the rectum had been broken down by a finger introduced for the purpose. After twelve days, the bowels became regular. All the symptoms now began to improve regularly, excepting the deformity of the back, which increased much in extent. In about three weeks after the accident, the patient began to sit up in bed; and, four or five weeks later, to walk around the house, with the aid of a cane. During the fall and early winter, his back continued quite weak. In January, 1872, he had a brace fitted for the support of his back. March 26, 1872, he commenced work again at his trade, that of a mason. With the artificial support furnished by the brace, he feels as well, he says, as he did before the accident. These two cases illustrate very well, not only the etiology and symptoma- tology of dorsal luxations, hut likewise some important points in the treat- ment of these lesions. The patient first mentioned, derived much benefit from the water-bed upon which he had been lying for three months, when his case was reported, and from the prolonged use of enough morphia to keep him free from all pain, and to procure for him sufficient sleep. Opium administered in this way, to such patients, generally exerts a happy influence in preventing the occurrence of inflammatory complications in the spinal mem- branes and spinal cord, as well as in sustaining the patient’s strength. In the case last mentioned, the lesion, that is, the luxation forward of the twelfth dorsal upon the first lumbar vertebra, was caused, indirectly, by fall- ing from a great height upon the shoulders and back. There was, for a time, insensibility from cerebral concussion. The forward displacement of the twelfth dorsal vertebra was cognizable by inspection and by manual exami- nation ; and there was incomplete paralysis of the parts below the spinal lesion. The symptoms and consequences of a vertebral dislocation were therefore clearly present; but great pain in the injured portion of the spinal column, and in the parts of the abdomen to which the spinal nerves involved in the lesion were distributed, was also observed. It was subdued by administer- ing the opium solution in large doses and at short intervals (gtt. xl every two hours). Opium or morphia, when exhibited in full doses, is one of the most efficient agents we possess for allaying inflammatory excitement, espe- cially in fibrous and serous membranes. Cold applications to the injured 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1873, pp. 502, 503. VOL. IV.—47