536 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. general rule, be sufficient; all the disease present, and the entire cartilaginous surface, can he taken away without any unnecessary sacrifice of substance. The importance of this will be at once apparent: if the operation be in a child, the epiphyseal line will not be encroached upon, and the subsequent growth of the bone will not be arrested; if in an adult, the shortening of the limb will scarcely be noticed. The next step in the operation is to clear away the soft parts of the head of the tibia. If, as is so frequently seen, there exist pulpy thickening of the synovial membrane, or much gelatiniform infiltration of the soft parts, this can with advantage be removed. It must be regarded as diseased tissue, is of low vitality, and will, if left, tend to break down, and to delay the subsequent closing of the wound. The head of the tibia having- been cleaned, the saw may be applied. In removing the head of the tibia the section should be made from behind forward, rendering it concave. With Fig. 755. Concave surface of the head of the tibia after the application of the saw. care, this can be done with such accuracy as to fit it for the reception of the rounded extremity of the femur; a thin slice is usually sufficient, but if, as is sometimes seen, the bone is in a condition of caries, a second slice can be taken away in the same manner. The bones should be accurately adjusted. If it be found that they do not fit nicely, they can be made to do so by taking away another thin slice from either bone, or the rounded extremity of the femur can be reduced with a good, sharp cartilage-knife; thus successive slices can be removed, care being- taken not to go beyond the epiphyseal lines. If the case be one in which there has been no previous distortion, such as dislocation backwards of the bones of the leg from neglect of position in the early treatment of the disease, the bones will now come readily together in the straight position. If, on the Fig. 756. The bones fitted together. other hand, difficulty be met with from shortening of the hamstring tendons, these may be divided subcutaneously, or a further section of the bones can be practised. Division of the hamstring tendons should, if possible, be avoided, as it is liable to complicate the case; suppuration is very apt to result, and pus would be likely to follow up the sheaths of the tendons, and give much trouble. The patella has next to be dealt with, and should be removed. Some sur- geons have left the patella, taking away a thin slice from its posterior surface; this has been done with the object of giving strength to the union of the bones in front. It is quite possible, under favorable circumstances, for this