INCISED AND PUNCTURED FLESH-WOUNDS OF TIIE BACK. 675 It was observed in this case that the wound gaped considerably; and, therefore, each of the three points of interrupted suture was passed through the rhomboid muscle, as well as through the exterior plane of muscles and the skin. Thus the edges of the wound were securely held in close appo- sition, and a speedy recovery was obtained. Incised wounds of the back not unfrequently perforate the theca verte- bralis, and lay open the spinal canal. The occurrence of this lesion is attended with the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid; and, in cases where the spinal cord and spinal nerves had not been injured, the escape of this fluid through the wound would alone indicate the nature of the lesion. Professor Agnew has pointed out “ the exposed condition of the contents of the spinal canal in the posterior region of the neck,” and states that “ it is due to the horizontal direction of the spinous processes, by which vulnerable spaces are left between.” Professor Agnew also says: “ The popular notion that posterior cervical wounds are followed by sexual impotence must be founded on cases of injury to the cord or its membranes. The testimony of Legouest, who had abundant opportunities for observation on this point during the conflicts of the French with the Turks, gives no countenance to this opinion.”1 But incised wounds in the posterior region of the chest also not unfre- quently penetrate the spinal canal, and cause paraplegia by injuring the spinal cord, notwithstanding that the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae do not ex- Fig. 7gs. tend in a horizontal direction. The follow- ing example occurred during the late civil war:— Private George S., Co. B, 15th New York Engineers, was admitted to Armory Square Hos- pital, Washington, April 22, 1863, having been stabbed with a knife in the back at Falmouth, Va., on the 20th, that is, two days before. lie was completely paraplegic ; the urine had to be drawn off by a catheter; and nothing but cro- ton oil, in three drop doses, succeeded in moving his bowels, three days after admission ; two days after that, involuntary defecation and micturition set in. Sphacelus of all the projecting points on the lower part of his body soon followed, and proceeded rapidly until it nearly exposed the spines of the sacrum. On May 10, chills came on, and recurred daily. Death ensued on May 26, from exhaust ion. I he autopsy showed that the knife had penetrated the fifth dorsal vertebra. The fourth, fifth, and a part of the sixth dorsal vertebras were removed and sawn through longitudinally to exhibit the knife-blade, which appears to have been broken off, and to have remained fixed in the body of the fifth dorsal verte- bra ever since the injury was inflicted. The specimen is preserved in the Army Medi- cal Museum ; and it is represented by the accompanying wood-cut. (Fig. 765.)2 Another instance of incised wound of the back, involving the vertebral column, was likewise recorded during the late civil war:— Private Wm. D. Cook, company D, 6th Tennessee Cavalry, aged 25, was admitted to Overton Hospital, Memphis, Tenn., November 25, 1864, with an incised wound of the spine inflicted on the 10th, that is, fifteen days before, with a knife. Simple dressings were applied. The patient was returned to duty on December 15.3 The fourth, fifth, and a part of the sixth dorsal vertebra:, sawn open to exhibit the blade of a knife which had broken off after traversing the spinal canal and spinal cord. (Spec. 1160, A. M. M.) 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 321. 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, » Ibid., p. 45. 425.