INJURIES OF BONES. 130 seen cases in which angular splints had been carefully bandaged on, but not far enough up the arm ; the effect being simply to convert the whole limb below the fracture into a powerful bent lever, by which the lower fragment was moved upon the upper, and the amount of callus augmented, with the chance of deformity, more or less permanent, as well as of entanglement of nerve- fibres, or of interference with the bloodvessels. By the older surgeons, the use of an imfnediate bandage—a roller applied next to the skin—was considered indispensable for the prevention of muscu- lar spasm. Such a bandage, although less objectionable here than in the case of the forearm or leg, can do no good, and may do harm by hindering the surgeon from accurately judging of the position of the fragments. It is, however, sometimes well to apply a roller to the hand and forearm, and per- haps to include the lower part of the arm itself, in order in some degree to prevent swelling of the distal part of the limb. But the bandage should never be carried up as far as the fracture, and the condition of the fingers should be watched, lest trouble arise from the pressure. There are no landmarks by which, in the living subject, the proper line of the humerus can be clearly determined. Perhaps as good a test as any is, that the posterior surface of' the upper arm being even and vertical, and the thumb held upward, the whole anterior surface of the forearm is in apposi- tion with the side of the chest. Rotary as well as angular displacement is guarded against by observing this position in cases of fracture. At the back of the arm, the firm and even mass of the triceps muscle, and in front that of the biceps and braehialis anticus, afford an opportunity for making very accurate and effective pressure on these surfaces of the bone. On the inner side, except in very muscular subjects, the projection of the epicondyle is such as to leave quite a marked hollow above it, but on the outer side the hollow, which is much less, is filled up by the deltoid above and by the outer borders of the triceps and braehialis below. Stromeyer’s cushion,1 a sort of double wedge-shaped pad, upon which, in- terposed between the body and the limb, the latter rests, is sometimes of great use as a temporary arrangement, but can hardly be relied upon as a permanent dressing. By some surgeons, it has been thought sufficient to confine the arm to the side by means of bandages, with an axillary pad in the form of a long, flat wedge. In very quiet and submissive patients this may answer; but it is safer to apply also four strips of wood, lightly padded, one on each aspect of the arm, confined either by adhesive strips or by a roller, and then to fasten the whole limb to the chest. My own preference is for a right-angled splint of wood, extending from the axilla to the ends of the fingers, along the inner side of the limb; the angle corresponding to the elbow, and the arm-part, well padded, so as to allow for the projection of the inner condyle. In the case of a very lean adult, it is better to cut a hole with bevelled edges, large enough to permit the condyle to sink into it and thus escape pressure. Short slips of wood, binder’s board or sole-leather, properly padded, are fitted to the anterior, posterior, and outer faces of the arm ; the edges and corners of these small splints should be care- fully bevelled. Adhesive strips an inch or more in width may be first put on near the ends of the splints, and then an ordinary roller; by this means the occasional removal of the latter for the purpose of examining the limb may be rendered safer. The limb, thus bound up, should be suspended in a sling passing under the wrist; and in children or restless adults, a few turns of a wide roller may be applied to confine the elbow to the side. When the frac- 1 See Fig. 260, Yol. II. p. 158.