INJURIES OF BONES. 134 trochlea, with or without the epitrochlea, or the latter process by itself. Finally, there are disjunctions of the lower epiphysis, or of its articular portion only. It may, perhaps, be as well to say here that although these various forms of fracture can be thus enumerated theoretically, they are not in practice by Fig. 609. Fig. 610 Diagram showing transverse fracture of lower end of humerus. The curved line shows com- plete epiphyseal disjunction. Diagram of T-fractnre of lower end of humerus, with lines of fracture of internal condyle or trochlea, of epitrochlea, and of external condyle. any means so easily distinguished. The lines of separation may run very irregularly; occasionally the combination of two or more fractures, or the existence of luxation along with fracture, may present a condition of things in the highest degree perplexing. But this matter will be more appropriately discussed in connection with the diagnosis of these injuries. Fractures of the epicondyle may, I think, be dismissed without further mention, since there is no case on record in which such a lesion has been verified beyond a doubt. It is true that Zuckerkandl1 claims to have seen one, and that Gurlt figures a specimen. Sir Astley Cooper2 also represents one, in which, however, the bone was “ somewhat thickened,” and the original lesion may have been more extensive. Fresh doubt is thrown upon these specimens by the statement of McBurney3 that “ he had found in the dissecting-room similar isolated pieces of bone resembling detached epicondyles, and existing symmetrically at both elbows.” Fractures detaching the epicondyle along with the condyle are, however, known to have occurred in numerous instances. A careful study of the anatomy of the lower end of the humerus, and of the muscles attached to it as well as to the adjoining bones, is essential to the understanding of fractures in this region. Especial attention should be paid to the shape and extent of the epiphysis, in view of the fact that so many of the subjects of these injuries are at an age when it has not yet become con- solidated with the shaft, and therefore when the question of its disjunction is apt to arise. The flattening of the bone antero-posteriorly as it widens out toward the condyles, and its consequent thinning, have already been mentioned, as well as the muscles by which the position, bent or extended, of the elbow- joint is controlled. The epiphysis consists of four parts, developed, according to Gray, in the following manner: “At the end of the second year, ossification commences in the radial portion of the articular surface, and from this point extends inwards, so as to form the chief part of the articular end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the articular surface not appearing until about the age of twelve. Ossification commences in the internal condyle about the 1 London Med. Record, May 15, 1878, from Allg. Wie«er med. Zeitung, Feb 1878. * Dislocations and Fractures of Joints, p. 467. * Stimson, Practical Treatise on Fractures, p. 395.