TUMORS. 636 the endothelial cells; others, that they are the escaped nuclei of the epithelial cells. I am disposed to regard them partly as wandered-out corpuscles of the blood, but chiefly as the offspring of connective-tissue corpuscles, in either case the result of the irritation caused by the near neighborhood of the excited and active epithelium. A large part, if not all, of the fibrous stroma of many carcinomas is certainly the fibrous tissue of the part in which they are developed. But where this is very scanty, it may be replaced or supple- mented by a new formed stroma. In proof of this, I may mention that I once examined a recurrent carcinoma of the breast, a lump measuring an inch and a half by nearly an inch, and having the thickness of an inch. It grew close to the corner of a scar of the previous operation where there had been, before its growth, very little tissue of any kind over the muscle. This tumor presented an alveolar structure such as the original tumor had probably presented, but, in place of old and perfect fibrous tissue, the stroma was composed of fibre-cells which had not yet developed into fibrous tissue. To what extent the new formation of fibrous tissue takes place in most pri- mary carcinomas, it is impossible to say ; but that there is a new formation in most of them, is probable. The shrinking of a scirrhous carcinoma is pro- bably in a measure due to a contraction of the newly-developed fibrous tissue, similar to that which occurs in scars. Appearances after Removal ; Metamorphoses and Combinations.—The macroscopic characters of carcinoma depend, to a certain extent, on the sub- class to which the tumor belongs, but there is great variation in the appear- ance of different tumors of the same subclass. Some general characters are, however, common to most, if not to all, of them. The absence of capsule, for example, is almost universal. A carcinoma may be perfectly circum- scribed, and its outline may be clearly drawn against the surrounding tissue, but a fibrous capsule inclosing it is a great rarity. There are two chief types of carcinoma, recognized generally as the hard and the soft. The former seldom forms a tumor of large size, and is often very small. It may have existed many years and yet be no larger than a walnut. This, of course, is rare ; for, indeed, it is not usual to meet with a case of carcinoma of any form in which the disease has existed many years. It feels and cuts firm or hard, or even very hard like fibro-cartilage, and is heavy and inelastic. Its cut surface is usually concave. The aspect of the cut surface is homogeneous, or fibrous with glistening bands of fibres crossing it in various directions, but presenting no definite arrangement such as is seen in fibrous tumors. It is not often lobed. A thick creamy fluid may usually be scraped off the section. The general shape of the tumor may be that of a rounded and tuberous mass, clearly defined—a mass which may be dissected away from the adjacent parts; or it may roughly preserve the form of the gland or part in which it has been developed, and may be connected with the surrounding or more distant tissues by long straggling arms or processes which, with its queer-shaped body, lend to it some resemblance to a crab, whence the names cancer and carcinoma. The soft carcinomas form, usually, much more bulky growths, and are much more vascular than the hard tumors, although the latter are usually well supplied with vessels. They may be very soft—so soft that they will not hold together—or as firm as firm fat or soft fibrous tissue. They often form large, rounded masses, and are not uncommonly lobed. On section they exhibit the opaque-white color and creamy appearance of brain-substance, blotched and dotted with red, or of a gray color and more translucent aspect. Although these are the two chief types of carcinoma, they comprise scarcely more than half of all carcinomas. They include, however, a considerable number of the spheroidal-celled tumors, and a few of the squamous-celled