279 SUPPURATIVE SYNOVITIS. former, as we have seen, the mere surface of the membrane, and the parts im- mediately underlying it, are implicated ; in the latter, a considerable portion, or the whole, of the membrane and periarticular tissues are disintegrated, softened, and destroyed, in the manner described by Strieker in the article on the Pathology of Inflammation.1 I do not purpose here to particularize the minute events of suppurative inflammation, but I must point out what is peculiar to the action on joints. The first perceptible change is redness of the synovial membrane, which, beginning with a slight blush, rapidly deepens into a crimson, and then into a purple hue. It is not uniformly diffused on the surface, but is in blotches of various size and intensity; in some parts, rupture of minute vessels gives rise to chemosis. The redness is not immediately on the surface, but a little beneath a film or fine membrane, which, at first quite transparent, and, as it were, slightly swollen by a serous infiltration, becomes cloudy, then milky in its deeper parts, and, at the same time losing its polish, grows roughened and coarse.2 Part of this roughening depends in the earliest stages on in- creased proliferation of the superficial endothelial cells; another part, on fall- ing away in patches of the endothelial coating ; a third, on the over-filled ves- sels making prominences athwart the basement. At a later period, the rough- ness becomes more marked and coarser. Some of it appears to arise from fulness of vessels and from thickening of their walls; part of it from a surface condition—from little elevations on the superficies, not unlike a coarse, velvety pile. At this time, and more espe- cially afterwards, it is exceedingly dif- ficult to trace further changes; but if an animal thus affected be killed about a week or ten days after the infliction of the injury—or if, in the human sub- ject, opportunity for anatomical exam- ination be afforded—the following condition is observed: An extremely Fig. 630. thick fibrin-containing pus, often blood-stained, adheres to the surface after the usual thinner pus has escaped. A portion of this may be washed away by a gentle stream of water, but some material—whether we call it fibrinous pus or fibrinous exudation—mingled with many leucocytes, adheres so firmly, and is so entangled in the roughness of the surface, that it must be helped away and gently detached with a camel’s-hair pencil,or even with forceps.3 When this is accomplished, the inner surface of the synovial membrane is found to be no longer smooth, but to be studded and covered by hypertrophied fringes (Fig. 630), which branch into many ramifications, Suppurative synovitis with fringe proliferation. (From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) 1 Vol. I. page 38. 2 This account is partly taken from experiments related by M. Richet, partly from certain work of my own in the same direction, which circumstances forbid me further to specify, save to say that the object of my research was to study the phenomena of fringe-hypertrophy. 8 This examination should be carried on under water, a gentle stream flowing into the vessel, and clearing away the opacity caused by the admixture of secretion and debris.