625 papilloma; papillary or warty tumor. the threat cauliflower eondylomata about the vulva and the anus, and the largest of these is rarely as large as the closed list of a child. Microscopic Appearances.—The microscopic characters of the disease have been indicated in the definition. The connective tissue which forms the basis of each papilla, and of the whole tumor, when, as in some instances, there is a central mass, is usually simple fibrous tissue; but it may be rather mucous than fibrous, and in either case may vary much in quantity, some- times forming only a slender, central stalk, sometimes a mass of considerable thickness. In the smallest papillae there is often only a single capillary loop ; it is very unusual to find a papilla which does not contain a bloodvessel. The larger papillae may contain an artery and vein with the proper capillary net- work. Occasionally a kind of cavernous system exists in the interior of the papillae, composed of large, thin-walled cavities filled with blood, and com- municating with the afferent and efferent vessels. The formation of these cavities probably resembles the formation of similar cavities in the cavernous angeiomas; that is, they are dilatations of the bloodvessels, and not spaces of new formation which have acquired a communication with the vessels. The epithelial covering of the papillae is squamous or columnar, according to the character of the epithelium of the part affected. It may form only a single layer, or may consist of many layers; it may resemble the horny layer of the epidermis; and in some specimens exhibits differences in the characters of its layers—the most internal being imbricated or radiating; the middle layer large, well-formed, and spheroidal; the external flattened, thin, and scaly. M etamorphoses, etc.—Some of the warty growths are pigmented, so much so, indeed, that they arc quite black. These pigmented growths are not infre- quently congenital, anil form the dark and warty moles noted at birth, and sometimes associated with large areas covered with hair. It is these pig- mented moles which are prone in later life to grow, and after removal to grow again. Apparently they undergo a complete transformation of their structure, for investigation shows that, in such cases,the basis of the tumor and of the papilla is a sarcomatous tissue. This is not the only transformation to which papillomas are subject; they become even more commonly carcinoma- tous. The liability to cancerous transformation is so thoroughly recognized, that it is considered not only possible, but almost probable, that an irritated warty growth of the lower lip or scrotum will become an epithelioma. Fur- ther, it must be borne in mind that epitheliomas and superficial sarcomas sometimes present a warty aspect, which may be perfectly papillary, so that a combination of these diseases with papilloma may be described. The term combination is, however, scarcely justified, for the papillary surface is but a variety of the outward form of certain sarcomas and carcinomas, and the papillary structure produces not the slightest influence on the nature of the disease. Papillomas are subject to inflammation, and not uncommonly are ulcerated, or at least excoriated. Under these circumstances they discharge, and are liable to bleed. Hemorrhage is, in truth, a prominent symptom of the papil- lomas of certain parts, even when no ulceration is present. Thus, the villous tumors of the bladder generally bleed, sometimes profusely, so that the chief danger from them is from loss of blood. Their extreme delicacy of structure, their vascularity, and the pressure to which they are at frequent intervals subjected, may account for the tendency to hemorrhage. A papilloma may slough completely off, or, being loosely attached, may be knocked oil’, and thus a cure result. vol. iv.—40