789 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. this case, however, for the sphincter muscles, too, were paralyzed from the outset; and this circumstance shows that the nervous centres upon which their activity depends, together with the sympathetic ganglia—the nervi sympathies—suffered from concussion as well as the spinal cord. Fractures of the spinal column are often attended by concussion of the spinal cord, much oftener, I fancy, than dislocations are. Occasionally, concussion of the spinal cord is attended by a peculiarly violent shock to the nervi sympathici, as was noted in the following highly instructive example:— Surgeon A. F. Mechem, U. S. Army, was injured by jumping from a railway train while in motion, June 21, 1870. The fall caused partial concussion of the spinal cord, and severe shock to the sympathetic nervous system. When seen, shortly afterward, slight reaction had come on ; still, there was extreme hyperaesthesia of the chest, neck, and upper extremities, which were of a cyanotic line ; cerebral functions undisturbed. The heart’s action, almost suspended when first seen, rose under stimulants. When reac- tion had fairly taken place, there was violent arterial action at the wrist, but unaccom- panied by similar action in the temporal and carotid arteries ; in fact, the action of these vessels coincided in neither force nor frequency with that of the radial and ulnar arte- ries. Nor was the action of the heart, at any time after the pulsations became normal, other than healthy, although the extraordinary throbbing at the wrist continued several days. Excepting slight paralysis of the bladder, there was no loss of motor power. At first, the terrible hyperaesthesia of the hands and arms caused a suspicion that there might be a fracture or a dislocation of the cervical vertebrae, which, byr pressing upon the spi- nal nerves, produced the terrible pain. However, a careful examination showed that there was neither fracture nor dislocation, but that the cause of the symptoms was to be found only in the spinal cord and sympathetic nervous system. Morphia was adminis- tered hypodermically, and afforded much relief. Cupping, with hot applications of lead- water and laudanum, alternating with fomentations of hops and laudanum, to the arms, hands, and thorax, assisted materially in mitigating the pain. Some three days after the injury, the use of morphia was in a great measure dispensed with, Indian hemp and hyoscyamus being substituted. The hop-fomentations were superseded by applications of chloroform and camphor, alternated with morphia and simple cerate. Tonics, nour- ishing diet, and stimulants, contributed much toward recovery ; but his health remained delicate. In January, 1871, he availed himself of a leave of absence for one month, which was extended six months longer, for the benefit of his health. He died July 14, 1871, in consequence of the accident ; no autopsy reported.1 Concussions of the spinal cord are often caused by gunshot injuries. I have reported three examples in the American Journal of the Medical Sci- ences,2 in an article on Injuries of the Spine. In one of them the spinous process of the second lumbar vertebra was fractured. The symptoms were spinal paralysis (paraplegia),both motor and sensory; the former being more pronounced than the latter, which gradually subsided. Dry cups applied daily over the spinal column were found useful. The abstract of another case, taken from my field note-book, will consider- ably aid in illustrating the symptoms of this accident:— April 6, 1865, I examined a fine cavalry soldier, aged 19, at the field hospital near Jetersville, Va., who had been wounded at Amelia Court House, on the 5th, by a conoidal musket-ball, which passed through the back part of his lumbar region, obliquely from side to side, injuring the spine. He had paralysis, as to motion, of the parts below. The sensibility, too, was diminished, but not entirely destroyed. He complained of hypenesthesia in the front and inner part of each thigh. He said that he had been hurt in these parts by the fall of his horse, and by being trampled upon, during the cavalry charge at Amelia C. II. on the 5th. He said that both lower extremities felt benumbed. II is bladder was paralyzed, and catheterization indispensable. He also said that he did 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871, pp. 112, 113. 2 No. for October, 18G4, pp. 325-328.