720 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Dislocations of the last five cervical vertebrae (that is, of any vertebra from the third to the seventh inclusive) from violence, without fracture, frequently come under the care of surgeons. For example, of 36 fatal cases of injury of the cervical vertebrae extracted from the records of Guy’s Hospital prior to 1878, 11 were examples of pure dislocation, all of them below the third cervical vertebra; and the remaining 25 were instances of dislocation combined with fracture.1 Pure dislocation below the third cervical vertebra is there- fore met with in about 30 percent, of all the cases in which traumatic lesions of the cervical vertebrae occur; and, in the rest of them, the dislocation is generally combined with fracture. Again, of these 11 examples of pure dislocation, 4 were found between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae; 2 between the fifth and sixth; 3 between the sixth and seventh; and 2 between the seventh cervical and the first dorsal vertebra. In 6 of them, the displacement was so great as to crush the spinal cord. In 5, there was no marked paralysis as a direct result of the injury, although secondary paralysis subsequently appeared, from stretching or other injury of the cord, and proved fatal. In none of them was there even the smallest trace of fracture. Death generally ensued within seventy-two hours in those cases of cervical dislocation where the spinal cord was injured enough to cause paraplegia; and, in a majority of the instances, within forty-eight hours. For example, 28 of the 36 fatal cases observed at Guy’s Hospital died in less than seventy- two hours, and 20 in less than forty-eight hours; 8 only survived the former period, and in them no symptoms of paralysis resulted immediately from the accident. (Bryant.) In every one of these cases of cervical dislocation, the upper vertebra was thrown forward upon the lower, and the intervertebral cartilage connecting them was ruptured. In the luxations that occur among the last five cervical vertebra?, then, as well as in those that have already been described, the dis- placed bone carries with it the whole of that portion of the spinal column which is placed above it, no single vertebra being simultaneously dislocated from those above, as well as from those below it. When spinal symptoms result in these cases, the cord is generally found to be injured by the displaced bone; in some instances it is crushed, in others bruised, and in others merely compressed. The following case, with the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 009), will afford a good illustration of the disjointings which are met with among the last five cervical vertebrae:— Private John F., Co. B, 2d Infantry, a powerful, muscular German, aged 35, was badly hurt by falling on his head while attempting to turn a somersault, on February 10, 1866. Instead of alighting upon his feet, his head struck the earth, and he rolled over upon his side and lay motionless; face pale, respiration sighing, pulse slow and full. Examination showed that sensation and power of motion were alike wanting from the neck downward. The walls of his chest were motionless, and respiration was effected by the diaphragm alone. He moved his head freely from side to side, but could not raise it. On lifting his head from the table, so much distress ensued that the effort was abandoned, and he was turned partly upon his side, in order to examine the neck. But the examination was very unsatisfactory, for the layers of muscles and fat were so thick that the spinous processes could not be distinctly perceived, and a positive diagnosis could not be arrived at. It was clear, however, that there was an abnormal gap or depression between the spinous processes of the fourth and fifth, or the fifth and sixth, cervical vertebrae; that pressure on this depression gave slight pain ; that crepitus was absent; and, that the movements of the head upon the atlas, and of the atlas upon the axis, were such as to prove that these articulations were not involved. Bryant, Practice of Surgery, Am. ed., 1879, pp. 201, 202.