INJURIES OF THE BACK. 786 in. INJURIES OF THE SPINAL MEMBRANES, SPINAL CORD, AND SPINAL NERVES. Injuries of the Theca Vertebralis, and Meninges of the Spinal Cord. The spinal dura mater, although hut loosely connected with the bodies of the vertebra, is elsewhere strongly attached to the vertebral walls, at frequent intervals, by means of processes sent out through the intervertebral foramina around the spinal nerves. Consequently, when the vertebra are fractured, or displaced in luxations, the spinal dura mater is extremely liable to be stretched, bruised, or torn. I assisted, on one occasion, at the autopsy in a case in which there were fissured fractures of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebra; there was little displacement, yet the theca vertebralis was found smeared with blood opposite the fractures, and torn open so widely as to allow the index- finger to pass through with ease. (See page 707.) So too, in Mr. Cline’s case, which has just been related, the theca vertebralis, at the autopsy, was found lacerated in four places, two of which would admit the little finger. But to multiply examples of this sort would be useless; for it is quite obvious that, in all fractures of the vertebral rings with displacement, whether the frag- ments spring hack into place again or not, and in all luxations of the vertebra, the theca vertebralis must be correspondingly injured by the stretching, bruis- ing, or tearing which it of necessity sustains from the sudden displacement, or from the sharp edges and splinters of the broken or dislocated bones. But aside from strains, bruises, and lacerations, the theca vertebralis may be penetrated by incised and -punctured wounds of the back. Many instances are on record in which such wounds of the theca vertebralis were made by knives, daggers, swords, lances, arrows, and bayonets, and with such imple- ments of industry as chisels, etc. Several examples have already been men- tioned in this article. (See page 676.) When such wounds are attended by a discharge of cerebro-spinal fluid, there is no doubt that the theca vertebralis has been opened. When the wound is situated in the loins, and the discharge of the cerebro-spinal fluid is profuse, the nature of the lesion may be mis- taken, and it may be supposed that the ureter has been laid open. There is published in the sixtieth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, a case in which a copious flow of limpid fluid occurred from a wound in the hack, and in which it was believed that the ureter had been laid open, although it was admitted to be possible that the fluid might he cerebro-spinal. Mr. T. Holmes1 relates two cases in which a similar copious discharge of watery fluid was caused by a wound of the spinal membranes, which did not involve the spinal cord nor the large nerves, as was proved by the post-mortem examination in one case, and by the position of the puncture in the other. Incised or punctured wounds of the hack, which open the theca vertebralis without injuring the spinal cord or spinal nerves, do not, of themselves, pro- duce any nervous phenomena, inasmuch as the loss of the cerebro-spinal fluid is usually but gradual, and the fluid itself is rapidly resecreted. Secondary inflammation of such wounds, however, may interfere with the functions of the spinal cord or spinal nerves, and may even destroy life in that way. But when such wounds are uncomplicated, the prognosis is generally favorable. There may, however, be great difficulty in getting permanent closure of the wound in such cases; hut there will be more chaDce of getting it if treat- 1 Lancet, April 29, 1882; American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1882, p. 294.