525 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE. The next table shows the results of 387 cases in which resection of the leg- bones was performed during the late American war.1 Table showing Results of Excision of the Bones of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. Period of operation. Total. Recovered. Died. Undeter- mined. Mortality per cent, of terminated cases. Primary ...... 215 148 67 31.1 Intermediate ..... 87 58 29 33.3 Secondary ..... 50 42 8 16.0 Unknown ..... 35 27 4 4 12.9 Aggregates 387 275 108 4 28.2 The results in the treatment of compound fractures are thus seen to he far from encouraging; the mortality in civil practice being 27.4 per cent, and that in army-surgery 28.2 per cent., somewhat less, it is true, than the mor- tality of amputation in this locality, but proportionately higher when it is remembered that resection is an operation reserved for selected cases—for such as are considered to offer a prospect of preserving both life and limb. Excision of the Ankle.—Strictly speaking, this term should be limited to an operation involving the removal, partial or complete, of the tibio-tarsal articulation, and no more; but it is habitually applied by surgical writers to other and more extensive operations as well, to all ankle-joint excisions, in fact, even if supplemented by removal of the whole astragalus, or even of more distant bones. First performed by the elder Moreau, in 1792, this operation has never acquired great popularity at the hands of surgeons generally, many thinking it better, in cases requiring any interference, to amputate by Syme’s or by Pirogoff’s method. But while the stumps afforded by these procedures are most serviceable, they do not equal, either in appearance or in usefulness, the member preserved by a successful excision, and hence, in all suitable cases, the latter operation should, I think, be given the preference. It may be practised in cases of compound fracture or dislocation, as* well as of chronic disease of the articulation. Excision of the ankle-joint may he performed by means of two lateral incisions, one behind either malleolus, or, which I consider preferable, by means of a semilunar incision, made to pass around the lower border of the outer malleolus, and then continued longitudinally in the line of the fibula. (Fig. 746.) The anterior portion of this wound should not be prolonged so far as to risk the division of either the extensor tendons or the dorsal artery of the foot. The peroneal tendons having been severed, it is conve- nient, before going further, to remove the lower end of the fibula, which may be done either with cutting pliers or with a small saw. Polaillon divides the fibula with a chain-saw above the malleolus, leaving the latter attached to the hones of the foot, but there are some advantages in the ordinary method, as allowing more thorough examination of tne astragalus. In trau- matic cases, a partial excision, involving only the articulating extremities of the tibia and fibula, will often be sufficient, and in cases of disease, if the astragalus be but slightly affected, it will be enough to remove its upper sur- Medical and Surgical History, etc., Third Surgical Volume, page 875.