RESECTION OF THE SHAFT OF THE HUMERUS. 473 Dr. Gurlt’s statistics, quoted on page J32, “good” in over 44 per cent., “medium” in nearly 48 per cent., and really “bad” in only 8 per cent, of cases ending in recovery. As may be interred from what has already been said, excision of the shoulder is not very often required in civil practice. My own experience in excision of the larger joints now extends to over sixty cases, but only once have I had occasion to resort to this particular operation. The patient was a man, about 30 years of age, who was admitted to the University Hospital in June, 1882. He was suffering from disease of the left shoulder-joint, of considerable duration, and two sinuses were discharging very profusely, one on the front of the arm, and one above the clavicle. After watching the case for a few weeks, I thought it right to operate, in spite of the prevailing hot weather, because the sinuses showed no disposition to heal under ex- pectant treatment,and because a tendency to hectic and the presence of the physical signs of incipient phthisis rendered it almost certain that the patient’s strength would fail if we delayed further, in hope of obtaining a spontaneous cure. Ac- cordingly, on July 6, the patient having been carefully etherized, I made a longi- tudinal incision in the manner above recommended, and having turned out the head of the bone, divided its neck with a chain-saw. One edge of the glenoid cavity, only, required gouging, and the limb was then dressed upon a Stromeyer’s cushion, in the way already described. In spite of the formation of one or two abscesses the patient convalesced with- out any really unfavorable symptom, and rapidly gained flesh and strength as his wound healed. The annexed illustration (Fig. 699), from a photograph, shows the appearance of the part before the patient left the hospital; he reported Result of shoulder-joint excisloD. (From a patient In (he himself again, some six months after- University Hospital.) wards, in excellent condition, and with a very useful arm, though the “overhand” motions, as is often the case, were some- what defective. Resection of the Shaft of the Humerus.—The shaft of the humerus may occasionally require resection in cases of compound fracture, especially from gunshot injury, though I must confess that my own experience leads me to think that in cases in which simple extraction of the splintered fragments is insufficient, amputation will usually prove the better remedy. I have, how- ever, seen an excellent result from cutting off the projecting end of bone in a case of compound fracture with protrusion, in which reduction could not otherwise be accomplished. The operation may also be required in some cases of caries or necrosis, and Dr. Shrady, of New York, has recorded a most successful instance of sub-periosteal excision of almost the entire hu- merus for acute necrosis. But the condition in which resection of the humeral shaft has won its greatest triumphs, is that of ununited fracture, and when the operation is done in the manner recommended by Ollier, of Lyons, and by Bigelow, of Boston, it is quite a successful procedure. A single longitudinal incision is made on the outer side of the arm, where the bone is comparatively superficial, going through one of the muscular