CHRONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. merits, but it frequently becomes extremely dense and heavy—osteosclerosis.1 Areolar-tissue inflammation may, on the contrary, have destructive tenden- cies, viz., to suppuration and ulceration. So also bone-tissue, when inflamed, may undergo softening and rarefying processes (osteo-malacia, osteo-porosis), may ulcerate (caries), or may become gangrenous (necrosis) or phagedenic (caries necrotica). All these changes are induced by various acts of the cellu- lar materials so richly implanted in that lime-bearing ground-substance which confers upon the structure its mechanical strength and rigidity. The parts of bone, which for the present purpose are interesting to us, are the ends of long bones and certain short bones, as of the tarsus, which form integral parts of joints, which remain for many years of life in great part cartilaginous, and which afterwards become spongy or cancellous. The spongy texture is inclosed in a very thin case of bone, freely perforated by vessels, except on the surface which looks towards the joint. Primary inflammation of the epipliyseal^end of a long bone is uncommon in adult life, and, when it does occur, attacks by preference a small bone, such as a phalanx. Short articular bones, as of the carpus or tarsus, may be inflamed at any period of life, but also most commonly in youth—from eighteen to twenty-four; chronic idiopathic inflammation of the ends of the femur, tibia, or humerus is rare.2 In young people, especially in children under ten years of age, the joint-ends of the large bones are very frequently the subject of strumous inflammation. The reasons of this proclivity at an early age are not far to seek: first, all strumous manifestations are most common in youth; and secondly, the great nutritive activity and ossifying processes at the epi- physes, accompanied by considerable hypertemia, supply that slight Irrita- tion, to be responded to by prolonged inflammation, which supplies Billroth with his definition of strumous disease (see page 297). The anatomical conditions are these: The bone-end or the short bone, as the case may be, is a mass of cartilage, in the midst of which is a growing osseous nucleus. On account of that growth the cartilage is very vascular, especially in the neighborhood of the nucleus. In most large joints the epi- physes are not fully ossified until about the age of puberty, and they retain their separation from, and their complete nutritive independence of, the shaft, for a much longer period. When osteitis, or, as it is termed under these circumstances, epiphysitis, attacks a bone-end, whose nucleus, already cancellar,3 nearly fills the whole space, the usual termination, in strumous children, is osteo-malacia and sup- puration, with perhaps some necrosis. The focus of suppuration, unless diffuse, is frequently surrounded, or at least subtended, by an area of scle- rosed bone, just as in soft parts a localized abscess is shut in by indurated tissue. If an almost mature but inflamed epiphysis be cut across with a fine saw, the inflamed point, or, when the action extends over the whole structure, all the cut surface, will show either spots of redness or a uniform, red colora- tion, and from the opened cancelli will ooze a more or less opaque and milky fluid, partly consisting of medullary oil, and partly of a cell-charged serum which may not as yet deserve the name of pus. At a somewhat later period, 1 The enlargement of bone which is so frequently met with clinically, is, as a rule, due to deposit on the surface, but I think that the possibility of interstitial enlargement has been too dog- matically denied, as witness the condition, not very uncommon, called osteitis deformans. More- over, I have had under observation for the last six months a child, aged 7, with very chronic osteitis of the tibia ; the bone is not only larger than the other in circumference, but is also 1A inches longer. 2 Arthritis deformans and the affections due to nerve-disease are excepted. 3 The nucleus in earliest life is solid.