FIBROMA OR FIBROUS TUMOR. 571 the form of epulis, are small, smooth, covered with red mucous membrane, fixed closely around the neck of a tooth or stump, slowly growing, and painless. They must be diagnosed from giant-celled or other forms of sarcoma, which are infinitely more rare, grow much more quickly, attain a much greater bulk, and tend to ulcerate. The giant-celled sarcomas are rare in the form of epulis, but, when they do occur, often closely resemble fibrous epulides. But they are usually of darker color and quicker growth. The large out- growths of the labia and other portions of the vulva can scarcely be con- founded with any other kind of tumor. Their soft and almost doughy con- sistence, their large size, but slow growth, and the wrinkled, brown, thickened skin, covering and intimately adherent to them, are pathognomonic of their nature. Some of those of the labia certainly are much firmer to the feel when they are prominent, but not loose or dependent masses, but the thick- ened and altered skin over them, to which they owe much of their firm feel, is characteristic. In the uterus, I believe, they cannot be distinguished from myomas ; and this holds good after removal until a microscopic examination has been made. The soft fibrous polypi of the nostrils are, too, indistinguish- able from mucous polypi; clinically, the diagnosis is unimportant; patho- logically, it is probable that the two diseases are intimately related, and that one is but a modification of the other. In the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and in the nerves, the diagnosis may be very difficult, especially between fibroma and sarcoma. The firmer feel of fibroma, its slower growth, and the comparatively small size of the tumor, are the most important features. The diagnosis of multiple fibromas from multiple sarcomas is not usually beset with difficulty. The course of the one disease is often lifelong, of the other only a few months, or two or three years; the sarcomas often form large tumors, the fibromas only rarely—in such cases, for instance, as fibroma mol- luscum. Fibrous tumors in the upper and lower jaws are usually character- ized by their slowr growth, and by the freedom of the skin and other surround- ing structures from infiltration. In connection with the fibromas which occur on nerves, it may be men- tioned that, not only are they usually free from pain, but even firm pressure on them fails to elicit signs of pain. This is the more remarkable because fibrous tumors furnish the typical examples of the “ painful subcutaneous tumors,” and many attempts have been made to prove that the pain and ten- derness, of which these tumors are the seat, are due to the presence of a nerve or nerves within them, or to a large mingling of nervous tissue with their structure. But repeated examinations have failed to detect the pres- ence of either of these conditions. And experience of fibrous tumors on nerve-trunks, whether large or small, has shown that a tumor which contains a nerve, or lies between its fibres, is not necessarily or even usually painful. The cause of the pain in these “ painful subcutaneous tumors” must, there- fore, be sought in some special and peculiar relation of the tumor to the sen- sory nerves. The clue may probably be found in the bulbous condition of the nerve-ends, in certain painful stumps, in which the presence of a larger bulb than usual is thd source of a similar exquisite tenderness to that exist- ing in the painful tumors. The tumors in the stump lie at the cut ends of the nerves, and the theory which is suggested by tln3 circumstance is, that the painful tumors are formed in connection with the terminations of nerves, or on the proximal extremities of sensory nerves which have been divided, perhaps by accident, or by the growth of the tumor. Prognosis.—The prognosis of a fibrous tumor is unquestionably favorable. Its presence may be distressing on account of pain, or inconvenient by reason of its situation or its bulk. But even multiple fibrous tumors in prominent