282 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. While the joint itself is undergoing these transformations, and, indeed, from their early beginning, the neuro-muscular phenomena already mentioned (p. 264) are in great activity, and no longer as merely tonic, but now also as clonic spasms. I pointed out, more than twenty years ago, that the irregular spasms of muscles called “ starting pains,” coincided and were intimately connected with that hypersemia of the bone eancelli immediately underlying the articular lamella, which accompanies cartilaginous inflammation. The more potent this blood-fulness, and the more acute the inflammation, the more fully are these spasms, as well as the less irregular muscular contractions, developed. The effect of such forces upon a joint whose ligaments and bone surfaces are altered in the manner above described, is evident, viz., more and more tendency to greater, and even to abnormal flexion, and marked disposi- tion to luxation, or partial luxation, which usually occurs towards the flexor side, but which sometimes is lateral. Their effect on the cartilages, of hastening their ulceration by excessive pressure, has already been mentioned ; their influence in keeping up inflammation will be discussed in the next section.1 ISTow if curative acts set in, they will proceed by gradual but often pretty rapid fibrillation of the granulation-tissue, which, hardening, squeezes pus from the abscesses, which then become filled with new elements. Yet, as we found that the interior of the bones, and the articular and peri-articular tissues, were all conjoined or matted together by inflammatory products, so when these consolidate and become fibrous tissue of the cicatricial type, it must happen that the parts become all bound together by a kind of ill-formed ligament—that is, are united by false anchylosis. If the changes go still further, the fibres become converted into bone—that is, the union is by true anchylosis. On the other hand, if no reparative processes take place at all, suppuration extends further and further, and becomes more and more abundant. It involves not merely the soft parts, but the bones, producing caries, or caries 7iecrotica, and the pus, passing beyond the spongy portion, invades the medullary canal and medulla. Meanwhile the constitution breaks down, either by way of pyaemia, of hectic, or of lardaceous change. Amputation, when feasible, now becomes the only chance of saving life. Symptoms of Suppurative Synovitis.—Although it is very rare that sup- purative follows upon acute, simple synovitis; yet any considerable change occurring during that milder disease, any strongly marked pyrexia, especially if preceded by rigors, should cause us carefully to watch for such a sequence. Ordinarily, the disease now under consideration begins at once with the char- acteristics of suppuration, but of course the diagnosis is much facilitated, if a wound or indeed any other severe traumatism, has preceded the attack. Very severe pain in a joint, preceded or accompanied by rigors, a sense of depression and illness, and fever with a high temperature, is rapidly followed by swelling. The kind of swelling differs somewhat from that of a simple synovitis; the signs of fluid in the cavity are quite evident, but the surround- ing soft parts are also swollen and doughy, and in the worst cases slightly cedematous, and pitting on prolonged pressure. At first noticed merely over 1 Bonnet, of Lyons, believed that the flexed position was forced upon the limb by the mechani- cal influence of the distended synovial membrane, and he instituted a number of ingenious experiments which he erroneously imagined proved that contention. The truth is, that joints, when violently inflamed, assume often such positions as greatly diminish the area of the synovial cavity. Moreover, when the cavity has been evacuated by art or by disease, the position is still maintained, or goes on increasing; while, on the other hand, change of posture has marked curative effects which it could not possess, if, the synovial area being diminished, the tension were increased.