706 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Hemorrhage into the Vertebral Canal from Sprains, Violent Flex- ures, and Twists, or Wrenches, of the Back.—This accident has no sur- gical importance, unless paraplegia more or less complete ensues. In the cases where it occurs, the chief proximate cause of disability and danger to life is the compression of the spinal cord, or of the spinal nerves before they issue from the intervertebral foramina, which the extravasated blood occasions. As in the cranium, so also in the vertebral column, the extravasated blood which compresses the nerve-tissue may be effused between the dura mater and the bone, that is, externally to the dura mater, on the one hand; or in- ternally to that membrane, that is, between it and the nerve-structures, on the other. We are, therefore, liable to meet with both extra-dural and intra- dural hemorrhages, of a perilous character, in the vertebral canal as well as in the cranial cavity. It has already been stated, in this article, that the ligamenta subflava are in direct relation with the meningo-rachidian veins, and that laceration or violent stretching of those ligaments would pretty certainly be attended by rupture of these veins; also, that the posterior common ligament is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the vena basurn vertebrarum, and by its posterior surface, with the dura mater of the spinal cord, from which it is separated only by the plexus venosi spin ales interni or longitudinal spinal sinuses, with some loose connective tissue containing fat, and that laceration of this liga- ment would be likely to be attended by rupture of these venous plexuses or sinuses, and, possibly, by rupture likewise of the dura mater of the spinal cord. Moreover, the laceration or violent stretching of these ligaments is liable to be attended by rupture of the arteries which, on entering the vertebral canal, come into relation with these ligaments as well as with the interverte- bral disks, namely, the rami spinales. The arteries which may be ruptured are numerous, the veins are not provided with any valves which could pre- vent regurgitant hemorrhage, and the dura mater is attached but very loosely to the inner surface of the vertebral canal. Thus, it appears, that when the vertebral ligaments are much torn by sprains, violent flexures, and twists, or wrenches of the vertebral column, there are many bloodvessels from which hemorrhage may occur if these vessels also be torn open, and that ample means are afforded by looseness of the connective tissue for the extravasated blood to accumulate, in great masses, between the dura mater of the spinal cord and the bone, as well as within the hollow cylinder or sheath which is formed by the dura mater itself. When, in such cases, the hemorrhage soon ceases, and the quantity of the extravasation is not large, it is probable that recovery will ensue; for the effused blood will be more or less completely absorbed, and thus the spinal cord will be more or less completely freed from compression. But, when the hemorrhage continues unchecked, the paraplegia arising therefrom will increase, and it will gradually spread upward until the superior extremities, too, become paralyzed; and finally, the functions of the phrenic nerves will likewise be suspended, the diaphragm will no longer contract, the respiratory movements will entirely cease, and then death will of course immediately result, as happened in the following example which occurred in the practice of Dr. John J. Crane, of New York, and in which I assisted at the autopsy:— Mr. S., an actor, aged about 50, sustained a violent injury in the root of his neck, shoulders, and back, from being thrown thereon while wrestling, on a Sunday after- noon. Being unable to arise without assistance, he was picked up and laid upon a bench by those around. Afterward he was put into a coach ; and, being held in a semi-recumbent position, he was carried to his home. Dr. Crane saw him, for the first time, about nine o’clock P. M. He was then unable to move his lower extremities, and exhibited all the symptoms of paralysis from spinal injury, so far as they were con-