EXCISION OF THE ANTERIOR TARSAL BONES. 531 metatarsal. These incisions are next deepened through the calcaneal perios- teum, this membrane being separated, with the overlying tendons, from the bone, which is then seized and extracted after division of its Fig- 751. astragaloid attachments. The tendo Achillis is not divided, but its insertion is pushed off to- gether with the periosteum. The subperiosteal method, judging from the report of a dis- cussion upon the subject in the Clinical Society of London, does not appear to have met with much favor at the hands of British surgeons, and, indeed, ac- cording to Vincent’s1 statistics, which will he again referred to, it has been followed by a mortal- ity almost the double of that which attends the operation when no attempt to preserve the perios- teum is made. In many cases partial excision or free gouging, as by Sedillot’s method (evidement des os), will prove sufficient, and when applicable should be pre- ferred to extirpation. The result of such an operation, performed by Dr. Wharton in my wards at the University Hospital, for cario- neerosis following frostbite, is shown in Fig. 751. The statistics of this operation have been studied by Burrall,2 of Hew York, and by Polaillon3 and Vincent,4 of Paris. The last-named surgeon has collected 79 cases, to which may be added 6 additional (success- ful) cases recorded by McGuire and Poore, giving a total of 85, of which but 5 are known to have terminated fatally. Result of partial excision of os calcis. The patient had also lost his toes by frostbite, but had, nevertheless, a very useful foot. Total number of cases, 85. Recovered, with useful limb, 55, or 64.7 per cent. Recovered, but without much use of limb, 5, or 5.9 per cent. Amputated, 10, or 11.8 per cent. Died, 5, or 5.9 per cent. Result undetermined, 10, or 11.8 per cent. Mortality of sub-periosteal cases (3 out of 23), 13 per cent. Excision of the Anterior Tarsal Bones.—The tarsal bones, other than the astragalus and os calcis, rarely admit of excision, their diseased condi- tions, when too far advanced for successful gouging, commonly necessitating amputation. I have, however, myself, on a few occasions, removed one or ' De l’ablation du calcaneum, etc. Paris, 1876. 2 Bellevue and Charity Hospital Reports, p. 91. New York, 1870. 3 Archives GenSrales de M6decine, Sept, et Oct. 1869. 4 Op. cit.