817 TRAUMATIC MYELITIS. border of the trapezius muscle, and about two inches below the mastoid process ; passed downward and to the right; fractured one or more of the vertebrae; and lodged beyond the reach of the bullet-probe. A few loose fragments of bone were removed. He was placed on a water-bed. Anodynes were given to procure sleep and relieve pain. The bladder was relieved by the catheter. The paralysis of the abdominal muscles allowed gases to collect in the intestines to such an extent as greatly to augment the pre-existing difficulty of breathing. Vent was given to these gases, from time to time, by inserting an elastic tube, per a,7ium, and compressing the belly externally. The paralysis from day to day became more profound ; the respiration more difficult; asphyxia slowly ap- peared, with delirium followed by coma, and on the 28th death ensued, about nine days, after the casualty. The autopsy revealed (1) fracture of the spinous process of the last cervical vertebra; (2) fracture of the laminae of the first dorsal vertebra at the point where they unite to form the spinous process ; this fracture opened the spinal canal and ruptured the theca vertebralis; (3) several small fragments of bone, embedded in the substance of the spinal cord, which was softened and bathed in pus. The bullet had also fractured the first rib with the coracoid process of the scapula, and had lodged in the right axilla, where it was found. The lungs were deeply congested, as was the mucous coat of the bronchi; and the bronchi themselves were filled with a tenacious mucus.1 The injury of the spinal cord in this case was followed by suppurative inflammation of its substance, which not only involved the whole thickness of the cord, but spread upward also. Simultaneously the paralysis became more profound, and rose to higher points, from day to day, until the man breathed by the diaphragm alone. Then the occurrence of tympanites greatly increased the dyspnoea by opposing the descent of the diaphragm; tenacious mucus formed in the air passages, and accumulated therein, because there was no power to expel it by coughing; mucous rales (bronchial) soon super- vened, and death from suffocation ensued, ere the disintegrating process had ascended the cord high enough to paralyze the phrenic nerves. This man died of ascending myelitis in nine days. But, on page 749, I have presented the case of another soldier who died of ascending myelitis in about forty- eight hours after sustaining simple fracture of the fourth cervical vertebra, in consequence of falling from a second story. On another page, I have men- tioned the case of a man, aged 40, who died of ascending myelitis on the eleventh day after sustaining simple fracture and dislocation of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, with contusion of the cord. I have likewise referred to many other cases of spinal injury, in which ascending myelitis supervened with fatal effect, as was shown by necroscopy. In the next example, the patient died of haemoptysis before the inflammatory process in the spinal cord had reached the stage of suppuration:— A cavalryman, aged 35, entered a general hospital, October 28, 1864, for a wound from a pistol-shot which had penetrated to the left side of the spine, and had fractured the twelfth dorsal vertebra. All below a line drawn from the wound to the pubis was para- plegic. There was much depression ; pulse about 130 ; much pain over abdomen and right side ; constipation ; incontinence of urine from overflow of bladder. A catheter was introduced and three pints of very thick, dark-colored urine were withdrawn. Stimulants, tonics, and a cathartic were given, with an anodyne at night. The patient improved and did well until November 15, when a bad cough set in. He died suddenly on the 18th from haemoptysis. Necroscopy—The spinal canal was laid open posteriorly from the second dorsal vertebra to the sacrum. Upon removing the spinal cord, the theca was found congested and firmly adherent to the vertebrae. The substance of the cord looked very red. The ball had passed between the arches of the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and then through the body of the twelfth dorsal, outside of the spinal meninges; but its track could not be further traced. The right pleural cavity 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August, 17, 1871, pp. 21, 22. VOL. IV.—52