TUMORS. 626 Symptoms.—The clinical characters of most papillomas have been described in the account of the macroscopic characters of the disease. But, in addition to the outward form and other features, there are certain points to which attention should be directed. It must be always borne in mind, that, how- ever much a papilloma may deface the part from which it grows, it is, after all, only a superficial affection, springing from the surface, and not affecting the subjacent structures; and that its tendency is not to destroy its site, but merely to disfigure it. Even when it ulcerates or sloughs, the destruction is limited to the tumor, and rarely or never penetrates to the parts beneath. From a knowledge of these characters another important character may be inferred, namely, the absence of induration of the part from which the tumor grows. If there be induration, it is due to some other cause, such as inflammation, and is not dependent on the presence of tumor growth. Pa- pillomas are often multiple, in proof of which the warts on the hands and penis may be mentioned, and the eondylomata. Of course, the symptoms of papillomas of parts in which the tumor cannot easily be observed, are often very obscure, and to enter on a long description of the symptoms aud diagnosis of papillomas of the bladder, the larynx, the nose, and other simi- larly situated parts, would be foreign to the intention of this article. Diagnosis.—In most instances the diagnosis of a papilloma lies on the surface, and presents absolutely no difficulty. The appearance of the tumor itself is conclusive. But occasionally there is a difficulty in deciding between a papilloma aud a sarcoma or epithelioma. In the first case, the much more rapid growth of the sarcoma, the affection of the deeper structures of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, aud consequent induration, and the evident fact that here is a tumor of which the surface only is papillary, lead to a correct decision. In the second case, the diagnosis is often much more difficult, as, for example, between a papilloma and epithelioma of the lip, or of the scrotum. In both these instances, the induration at the base of the warty growth, in epithelioma, and the ulceration, which, when present, extends into the sub- stance of the lip, with the more rapid progress of the tumor, are the points on which the diagnosis chiefly must depend. But where a papilloma is being gradually transformed into an epithelioma, the characters of the two diseases may be confusedly blended. Prognosis.—The prognosis of papilloma is very hopeful. In fact, as far as the tumor is itself concerned, the only dangers which need be apprehended from it are hemorrhage, and the possibility, not very remote under what may be termed favorable conditions, that the tumor may become an epithelioma. As long as it remains a papilloma, it exhibits no disposition to glandular affection or dissemination. It may recur, certainly, after a removal, but the recurrence is due, not to any specific vices which are in the tumor, but to the difficulty of dealing with it completely in certain situations. The prognosis of papillomas of the bladder and the larynx is grave on account of the site of the disease, not on account of the nature of the tumor. Treatment.—The treatment varies widely to suit the requirements of the case. The common dry warts on the hands may be treated by touching them with sulphuric acid. A single application in most instances suffices for the cure. Each wart turns yellow, shrinks, and, in a few days, drops off, leaving behind a slight depression where it stood, which soon fills up and leaves no appreciable scar. The treatment is quite painless. The same method is applicable to warts upon the penis and vulva, but they are more often snip- ped off with scissors, and the bleeding surface touched with chromic acid or