ACUTE ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. 351 luxation; it takes place above or below the joint, the relative position of whose component parts, condyles, etc., remains unchanged.1 After a few days the truncated end of the shaft, very different in shape from the joint-end, makes a projection beneath the skin. Occasionally the edges, both of dia- physis and epiphysis, can be felt. It must here be noted that not unfrequently muscular apophyses also become separated. The period at which diastasis occurs varies very much, according to the vio- lence of the disease. In bad cases, those that usually either prove fatal or require amputation, the separation occurs about the tenth day. When this event is deferred beyond the month, there is much hope of recovery, but, of course, with much deformity and crippling. Even when all acute fever has subsided, chronic suppuration and extensive bone disease may call for amputation. The primary joint-disease, that which arises prior to or simultaneously with the osteo-myeiitis, and which is due to the same cause, may be very slight or more severe; in the latter event, it may very considerably embarrass diag- nosis. In young children—those under six years—a tolerably severe trauma- tism may set up a smart sero-synovitis; in older persons, an exposure to cold may first induce a rheumatic synovitis, together with vague rheumatoid pains in other joints. Thus, in the one malady an attack of severe local pain is very apt to lead to the conclusion that a simple synovitis is assuming the suppurative character ; in the other condition, the symptoms greatly resemble those of acute rheumatism expending its chief force on a single joint.2 As regards the differential diagnosis, it must be observed that in osteo-myeiitis the limb lies straight, and that the abnormal flexion of suppurative synovitis does not occur; the appearance of passive helplessness is characteristic; the locality of chief pain and tenderness is different, and, unless the joint itself be much inflamed, the points of synovitic tenderness are absent. The pyrexia of osteo- myelitis is of quite a different type from that of rheumatic fever; the quality of the urine is not that of uric-acid disease; the sweating is not profuse, but, on the contrary, the skin is generally dry. When sweating does come on, it has not the great acidity of rheumatic perspiration. In locality and quality, the pain is quite different from that of rheumatism, unless neuralgic rheu- matism, and this the temperature excludes. The joint-affections consecutive to and dependent on acute osteo-myeiitis are often, as already stated, comparatively mild, and may, indeed, in the vio- lence of other symptoms, escape notice. A serous or purulent synovitis, much masked by surrounding tumefaction, hardly forces itself into notice; but, if it should become suppurative, the flexed position of the limb, com- bined with tension below the place of original disease, and a probable sudden increase of pyrexia, combined with or preceded by rigors, should at least awaken suspicion. Pytemic complications, involving either the internal viscera or other joints, manifest themselves by symptoms which have already been discussed both in this article and in other parts of the Encyclopaedia. Treatment.—Chassaignac, who first drew attention to acute osteo-myeiitis,3 followed by G. Roux, Ivlose, and Gosselin, advocated immediate, free in- cisions down to the bone. This treatment was eminently unsuccessful, being in the vast majority of instances followed by pyaemia and death. A few years afterwards Dr. Demme refuted these views, and insisted on the necessity of avoiding any opening of the skin, as Iona; as the more acute phase of pyrexia continued. 1 In case there is much swelling, these positions cannot well he made out. Demme entitled his paper, in Langenbeck’s Arcliiv, Die pseudorheumatische Progresse. Memoire sur l’osteo-inyglite. Paris, 1854. Gazette Medicale, 1854.