MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 904 presents large and distinct superficial veins. The mass is usually of very unequal density, some parts being elastic or fluctuating, while others are firmer and more solid. The growth may communicate with the spinal canal, hut such communication is quite exceptional.- When the mass grows from the front of the sacrum or coccyx, the latter bone is usually pushed backwards as the tumor develops, and may be so far turned back as to project beneath the skin. In other cases the coccyx is quite buried in the tumor, or it may be rudimentary, or even entirely absent. If the mass is of any great size, the anus and genitals are pushed forwards, and the rectum is sometimes found enveloped by the growth. The tumor may still further invade the pelvis, and its development within that cavity may be such that the pelvis may be filled, and the mass may then be found to occupy some part of the abdomen. In structure, these tumors are, for the most part, composed of a number of cysts, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a horse-chestnut, and com- municating more or less freely the one with the other. These cysts contain a fluid that resembles that of hydrocele, or they may be occupied by a gelati- nous material very much like boiled sago-grains. These cysts are held to- gether by a varying amount of firm, young, fibrous tissue. Some of the tumors may be composed solely of this cystic structure,1 while others, and these are the majority, contain more or less solid tissue in addition.2 This solid tissue may be fatty or fibrous, or it may contain some particles of cartilage, or even of bone. Sometimes it preponderates in amount over the cysts, and the mass is rather a mass of fatty or fibrous tissue associated with some multilocular cysts than a tumor that can be fairly called cystic. As to the real nature of these tumors, little that is definite can at present be said. On microscopical examination, the cysts are found to be lined with cubical or columnar epithelium, and to be supported by a very cellular connective tissue.3 This connective tissue, which would appear to be no other than embryonic connective tissue, has been considered by some to be sarcomatous in its nature, and upon these grounds a number of these tumors have been classed as sarcomata or cystic sarcomata. Others, paying greater heed to the epithelial growth about the cyst-walls, have maintained that these tumors are to be regarded as cylindrical-celled epitheliomata, and are therefore to be classed with the cancers. I do not think, however, that either of these accounts of the nature of these growths has been by any means well established, and it still remains more than prob- able that these remarkable tumors must be regarded as the results of some abnormal and unknown phase in the tissue-formation of the foetus. Some pathologists have endeavored to maintain that these growths are due to a degenerative process involving Luschka’s gland. It is true that a vast num- ber of these tumors take origin from the front of the sacrum and coccyx, and it is also true that no trace of Luschka’s gland is to be found in these instances; but here the main facts end. It has never been distinctly proved that the tumor has actually had origin from this little body, a resemblance in structure between the two lias never been fully established, and the loss of the gland by its becoming embedded in the growing tumor is not hard to under- stand. In spite, therefore, of the eminent names associated with this theory, it must still be regarded as not proven.4 1 See case by Mr. Shattoek, Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxii. page 197. 1882. 8 Hutchinson, Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, vol. ii. page 36. 1879. 3 For some excellent drawings, see Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxii. page 197. « See Mr. Hutchinson’s work above referred to; also art. Sacro-coccygienne, by M. J. Chauvel, Diet. Encyclop. des Sc. Med., 1878.