208 INJURIES OF BONES. be secured by a loop of bandage around the foot, fastened to the sand-bag on the side opposite to that toward which the foot inclines. Certain details must be attended to in making all these arrangements, in order to the effective working of the plan. The adhesive strips must be smoothly fitted, and not allowed to wrinkle, lest the skin should be irritated ; the circular pressure should not be tight enough to obstruct the return of venous blood along the limb; the pulley must be placed at the proper height, and exactly in the line of the long axis of the limb. Should the con- stant pressure on the heel give rise to any soreness, a mass of carded wool or cotton may be placed a little above, so that the limb may rest on a different point; it is better, however, to guard against any such trouble by protecting the skin with a patch of soft kid spread with soap plaster. The proper adap- tation of the weight to the necessities of each case is a matter of much conse- quence. It will be perceived that in this plan of treatment the counter-extension is exerted by the weight of the body, by reason of the elevation of the foot of the bed, a device credited by Hamilton to Dr. Van Ingen, of Schenectady. The weight and pulley, distinctly described by Gui do Chauliae in the four- teenth century, was brought forward in modern times by John Bell, in 1801, and in this country, in 1824, by Dr. Luke Howe, and again in 1829, by Dr. Daniell, of Georgia.1 Its most prominent advocate, however, was the late Dr. Gurdon "Buck, of Hew York, whose name has been generally attached to the method since he revived it in 1861.2 To show how thoroughly developed it had formerly been, however, I may perhaps quote the following passage from Le Clerc:—3 “ To hinder the Patient from turning cross and sliding down toward the Feet of the Bed, you must plant a Stake into the Floor, underneath the Bed, and pass it through the Matting and Bedclothes, so that it may be between the Patient’s Legs. This ought to be as thick as the small of the Arm, and covered with some Stuff or other, that it may not hurt the Patient. And for greater security, let it be ty’d with an equal Girth to the Patient’s Thigh above the Knee ; and let each Branch or Tail of the Girth pass on each side the Knee, exactly on the middle, and over two Pullies (fastened at the end of the Bed’s Feet), and at the end of them let there be two Weights suspended to draw the Thigh, and keep it in a streight Posture. The Thigh must be wrapt round with a Bolster in the Place where the Girth is, that it may not hurt it.” When the fracture is very high up, just below the trochanters, there is apt to be not only the drawing upward of the lower fragment, but a tilting up- ward and forward of the upper one, by contraction of the psoas and iliacus mus- cles. Perhaps this fragment is also rotated outward by the glutei and other rotator muscles at the back of the hip ; but I have never seen this distinctly. Under such circumstances there is so little purchase upon the upper fragment, that it is apt to remain in its abnormal position in spite of every effort to bring it down; and the result is that when union takes place the limb is not only"permanently shortened, but deformed and seriously disabled. I believe that in such a case the only resource is to make the lower fragment follow the upper, by raising the knee and flexing the whole thigh upon the pelvis. This may be done by means of the double-inclined plane in some form, or perhaps even by the single inclined plane, as the latter would produce no tension upon the muscles of the front of the thigh. The double-inclined plane is merely a framework, generally hinged so that the angle can be 1 The reader will find an excellent article on the history of this subject, by Dr. E. Hartsliorne, in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for April and July, 1869. 2 American Medical Times, March 30, 1861. 3 The Compleat Surgeon, etc. London, 1727.