865 INJURIES OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. for about three months. On October 20, after dissipation, he complained of pain in the left knee, at times very intense, depriving him of rest. The wound reopened and dis- charged freely; a slough formed over the lower part of the sacrum, three or four inches in diameter, and so deep as to lay pjo-. 808. the bone bare. A lumbar and psoas abscess developed itself; the pain in the left knee increased greatly, and the left leg be- came swollen and tender to pressure. The abscess in the loin ■was opened by a valvular incision, and three pints of pus were discharged, with great relief to the pain in the leg, etc. Both legs became swollen about December 20, and he died as stated above, exactly six months after the occurrence of the casualty. At no time was there any paralysis of motion or sensation in the lower extremities or elsewhere. Necroscopy An immense abscess extending from the left kidney to Poupart’s ligament was found. In the pelvis, in contact with the sacrum, there was another abcess, while the tissues of the pelvis, at its back part, were buried in effusions of plastic matter. The ball was found lodged in the spinal canal, opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra, as shown in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 808). It had en- tered on the right side of the spinal ridge of the sacrum, about its middle, passed diagonally upward, and spent its force on the left wall of the canal of the first sacral and fifth lumbar vertebrae. The left lamina of the first sacral bone was carried away. The missile had passed up the spinal canal outside of the theca verte- bralis. The bodies of the fourthand fifth lumbar vertebrae were ca- rious, and the intervertebral cartilage between them was entirely destroyed. The first and second sacral vertebrae were necrosed and discolored, as was also the fifth throughout its thickness. The first and second left sacral nerves seemed most involved by the diseased bones, but the left lumbar plexus was entangled in the diseased mass which occupied the basin of the pelvis.1 Showing the sacrum and Jast three lumbar vertebrae, with a ball lodged in the spinal canal opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra. (Sp. 1198, A. M. M.) The complete closure of the wound, and the development of caries and necrosis in the bony structures which had sustained the shock or impact of the missile, after the lapse of three months, are worthy of special remark in this place, as well as the fact that no paralysis whatever occurred. From the foregoing, it appears that the chief risks which were encountered in treating shot fractures of the sacrum during our civil war, were the super- vention of (1) pyaemia or septicaemia, (2) traumatic spinal meningitis and mye- litis,^) peritonitis, and (4) caries and. necrosis of the injured bones, with the formation of corresponding abscesses in the pelvis, as well as in the sacral and lumbar regions. Treatment.—When the missile lodges, in cases of shot-fracture of the sacrum, it should, if possible, always he extracted. One case has already been related in which this was done with an excellent result. I shall now present two additional cases in which important operations were performed to the same end, with good effect. Surgeon J. J. Chisolm relates2 the case of a young Confederate soldier belonging to the 26th Alabama Regiment, who was shot in the back. The missile passed through the sacrum an inch from its spinous processes, and one inch below the level of the crest of the ilium, and lodged. Eight months after the reception of the wound, he applied to Dr. C. for relief, inasmuch as he had a constant discharge of pus from both the wound in the back and a fistulous passage in the left groin. Upon examination with a probe, which penetrated four inches, traversing the sacrum, the foreign body was detected, the bulb of the probe entering the cup of the minie ball. By enlarging the hole through the sacrum with a gouge, room was obtained to draw the ball from the pelvic cavity. The patient recovered. 1 Ibid., First Surgical Vol., p. 449. a Manual of Military Surgery, 1863, p. 356. VOL. IV.—55