711 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAE. latter. In consequence of this displacement, the antero-posterior diameter of the ver- tebral canal was lessened about one-third.”1 The specimen was preserved, I believe, in the museum of St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital. In this case, then, there undoubtedly occurred “ a displace- ment of bone with a laceration of ligament unaccompanied with fracture;” or, in other words, there was unquestionably a pure dislocation of the fourth cervical vertebra forward upon the fifth. The French surgeons had already ascertained that the atlas might be luxated on the axis without fracture; and that, occasionally, a luxation of the articular process on one side (unilateral dislocation) occurred among the last five cervical vertebrae.2 But these lesions were held to be of extremely rare occurrence; and, as to luxation of the bodies of the vertebrae without fracture, the possibility of such an accident was scarcely admitted. On the latter point, Boyer says: “ If we examine the facts upon which a belief of the possibility of their being luxated is founded, we shall find that the posterior laminae of the vertebrae are uniformly broken, often crushed, and reduced to splinters, and that, almost always, when the body of a vertebra is luxated, the separation of its ligaments tears off a piece of the bone itself.”3 Boyer has been blindly followed by most writers on spinal injuries since his day. (Ashhurst.) In 1865, however, Professor Porta’s memoir on “ Dislocations of the Ver- tebrae” was read before the Royal Lombard Institution of Science and Letters, and was summarized in Omodei’s Annali Universali di Medicina, whereby the chief points made in it have become widely known. This memoir is founded on 27 cases—13 in the cervical, 10 in the dorsal, and 4 in the lumbar region. No case of luxation of the occiput on the atlas, nor of the atlas on the axis is included. There were only six recoveries. Necro- scopy was practised in 20 out of the 21 fatal cases. Prof. Porta asserts that dislocations of the bodies of the vertebrae, which all authors (including Mor- gagni) have believed to be rare, are common enough, and met with every year in hospital practice. Experiments on the spinal column removed from the body, and denuded of its muscles, show that by vigorous torsion the intervertebral cartilage and ligaments can always be torn, and this dislocation be thus produced. He combats the opinion of Boyer that the dislocation is always accompanied by fracture, and mentions seven cases in which there was no such complication. Even when fracture does accompany the luxation, the complexion of the accident is determined by the luxation and the extent of its displacement. As already stated, 14 cases were complicated with frac- ture—5 in the cervical, 6 in the dorsal, and 3 in the lumbar region. He regards the concomitant fracture as a phenomenon secondary to the dislocation.4 In 1867, Mr. Bryant published some statistics of spinal injuries,5 in order to show that pure dislocation of the vertebrae was less rare than was usually taught. During a period of five years, ending in 1858, while he officiated as surgical registrar at Guy’s Hospital, 46 cases of spinal injury were admitted; and, among the 46 cases, there were 24 examples of dislocation, or of fracture, or of both combined. In 10 of them, the dislocation, or the fracture, was in the cervical region; in 14, the injury was in the dorsal region. Moreover, the nature of the lesion was verified by a post-mortem examination, in 17 instances. Of these, 6 were pure dislocations, 3 were pure fractures, and 8 were examples of dislocation combined with fracture, as already stated. Of the pure disloca- 1 Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. xiii. part 2, pp. 394—397. 1827. 1 Boyer’s Surgery, translated by Stevens, vol. ii. pp. 230-234. New York, 1816. 3 Ibid., p. 23'5. 4 New Syd. Soc. Retrospect, 1865-1866, pp. 281-283. 6 Lancet, April 6.