COURSE AND GROWTH OF TUMORS. 549 possibly, in the less liability of their cellular elements to be transformed into cell-elements of the tumor. The shapes assumed by tumors are very various, and depend partly on the unequal pressure to which they are subjected as they grow. They may be spherical or spheroidal, oblong, oval, granular, nodular, tuberous, bossed, or lobed. They may be furnished with processes or with outlying lobes or lobules, slenderly connected with the main mass. They may be plexiform or polypoid. It is easily intelligible that pressure must exercise a conside- rable influence in determining the shape assumed by a tumor growing in the midst of solid parts. If the impulse to growth be equal in all parts of the tumor, those parts which are subjected to the least amount of pressure will naturally attain a larger size than those parts about which the pressure is much greater. But pressure is not the only cause of irregularity of growth. Tumors which increase by infiltration, do not, as has been already stated, in- filtrate all tissues with equal facility; and, although toughness and hardness certainly tend to increase the resistance which tissues offer to the progress of an infiltrating tumor, mere toughness or hardness will not account for the resistance, almost amounting to immunity from infiltration, which some tissues exhibit. It is probable that the vascularity, the number and char- acter of the cell-elements, and, perhaps, the liability of the elements to in- fection, influence the resistance which these tissues offer to infiltration, and consequently affect the shape of infiltrating tumors. But there are certain reasons which render it almost certain that pressure and infiltration are not the sole, or indeed the chief, causes of the peculiar Fig. 760. Mucous polypi of nose ; natural size. To show the shape of polypi. shapes assumed by many tumors. A large number of tumors are not sub- jected to piressure which can possibly be regarded as unequal, nor do they grow by infiltration, yet they present eccentric shapes. Thus, tumors which grow in the interior of cavities, intracystic growths, for example, which are surrounded on every side, except at the base, by fluid ; and especially tumors