849 DISORDERS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Is there any room for doubt in regard to the etiology of the renal and vesi- cal inflammation which the autopsy revealed in this case ? Can the origin of this inflammation be assigned with propriety to any cause, excepting the extremely well-marked myelitis, and the morbid excitation of the spinal cord which it occasioned ? It cannot be ascribed to the introduction of septic matters from without, because there is no evidence nor probability that a catheter was ever used in this case; and it does not appear that any necessity ever existed for using a catheter on this man, inasmuch as his urine is known to have been discharged by dribbling (from paralysis of (he sphincter vesicas) almost from the outset, and probably was discharged in this manner from the very outset of the case. Moreover, an acute bed-sore of large size presented itself in the sacro-gluteal region, and this, together with the urinary lesions, destroyed the man’s life; and, as the sacral eschar had a neuropathic origin, even so the urinary lesions had the same origin. Although the inflammatory process in the urinary organs was much less acute in this than it was in the preceding example, the textural changes produced by it, and revealed by the autopsy, were quite well marked. They were as follows: Suppuration in the cortical portion of the kidneys; in- flammatory discoloration, and, no doubt, thickening of the mucous mem- brane lining the renal pelves, the ureters, and the bladder; also greenish- colored fibrinous exudation collected in patches on every part of this mem- brane. The greenish hue of the exudation, as well as of the inflamed mucous membrane itself, was due to staining with the red corpuscles of the blood; hajmaturia had doubtless supervened some time before death. Finally, the urinary bladder contained a quantity of muco-purulent liquid, the muco-puru- lent elements of which had been produced by the inflammatory process. Many other examples belonging to the same category have been presented in the foregoing pages. Should, however, additional evidence be required in regard to the etiology of the urinary disorders under consideration, it may readily be found in M. Charcot’s Lectures, already so often quoted: evidence which, although weighty and convincing, cannot he reproduced here for want of room. To briefly summarize the symptoms which usually attend the neuropathic inflammations of the urinary organs that very frequently supervene in cases of spinal injury: Soon after the accident, that is, within a period beginning on the second, and ending about the ninth day thereafter, it is observed that the urine, previously acid and clear, or perfectly normal, suddenly becomes alkaline, and exhales a pungent ammoniacal smell at. the moment of emission. Shortly afterward, it is noticed that the urinary discharge has a cloudy and turbid look, arising from the admixture of mucus, as well as a strongly ammoniacal odor. The quantity of this mucus gradually in- creases until the urinary discharge becomes ropy, tenacious, and so thick from this cause that it even adheres to the bottom of the vessel. In a short time, a white substance—the phosphate of lime—is found mixed with the mucus. Pus-corpuscles and blood-disks also present themselves. The quan- tity of the former may he so great as to cause a muco-purulent appearance. Oftentimes, the blood-disks present themselves in such large number as to constitute a veritable hemorrhage from the urinary organs, technically deno- minated haematuria. But blood-disks will often be seen with a microscope, when to the unaided eye the urinary discharge does not present a sanguino- lent appearance. In the chronic cases, and near the end of most of the fatal cases, the urinary discharge consists apparently of a muco-purulent liquid, in which, however, blood-corpuscles or their remains are almost always found by microscopical examination, intermingled with pus-cells and renal and vesical epithelium, that is, muco-pus, with vibriones and phosphates, etc. vol. iv.—54