702 INJURIES OF THE BACK. extremities freely when lying in bed. Pulse 60, and small; sensibility not decreased. He freely passed bloody urine. He complained of severe pain in the abdomen, espe- cially in the left renal region, but nothing abnormal could be detected by inspection or palpation. The microscope showed the urine to contain a large number of red blood- corpuscles. Well-marked symptoms of internal hemorrhage appeared and increased; and, at 11 A. M. next day, he died in consequence of inward bleeding. During the night the urine was very little bloody. In the morning it was quite clear. Autopsy A dark-blue tumor of the size of a child’s head, extending from the iliac fossa to above the tenth rib, and covering the three superior lumbar vertebras, was found in the abdominal cavity. It consisted of coagulated blood, wherein the left kidney, which had been torn into two distinct halves, was found imbedded. The rupture was trans- verse, extending from the anterior superior part of the organ to the posterior inferior, through the capsule and the parenchyma. The pieces of the kidney were about two inches distant from each other, and entirely separated from their adhesions. The left ureter was torn across, and was attached, to the length of two inches, to the lower frag- ment ; the corresponding renal vein and artery were in the same condition. The right kidney was perfectly sound. The peritoneum was not ruptured. No fluid was con- tained in the abdominal cavity, and no blood in the bladder.1 In this case, the left kidney, together with the accompanying ureter, renal vein, and renal artery were torn completely across, while all the other organs were unaffected; and the force which caused this immense laceration had been indirectly appli«d. The rationale of the lnematuria was probably as follows; The blood being still liquid, for some hours after the accident, flowed down through the severed ureter into the bladder, and this sanguinolent flow continued until the ureter itself became plugged by the formation of coagulum. Then the urine which was secreted by the right kidney remained clear, that is, un- stained with blood, and in that condition was discharged in the morning before the patient died. But, the lacerations of the kidneys which result from falling upon the feet, buttocks, or back, etc., are, for the most part, also attended with lacerations of other important viscera, as was observed in the following instance recorded by Professor Fayrer:— The patient, a Hindoo, aged 25, fell from a tamarind tree, and fractured both arms. He was brought to the hospital, and appropriately treated; but the wounds did not do well, and he died in consequence of tetanus, sixteen days after the event. There was no indication of internal mischief beyond a complaint of pain in the epigastrium on the day after the accident, when uniformly bloody urine, without any clots, was passed. Next day, the urine was also bloody, but there was nothing more till death. Autopsy— At the upper end of the left kidney was a rupture running into the hilus, where the areolar tissue was infiltrated with blood. A great part of this kidney was softened. There was some coagulated blood over the kidney and left side of the pelvis, but no peritonitis. Two ounces of blood clots lay in the great omentum. The spleen had two ruptures in its posterior edge, the upper one being very deep. The liver had a super- ficial rent on the posterior margin of its right lobe, and two others on the under surface. The liver was also studded with light-gray pysemic patches, which Professor Fayrer attributed to emboli from the ruptured spleen. The heart and great vessels were found to contain coagula.2 In the example just presented, hsematuria appeared on the second day, and constituted a prominent symptom. It was also the form of hsematuria that characterizes renal injury, when no coagula are voided in the urine. It lasted, however, only two days, although it was caused by a rupture at the upper 1 Med. News and Abstract, January, 1880, pp. 41, 42 ; also Brit. Med. Journal, Oct. 18, 1879. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, May 18, 1867 ; also, New Sydenham Society’s Biennial Retrospect, 1867-8, p. 187.