INJURIES OF THE BACK. 692 1 Ibid., p. 359. * Ibid., pp. 359, 360. Again, a shoemaker, aged 32, while stooping, tripped and rolled over, with his head under him. His neck received thereby a twist that caused much pain. He lay motion- less, flat on his back, for ten minutes, being without the power to move both arms and legs, and having a sense of numbness and of pricking throughout the body. In trying to stand, his legs gave way under him, as if he were intoxicated. Sensation, also, was impaired but not lost. Within twelve hours, however, both motor power and sensation were restored ; and the paralysis did not return. He complained of acute pain in the neck, which was aggravated by the slightest movement of the head ; and he, therefore, kept the head perfectly still. He lay in bed, on his back, with his neck sunk on to a low soft pillow, and propped up by sand-bags. On examination, the chief tenderness was found at the fourth cervical vertebra; and there a deeply seated swelling was per- ceived. For treatment, absolute rest of the neck was enforced, and tincture of iodine ap- plied. In a month he was allowed to leave his bed, with his head supported by a plastic shield extending from the shoulders to the occiput. He could then perform the nodding, but not the rotatory, movements of the neck. In nine weeks, all the cervical movements seemed quite restored ; but, for precaution’s sake, he was kept in hospital three weeks longer. He returned to his trade, and called several times afterward to show that he was well.1 Finally, a little, ricketty girl, of 3 years, having a large head, was admitted to hos- pital, late one evening, with paralysis of the upper and lower extremities. She had fallen out of bed, that morning, head-foremost, and was insensible for a few minutes. During the day, it was remarked that she did not get upon her feet, nor move her legs; and that she did not use her hands. When examined, motor power was found to be lost in both upper and lower extremities. She showed no signs of pain when the skin was pricked anywhere below the upper part of the chest. Reflex movements were excited in the lower extremities when the skin of the abdomen, and it alone, was pricked ; and then the child gave a slight cry of pain ; respiration natural; bladder and rectum not affected. She uttered cries whenever the neck was moved, or the back of it was pressed on by the fingers; and, after it, seemed pleased to keep the head at per- fect rest on a pillow. For three days no change in the symptoms was observed; on the fourth day there were visible signs of improvement; on the fifth, it was discovered that she could freely move both upper and lower extremities, and that motion of the head had ceased to give pain. There was no further trouble, and she remained quite well.2 The main point in the treament of recent, as well as in that of old cases, in which the articulations of the cervical vertebrte have been sprained or wrenched, is to maintain them in a state of complete immobility and relaxa- tion until the cure is complete. To this end, the patient must be made to lie continuously in bed, on the back, with only a thin pillow under the head, and barely enough support under the nape of neck to keep it from sinking. Besides, to keep"the head straight, and to prevent its rolling from side to side, sand-bags, that are sufficiently long and heavy to fulfil the indica- tions, must be so placed upon the patient’s pillow, one on either side of the neck and head, as to give both of the parts a complete lateral support. In- deed, I do not know of any other mechanical expedient, of a simple nature, which answers this purpose as well as sand-bags, made of bed-ticking, of a length sufficient to extend beyond the head, and about three-fourths tilled with dry sand. One of them is to be placed with care on each side, close to the neck and head, and is to be accurately moulded thereto, so as to keep the head entirely straight, and to render all lateral or rotatory movements of the parts impossible. Sprains, Twists, and Wrenches in the Dorsal Region.—The dorsal por- tion of the vertebral column, when compared with the cervical and lumbar portions, is characterized by a relatively much greater rigidity and want of