753 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAS. The sudden death of this man, too, was due no doubt to a compression of the spinal cord against the odontoid process of the axis, which was suddenl caused by the elevating or thrusting forward of his head, and the subsidence of his neck, that would naturally occur when he turned over upon his back, as he lay flat on the hay, without a pillow to keep the nape of his neck raised up sufficiently to avoid such a calamity. This displacement of the frag- ments of the broken atlas, etc., could have been avoided by placing a small firm pillow under the patient’s neck, when putting him to bed, and by confining his head and neck in a fixed position by means of heavy sand-bags so placed on either side thereof as to prevent all motion in the neck, as recommended by Mr. Hilton in analogous cases of cervical disease. Had such a proceed- ing been instituted, in this case, and continued until consolidation of the fractures had been effected, recovery no doubt would have ensued. The following example shows not only that this view is correct, but also that spontaneous recovery from similar fractures sometimes occurs:— A man, aged 32, fell from a liay-wagon, striking his occiput on the ground, and was stunned.1 He walked half a mile to visit a surgeon ; in three days he resumed work; his neck was stiff, and there was tumefaction over the axis; after several months, dys- phagia and tumefaction in the pharynx appeared. Nevertheless, he recovered ; and, about one year and a half after the accident he died of pleurisy. The autopsy showed fractures of the atlas and odontoid process of the axis. (Ashhurst.) As a symptom of the fractures of the atlas and third cervical vertebra which had occurred in Dr. Eberman’s case, it may be mentioned that the man walked with a hand placed on each side of his neck, apparently in order to support it. Sir Astley Cooper2 relates a case of simple fracture of the atlas, that was under the elder Cline’s care, in which the same symptom was pre- sent :— “ A girl received a severe blow upon her neck ; after which it was observed that, whenever she wanted to look at any object, either above or below her, she always sup- ported her head with her hands, and then gradually and carefully elevated or de- pressed it, according as she wished, towards the object. After any sudden shock she used to run to a table, and placing her hands under her chin, rest them against the table, until the agitation caused by the concussion had subsided. Twelve months after the accident the child died ; and on examination, a transverse fracture of the atlas was found, but no displacement. When the head was depressed or elevated, the dentiform process of the second vertebra became displaced, carrying with it a portion of the atlas, and occasioning pressure on the spinal marrow, which was also produced by any violent agitation.” Fractures of the odontoid process, as a rule, suddenly destroy life ; the vic- tims being literally pithed by that process. This accident often, but not always, proves instantly fatal. For example, Melchiori3 mentions the case of a woman, aged 68, who was killed by falling from a ladder and striking her forehead on the ground. Death was instanta- neous. Dissection showed fractures of the atlas and odontoid process of the axis; and the atlas was displaced backward. (Ashhurst.) When, however, it happens that the fragments of the broken odontoid process are not displaced sufficiently to injure the spinal cord, the patient may survive until such a displacement is produced by some accident or other, as doubtless occurred in the following instance:— Richet4 relates the case of a man, aged 22, who attempted suicide by a pistol-shot in the neck. He survived the injury tor seventeen days, during which time he could ' Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, 0. S., vol. xxiii. « Lectures, vol ii. p. 8. 3 Gaz. Medica Stati Sardi, 1850, 4 These de Concours, 1851. vol. iv.—48