673 INCISED AND PUNCTURED FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. The patient was a man, aged 48. He had a stab-wound in the nape of his neck, the hemorrhage from which had been restrained to a considerable extent by plugs soaked in styptic solutions, etc. On removing the dressings, there was seen at the level of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, about an inch to the left of the spine, a roundish wound about two-thirds of an inch in diameter. On removing the coagulum which lay in the wound, some dark blood escaped; and, on withdrawing the finger used for exploration, a rather violent hemorrhage of bright red blood followed. The wound was then laid open to the extent of about three inches, and a large quantity of coagu- lum was removed by the finger. Thus a cavity was found, having the size of a small apple, and at the bottom the posterior surfaces of the left articulating processes were felt, and, more distinctly, the transverse processes of the vertebra1. A transverse incision was now made, an inch and a half in the anterior, and half an inch in the posterior direction ; and the blood was then seen to issue from a point between the transverse processes of two vertebra, apparently the fifth and sixth cervical. The blood escaped from the distal as well as from the proximal portion of the artery; and the hemorrhage was arrested by pressing against the transverse processes, either from above or from below. jNo ligatures could be applied to the wounded artery. A plug of charpie of the size of a pea, soaked in a solution of the perchloride of iron, was therefore introduced between the transverse processes, and left there. It stopped the bleeding. The external wound was closed with sutures, and dressed antiseptically. The head was kept fixed by a stiff collar. On the fourth day after the operation, the plug in the deep part of the wound was removed, partly by means of a stream of water, partly by forceps; no bleeding followed. The patient was discharged cured, a little more than five weeks after the operation.1 In similar cases, the wounded vertebral artery might be successfully plug- ged by pressing into its lumen one or more cones, made out of fresh animal tendons (readily procurable at almost any butcher’s stall), having the diameter of a pea, and having been smeared over with a strong solution of ferric per- chloride, instead of a wad of charpie. The animal-tissue plugs could be allowed to remain in situ, where ultimately they would undergo absorption and be replaced by new connective tissue. Both ends of the wounded verte- bral artery must, in general, be plugged. When the muscular and connective tissues of the neck are extensively infil- trated with blood, as soon as the wounded artery has been securely ligatured or plugged, and the coagula have been removed, the wound itself should be thoroughly cleansed with a two-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid. Exter- nally, the wound having been closed by interrupted sutures should be dressed antiseptically, and should have left in it an adequate drainage tube, reaching to the bottom. Thus, septictemia, which is very apt to appear and prove fatal in such cases, may be avoided. Hennen calls attention to the fact that in wounds of the back, “ sinuses are also very apt to form along the spine, and they often prove very troublesome; I would never trust [lie justly observes] to pressure in these cases, but would make a free though cautious incision. These incisions are sometimes ren- dered very necessary by the lodgment of balls, pieces of cloth, etc.”2 These sinuses and abscesses along the spine and in the muscles of the back having been freely opened, their contents discharged, and all foreign bodies removed, they should be thoroughly washed out by injecting a two-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid, and should be treated by securing complete drainage with velvet-eyed tubes of rubber, deeply inserted, as well as by applying antiseptic dressings externally. To sum up the treatment of flesh-wounds which also lay open important arteries in the posterior cervical region:— 1 New Sydenham Soc. Bien. Retrospect, 1871-2, pp. 202, 203. 2 Op. cit., ]). 350. vol. iv.—43