942 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. patient is disposed to lean the body towards the less affected side. When in the recumbent posture, the patient prefers to lie upon his side, and when moving from that position to the sitting posture, he effects the movement by turning over on to his belly, and then raises himself by his hands and knees. As a consequence of the angular deviation of the column, the whole trunk appears shortened and out of proportion to the extremities. The antero- posterior diameter is increased, and the sternum protrudes. In severe disease of the dorsal spine this protrusion of the sternum may be considerable. The ribs are often rendered more or less rigid, not only by the constrained posi- tion induced by the spinal and thoracic deformity, but often also by destruction or anchylosis of the costo-vertebral joints. Lastly, the shoulders appear to be raised, and the head and neck to be more or less sunken towards the thorax. One feature that has been particularly alluded to by Sayre, is the short, “ grunting” respiration often observed in cases of dorsal disease with much deformity both of chest and spine. Dr. Sayre asserts that this symp- tom is often immediately relieved when the patient is suspended. (7) General Symptoms.—Of the general symptoms that may accompany Pott’s disease, little need be said. The patient may or may not present evi- dence of struma, or he afflicted with any concomitant scrofulous disease. Seldom will the subject of the malady present the appearance of actual good health. When external discharge of matter is accomplished, there will pro- bably be a rise of temperature, some wasting, and increasing debility, with all the familiar symptoms of hectic fever. If the suppuration be of long standing, symptoms may arise that point to amyloid or fatty degeneration of the viscera. At any time there may be certain visceral complications of a less chronic character, more or less directly connected with the seat of the disease. With regard, indeed, to any general symptoms that have not been mentioned, they may be said to be such only as are incidental to all condi- tions of feeble health, and to all states of extensive and continued suppuration. Diagnosis of Pott’s Disease.—The main points upon which the diagnosis of Pott’s disease is to be based, have been exposed in the preceding pages. It remains, however, to discuss the differential diagnosis, and to set forth the means whereby this malady may be distinguished from such diseases as, in certain features, may have resemblance to it. The matter can be best con- sidered under the three heads: The spinal deformity; the cord and nerve symptoms; the abscess. (1) The Spinal Deformity.—The great features of the spinal deviation in Pott’s disease are its angularity, its median position, and its general rigidity. In cyphosis there is a bending backwards of the spine, but in this condition the deformity assumes the outline of a curve that usually involves in an equal degree a large portion of the column. There is in the first, instance no rigidity, and, except in cases of spondylitis deformans, at no time abso- lute or complete rigidity. Cases of Pott’s disease, where a deformity exists associated with some lateral deviation of the column, but, at the same time, with an absence of any more familiar evidences of the malady, may possibly be mistaken for lateral curvature. Shaw gives an instance in illustration of this. He says that he “was consulted about a girl, aged fifteen, who had a projection at the dorso-lumbar region, with a distinctly marked deviation of the spine to one side, simulating closely lateral curvature. The medical attendant had consid- ered the case to be of that kind, and had put the patient on a course of calis- thenic exercises. It was distinctly ascertained, however, that the prominence was the effect of caries; and the principal diagnostic sign was the directness