INJURIES OF BONES. 104 a position which the patient either could not or would not long tolerate. A sling, and a compress over the clavicle, were employed ; and a year subsequently, the sharp frag- ment had been greatly rounded, and fibrous union had occurred. Willis thinks, and with reason, that in this case the rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament was ruptured. A case has been published1 (without the reporter’s name) as occurring at the Mount Sinai Hospital, in New York, in which the clavicle was broken about an inch from the sternum. The cause of the injury is not mentioned; but it is stated that the inner fragment was vertical, and the other “ down upon the chest.” The deformity caused no inconvenience, and was not reme- died. The reporter ascribes it to the action of the sterno-cleido-mastoid. I quote this report, notwithstanding its vagueness, because it seems to me to be illustrative of the proper division of these injuries; the lesion was really, although near the inner end, simply a fracture of the body of the bone, in which the displacement was of the ordinary kind, and due to the same causes as before mentioned ; but was exaggerated by the shortness of the inner frag- ment. Possibly, the rhomboid ligament being torn, the muscle may have contributed to the elevation of the inner fragment, but I do not think it alone could have produced it. The view I wish to maintain is, that the mechanism of fractures of the inner third of the clavicle is the same as that of fractures of the middle third, and that the displacement occurs in the same way; and hence I would simply class them with fractures of the body of the bone. Fractures involving the sternal end of the clavicle are, however, distin- guished by certain features, as may be readily seen in the instances before quoted from Heath and Willis. Lonsdale2 mentions the case of a boy, aged 3, who fell and struck his shoulder against the edge of a step, fracturing the clavicle about half an inch from the sternum ; he says that “ the crepitus of fracture could be distinctly felt, and the end of the bone moved from its natural position.” Fractures of the acromial extremity of the clavicle embrace all those which affect the bone anywhere between the acromio-clavicular joint and the inner edge of the coraco-clavicular ligament. They may be caused by direct or indirect violence; it is difficult to see how they could result from muscular action, and I know of no record of any such case. Indeed, the clinical his- tory of these lesions is very meagre ; but specimens in which union has taken place are by no means rare. Ossification of the coraco-clavicular ligament, more or less complete, has been noted in some of the cases. It has been already stated, in speaking of the mechanism of fractures of the body of the clavicle, that the condition observed when the outer third of the bone is broken, is dependent upon the dragging forward and inward of the scapula, by the action of the serratus magnus and pectoralis minor muscles. Occasionally the clavicle is broken at more than one point. Malgaigne mentions and figures a remarkable specimen, without history, in which one fracture is near the sternal end and the other near the acromial. He speaks of the case of a little girl who had a double fracture, the middle fragment, less than an inch in length, being tilted up in a vertical position between the others, so that it could not be reduced. Conner3 says that he obtained at an autopsy, at the Charity Hospital at New Orleans, “ a .right clavicle which had been broken in two places, the union being ligamentous at both.” Simultaneous fracture of both clavicles has sometimes been met with. One case recorded by Malgaigne has already been quoted, in illustration of the 1 New York Med. Journal, Jan. 1877. s Op. cit., p. 206. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, Am. ed., vol. i. p. 848.