SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 615 by several weeks or months. The immunity of the neighboring joint from invasion is very remarkable, for the tumor often completely fills the articular end of the bone, and bulges out on every side ; the cortex of the bone is destroyed, and the periosteum traversed, but the joint is still protected by a thin layer of cartilage, which will not yield to the advancing growth. A central tumor seldom occupies as much of the length of the affected bone as does a subperiosteal growth, and, as might be foreseen, ulceration is very infrequent. Multiplicity in different bones is more common for central than for subperiosteal tumors, unless, perhaps, in the calvaria, where it is the rule for subperiosteal tumors to be multiple. The diagnosis of a central tumor is usually more difficult than that of a subperiosteal tumor. The growth is slower, the enlargement of the end of the bone more uniform. But attention to the following points will generally serve to establish the diagnosis. The tumor almost invariably continues to increase in size; the enlargement of the end of the bone, though often for a long time uniform, at length ceases to be so, and may affect one-half solely, or one much more than the other half. Inflammatory conditions which produce similar enlargements are, for the most part, diseases of earlier life than central tumors ; they tend early to affect the neighboring joint, while central tumors leave the joint intact. In cases in which uncertainty cannot be otherwise relieved, an exploratory incision should be made. The prognosis of central tumors is much more favorable than that of sub- periosteal tumors. The local mischief is not as wide-spread ; the glands in connection with the affected part are not diseased, except, perhaps, in connec- tion with sarcomas of the tarsus and the sternum; dissemination is not us common an occurrence, nor does it take place as early. These favorable con- ditions render it justifiable to deal much more leniently with the disease in these cases than in those of subperiosteal growth. Treatment.—Most sarcomas of the femur and the humerus, it is true, neces- sitate amputation, and the amputation should be performed high above the disease, to avert the possibility of local re-formation of the growth. But central sarcomas of the bones of the leg and forearm, unless the disease be very far advanced, and have destroyed a large fragment of the bone, may be removed by gouging or resection. It is scarcely necessary to advise that the operation, of whatever kind, should be thorough, and that every morsel of the disease should be removed, and the surface of the cavity in which it lay scraped, after the tumor has been gouged out. Central tumors of the clavicle and scapula can only be completely removed by taking away the bone in which they grow. Tumors of the skull, the sternum, and the pelvis are rarely amenable to operation. The generally favorable prognosis of central tumors rests chiefly on the modified malignancy of the tumors of the long bones, which constitute a very large majority of all central tumors. Sarcomata of the Testis.—The testis is liable to bo attacked by round- celled,spindle-celled, and mixed-celled sarcomas,but specimens of mixed-celled tumors are not common. Many of the round-celled tumors belong to the variety lympho-sarcoma. The disease probably originates in almost all cases in the body of the testis; but whether as a single nodule which gradually enlarges until it occupies the entire organ, or as several separate nodules which speedily coalesce, or by a general affection of all the connective tissue, is not certain. The disease, in most instances, has affected the whole organ before an opportunity is afforded, by castration, for examination of the tumor. In rare instances the epididymis and body of the testis are simul- taneously and proportionately enlarged, or the disease begins actually in the epididymis. But, generally, the epididymis becomes inseparably blended