TUMORS. 580 stance closely resembling the dentine of the teeth, and may attain a much larger size than in the last case, growing still usually in connection with the fangs. The largest odontomas are, however, always small tumors, the largest recorded example scarcely exceeding the size of a large walnut, while the large majority of them are scarcely more than excrescences upon the teeth. The presence of any save the largest specimens is seldom discovered until after the removal of the tooth, which may be rendered much more difficult than usual by the attachment of the tumor to the fangs. Myxoma or Mucous Tumor. The myxoma is a tumor composed of mucous tissue, that is, of a mucin- hearing basis or matrix in which are cells, generally stellate or spindle-shaped, with long delicate processes which anastomose with the processes of neigh- boring cells. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 8.) The prototype of this tissue is found, in the human subject, in the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord, and in the vitreous humor of the eye. It precedes also, and is probably transformed into, adipose tissue in the embryo. Tumors composed solely of this tissue in its typical condition are very uncommon, and its relations with other tissues are so close, and its combinations so frequent, that I have been tempted to wonder whether a special class of myxomas is necessary, and whether the various growths now classed under this title might not be relegated to those other classes to which each appears more properly to belong. This can, however, scarcely be accomplished at the present moment, and it will therefore be necessary to describe the class myxoma in accordance with the ideas which generally prevail. The most typical form of myxoma is often called hyaline, or pure myxoma; but the deviations from this condition are so numerous that at least six varie- ties have been described: lipomatous myxoma, which contains much fat; medullary myxoma, which contains a large proportion of cells; fibrous myxoma, which consists largely of fibrous tissue; c-ystoid myxoma, in which are parts so fluid as to resemble cysts; cartilaginous myxoma, having either a firmer consistence than usual, or containing cells like those of cartilage; and telangiectatic myxoma, the structure of which is largely vascular. It may of course be said that these are not varieties of mucous tumor, but merely combination tumors of mucous and other tissues. If so, it is unfortunate that they have been often spoken of as varieties of myxoma. As an example of the frequency with which these varieties occur in comparison with the typical form, Dr. S. W. Gross1 found that in seven examples, out of the cases which he had been able to collect of myxoma of the breast, only one was a pure hyaline myxoma, while the others belonged chiefly to the fatty and fibrous varieties. Mucous tumors grow in the subcutaneous tissue and the in- termuscular spaces; in the female breast; in the salivary glands; in the placenta (as the hydatid mole); in the vulva ; in the interior of the nose, in the form of polypi; in the nerves ; and it is said even in the bones. They are far more frequently met with in adults than in children ; indeed, the disease is almost confined to adult life, for, with the exception of nasal polypi, which occa- sionally, though rarely, are found in young subjects, the mucous tumors of other parts scarcely ever occur in children. They may form diffuse enlarge- ments of the parts which they attack, and in the vulva they not uncommonly take the form of continuous outgrowths. But they usually produce distinct and separate tumors, which assume a rounded shape, and are inclosed in a fibrous capsule. 1 Tumors of the Mammary Gland, p. 101. 1880.