529 EXCISION OF THE CALCANEUM. cases—one in which I successfully removed the bone, in a state of necrosis, following injury, in a man aged 49 ; and another in which I removed both Fig. 749. Excision of the astragalus. astragalus and calcaneum, in an old man, for caries, the patient doing well for several months as regarded his local condition, but ultimately dying from pulmonary phthisis. The statistics of excision of the astragalus have been particularly investi- gated by Hancock1 and by Poinsot.2 The former author has collected 112 cases of total, and 28 of partial excision. Of the complete operations, 79 gave the patients useful limbs, 2 were followed by amputation, and 19 by death, the result in 12 cases not having been ascertained; the mortality of terminated cases was, therefore, 19 per cent. The partial operations gave 18 satisfactory recoveries, 8 less satisfactory or unknown results, and 2 amputations, of which 1 was followed by death. Poinsot's table embraces 144 cases, of which 26, or 18 per cent., terminated fatally. The joint between the astragalus and, the calcaneum has been successfully excised by Mr. Annandale. Excision of the Calcaneum.—This operation, which appears to have been first employed by Monteggia, in 1814, is sometimes required for the relief of caries or necrosis, though in the latter case the extraction of sequestra, and in the former free gouging, or Sedillot’s operation of evidement, will ordinarily he sufficient. Various methods have been adopted for the excision of the os calcis. The plan of raising a heel-flap, as in amputation by Syme’s method, is objection- able, as leaving a scar on the sole which may interfere with walking. Prof. Erichsen advises the turning down of an elliptic flap, constituted of the plantar tissues, and the formation of lateral, triangular flaps, by carrying a 1 Operative Surgery of the Foot and Ankle-joint, pp. 265-268. London, 1873. 2 De 1’intervention chirurgicale dana les luxations oompliquees du coude-pied, pp. 252-271. Paris, 1877. vol. iv.—84