MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 944 guished from those of Pott’s disease by the following features. The rheumatic pain is diffused, and follows no particular nerve; the pain is increased rather than relieved by extension; the parts are tender often over a wide area; and the disease is more common at an age when Pott’s disease is rare. There will, probably, be in addition a history of rheumatic affections. Cases of commencing hip-disease in children have been mistaken for an early stage of Pott’s malady. Children so afflicted often cry if moved much ; keep the spine, pelvis, and hip-joints as rigid as possible; are disinclined for any exercise; and often complain of vague pains that may not be very accu- rately localized. A little care in the examination of doubtful cases, however, will soon eliminate the instances of hip-mischief. Infantile paralysis may in some way imitate the paraplegia of Pott’s disease, from which it can, however, be distinguished by the history of the case, the atrophy of the affected muscles, and the absence of any rigidity or any pain about the spine. Follin and Duplay assert that muscular weakness associated with rickets may resemble the loss of power sometimes met with in Pott’s malady, but it is difficult to appreciate the grounds of such resemblance, or to imagine that it could be so close as to cause confusion in diagnosis. One author reaches the extreme limit of doubtful refinement in diagnosis, when he points out how Pott’s malady without deformity is to be distinguished from chronic ne- phritis. (3) The Abscess.—The differential diagnosis of abscess from spinal disease appearing in various regions, can only be given in the merest outline. Abscesses in the lumbar or iliac regions must be distinguished from simple chronic abscesses, from perinephritic and pericoscal abscesses, from abscesses due to disease of the ilium, and from certain fluctuating renal tumors. In the simple chronic abscess, the symptoms will be purely negative. In the peri- nephritic and periccecal abscesses, there will probably be evidence of some disturbance of the viscera about which the pus has formed, and an absence of all the local signs of Pott’s disease. The latter abscess is met with only on the right side of the body, and the pus it discharges is usually of feculent odor. It must also be remembered that pus from spinal caries may occupy the connective tissue about the kidney or caecum. Caries or necrosis of the ilium can in the early stages be little more than suspected, and the symptoms of abscess will advance without any evidence of Pott’s malady appearing. The fluctuating renal tumor may be hydatid, cystic, or cancerous, or due to distension of the kidney with urine or pus. With regard to the inguinal region, it is here that the typical psoas abscess is met with. In this abscess there will be a smooth, round, fluctuating swell- ing below the groin, and about the site of the ilio-psoas insertion. There will probably he a second collection to be felt in the iliac region above the groin. The collection in the thigh can be more or less reduced on pressure, and will present a distinct impulse on coughing or on tapping the iliac tumor. In some instances the communication between the iliac and inguinal collec- tions may be for a time cut off, when the lower tumor will present simply the features of a chronic abscess. Psoas abscess in the groin may be mistaken for abscess from hip-disease, but in the latter instance there will be more or less rigidity of the joint in a flexed and adducted posture, with tilting up of the pelvis on the diseased side. The spine will be in a condition of lordosis, and often unduly mobile. There will be no impulse at the collection on coughing, and the other evidences of hip-mischief will probably be present. Cases are recorded where the spinal abscess has been mistaken for a femoral hernia. Shaw <rives an excellent example of such a case where a truss was actually ordered. The psoas abscess is, however, nearly always to the outer side of the femoral vessels, and, on examination, the femoral canal will be found to