585 LYMPHOMA OR LYMPHATIC TUMOR. the general appearance of the hard glands is fibrous, so is their minute structure veiy fibrous. All the constituents of the gland are increased in quantity; the follicular ends and cords are enlarged, and the number of their cells is greater; the lymph-paths can still be easily traced; but the capsule and the fibrous trabeculae are so much thickened that the fibrous constituent of the tumor produces a decided effect upon its character. Although these glands do not convey the impression of being very vascular, they are much more vascular than the normal glands. The soft glands are characterized by the great increase in their cellular elements. The relations of the component parts of the gland are not so carefully maintained; the cells and the fine meshwork of the follicular portions are vastly increased in quantity, and, with the increase in quantity, there takes place also an alteration in the character of the cells, which are usually larger, less regular in shape, and less uniform than the normal lymph-corpuscles. Sometimes large cells resembling giant-cells are mingled with the other constituents. Between the disease which has been just described and the disease which has been termed lympho-sarcoma, and which I regard as sarcoma of the lym- phatic glands, I can at present find no clear distinction. And yet I believe that a distinction may exist, and that in this general description at least two separate diseases are included, closely allied perhaps, and nearly resembling each other, but possibly as distinct as typhus and typhoid fever have been proved to be. One of these diseases is unquestionably a sarcomatous disease; the other not improbably a simple tumor enlargement, affecting, not one alone, but several or many glands, or rather resembling in its nature the multiple lipomas or fibromas with which we are familiar. This subject is rendered yet more complex by the fact that an enlargement of many glands occurs in association with certain constitutional conditions. In leukaemia, a great increase of size of many lymphatic glands, or of the spleen, or of both together, occurs with signs of fever, and a remarkable increase in the number of the colorless corpuscles of the blood. Here the lymphatic enlargement is regarded as subordinate in importance to the con- stitutional condition. But cases of leukaemia may and do occur in which the constitutional symptoms are not strongly marked, and the glandular affection is the most striking feature of the disease. And cases of lymplia- denorna or sarcoma occasionally occur in which the enlargement of the glands is accompanied by fever, and by a much greater increase than usual in the number of the colorless corpuscles of the blood. So that the lymphadenomas or sarcomas must be distinguished, not only from strumous affections, but also from leukfemic and similar diseases. A. Winiwarter, in an article in Langenbeck’s Archives,1 terms the disease which has been here described under the name lymphadenoma, “ malignant lymphoma,” and separates it entirely from lympho-sarcoma. The latter term he employs only for round- celled or spindle-celled sarcomas which attack lymphatic glands, and which break out at one or more points in the interior of a gland, but are not at first diffused through its entire mass. But the clinical characters which Winiwarter attributes to malignant lymphoma are so ill-defined that it is evident to an impartial student of his paper that he has included among his cases several of strumous disease. And the distinction which he draws be- tween lympho-sarcoma and malignant lymphoma, is not sufficient to establish a difference which can be justified. The difference is merely that which exists between certain anatomical varieties of sarcoma on the one hand, and between circumscribed and diffused malignant tumors on the other hand. • 1 Archiv fur klin. Ckir., Band xviii. S. 98, 1875.