292 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. seen, are most common in women who, when not pregnant, suffer from leucor- rhoea. Rigors are often absent, but pyrexia is always present, together with malaise and inertia—in short, the prodromataof a feverish attack, together with vague pains in the back and limbs. The fever, after about a week, subsides; the pains gradually become less general, and fix themselves, after wandering in a vague and capricious manner, in one or perhaps in two joints. When arrived at the uniarticular stage, the knee or the hip is the favorite joint. In most cases this malady subsides in from ten to twenty days, and the patient is thought to have passed through a subacute attack of rheumatism. But sometimes abortion intervenes, after which the recovery is more slow, the movements of the joint being difficult to re-establish ; in some cases com- plete anchylosis ensues. A rarer form is very severe, even fatal; if, after six or seven days from the first attack, the fever does not decline, but, after irregular rigors, increases, the symptoms assume rather the form of traumatic pyaemia, and the affected joints become more swollen, fluctuate, and are evi- dently tilled with pus. If in this typhoid state abortion takes place, death rapidly supervenes. A similar but milder form occurring between the middle of the third and the sixth week after childbirth, is very unusual, unless it have been preceded by ante-partum synovitis. It usually begins in the shoulders, elbows, and wrists, yet generally migrates to the lower extremity. The pyrexia is not great, and the local affections are chiefly periarticular. The patient usually recovers without permanent damage to any joint.1 The synovitis connected with irregularity or with accidental suppression of the catamenia is sometimes a mild, at other times a severe disease. I have known it to occur in matrons who had borne many children, and in the un- married. It is most apt to attack Women of lax fibre, who suffer from leu- corrhcea, and who during a menstrual period are exposed to cold, producing suppression of the flow. A feverish attack follows, often preceded by rigors, and accompanied by pains in several joints, which are usually ascribed to rheumatism, and which, after a few days, concentrate themselves in one joint (rarely in two), most generally the knee or hip.2 The characteristic local conditions of all this class of cases are well marked, viz., that the swelling is largely periarticular, and that after the first few days pain, while the joint is at rest, is almost absent, but is very severe on contact or movement. We now turn to another set of similar, but not identical, joint-affections, which arise during the course or after the subsidence of certain fevers—viz., enteric fever, smallpox, scarlatina, diphtheria, measles, and mumps—and also of dysentery. This class of joint-diseases deserves a closer study than has yet been accorded it, but a difficulty lies in the apparent rarity of these affec- tions, which almost precludes the possibility of any one practitioner seeing a sufficiently large number of cases. Yet it may well be that when attention is called to the subject, these conditions may be found more common than they are at present supposed to be. For instance, we often hear of a “ rheumatism consecutive to scarlatinaless often of one “ consecutive to measlesbut a better appreciation of these multiple joint-pains, which have been thus likened to rheumatism, would insure a clearer insight into their nature, and a better starting-point for their study. In the first place, I would point out that of most of these diseases, suppu- rations, broken surfaces, or ulceration, is an integral part; and that, therefore, there is a clear point of inter-relation between them and the possible absorp- * In one out of the only four cases that I have seen, a false anchylosis of the elbow took place. 2 In the two most severe cases that I have seen, the knee was attacked in one, the hip in the other ; in both cases false anchylosis resulted.