MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF TIIE SPINE. 920 together from disease, giving rise to angular curvature.” Cases, however, of Pott’s disease at these extreme periods of life are exceedingly rare. The malady is usually met with between early childhood and adolescence, and in the great majority of all cases the disease commences between the ages of two and ten years. Instances are met with of the disease commencing in adults, but such instances are comparatively few, and the onset of Pott’s disease in patients past middle life is very rare. This affection is indeed essentially a disease of childhood. Sex.—Sex appears to have little or no influence in the etiology of the dis- ease. It has been asserted by many—and especially by those who urge a traumatic origin for Pott’s disease—that it is more common in male than in female children. My own observation would lead me to believe that it is equally common in the two sexes, but Mr. Fisher’s1 statistics show a greater number of cases among females. These statistics are probably the most valu- able that have been published. Of 500 cases of angular deformity treated at the National Ortliopa'dic Hospital, 261 were in females and 239 in males. Allowing for the preponderance of females over males in the general popula- tion, these figures would make it appear that the disease is, perhaps, equally common in the two sexes, and would at least correct the assertion that the malady particularly affects boys. Constitutional Condition.—Pott’s disease is usually met with in unhealthy children, and especially in those who present that phase of ill health known as scrofula. It must be confessed that on this point there has been no small amount of dispute, and while some have urged that every case is directly due to scrofula, others have maintained that that diathesis has nothing to do with the production of the disease. Many of these discrepancies are to be ex- plained by the various conceptions that are held as to the nature of struma. Those who expect every patient with Pott’s disease to present a certain phy- siognomy, will certainly be disappointed, as will also those who may expect every such patient to present glandular disease, or to come of a decidedly “ tubercular” stock, or to finally die of some tubercular malady. Scrofula, as I have tried to demonstrate in a recent work on the subject,2 is rather a ten- dency to a peculiar form of chronic inflammation. Of the character of this inflammation I will speak subsequently. The diathesis is rather to be esti- mated by certain morbid tendencies in the tissues, than by any peculiarity of feature or descent. In support of the assertion that angular deformity is most usually met with in the strumous, I would draw attention to these facts. In a great number of instances, the patient’s immediate relations are the subjects ofdieknowledged scrofulous disease. In many instances there is a history of phthisis or of tuberculosis in the family. The patient often exhibits some other evidence of a strumous habit. This may be seen by a tendency to chronic catarrhs, by the occurrence possibly of certain skin affections, or by a disposition, it may be, to certain glandular enlargements. In not a few in- stances I have notes of cases where the spinal disease was cotemporary with, or preceded or followed by, some such gross, strumous ailment as “ white swell- ings” of a joint, or caries, or necrosis of some bone. Lastly, as I shall point out when dealing with the pathology of this disease, the morbid changes that take place in the vertebrae are very often identical with changes occurring in acknowledged scrofulous disorders. Some authors have objected to Pott’s disease being classed among strumous affections, because many of those who suffer from the disease do not present at the same time great glandular swell- 1 Essays on the Treatment of Deformities of the Body, p. 11. London, 1879. 2 Scrofula and its Gland Diseases. London, 1882. See also my article on “ Scrofula,” in Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed. London, 1882.