TUMORS. 656 partly divided by the partition walls between the acini; with the still greater increase of the cavity the partition walls gradually disappear, and the cavity tends to assume a spherical shape. Exudation-Cysts.—To the first class belong also the exudation-cysts, of which the enlargements of bursae, hydrocele, and many of the cysts of the thyroid body and of the ovary, may be taken as examples. The cavities out of which the bursal and serous cysts are formed, contain for the most part only a sufii- cient quantity of fluid to lubricate them, and to diminish, as far as possible, the friction attendant on the gliding of their walls upon each other. From some cause, perhaps slight inflammation, or merely irritation, an increased quantity of fluid is poured out, and the cavity becomes a cyst. It is not cer- tain that all bursal cysts are formed by the dilatation of previously existing bursfe, for the bursa itself may be a new-formed cavity and not a natural sac. The development of such a cavity will be presently considered. Nor has the hydrocele any other than a prescriptive right to be regarded as a cyst, for collections of fluid in other serous cavities, the pleura and the peritoneum, for example, are not numbered among the cysts. Certain of the cysts of the thyroid body are not improbably formed by the pouring out of fluid into the sacs of the gland, but others of them are more probably due to colloid changes in the cells which the sacs contain. The thyroid cysts are lined usually with a layer of spheroidal cells, but the hydrocele and bursal sacs only with endo- thelium. The fluid which these various exudation-cysts contain varies with the origin of the cysts. It may be thick and clear like synovia, or clear and thin like serum, or blood-stained, or wholly blood. But, besides liquid, some of these cysts contain solid bodies. Thus, the distended synovial sac beneath the annular ligament of the wrist contains flattened bodies resembling melon seeds, formed either by changes in fibrine or by the growth and organization of club-shaped extremities of fringes formed within the sac. They are either amorphous or bear the trace of a low organization. The well-known ganglia on the back of the wrist and on the dorsum of the foot, are probably formed by a modification of the distension process. For they appear to be in the first place pouches derived from the synovial sheath of a tendon; the pouch is by and by cut off from the sheath, and then forms a separate sac or cyst. The contents of ganglia differ from the contents of most of the other exudation- cysts, in being much more viscid. Indeed, they are jelly-like, clear, colorless or faintly yellow, and quite coherent. The material resembles in some re- spects colloid material; it does not contain albumen. It must not be forgotten that some of the exudation-cysts may be due to a faulty process of absorption, rather than to the pouring into the cavity of an abnormal quantity of fluid. Blood-Cysts and Lymph-Cysts.—Still to the first class belong the cysts which are formed in connection with bloodvessels or lymphatics. Their de- velopment appears to resemble in some respects the development of ganglia from synovial membranes. A sac-like pouch is protruded from a vein, in most instances a varicose vein, and by and by the connection of pouch with vein is severed. In other instances the lumen of a vessel, whether vein or lymph- atic, is occluded at two or more points, and between these points is patent; thus one or several cysts are formed. In this way are developed certain of the blood-cysts and lymph-cysts. Yet even these cysts do not always contain blood or lymph : a serous fluid may be substituted for either. The walls of blood-cysts and lymph-cysts may be quite smooth, and lined with endothelium, or may be roughened from the presence of vascular fringes and excrescences.