DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 392 amounts to so much as to be very plainly demonstrable. Dislocation always causes shortening that can be very plainly seen thus: While the patient is on his back, the surgeon marks with his eye a line at right angles to the mesial axis of the body, running from the sound anterior spine of the ilium across the abdomen ; if he wish to be sure, he may even do this with a cord, and make a dot where it touches the pelvis on the opposite (the diseased) side. How, let him place his lingers on the two anterior spines and note how high the one lies above the level of the other. He then compares the position of the knees or of the malleoli, and if he finds much more difference between these than between the two spines of the ilium, he may infer the great probability of dislocation. Of course, the words, “ much more difference,” are relative only; but I mean a difference evidently much more than can be accounted for by mere absorption of bone. It must also be remembered that, after luxation, the pelvis, unless the malady have been of long standing, becomes much less oblique. I have, indeed, occasionally seen it resume a perfectly normal position. Another test is Helaton’s line; it also is valuable; but, again, a certain allowance must be made for changes of shape in the bones themselves. The patient is placed on the sound side, and a string is laid athwart the pelvis from the anterior iliac spine to the tuberosity of the ischium; in a sound state of parts, this line always skirts the top of the great trochanter; but when the head and neck of the femur and the acetabu- lum are altered, that process rises a little, but only a little, above this line; when there is luxation it lies a good deal above it—from half an inch to an inch or more, according to the size of the patient. A dislocated bone always feels blunt and big, occupying a large space on the pelvis. The foot is, at first at least, always inverted. The condition of parts in a non-dislocated limb is very different. There is an evident or sufficient correspondence between the amount of shortening observed at the knee or malleoli, and the elevation of the pelvis. The great trochanter does not lie much over Helaton’s line, but it projects considerably, having a rather sharp line above, and occupying but little space on the pelvis.1 If the examination is only to bo pushed thus far, there is no occasion for an amesthetic, but if, the femoral head being in the acetablum, we desire to investigate the condition of those parts—whether an abscess be intra-articular, and whether there be caries of the joint-surfaces—ether should be adminis- tered. When the patient is fully under its influence, the limb becomes to a certain extent movable, and it should be very gently impelled in all direc- tions, while the hand is placed on the great trochanter. Sometimes certain positions cause an increased flow of pus from the sinuses. This does not always come from the capsule. When caries of the joint exists, crepitus may often be detected, or a peculiar, uneven and jolting method of motion, and frequently the axis of movement is found somewhat abnormal. Prognosis of IIip-disease.—The prognosis depends in part on the local condition, in part on the state of the general health. If there be joint-caries and abscesses, in and around, discharging large quantities of pus, the ten- dency to hectic and exhaustion is evident. The advent of lardaceous changes may also be expected. These conditions must be watched for by thermometric observation and the different sorts of examination detailed at p. 365. In- creasing suppuration and the amount of these systemic changes may warn us 1 The cause of the projection is twofold : (1) The thigh-hone, being higher, rests on a broader part of the pelvis ; (2) the trochanter lies above the axis of the head and neck, and must therefore, in adduction, be thrown outward.