INJURIES OF BONES. 48 broken bone in their normal relation, or as nearly so as may be possible, until by natural processes the repair has been fully accomplished. Angular deformity depends for its importance largely upon the degree of the angle and the precise seat of the injury. The most frequent and striking instance of it is in the bowing outward of the femur after fracture of its shaft. Near the lower end of the humerus, an angle forward may cause great and annoying limitation of the flexion of the elbow. These and other points will, however, be discussed at greater length in connection with the special fractures concerned. Rotary deformity is fortunately not very common. Its disastrous effect in the lower extremity, in fractures of the thigh or leg, needs no demon- stration. It is not unfrequently seen in fractures of the neck of the thigh- bone, the foot remaining permanently everted; but here the disability from other causes is apt to be so great as to make the mere rotation outward of the foot a matter of minor moment. When both bones of the forearm are broken, it very often happens that the upper fragments are so rotated by the action of the muscles inserted into them, that union takes place with the axes of the respective portions in a changed relation; the result is that either pronation or supination, or both, may be materially interfered with; and if to this be added any degree of angular deformity, the usefulness of the member may be lamentably im- paired. In all our consideration of the skeleton, whether in its normal condition or as modified by injury, each of its parts must be regarded, not only by itself, but as a member of a system. A deformity of the forearm affects the func- tions of that portion of the limb primarily, and secondarily interferes with the use of the hand. This secondary disability may be, and generally is, of vastly more consequence than the primary. It is true that in many cases there is ultimately acquired, by means of compensatory motions in other joints, a closer approximation to the original function than might at first seem possible ; but this cannot be counted on, and is apt to be neither satis- factory to the patient nor creditable to the surgeon. There remains to be considered the lateral deformity, the chief effect of which is to shorten the bone; and perhaps this will be the most convenient point at which to speak of certain recent observations which have altered the views of surgeons both as to the importance of this matter, and as to the possibility of correctly appreciating shortening in any given case. Shortening may be caused, in fractures of the long bones, either by malposi- tion of the fragments, and especially by their overlapping each other; or by loss of fragments, as in compound comminuted fractures, where it may be that portions are so wholly separated as to demand immediate removal lest they should act as foreign bodies, or where portions may become necrosed and call for extraction during the later progress of the case ; or lastly, by the absorp- tion of the bony substance of the ends of the fragments. The latter occur- rence is probably rare, but there is abundant evidence of its possibility, and it may be that it is sometimes an unsuspected element in the apparently un- accountable loss of length in fractured limbs. The question, whether or not shortening is an unavoidable consequence of fractures of the long bones, has been discussed with much zeal; some sur- geons claiming that under proper treatment it ought not to occur, and others insisting that no care or skill can prevent it. It would not, however, be worth while to quote opinions on this point, since recent researches have clearly shown that absolute equality between the two limbs of a pair, or be- tween corresponding bones, is not the uniform rule. From observations recorded by Hunt, Cox, Wight, Roberts, Garson, and