842 INJURIES OF THE BACK. cord, and with scarcely a failure—indeed, I may say without any failure except in two cases where deep sinuses had formed which could not be reached by the apparatus.’-1 If this plan of treatment should prove equally successful in other hands, a large share of the mortality which arises from spinal injuries may be avoided. In the absence of ice, M. Brown-Sequard’s method may be employed by alternately applying to the bed-sores sponges, one of which is saturated with hot water and the other with cold water. This should be done several times every day, for five or ten minutes at a time; the effect is to increase the vascular activity of the part, and to promote granulation. Disorders of the Urinary Organs arising from Lesions of the Spinal Cord. Disorders of the urinary bladder, the ureters, and the kidneys, result from lesions of the spinal cord—from the so-called idiopathic, as well as from the traumatic affections of that organ—with even greater frequence than the bed- sores and other neuropathic sphacelations which have just been described; for, while the tegumentary eschars that arise from spinal lesions are always attended by more or less important disorders of the urinary organs, the latter not unfrequently present themselves in cases where the spinal cord is injured or diseased, without the fellowship of the former. Moreover, these urinary affections very often aid materially in producing death, and, not unfrequently, are the chief or even the sole proximate cause of a fatal issue, in such cases. These disorders, therefore, possess a degree of importance which is scarcely inferior to that of the neuropathic lesions of the integuments which have just been discussed; and they likewise should be attentively considered in this place. The urinary affections that result from lesions of the spinal marrow are fjuitc diversified, but may all be embraced and arranged under the following heads: (1) Paralysis of the bladder; (2) Alterations of the urinary secretion ; (3) Intiammation of the kidneys, of the ureters, and of the bladder. Paralysis of the Bladder.—Inasmuch as the muscular apparatus belong- ing to the urinary bladder consists of two distinct parts, namely, (1) that which is employed to retain the urine in the organ, consisting of the sphincter vesica muscle, and (2) that which is used to expel the urinary secretion from the organ, consisting of the detrusor urince muscle; and, inasmuch as each of these muscles has a distinct reflex motor centre in the spinal cord, upon which its action or inaction depends, there are two distinct forms of vesical paralysis, one of which is manifested by retention, and the other by inconti- nence of urine. The reflex motor centre of the detrusor urinse, according to Dr. Bramwell,1 2 is situated in the segments of the spinal cord which correspond to the 3d, 4th, and 5th sacral nerves, and the normally contracted state of the sphincter vesicae is due to the action of a tonic centre which is situated in the segments of the cord corresponding to the 2d, 3d, and 4th sacral nerves. The reflex motor centres of these muscles are not only quite distinct in the anatomical sense, but they are likewise completely antagonistic in their motor action. The mechanism of normal micturition, then, appears to be as follows: 1. When the bladder becomes full enough, the sensory nerve-filaments in its 1 Ibid., p. 453. 2 Diseases of the Spinal Cord, pp. 117-119. New York. 1882.