INJURIES OF TIIE BACK. 834 3 Ibid. Op. cit., p. 75. These de Pans, 1871, p. 53, Obs. xiii. But spontaneous acute myelitis, as well as traumatic acute myelitis, very often determines the precocious formation of sacral eschars, especially when it sets in suddenly and its evolution is rapid. Many instances belonging to this category have been placed on record by Gull, Duckworth, Joffroy, Engelken, Voisin, and Cornil, as well as by other observers. We may also see a sacral eschar rapidly form in cases of spinal disease where the evolution is slow, should a new irritation of an active character suddenly intervene, or should an acute inflammatory process be suddenly superadded to the preexisting lesion. Not only the exacerbations of partial sclerotic myelitis, but also the sudden invasion of the rachidian cavity by purulent matter emanating from an abscess, in the case of patients suffering from vertebral disease, may cause the rapid formation of sacral eschars. Should a tumor occupying the central part of the cord provoke the develop- ment of acute myelitis by its presence, the same result will follow. Several examples of this kind are on record. (Charcot.) Neuropathic sphacelus of the integuments on the sacrum and nates may be caused by traumatism of the cauda equina, as well as by morbid excitation of the spinal cord itself. This important fact is proved by a case reported by M. Couyba,1 and mentioned by M. Charcot:—2 A young soldier received a shot-wound at the outpost of Clamart. The missile entered his left side near the anterior extremity of the tenth rib, and emerged on the right side of the spinal column, about three inches from the spinous process, and on a level with the second lumbar vertebra. Paresis, with acute hypermsthesia, of the lower extremities ensued. On the fifth day after the casualty, a bulla appeared on the right gluteal eminence, and quickly gave place to an eschar, which progressively extended so as at last to wholly cover the sacro-gluteal region. On the nineteenth day, death resulted. Autopsy A layer of purulent matter covered the spinal cord, both anteriorly and posteriorly, from the cauda equina up to the cervical region. The cord itself, when examined, first in the fresh state, next in numerous hardened sections, did not exhibit any alterations. But a certain number of nerve-tubes in the nervous cords which form the cauda equina, presented the anatomical characteristics of fatty granular degene- ration. Thus, the demonstration that a morbid excitation of the cauda equina had existed during life, was made complete. Additional examples of the same sort might be cited. Finally, the morbid excitation of any peripheral nerve may be attended with the rapid formation of eschars in the integument belonging to its urea. For example, M. Charcot3 relates the case of a woman at La Salpetriere, who had an enormous fibroid tumor on the left side, which compressed, in the pelvis, the roots of the crural and ischiatic nerves of the same side. There had resulted a paretic state of the corresponding member, accompanied by acute pains running along the track of the principal nerve-trunks. One morning, shortly after the appearance of the first symp- toms of compression, it was remarked that an eschar had rapidly formed on the left of and near to the sacral region. Likewise, on the left knee’s inner surface some pemphi- goid bulla; were found, in a spot which had been pressed upon by the right knee for a considerable time during the night, in consequence of the patient’s attitude while asleep; these pemphigoid bullae were filled with a brownish liquid, and soon gave place to an eschar. Nothing of the kind was developed on the right knee. The fact that eschars of the integument may quickly form in consequence of morbid excitation of the spinal nerves which supply the peripheral areas where the eschars themselves appear, as occurred in the case just related, affords another good reason why the terminology of such eschars should lie