680 INJURIES OF TIIE BACK. healing and indolent sores), to which a small percentage of cupric sulphate or acetate has also been added. But some of the most impressive instances of lacerated flesh-wounds of the back, on record, have resulted from explosions of shells. The next two examples are reported in the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, and they will serve to illustrate this topic in an excellent manner:— A soldier, aged 19, was wounded July 13, 1864, in the entrenched lines before Petersburg, by a large shell-fragment, which tore away the dorsal integuments over a space measuring at least six by eight inches, and severely lacerated the subjacent mus- cles, but without injuring the ribs or the vertebral column. There was no bleeding, and the shock was comparatively slight. The lesion is well shown by the accompany- ing wood-cut (Fig. 767). The patient, after partaking of restoratives, and having the raw surface of his wound covered up by a water dressing, was taken to the Depot Field Hospital, at City Point. While here, only such tissues sloughed as were utterly disor- ganized by the projectile, and the large surface that was exposed soon granulated kindly, so that, after a month, the patient was in a condition to be transferred northward ; and, on August 15, he entered the Whitehall Hospital, at Bristol, Pa. The cicatrization progressed rapidly. On September 12, he was furloughed, and on October 4, he Fig. 767. Showing a shell-wound of the back, 6 by S inches in extent. Recovery ensued. was readmitted, being fairly convalescent. On January 23, 1865, he was sent for modified duty in the Veteran Reserve Corps. On June 24, he was mustered out of the service. No application for a pension has been made by this man or his heirs.1 Inasmuch as the men were often ordered to lie on the ground, face down- ward, while under artillery-fire, huge lacerations of the hack were not infre- quently observed by our military surgeons during the late civil war. Com- monly, however, these wounds rapidly healed, as happened in the case just related. But, sometimes, the process of reparation was very slow after such lacerations. Other conditions being equal, flesh-wounds in the flanks and buttocks wTere found to be more serious than those in the upper dorsal region. In cases where large masses of muscular tissue were torn away, the cica- trization was sometimes protracted for years, as happened in the following instance:— A soldier, aged 20, was wounded at the battle of Chancellorsville, May 3, 1863, by the explosion of a shell. The integuments over the gluteal and lumbar regions were Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Surgical Volume, p. 429.