927 POTT S DISEASE OF TIIE SPINE. and were anchylosed together. An abscess had formed, but it was in process of cure. In an early volume of the Pathological Society’s Transactions is an account of a case where the bodies of the six lower dorsal vertebrae were carious on the surface, but where little or no trace of the corresponding disks was to be found.1 Mr. Adams gives the case of a man, aged 43, who died of lumbar abscess. There was no deformity of the spine. The only lesion found in the column was due to the entire disappearance of the disk between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Between these bodies (which are described as a trifle “ indurated”) a gap existed that was exactly of the size and shape of the lost fibro-cartilage. The same observer records also a like case where the intervertebral cartilages between the tenth and eleventh dorsal and the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae had been entirely destroyed, without any corre- sponding loss of substance in the adjacent bones. In this instance there was a psoas abscess, but no deformity of the back. Mr. Adams believes that the disease may, from first to last, be limited to the cartilages between the verte- bral bodies.2 Before dealing with the process of repair in Pott’s disease, it will be neces- sary to give some account of two very conspicuous results of the process of destruction, viz., the deformity and the abscess. The Deformity.—When the destructive process has attained a certain magni- tude in the anterior segments of the vertebrae, a gap is produced that destroys the continuity of the column, as far, at least, as the part of it in front of the vertebral canal is concerned. It is obvious that the existence of such a gap would be incompatible with any great pressure upon the column, and, if the loss of substance were considerable, it would be scarcely compatible with the erect posture. What usually takes place in Pott’s disease, therefore, is this: The column yields at the diseased point, it bends backward, the gap is elimi- nated by the approximation of the vertebra above the gap with the vertebra below, and in this way an angular projection of the posterior segments of the column is produced. It is needless to say that the development of this defor- mity is the most conspicuous feature in the disease. While this falling together of the vertebrae about the seat of the disease is essential to maintain any degree of stability in the column, it at the same time serves probably to keep up and to aggravate the carious action. By this alteration in the configuration of the column, two diseased surfaces are brought in contact, and, more than that, are pressed together, and probably rubbed together. However injurious such approximation of parts may lie, it is still very essential for the purpose of repair, and for the subsequent con- solidation of the weakened spine. The projection-—as above observed—is angular, and the apex of the angle usually corresponds to the posterior seg- ment of that vertebra in whose body the destruction has been the most exten- sive. There is some relation between the extent of the deformity and the amount of disease, although that relation is by no means a constant one. If only one or two vertebral bodies are lost, but are entirely lost, a sharp angle is produced; but, on the other hand, if many bones are involved, and none of them to any great extent, a more rounded projection results, and a deformity more approaching a curve is produced. If the anterior segments of the column be examined at the seat of the deformity, very various conditions may be met with, depending upon the nature and extent of the destruction. Several vertebrae may be blended together in a confused mass, or two ver- 1 Trans. Path. Soc., vol. iv. p. 7. London, 1853. 8 Ibid., vol. v. p. 241. London, 1854.