MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 896 Progress and Prognosis.—The common tendency of spina bifida is towards rupture of the sac. The tumor usually increases steadily, and in time reaches such dimensions that the skin or coverings of the protrusion give way. The contained cerebro-spinal fluid is then discharged, and death very commonly follows from convulsions, or less frequently from inflammation of the spinal membranes. The rate at which the tumor increases varies greatly, and can hardly be definitely laid down. In several instances the sac has ruptured in utero, and the infant has either been born dead, or has survived its birth but a few hours or days. Often the tumor has given way during birth, and its contents have been discharged with a more or less rapidly fatal result. Some- times the rupture is represented by but a small hole in the skin; this heals and the sac refills. In such a case, a second rupture of the sac may end in death, or the opening caused by the rupture may remain patent and a fistula be established that is, however, soon attended by a fatal termination. In cer- tain instances the contained fluid may escape through the greatly thinned skin without an}7 opening being apparent. In the minority of all cases spontaneous cure takes place. Such a cure is most likely to occur in cases where the tumor is small, possessed of a small and narrow pedicle, and occupied by no part of the cord, or of the great spinal nerves. In such a tumor the abnormal opening may gradually close, the fluid in the sac may be absorbed, and the mass may shrink and almost disappear; or this end may be brought about by some ad- hesive inflammation at the root of the tumor, whereby the obnoxious orifice is closed and a good result follows. Many cases are recorded where a com- plete cure has followed upon the spontaneous rupture of the sac, and Holmes cites a case where a like fortunate result followed upon the suppuration and bursting of the cyst in a child aged six months.1 The tumor may increase in size for years, and then suddenly cease to grow, and begin to exihit a retrograde movement that in time will end in a cure of the deformity.2 In the Transactions of the Pathological Society3 is an account of a case where a spina bifida, the size of the patient’s head at birth, was rapidly undergoing spontaneous cure at the age of twelve months. Patients with spina bifida have reached the ages of 28, 37, 43, and 50 years.4 Treatment.—The treatment of spina bifida maybe classed as palliative and curative. Palliative treatment consists simply in protecting the part from friction or injurious pressure, and in retaining in as healthy a condition as possible the coverings of the protruded mass. These ends can be best effected by enveloping the mass in a pad of cotton-wool smeared with vaseline, and secured to the part b}' means of a circular bandage so applied as to exer- cise some pressure upon the tumor. I3y these simple means the growth of the tumor has been arrested or greatly modified, the amount of inflammation in the skin has been lessened, and any progressive thinning of the cyst-wall has been considerably retarded. I believe that this very rudimentary plan of treatment is better than that of keeping the part constantly painted with collodion. The pressure exercised by the contracting collodion is slight and superficial, the application itself often increases rather than diminishes the inflammation of the skin when it exists, and when that inflammation 1 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, page 82. * See a case in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xl. page 19, where the tumor continued to grow steadily for three years and then began to decrease. 3 Vol. xvi. page 13. 4 Case by Behrend, Journ. fur Kinderkranklieiten, Bd. xxxi. S. 350.