INJURIES OF BONES. 142 the books being marked on the paper, the same may he done for the sound elbow, and the two measurements compared. An increase in the width may he regarded as probably due to fracture involving the joint. Wright1 gives two test-lines which may be useful in the diagnosis of inju- ries about the elbow. He says that it will be found “ that a line can be drawn in all positions of the joint, from the most prominent point of the internal condyle, through the upper border of the olecranon, obliquely down- ward and outward to the head of the radius, and that such line is bisected at a point corresponding to the superior and external angle of the olecranon.” The relation of these points to the line would obviously be altered in case of fracture of the olecranon or of the inner condyle. Wright says further: “ If also a line be drawn across the back of the joint in full extension, from the • external to the internal condyle, or vice versa, that line will lie above the upper border of the olecranon, or, in other words, the angle it forms with the first test-line will be on the distal side of the inter-condyloid line. This line is most conveniently taken by extending the arm horizontally, with the humerus rotated so that the bicipital or anterior aspect looks toward the middle line of the body, and dropping a perpendicular through the condyles.” There is one condition in which the test afforded by these lines would fail, that, namely, of a separation of the articulating portion only of the humerus. Here the relation of the condyles (epieondyle and epitrochlea) to the olecra- non would be changed, perhaps indeed in a very slight degree, but still per- ceptibly ; yet the inference that the case was one of luxation and not of frac- ture would be incorrect. Here, however, the application of the other means of diagnosis, the development of crepitus, and the fact of the ready correc- tion of the slight displacement, together with that of its equally ready recur- rence, should suffice to prevent any mistake. The significance of a change in the relative direction of the axes of the arm and forearm must depend upon the other features of the deformity. If, for instance, the obtuse angle before noted as existing at the normal elbow is done away with, it may be either by a fracture across the humerus just above the joint, or by the separation of the trochlea, or by luxation backward of the ulna and forward of the radius. If it is rendered more acute, there may be fracture of the outer angle of the lower end of the humerus, allowing the head of the radius to slip somewhat backward ; or, the humerus being broken very low down, there may be a slight twist of the short lower fragment upon the upper. The foregoing statement embraces the leading facts in regard to the diag- nosis of these injuries; but in practice there are shades of difference in the phenomena presented, which it would be in vain to attempt to set forth. I do not hesitate to say that no class of cases demand more care, tact, and judgment for their detection and discrimination, than those involving the elbow. As to prognosis, the surgeon should always bear in mind the fact that the elbow-joint is apt to be at least temporarily stiffened after injuries in its neighborhood; and that a slight displacement of the fragments, when the lower part of the humerus has been broken, may give rise to a permanent limitation of mobility. Hence he should be very guarded in his promises of complete restoration of the functions of the limb; and it is much better to warn the patient, or the friends in the case of a child, that stiffening of greater or less duration is likely to occur. If the fracture can be clearly made out to be entirely above the joint and above the line of the epiphysis, the prospect for complete recovery is more promising than if the joint be involved; yet 3 Loo. cit., 3d ser., vol. xxiv. 1879, p. 54.