CHRONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. 359 with softening and intraosseous granulation, but cither without abscess or with abscess of slow formation, is followed by a slow, fungous synovitis. The evident enlargement and change of form in the primarily affected bone-end marks the starting-point of the disease until it is far advanced. When, however, the soft constituents of the joint and the other bones have been for a long time diseased, it not only is impossible, but also unnecessary, to distinguish the structure wherein the disease may have commenced; for at this late period, when granulation-tissue, abscesses, and other results of inflam- mation are found in the bone and the synovial tissues, equally diffused and equally active, the whole organ is reduced to exactly the same state as that which is left by a strumous synovitis, as already described (page 307). When an epiphysis suffers from inflammation, its growth is arrested, such arrestation continuing even long after the disease has ceased. This result is the same whether the epiphysitis have been primary, as in the cases now under consideration, or secondary, as in synovitis, and whether the action have been suppurative, or have merely ended in sclerosis.1 By these means the limb- growth, as far as it depends on the function of that particular epiphyseal junction, is checked: thus, if the child be quite young when the disease be- gins, and the arrest of growth last a considerable time, very considerable inequality of limbs results—an important matter in the lower extremities. I have lately had under my care a boy, aged 10 years, who, when four months old, suffered a fall upon the knee, which was much inflamed for some weeks, and the movements of which have been somewhat restricted ever since. The femoral condyles on the affected side look quite babyish in comparison with the others; they are:— On the right, in breadth . . 3| inches ; left . 2f inches. “ “ in circumference . 12j “ “ . loy “ Length of right limb . . 27J “ “ . 26f “ A similar though not so marked a difference is the usual result of early epiphyseal disease. Thus far we have confined our study of the disease in question entirely to local changes; but we must now go on to consider certain systemic con- ditions, and certain morbid changes of internal organs, which, either produced by the same diathesis or induced by the wasting effects of local malady, very frequently accompany the later stages of joint-disease. Reasons have already been given (at page 297) for regarding certain low and very persistent inflammations as strumous. These inflammations tend to produce granulation-tissue of so sluggish a description that, though it may spread into and invade a large neighborhood, and disintegrate a large area of previously healthy structures, it does not tend to any higher organization, but rather to remain merely embryonic, with a proclivity to certain forms of degeneration. Among these are the fatty, always combined with or closely followed by suppuration,2 and more rarely by caseation. Also, it is probable that in a certain number of cases tubercular degeneration occurs ; but this con- dition is, I believe, far more rare than is commonly supposed. It is at the present day very much the fashion to speak of tubercular disease of bone as though it were a common condition, and yet crude, gray tubercle has not been found, as far as I know, in bone; and there is a vast difference between tubercle ot bone and the tubercle of inflammatory products. It is, when as 1 It appears that very slight inflammations may have this result; thus, we find occasionally a short limb that years ago had been hurt by a blow or fall, which laid the child on the couch for only a few days. There is, I think, reason to believe that a chronic inflammation of the dia- physis tends rather to lengthening. 2 I must recall to the reader’s memory the distinction between fatty degeneration of old granu- lations and primarily fatty osteitis.