257 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF TIIE FOOT. neum was drawn up “ as high as five inches.” It could not be replaced, and the patient, after extensive inflammation and sloughing of the soft parts, recovered with the fragment firmly adherent in its false position, and its place filled by soft “ cellular substance.” South1 says that in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital there is a specimen of horizontal fracture of the tuberosity of the calcaneum, “extending to its hinder upper joint-surface, where it is continued upwards at nearly a right angle ; the fractured piece does not appear to have been actually pulled out of place.” He knew nothing of its history. He relates a fatal case of compound fracture of this bone, under his own care, and quotes another seen by Lisfranc, in which union was first fibrous, and afterwards bony.2 Sometimes both calcanea are simultaneously broken. Of this Malgaigne says that he himself saw an instance, and that one was reported by Voille- mier.3 Fifield4 * records the case of a robust German, who fell about eighteen feet, alighting on his heels; in the right foot a compound comminuted fracture of the inner side of the calcaneum was at once detected, but in the left there was simply great swelling. About a month afterward, the swelling having subsided, a plaster bandage was applied, and in less than an hour the patient died from pulmonary embolism. The left os calcis was then found to be completely smashed. Fractures of the os calcis by muscular action have been reported by Coote,6 in a woman aged fifty-five, and by Anningson,6 in a woman aged forty-two. Stimson7 presented to the Hew York Surgical Society a specimen supposed to be of this character. The accident had occurred eight years previously, and the history of it was somewhat obscure. It appeared that the patient, a man then aged forty-five, had been knocked down by a passing wagon. “ The fragment was the portion to which the tendo Achillis was attached, at least partially. It was more than an inch in length, and about three-fourths of an inch in breadth. On its outer side the periosteum was complete; on the inner side there was a growth of bone which presented the appearance of having been the result of reparative process. The fragment had united with the bone at its upper border, but was about half an inch anterior to its origi- nal position.” It seems to me that in some of these instances (the last mentioned, for ex- ample), the lesion might be properly ranked among “ sprain-fractures.” Although it might seem very natural to expect that both the astragalus and the calcaneum would often suffer together, such is very rarely the case. I have, however, seen two specimens of this kind, one derived from a case of railroad injury, and the other said to have been caused by a fall on the heel. Of course in the crushes due to falls from great heights, to the passage of wheels, to entanglement in machinery, or to the fall of a heavy body upon the part, there can be no limit set to the damage likely to be done. In the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital8 tliei'e is a specimen in which “ the inner malleolus is broken off, and there is a transverse but fissured fracture of the fibula two inches above the malleolus. A small piece lias been broken off from the postero-inferior part of the astragalus, and an irregular trans- 1 Translation of Chelius’s Surgery, vol. i. p. 640. 2 See Archives Generates de Medecine, Janvier, 1828. 3 Malgaigne gives no reference for this case, and I have not been able to find it. 1 Medical News, Feb. 3, 1883. 3 Lancet, April 28, 1866. 6 British Med. Journal, Jan. 26, 1878. I find also in the Index Medicus for July, 1883, the following reference : Saussol, Un cas de fracture du calcaneum par arrachement; Gaz. Hebd. des Sciences Med. de Montpellier. 7 Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, July, 1883 ; also Medical News, Feb. 3, 1883. 8 Catalogue, p. 45 ; No. 1189. VOL. IV.—17