780 INJURIES OE THE BACK. 2 Op. cit., p. 37. A. M. Soteldo was wounded, on Thursday night, February 9, 1882, at the editorial rooms of a Washington newspaper, by a cylindro-conoidal pistol-ball, which entered the back of his neck four inches below the occipital protuberance and slightly to the left of the median line, passed forward and slightly upward, fractured the lamina of the fourth cervical vertebra a little to the left of the spinous process thereof, penetrated the spinal dura mater (theca vertebralis), and imbedded itself in the left intervertebral foramen between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, having bruised and slightly lacerated the spinal cord, and driven into its substance a small splinter of bone. He immediately became “ paralyzed from the head down,” that is, all of his extremities and the whole of his body below the neck, were completely deprived of sensibility and voluntary motility. The respiratory movements were performed by the diaphragm alone. He died at 10 h. 25 m. on the night of Saturday, the 11th, about forty-eight hours after the casualty occurred. The autopsy revealed the course and place of lodg- ment of the missile, and the injuries done by it, which have just been described. The missile weighed, after extraction, eighty-seven grains. There is, however, recorded in the first surgical volume of the Medical and Surgical History of the late Civil War, at page 480, a case of gunshot fracture of the body of the third cervical vertebra, with lodgment of the missile and complete paraplegia, in which recovery was secured by persevering treatment. A brief abstract of this case should be presented in this place, because it will encourage surgeons to give more attentive treatment to such cases, by show- ing that they are not always hopeless:— An infantry soldier, aged 20, was wounded at Gettysburg, July 2,1863, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right upper lip at the second incisor, destroyed all the teeth save the last molar, on the same side of the upper jaw, passed below the soft palate into the pharynx, and penetrated the body of the third cervical vertebra, where it lodged and was not extracted. But in the following August, the position of the ball was ascer- tained by a Nelaton’s probe, and it was then extracted. “ There was paralysis in all four limbs, from which, however, he rapidly recovered; and, for a time, did duty as hospital attendant.” On March 14, 1864, this patient was transferred to Turner’s Lane Hospital, at Philadelphia. Acting Assistant-Surgeon W. W. Keen, Jr., on duty at that hospital, states that “ nearly the entire body of the third cervical vertebra has come away, including the anterior half of the transverse process and the vertebral foramen. "No injury to the vertebral artery has been disclosed. What supports his head ante- riorly I cannot conceive. On May 3, he was transferred to Washington to be assigned to a company in the Veteran Reserve Corps. The only remnant of his paralysis is some [loss] of sensation over a surface, say three by four inches, at the back of right neck. Some bone still is occasionally discharged.” In April, 1871, this man was yet alive; and the pension-examiner reports that the right side of his tongue is distorted, leaving his speech affected ; that the right side of his throat is contracted; and that his right shoulder and arm are diminished in size and partially paralyzed. Disability three-fourths and permanent. But gunshot fractures of the spinal column, and particularly those in the cervical and upper dorsal regions thereof, are generally mortal, unless the lesions be confined to their apophyses.1 In the Schleswig-Holstein campaign of 1849, Stromeyer observed that “injuries of the spinous processes frequently occurred without serious consequences—without accidents from concussion of the spinal marrow.”2 During the late civil war I saw a considerable number of cases in which the spinous processes alone had been broken off by the im- 1 In the British army, during the Crimean war, “ all the fractures of the vertebrae were promptly fatal, except two among the officers and two among the men, all of which were either fractures of the transverse processes in the neck, or of the spinous processes only.” (Medical and Surgical History of the British Army in the War in the Crimea, etc., vol. ii. p. 337.) Thus it appears that the only cases of shot fractures of the vertebrae which terminated in recovery among the British soldiers and officers wounded in the Crimean war, were those in which the lesions were restricted to the spinous and transverse processes.