CARCINOMA. 651 The second form is that to which the name “ rodent ulcer” has been and still continues to be applied. It has been more studied than epithelioma of the face, but in spite of the attention it has received, was regarded till within the last few years as a disease not truly carcinomatous, but in some indefinite manner related to carcinoma. Dr. Collins Warren1 was, I believe, the first person to state decidedly that rodent ulcer was a carcinoma; nay more, he regarded rodent ulcer as an epithelioma derived from epidermis, and only differing in a few unimportant respects from the typical examples of epi- thelioma. During the past six or eight years, the histology and origin of this disease have been made the subject of much study and controversy, and a much clearer knowledge of its histology at least has certainly been gained. Rodent ulcer attacks especially the parts of the face in the near neighbor- hood of the eyes and nose. (Plate XXY.) It commences usually as a small sore, or wart, which very slowly ulcerates and very slowly extends. In many cases the disease during this state is treated, and almost invariably by means of caustics, in consequence of which the characters it assumes are modified, if not permanently, at least for a time. The fully developed ulcer, as it ap- pears after a duration of a year or more, presents the following characters : it is superficial, and the surface is often furnished with large, flat granulations which may project above the level of the surrounding skin; the surface is pale- red and glazed, and, if not kept moist with dressing, is generally covered in part or whole with thick scabs; the discharge is purulent and usually abund- ant ; the edges of the sore are in most cases sinuous, a very little raised and uneven, and without the heaping up of tissue which is commonly observed in epithelioma; the surrounding integument is usually normal or but little altered. One important difference which has been pointed out between epi- thelioma and rodent ulcer is the absence of induration in the latter; but, although induration is not usually as marked or as far spread beyond the edges of the ulcer as in epithelioma, it must not be supposed that it is ever absent; on the contrary, it is in some cases quite as marked in the one dis- ease as in the other. There is another feature often presented by rodent ulcer, which is seldom, if ever, observed in epithelioma; the ulcer may heal in places, with the formation of a thin, pale red or pink, glazed scar. I have from this cause seen a large ulcer divided into two ulcers, separated by a broad band of cicatricial tissue. Whether such ulcers ever completely heal over, and thus become spontaneously cured, I do not know, but am inclined to believe the contrary. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the disease has a vastly greater tendency to extend, yet with a singularly slow progress. The ulcer will slowly reach the eyelid, and destroy it; then spread along the margin ot the orbit and attack the other lid; at the same time, or subsequently, eat into the cavity of the orbit and extend along its walls; then fix, and after a while destroy the eyeball. Although the ulcer seldom grows much in depth, but creeps, as it were, along the surface, and destroys the skin and subcutaneous tissue, yet it not infrequently exposes and even destroys the surface of the superficially situated bones, the malar prominence, the margins of the orbit, and the nasal bones. (3Mate XX\ I.) The destruction which ensues from the continued progress ot a rodent ulcer is, beyond all conception, horrible. A large portion or the whole of the nose may be removed ; both eyes may be destroyed ; the middle of the face may be entirely converted into an ulcer which has slowly swept away every feature in its course. Men suffer more frequently from this dis- ease than women, but the difference in this respect is not as notable as in epi- thelioma of the lip and tongue. Rodent ulcer may commence between the Boylston Prize Essay, Boston, 1872.