TUMORS. 630 In the breast, combinations of gland-tissue with fibrous tissue, mucous- tissue, and sarcoma-tissue, are common. All these tissues may coexist in the same tumor, and with them, in very rare instances, cartilage has been observed. Such a tumor I have lately seen in the possession of Mr. Bowlby, who ex- hibited it to the Pathological Society last year.1 It was taken from the breast of a woman 42 years old, had been growing 12 months, and was about as large as an orange. It contained gland-structures, some of which had been dilated into cysts, fibrous and sarcomatous tissues, and small nodules of hya- line and fibrous cartilage. ISTor was this the sum of all the tissues which composed this extraordinary growth, for the cartilage had in some places un- dergone mucous and even calcareous transformation. In the salivary glands, combinations of cartilage with gland-tissue are not infrequent, and mucous and fibrous tissues commonly coexist with glandular structures. In the poly- poid glandular tumors, the most frequent combinations are of fibrous and mucous tissue with the glands; and in the prostate and the uterus, gland- tissue and muscle-tissue are combined. The cells of adenomas are subject to fatty degeneration, but the effect of this upon the tumor is unimportant. Far less infrequent, but of infinitely greater importance, is the transformation of an adenoma into a carcinoma. The steps by which this is effected are probably precisely the same as those by which a carcinoma is developed from the normal gland. But this transfor- mation of adenoma is probably very unusual, although it appears very simple and natural, and although sometimes it is difficult to distinguish, in micros- copic specimens, whether a tumor is in truth an adenoma or a carcinoma. The difference in the general characters of the two diseases is, however, very decided, and it is a rare event to observe a tumor which bears the clinical characters of adenoma, gradually assume those of carcinoma. Adenomas are not subject to any special maladies. Even the ulceration which has been described is associated rather with the connective-tissue ele- ments than with the glandular structures of the combination-tumors. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The clinical characters of adenomas are those of fibromas, or of combination-tumors of the same parts. Thus it is impossible to say with certainty before the removal of a tumor which presents the symp- toms of a “ chronic mammary tumor,” of Sir Astley Cooper, whether it will consist wholly or chiefly of gland-tissue, or whether it will be composed almost solely of fibrous tissue, with a little fat and gland-tissue. The same mobility, the same nodular surface, the same hardness, the same slowness of growth, are characteristic of the tumor in either case. Multiplicity is not more common in one disease than in the other. Under these conditions the diagnosis of a pure glandular tumor is scarcely possible. It is therefore a happy circumstance that it is unimportant. For, as the characters of the adenomas resemble those of the fibrous, or of the combined glandular and fibrous tumors, so is the course of the two diseases similar. An adenoma is a quite innocent tumor, neither infiltrating the surrounding tissues nor affect- ing the lymphatic glands or other parts. Treatment.—The treatment in most instances is removal, but the general rule is subject to modification for the tumors of certain regions. It applies generally to adenomas of the salivary glands, the breast, the skin, and the mucous membranes, when the tumors can be reached. In those cases in which the tumor is completely encapsuled, it suffices to remove it with its capsule; it is not needful or desirable to interfere with the surrounding 1 Transactions of tlie Pathological Society, vol. xxxiii. p. 306. London, 1882.