INJURIES OF BONES. 182 part of tliis article, that, the absence of pain or discomfort in a broken limb does not give assurance that it has been properly and efficiently dressed. Not a few cases have been observed in which the fragments have been twisted into utterly abnormal relations, while yet the patient has been wholly uncon- scious of anything being wrong. The great risk of gangrene in this part, from too tight bandaging, has already been referred to, and ought always to he borne in mind when the dressings are applied. Sometimes it is questionable whether an accident of this kind is not due to the contact of the fragments with the vessels, which by thorough reduction would have been obviated. Dr. Hamilton, in his report1 before quoted, mentions three eases of young children, in which no dressings whatever were employed, yet in which the results obtained were perfect. He refers to another instance,2 in which a boy of ten years, after a fracture near the lower end of the forearm, had so great a deformity that refracture was seriously thought of by his attendant; gradually, however, the limb became straight, and eighteen years afterward there was no trace whatever of the injury. Non-union has occurred many times in fractures affecting both bones of the forearm, and for obvious reasons is a cause of more complete disability here than in some other regions. Moreover, the chance of affording relief by pro- thetic apparatus is less; so that operative interference is very apt to be called for. References to published cases of this kind may be found in the first part of this article.3 Refracture sometimes occurs in the forearm, and may affect either one or both of the bones previously broken. ‘When only one suffers, the other, of course, acts as a splint; when both are broken, the case demands the same care and attention as in the first instance, but union is apt to take place more rapidly. Compound fractures of both bones of the forearm are very often met with in hospital practice, as the result of railroad and machinery accidents. They vary widely in their extent and gravity, and in the complications which they present. No directions can be given for the management of these injuries when amputation is not called for, other than the general laws elsewhere laid down. Often the real treatment of the fracture can only begin at a compara- tively late stage of the case, and with very little hope of saving a shapely and useful limb. Yet it sometimes happens that nature, aided by care, attention, and skill, accomplishes unexpectedly good results; and as even a maimed limb is apt to be better than an artificial substitute, the surgeon’s trouble and the patient’s endurance will be well expended in its preservation. Fractures of the Hand. Fractures of the Carpal Bones.—These have been observed almost ex- clusively in connection with fractures of the lower part of the radius, and as the result of direct violence. Malgaigne mentions two cases seen by Cloquet, and one by Jarjavay ; but he does not say expressly that there was no other lesion present. The scaphoid and semilunar would seem to be the bones almost always involved, as might naturally be expected from their close connection with the radius. I can only say, theoretically, that if by direct 1 Trans, of Am. Med. Association, 1856, pp. 198 and 199. 2 Case 28 ; op. cit., p. 201. 3 Page 63. See also oases recorded by Dukes (Lancet, Dec. 7, 1878) and by Gant (Ibid., May 8, 1880).