CARCINOMA. 649 the earliest possible date, there can be no question; for, although the number of cases in which a patient has been authoritatively stated to be alive and free from all signs of carcinoma, a year or more after castration, are very few, still the percentage of such cases among those which I have collected, is sufficient to warrant the performance of the operation. Of 13 patients whose subsequent history was obtained, 2 were quite well 14 months afterwards, and 1 at the end of 31 years. Were there no other ground for operation than the removal of a large, heavy, and sometimes painful tumor, that alone would justify castration, for local recurrence need only be apprehended when the cord is vei-y large and obviously diseased. The natural course of carcinoma of the testis is to produce affection of the iliac and lumbar lymphatic glands, very rarely of the glands in the groin, never, indeed, unless the scrotum is involved in the primary disease. The glandular enlargement probably takes place within a year or eighteen months from the first enlargement of the testis ; but, on the other hand, it may cer- tainly be deferred for eighteen months or two years, a circumstance which deserves every consideration, as it bears upon the usefulness of operation. Secondary tumors have been observed in the lung, the liver, the breast, the supra-renal capsule, and the omentum. Lingual Carcinoma.—The tongue appears to be subject only to one form of carcinoma, the squamous-celled (or epithelioma). The disease may attack any portion of the tongue, but generally affects its sides or borders. It is much more common, nearly six times, in males than in females ; it is very rare before 30 years of age, and occurs in the large majority of cases in persons between 40 and 60 years. It may sometimes be traced to the long-continued irritation of a carious tooth, and may be engrafted on a tongue which has been, during many years, the seat of chronic superficial inflammation (ich- thyosis, psoriasis, etc.). In no structure can the transition from chronic inflammation to epithelioma be more readily observed than in the tongue. The disease occasionally forms a definite tumor which presents the appear- ance of a soft cancer, but more often forms an irregular ulcer with indurated base and edges. Ulceration is almost inevitable, and usually occurs at a very early period. As the disease advances hemorrhage may take place, and the tongue may be bound down by extension of the growth to the floor of the mouth and gums; or the extension may be towards the tonsils and arches of the palate, or may involve the epiglottis and larynx. The diagnosis of carcinoma must be made from tertiary syphilis (gumma and gummatous ulcer) and from tubercular ulcer. In most cases the age and sex of the patient, the situation of the disease, the surrounding induration, and the absence of other signs or history of syphilis and tubercle, serve to distinguish carcinoma. In cases of difficulty the surface of the ulcer should be scraped, and the product examined microscopically in the way already described. The lymphatic glands are involved in all cases which are not treated, or not cut short by accident. A very few months, three or four, will suffice in some cases for the disease to affect the glands, and the glandular affection is very seldom deferred longer than six months, probably never longer than nine or ten months. The glands in the immediate neighborhood of the primary dis- ease are generally the first to become enlarged, but this rule is not without exception, the exception being due probably to an unusual distribution of the lymphatic vessels, or to the fact that the carcinoma has wider or deeper rela- tions than are apparent on the surface. Unfortunately, the affected glands speedily acquire intimate relations with the surrounding structures; they lose their mobility, and their removal is thus rendered proportionately diffi- cult. The dissemination of carcinoma of the tongue is comparatively rare,