741 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRA. •modifications of this kind, a very high and vertically ascending line, and a concave and prolonged descending line.1 In regard to changes of the body-heat in consequence of spinal injuries, I will briefly mention a few examples:— Dr. T. G. Morton2 found in a case where the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical ver- tebrae were fractured, with paralysis, etc., that the temperature two hours after the acci- dent was 102° Fahr; in eleven days the patient died. Professor William Pepper3 relates a case in which there were fractures of the first and fourth cervical vertebrae, with anterior luxation of the latter, as well as compression of the spinal cord, death ensuing 244 hours after the injury ; the whole cutaneous surface was much warmer than normal, and a thermometer in the axilla registered 108.5° Fahr. at the moment of death ; the cheeks were brightly flushed, and very hot; but the pupils were about normal. Mr. Shaw4 relates the case of a drayman, aged 35, injured by a bag of hops falling upon his head and shoulders, in which there were fracture of the fourth dorsal vertebra, paralysis, priapism, and a temperature of 103-106° Fahr. (Ashhurst.) Bro- die’s case of spinal injury, in which the mercury rose to 111° Fahr., has already been mentioned. A number of cases are on record in which “ calor mordicans” was noted. On the other hand, Dr. A. Nieden5 reports the case of a man, aged 60, injured by falling down fourteen or fifteen steps, in which there were temporary loss of conscious- ness, complete paralysis of lower extremities, bladder, and greater part of trunk, pro- gressive lowering of the temperature, and pulse of a remarkable character. He died on the eleventh day after the accident, with a temperature of 80.6° Fahr. He remained conscious until his temperature was 81° Fahr. and his pulse 30. The autopsy showed luxation without fracture of the first dorsal vertebra, with compression of the spinal cord. A somewhat similar case was under the care of Mr. Hutchinson, at the London Hospital. There was complete paralysis as high as an inch above the nipples, with marked priapism; temperature 98°. The next day the pulse was noted at 36 and small; in the evening, the temperature in the rectum was only 95.8°, in the distended penis 93°. The patient’s cheeks and lips were of very good color, remarkably so ; while to the touch they seemed as cold as those of a corpse. But he did not complain of feeling cold. The temperature sank to 95°, and, on the sixth day, he died. The temperature did not rise after death. The autopsy showed fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra, and severe injury of the cord.6 Something like a “flushed face” appears to have been noted in this case, although the temperature was much below the normal. ]STo clear explanation of cases such as this has yet been made. But par- alysis of the vaso-motor nerves may arise from lesions of the spinal cord, as well as from injuries of the ganglionic chain of nerves, or the great sympa- thetic. “Blushing of the face,” in cases of spinal injury, is usually attended by lachrymation and contracted pupils, and is clearly due to vaso-motor paralysis. Mr. Erichsen says that he has seen unequivocal instances of continued low temperature of the body, taken in the mouth and axilla, in cases of spinal concussion—as low as 92° or 93° F., and continuing for many months from 2° to 3° F. below the normal.7 He also refers to Dr. Nieden’s case in which the first dorsal vertebra was dislocated, mentioned above. “ More commonly the low temperature is confined to the extremities, especially the feet, which are sensibly colder than other parts of the body. Often the feet are as low as 80° to 85° F., and will remain so for very long periods of time.”8 The prognosis in cases where the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae are injured is usually much less unfavorable than it is in cases where the cervical vertebrae ' Ibid., p. 181. 2 Proceedings of the Pathological Soc. of Philadelphia, vol. i. 3 American Journal Med. Sciences, April, 1867, pp. 437, 438. 4 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. s Clin. Soc. Trans., vol. vi. 1873. 6 New Syd. Soc. Retrospect, 1873-4, pp. 351, 352. 7 On Concussion of the Spine, etc., 1882, p. 65. 8 Ibid.