168 INJURIES OF BONES. completely detached and thrown inward and forward over the ulna, whence, as it was impossible to replace it, I removed it by incision. A good reco- very took place, with hardly any impairment of the functions of the wrist- joint.” From what has been said, it is evident that the widest variety has been observed in the lines of breakage in the neighborhood of the wrist. Yet it is none the less true that in the vast majority of cases the lower end of the radius is fractured in a direction more or less transverse, and that the defor- mity produced is nearly the same in all. Mention has already been made of the fracture theoretically described by Barton; and as his paper, the first one published on this special subject in America, had for a time a good deal of influence on professional opinion, it may be well to explain briefly what his views were. He says that in the act of falling “ the hand is instinctively thrown out, and the force of the fall is first met by the palm of the hand, which is violently bent backward until the bones of the wrist are driven against the dorsal edge of the articulating surface of the radius, which, being unable to resist, gives way. A fragment is thus broken off from the margin of the articular surface of this bone, and is carried up before the carpal bones and rested upon the dorsal surface of the radius; the}’ having been forced from their position either by the vio- lence or by the contraction of the muscles alone.” Again, he says: “ It sometimes happens, also, though rarely, that fracture of a similar character to the one first described occurs on the palmar side of the radius, from the application of force against the back of the hand while it is bent forward to its ultimate degree.” In the forty-five years which have elapsed since the publication of these views, there lias not been, as far as I have been able to ascertain, a single instance placed on record in which they have been confirmed by dissection. Voillemier1 quotes one case from Lenoir, which may have been of this cha- racter, but is open to doubt; and in most cases of comminution of the lower fragment, the dorsal portion has been broken off. But although a detached piece might be carried up before the carpal bones, there would not be, as he says, “ on the palmar side a prominence which is round and smooth, and differing in this from similar projections formed by the fractured ends of bones.” Nor is it likely that, from a fracture merely of the posterior lip of the articulating surface of the radius, treated with ordinary skill or care, such bad results would often ensue as Barton enumerates: “ A crooked arm, deformities, rigid joints, inflexible fingers, loss of the pronating and supi- nating motions.” Yet consequences like these are frequently seen to follow the fractures just above the wrist. Fractures presenting such various conditions must, of course, be due to equally various mechanisms. Nevertheless, the vast majority of cases must lie ascribed, I think, to the u cross-breaking strain” produced by over-extension of the wrist, as maintained by Callender, Gordon, and Pilcher. In other words, the hand being forced backward, an immense tension is put upon the anterior carpal ligament, and thus a leverage is exerted upon the lower end of the bone, beyond the resisting power of its structure. First the palmar wall gives way, then the columns or lamellae in succession, and finally, the dorsal wall. When the fall takes place on the back of the hand, the bone gives way in like manner, but in a reverse direction; the mechanism is the same. That 1 Archives Generales de Medecine, Dec. 1839.