808 INJURIES OF THE BACK. “sore all over.” When the motor filaments are greatly irritated in this man- ner, all the muscles supplied by these filaments are affected with tonic or tetanic spasms, and the case may he mistaken for one of tetanus; when the disease spreads to the cranial membranes, there is marked headache with other signs of cranial meningitis; as the case progresses from bad to worse, delirium followed by coma supervenes, and usually death soon ensues; but, occasionally, the tetanic spasms are so severe and extensive as to entirely stop the respiratory movements, thus causing death by sudden asphyxia, and then the mind may remain clear until the last moment. The examples of this dis- order are, by their symptoms, clinically separable into three distinct groups: (1) the foudroyant, embracing those in which life is destroyed a few hours after the attack, as it were by a thuncler-stroke; (2) the tetanic, embracing those in which tonic spasms of the muscles constitute the most striking part of the phenomena; and (3) the group embracing those in which hypercesthesia is the predominating symptom. It should be remarked, however, that the sign which is most characteristic of this disorder, is recurvation of the head and neck from tonic contraction (spasm) of the posterior cervical muscles. The phenomena of each of the three clinical groups just mentioned will be exemplified by presenting, as briefly as may be consistent with clearness, some abstracts of appropriate cases. The following abstract of a foudroyant case of traumatic spinal meningitis and myelitis is very instructive, as well as interesting:— A cavalry soldier was wounded, October 14, 1868, in an affray, by a pistol-ball, which entered the right side of his neck, half an inch above, and somewhat external to the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, lodged, and was not extracted. On the 18th lie entered the post hospital at Atlanta, Ga. There were complete motor and sensory para- lysis of the lower extremities and the right arm, and partial paralysis of the left arm, with spasmodic movement when used ; intercostal muscles paralyzed ; respiration abdo- minal, and slow ; pulse slow and regular; bowels partially, and bladder completely paralyzed; sensation lost throughout the abdominal region, but normal on the upper part of the chest and the face; intellect clear; patient complained of coldness of the surface, although the skin and extremities were hot to the touch. The track of the ball could not be ascertained, as the wound had nearly healed; but injury of the spinal cord was surmised. During the first week in hospital, mucus constantly accumulated in the air-passages, threatening suffocation, which was averted by the use of stimulating expectorants. The bowels were relieved by injections and purgatives, and the bladder by the catheter. There was no perceptible improvement in the paralysis. A large bed-sore formed over the sacrum. During the second week, there was partial recovery of motion in the right arm, but none of sensation. The patient could, by an effort, draw this arm across his breast. CEdema of the left leg appeared, and was treated by bandaging. During the third week there was no improvement. During the fourth week, on the suggestion of Dr. A. K. Smith, potassium iodide, and afterward tincture of ergot, were given with perceptible benefit. The mucus diminished in quantity, expectoration became easy, and the patient’s appetite increased. During the first part of the fifth week, the improvement was very encouraging. The respiration became more normal (that is, ceased to be diaphragmatic), the bowels acted readily, the appetite remained good, and the bed-sores looked healthy. On November 20, the patient complained of stiff neck, headache [backache], and extreme coldness, and, toward night, had slight fever. On the 21st the fever had sub- sided, but he still complained of headache [backache] and coldness, and suppuration was diagnosticated. On the morning of the 22d he was comatose, with the left pupil dilated, and the right pupil contracted. A blister was applied to the nape of the neck, purga- tives, etc., were given, but to no purpose; he died at 11.15 P. M. Autopsy, 15 hours after death The missile had passed from the point of entrance mentioned above, toward