370 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. very commencement is quite gradual. Again, in certain patients, the peri- ai’ticular tissues (to judge by symptoms only) seem for a long time the only parts affected ; in others, the proper constituents of the joints become earlier involved. Morbid Anatomy.—From the last sentence it may be gathered that all parts of and around the joints are concerned in the disease ; and certainly this is the case, although the most marked and conspicuous changes fall upon the bones. Given succinctly, the alterations of the different tissues may be thus described:— Changes in the Peri-synovial Tissues, Ligaments, and Tendons.—The first two are in the beginning simply inflamed and thickened, and the disease may, as above indicated, remain for a long time confined, or almost confined, to these parts. As time goes on, the thickening increases and induration occurs, the tissue being converted into a material like coarse fibro-cartilage. In other parts of the same tissue, the contrary effect, namely, considerable thinning and absorption occur. The difference appears to depend upon whether the particular part is relaxed or kept on the stretch. Afterwards the thickened part becomes in many cases ossified, not merely calcified; true bone, though rather imperfect, is for.med, usually beginning at the line where the fibrous capsule is attached to the bone, and spreading thence in an arborescent or foliaceous manner, sometimes in blotches or plates. Occasionally, even nearly the whole tissue may thus be converted into a sheath of bone. In tendons and their appendages the chief changes fall upon the synovial sheath, the inner surface of which becomes coated with a fine dendritic growth, which gives it a velvety or fur-like aspect. The synovial membrane is at first red, from hypereemia, but afterwards paler, because the vessels are much concealed by tliickened tissue. Around its osseous attachment, very coarse fringe-hypertrophy is strongly marked. The growths are at first thick and strong, and are clubbed at the ends by the development of nodules, some of which have passed through the stage of cartilage and have become bone.1 As these bodies increase in size, the fringe attaching them becomes thinner, and forms at last a mere thin thread. When the bony plates in the capsule are well developed and thick, some of them press on the membrane, and, after a time causing its absorption, protrude through it, so that they form at last part of the boundary wall of the joint. During this hyperplasia, the tendons or ligaments that lie within the joint, e.g., the long tendon of the biceps, the round ligament of the hip, the crucial ligaments of the knee, partake in the same condition; their interfibrillar con- stituents proliferate, separate the fibres, and afterwards more or less absorb them; they become detached, first at one end, the ligamentum teres from the digital fossa, the cross ligaments, as a rule, from the tibia. When the intra- synovial part of the bicipital tendon is absorbed, it gains a fresh attachment in the bicipital groove lower down, unless prevented by large osseous changes to be hereafter described. In the cartilages the changes are very peculiar and multiform: hypertrophy, atrophy, ossification, fibrillation, and fatty degeneration. The localization of these different pathological acts to different parts is as follows: where there is no or but little mutual pressure, hypertrophy takes place; where the pres- sure is considerable, there is atrophy. Thus, the edges of cartilages grow out in the direction of their surface, or, as we might say, centrifugally. For example, at the head of the femur the edge of the incrusting cartilage grows from the edge of the half sphere towards the trochanters, so that if this pro- 1 See tlie sections on Hydrarthrus, and on Loose Bodies in Joints.