SYNOVITIS FROM ABSORPTION OF MORBID MATTERS. 289 watch for fragments of cartilages which may be shed, and, coming forward to- wards the abscess-opening, may obstruct, until extracted, the due outflow of pus. Thus he must guide the patient through the dangers inseparable from deep abscess close to and between bones ; he must watch the behavior of the pus, guard against the tendency to burrow, especially upward, along and close to the bone ; especially must he watch the general condition of the patient in the first part of the case, considering the danger of pyaemia. Afterwards, and when the suppuration has gone on for a lengthened period, hectic, and especially the evidence of lardaceous disease, must be looked for. Ampu- tation will sometimes be the only means of saving life. But when these dangers do not arise, or having arisen have been success- fully combated, the local processes will duly complete themselves; the pyo- genic and granulation tissues will have become consolidated into a fibrous mass, a sort of cicatricial tissue. The surgeon may now by his treatment conduce to the anchylosis becoming true, or he may keep it false. As a rule, it is better, in the upper extremity, to aim at the latter event, by the use of passive motion more or less vigorously applied according to circumstances. At the hip (in which joint suppurative synovitis is a very rare and very fatal disease), any slight mobility is a great boon, but is difficult of attainment. At the knee, much depends upon the following circumstance: Tf there have been abnormal mobility, especially lateral mobility, it is best to permit true anchylosis, lest a loose or flail-like joint result. Slight, mobility at the ankle is desirable, but the bones of the tarsus acquire such considerable mobility among them- selves, as greatly compensates for an entirely stiff ankle should true anchylosis occur. Synovitis from Absorption of Morbid Matters. The above forms of synovitis, viz., simple, sanguinolent, purulent, dry, and suppurative, are the only acute, inflammatory diseases, purely local in origin, of the synovial membrane. But a large number of joint-diseases are due to absorption into the blood of poisons, in all probability of different sorts of pus.1 Other forms of joint-malady are merely local manifestations of diatheses— rheumatism and gout—while one synovitis of subacute form is ascribable to an acquired taint, viz., the syphilitic. These various forms must be studied, and we will take them in order, as above. Diseases which produce synovitis by absorption are very many, and may be arranged as those: (1) Following or accompanying wounds or childbirth ; (2) following or accompanying gonorrhoea or the use of bougies, etc.; (3) following or accompanying pregnancy and certain disturbances of the menstrual function ; and (4) following or accompanying the exanthemata and dysentery.. The first ot these divisions includes all those forms of pyaemia in which articular manifestations occur. The etiology and symptoms of pyae- mia have been already given in this work,2 and it will be gathered from the article on that subject, that the disease is very variable, and may occur under v idely different circumstances; and so also we find variety in the modes of ocal manifestation, variety in the places where secondary deposits take place, and variety in the appearance of the affected joints and of the tissues imme- diately next the deposit. As a very general rule, several joints are affected, some only in a transient manner for thirty-six or forty-eight hours, others more persistently. When after death the parts are examined, it is found that the In some of these cases the pus is putrid or putrescent, in others it contains a virus due to certain fevers or exanthemata. 2 Vol. I. p. 203 et seq. VOL. IV.—19