DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE VERTEBRAE. 745 examples, and by a reference to many others, that there exists, in every case of spinal dislocation or fracture, a more or less strong tendency for consecutive inflammation of the spinal membranes or spinal cord to ensue, and that in such cases the consecutive inflammation of the spinal membranes or spinal cord, by itself, not unfrequently causes death. Moreover, I shall presently show that consecutive inflammations of the spinal membranes and spinal cord, of this sort, always much increase the severity of the urinary symp- toms and of the bed-sores which are met with in cases of vertebral dislocation and vertebral fracture, and that the prevention of these inflammations must be ranked among the most efficient means at our disposal for controlling these unhappy complications of spinal injury. Thus, one is enabled to perceive how important the fulfilment of the last-mentioned therapeutical indication really is. Now, this indication is to be accomplished, that is, inflammation of the bruised and torn spinal meninges and spinal cord is to be obviated or con- trolled : (1) by reducing the vertebral displacement, as already directed ; (2) by keeping the spinal column in a state of perfect rest, or as nearly immovable as possible, after the reduction has been effected ; (3) should the patient’s pos- ture in bed permit, by drawing blood from the injured part by leeches or cups, and by applying dry cold, by means of an ice-bag, with compresses interposed, and, subsequently, by the employment of counter-irritants. But, whatever the patient’s posture in bed, opium or morphia should be administered with sufficient freedom to allay pain and procure sleep, as already stated; and by keeping the patient somewhat under the influence of this drug until nature has repaired the breaches, much good can be done in the way of controlling any inflammatory action which may arise in the injured meninges; and, probably, in the spinal cord also. Potassium iodide, in doses of five grains every four hours, belladonna in full doses, and fluid extract of ergot, half a fluidrachm three times a day, will often prove to be very useful remedies for traumatic myelitis, as well as for traumatic spinal meningitis. But, in attempting to reduce dislocations of the dorsal and lumbar verte- brae, is there not considerable danger that the spinal cord may be injured by the efforts of the surgeon himself? Many a person, doubtless, will be inclined to answer this question affirmatively, without much reason or reflection. Experience, however, has shown that this danger is more hypothetical than real. For example, reduction was effected in fourteen cases of displacement from injury of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae, which are mentioned in Dr. Ashhurst’s tables. In eleven instances the displacement occurred in the dorsal region; in three in the lumbar. Seven patients recovered, two were relieved, and five died. Of the cases in which the issue was successful I will not fur- ther speak; but the fatal ones I will briefly relate:— (1) Higginson1 is credited with the case of a man, aged 34, injured in the spine so that there was projection of the lumbar vertebrm one inch beyond the dorsal. Reduc- tion was accomplished by making extension, under chloroform, with relief to the symp- toms. In four weeks, however, he died; no account is given of the autopsy. (Ash- hurst.) (2) Bryant2 mentions the case of a laborer under Mr. Cock’s care, aged 34, who fell from a scaffold across a wall. There were pain, paralysis, priapism, and deformity in the lower part of the spine. The last was removed by making extension and pres- sure. At the end ot eight months death occurred. The autopsy showed dislocation for- ward of the eleventh dorsal vertebra and fracture of the twelfth ; the cause of death is not stated. (Ashhurst.) (3) Holmes3 relates the case of a young man, aged 19, struck on the loins by falling timber. The last dorsal vertebra was dislocated. It was reduced by extension, and the reduction was attended by an audible sound. No relief 1 British Medical Journal, 1862. 2 Proc. Path. Soc. London, vol. viii. 3 Ibid., vol. x.