G16 TUMORS. with the growing tumor. Sarcoma of the testis is not limited to certain periods of life ; it has been observed in infants and in aged men, hat it usually occurs in children under ten years old, or in men of from thirty to forty years. When a sarcoma of the testis is cut open, the appearances are usually quite characteristic of malignant disease, but often only of malignant disease, not of the particular variety or class of tumor. Not only is it impossible in many instances to distinguish the particular subclass of sarcoma, but it is quite impossible to distinguish between sarcoma and carcinoma. The tumor is generally soft, pulpy, tolerably homogeneous, or traversed by fibrous bands, very juicy, and of dark-gray or fawn color. Here and there are tiny areas of caseous material. Certain conditions may, however, disclose the nature of the tumor. Cysts are most frequent in spinclle-celled tumors, and cartilage occurs only in spindle-celled and mixed-celled tumors. In microscopic sections, seminiferous tubules may sometimes be discovered in the midst of the sarcoma- tissue, which separates them and slowly compasses their destruction. The cysts are formed by the dilatation of some of the tubules, and are lined with epithelium. Fatty and caseous degeneration are observed in most sarcomas, but usually only in small patches. The spindle-celled and mixed-celled tumors are frequently partly chondrified, and the organization may be so extensive that the tumor may appear to be wholly cartilaginous. This wholesale trans- formation of the tissues of a sarcoma, and the further fact that the disposition of the cartilage resembles that observed in simple cartilaginous tumors, has led to the error of including some of these growths in the class chondroma, and of speaking of them as malignant encliondromas on account of the course which they pursue. Their course resembles that of the spindle-celled sarcomas of the testis, the subclass to which they naturally belong ; and there is not such a tumor as a malignant enchondroma of the testis. Pure car- tilaginous tumors are invariably innocent. Occasionally, but very rarely, bone is found in sarcomas of the testis, gen- erally in the form of thin plates, or of a delicate skeleton, on which the soft structures might almost appear to have been built. Mucous tissue is more common than bone. The round-celled tumors are very rarely, if, indeed, ever, the seat of any organization-changes or of transformation, with the excep- tion of slight fatty and caseous degeneration. Sarcomas of the testis do not often ulcerate, a circumstance which may probably be accounted for by the strength and thickness of the structures by which the organ is covered, and by the ease with which the growth extends along the cord towards the pelvis and abdomen. The tumor usually commences insidiously, but sometimes notice- ably as the result of a blow or squeeze. The shape of the testis may be for a long time maintained, or the growth maybe more globular or kidney-shaped. It is at first, and often throughout, quite firm or almost hard, owing to the tightness with which it is bound down by the tunica albuginea, for when the albuginea is incised the soft contents protrude or even escape. Usually, as the disease advances, the tumor becomes more prominent at certain points,and each prominence becomes softer, until at last there may be fluctuation. The tumor is thus unequal in consistence; but even over the softest spots there is no sign of inflammation, except in those rare instances in which the scrotum becomes adherent and gives way. At an early period the cord is thickened, and, with the gradual progress of the tumor, it becomes at length greatly enlarged. The lymphatic glands of the abdomen are affected by every kind of sarcoma, pro- vided only that the disease is not cut short at an early period by operation, or by the patient’s death. The glandular affection usually commences within a few months of the enlargement of the testis, but may be deferred to a much later period. In a few cases both testes are attacked simultaneously, or after