320 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. pressure, not only is all bleeding stopped, but union between the sides of the large cavity takes place—and the joint may from that moment progress towards cure, of course with more or less anchylosis. If a sinus be left, or if the narrower opening with a bistoury have been practised, hyperdistension by means of an India-rubber tube connected to a ten-ounce syringe, is often valuable. The fluid employed should be somewhat stimulating-—chloride of zinc or iodine solution, as above described; sulphuric acid and water, in equal parts, is too destructive a material for either hyperdistension or wash- ing the joint; some patients have, I am aware, recovered after its use, but a good many have succumbed. An abscess running along the bone usually communicates with an intra- articular abscess; the worst form is that which runs upwards. In these cases an opening should be established at the lower end (near the joint as a rule), a pad placed over the course of the abscess, and a bandage applied from above downward. Hyperdistension may also be employed, a gum elastic catheter, through which the fluid is to be injected, being passed along to the further end of the suppurating track, and pad-pressure being afterwards applied. Abscesses which run downward come to the surface sooner than those with an upward direction, and they close more quickly; when opened, they should be injected with a stimulating lotion, and a drainage-tube inserted which may gradually be withdrawn and shortened, so that the abscess may heal from the depth toward the surface. Sometimes, in spite of the utmost care and skill, the disease continues to get worse, and the abscesses discharge freely, debris of fibrous tissue and portions of bone being thrown out with the pus. Yet, though we may despair of the joint, we need not, in many of these cases, despair of the limb; my experience at two homes for cripples has shown me that patients may recover even after much tissue and a great deal of bone have been thus lost. It is scarcely necessary to point out that a good position of the part must be maintained, so that, when repair takes place, the limb may not, at all events, be an in- cumbrance ; nor need I insist on the necessity of watching the case in several different directions. The condition of the lungs should be frequently ascer- tained, as should the size and state of the liver, and the color and kind of alvine excreta, while the urine should be frequently examined. Patients do not die of the articular disease, but the wasting from profuse discharges, and the irritation, induce tuberculosis of the brain (if the patient be very young) or of the lung, as also lardaceous disease of the liver, kidney, and spleen ; these are more fully referred to in another section of this article. Rheumatic Synovitis. rheumatic synovitis or articular rheumatism, in those forms which come under the surgeon’s care, is a subacute or chronic disease, primarily due to diathetic conditions, but generally excited by exposure to cold and wet. Trau- matism, as by a blow or strain, is sometimes superaddecl, and then appears to act as a direct excitant of rheumatic action.1 It is humiliating to confess that, after all the attention and care bestowed upon the subject, we do not as as yet know what rheumatism is ; but, as always happens when knowledge is scant, speculation is abundant. The lactic-acid, micrococcus, and malarial hypotheses are all without proof; no excess of lactic acid has ever been found 1 I was attending the son of a noble family in London, and was asked to look at a footman who had sprained his back and one leg by slipping while carrying a heavy portmanteau ; for five days his symptoms were by no means decisive ; on the sixth day they developed into a rather severe attack of acute rheumatism. No exposure of any sort could be traced.