948 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. carried out by (1) the recumbent posture; (2) certain mechanical appliances; (3) a rigid jacket applied during extension of the column. (1) Treatment by prolonged recumbency is of extreme value in Pott’s dis- ease. Indeed, considered in the abstract, or apart from certain difficulties and inconveniences, it is probably the very best treatment available for this malady. In the recumbent posture the spine is at rest, and the muscles relaxed, the evils of the pressure of the diseased surfaces against one another are minimized or removed, and the very least inducements are offered for the malady to progress. In all rapid and acute cases, this plan of treatment should be strictly carried out, and should be the only means adopted. In other cases it is well, under all circumstances, to commence the treatment by a period of enforced recumbency, and to allow this measure to be a prelimi- nary to further treatment by instruments, jackets, etc. Many surgeons would, however, urge that recumbency should be the treatment of all forms of Pott’s malady, and should constitute the only local measure. Without going as far as this, it must be regretted that this simple expedient is not more extensively and practically resorted to, and that more means are not afforded in hospitals for its employment. When this mode of treatment is adopted, the patient should be made to lie upon a firm, well-padded mattress, with the spine as straight as possible, and with the head, trunk, and limbs on the same plane. Any but slight and necessary movements must be for- bidden, and the more recent and acute the case, the more essential is it that absolute rest shall be enjoined. To effect this end in the case of children, Mr. Fisher1 has devised a “bed-frame” that answers its purpose very well. It consists of two flat iron bars, each with a crutch and strap for the shoulders at one end, and a third or transverse bar that serves to connect the crutch-bars to the head of the bed. The latter bars are also secured to the sides of the bed by bandages. The shoulders being strapped to the frame, and the lower limbs kept still by a weight, any movement of the spine is almost impossible. The American “box-splint” for fractured femur in children answers equally well, if carefully secured to the bed, and steadied also by a weight applied to the lower end of the splint. The duration of the treatment must depend upon the nature of the case and other circumstances, and in the majority of instances is to be estimated by months rather than by weeks. The objections to prolonged recumbency are of course obvious. The treat- ment is long and irksome, and difficult to carry out efficiently; but Mr. Howard Marsh, and others who advise its practice, have pointed out that the objections raised are somewhat exaggerated, and that the difficulties are by no means insurmountable.2 (2) Mechanical Appliances.—A vast number of instruments have been in- vented to meet the various indications for local treatment. The objections to most of these appliances are the following: They are heavy and often irksome, possess but little adaptability, and must be changed or altered as the child increases in age. The expense would forbid their use—even if con- sidered desirable—to any extent in hospitals. For the most part they take their lower point of support from the pelvis; but the pelvis of a child is so small comparatively, that this basis is often delusive, and it is, moreover, unstable. The result is that few of these instruments are of any use, and that a large number do positive harm. The least objectionable form of in- strument is that where the lower support is taken from a broad, rigid band, well moulded to the hips and pelvis. The body and spinal column above the seat of disease are supported by crutch bars that pass from this band to the 1 Lancet, Feb. 1878. 2 Treatment of Spinal Caries in Childhood. British Medical Journal, vol. ii. p. 769. 1881.