790 INJURIES OF THE BACK. not feel the catheter in the urethra until it reached the prostatic portion. He told this while the instrument was being introduced. Evacuation of the bladder afforded much relief from distress, for which lie expressed his gratitude. Was the disorder in this case concussion of the spinal marrow? Yes; for the persistence of sensibility in both lower extremities, when the primary injury was caused by a minie ball, shows that the con- tinuity of the spinal marrow was not seriously impaired. April 8. Saw this patient again at Burk’s Junction ; condition as to paralysis upchanged. April II. Still no change; he was sent to-day to the depot field hospital at City Point, and thus passed out of my sight. Professor Ashhurst1 relates the case of a soldier, who had sustained a gunshot fracture of the spinous process of a lumbar vertebra, witli concussion of the spinal cord. At first, there was spinal paralysis; but the man recovered and was transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps. Dr. George McClellan2 mentions two cases, in which gunshot missiles entered the small of the back and lodged, where their impact caused concussion of the spinal cord and “ total paraplegia of all the parts below.” The paralysis, however, was but tem- porary ; for both patients got perfectly well again under the use of laxatives and counter-irritants. The symptoms vary greatly with the case,and according to the severity of the concussion itself, from simple motor enfeeblement of the lower extremities, with “ numbness” and “ pins and needles,” on the one hand, to complete para- plegia both motor and sensory, with priapism and retention of urine and feces, on the other. Not unfrequently, intense hypcrsesthesia is also present, as was noted in the following very instructive case of concussion of the spinal cord in the cervical region, with ecchymosis of the left posterior horn of gray matter, of the right anterior horn, and of the posterior columns. The inju- ries resulted from a fall, and the case is related by Sir W. G ull :3— A coal-porter, aged 33, slipped and fell down some cellar-stairs, with a sack of coal falling upon him. He was admitted at 3 P. M., June 22, after the accident; there was loss of motion in both legs and in left arm ; the sphincters were paralyzed ; sensation was entirely lost in left arm up to deltoid ; sensation and motion in right arm perfect; in the lower extremities, he could feel about the feet and on the outer side of thighs, but not on the anterior and inner surface ; slight priapism ; breathing diaphragmatic. Sen- sation returned in every part after a few hours ; the most distant parts apparently recov- ered first. As the skin became warm he complained of pain when lightly touched (hyperaesthesia). For instance, when the finger-nail was lightly passed over the skin he exclaimed, “ Don’t prick me ; don’t hurt me !” Next day, the cutaneous sensibility appeared to be excessive, judging from his exclamations when the skin was touched or pinched. This was noticed especially in the right arm. The priapism disappeared in two hours after admission, but returned on the day following; power to move the right arm remained ; thirty-four hours after the accident the patient died. Autopsy—There was no external trace of injury. The membranes of the cord were healthy. The substance of the cord was contused opposite the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae. On section, there was found ecchymosis of the posterior horn of gray matter on the left side, and of the adjacent part of the lateral and posterior columns. There were also limited spots of ecchymosis on the right side, one in the right posterior column, and one in the right anterior horn of gray matter. The gray substance generally was hyperasmic. On removing the spinal cord and membranes, nothing abnormal was discovered in the ver- tebrae until the posterior ligament had been dissected off, when it was seen that the body of the fourth was separated from that of the fifth, and that the left articular process of the fourth had been chipped cff. The essential features of this instructive ease are: (1) the cord-substance was injured by concussion, and not by any displacement of the parts; (2) the 1 Op. cit., pp. 116, 117. 2 Principles and Practice of Surgery, p. 177. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1858, pp. 191, 192.