INJURIES OF BONES. 224 is singularly inactive in cases of transverse fracture of the patella, and that the separation of the fragments is due largely to fluid pressure from within the joint. He says that the muscle occasionally undergoes marked and per- manent atrophy. Vertical or longitudinal fractures of the patella are always due to direct violence, and differ from the transverse in the much less separation of the fragments. Dupuytren1 gives four cases of this kind, in one of which it is stated that the bone was divided into two nearly equal portions. He speaks of having treated several other cases at the Hotel Dieu, and thinks them less rare than they have been generally supposed to be. Lonsdale, Cooper, and others, have met with them in the dead subject. The literature of the sub- ject is very scanty, and I know of no recent reports of such cases. Rupture of the prepatellar bursa is very apt to occur, whether the bone gives way to direct violence or to muscular action; in the former case it is by bursting, in the latter by tearing of its posterior wall. It is not of any im- portance as compared with the lesion of the bone. The symptoms of this fracture are generally well marked; the patient falls— and sometimes it is difficult to say whether the fall is the cause or the result of the injury to the hone; there is pain, aggravated by the strain upon the fibrous structures surrounding the bone which must attend any attempt at movement; there are swelling and deformity, and, unless the upper fragment has been dragged away entirely from the lower, crepitus is very easily elicited. These symptoms are by no means always equally clear. Tresoret2 has pub- lished an aocount of a robust man of forty-five, who struck his left knee in, a fall. He kept at work for three weeks, and then, examining his knee on account; of its being swollen, he thought that the bone was broken. Two. months after the accident, he applied for advice, when a transverse fracture- between the middle and lower thirds of the bone was easily detected. A cyst (?) had formed at this point; iodine was injected, and a month after- ward the patient was considered as cured. Morris3 mentions the case of a. young woman who struck her knee forcibly against a chair: “for part of two days she got about the house and up and down stairs, moving, however, with great difficulty and much pain,” when an oblique fracture of the patella was, detected. Tillaux4 mentions a source of error in the diagnosis of fracture of the- patella, which, he says, he has several times witnessed: “An effusion of blood in the prepatellar bursa may give rise to crepitation, and the clots may even cause a sensation exactly like that of separation of the fragments.” He is of opinion that this may have been the real state of things in some cases in which fracture has been supposed to exist, and in which it has been claimed that a perfect cure with bony union was effected. When there is doubt as. to the existence of fracture, Mr. II. Morris recommends6 “ fixing the bone between the finger and thumb of one hand, and then pressing all around the circumference of it with the index finger of the other.” Dupuytren6 cites a case seen by Breschet, in which it was very difficult to determine the nature of an injury, sustained by a patella which had been fractured twelve years, previously ; the joint had become almost entirely anchylosed, and the conclu- sion arrived at was that the union had given way. The course of these cases is very various, but that which is most usually observed is a gradual subsidence of the inflammation in and about the joint, and the formation of a ligamentous connection between the fragments. If 1 Diseases and Injuries of Bones, Syd. Soc. Transl., p. 225. 2 Gaz. des Hopitaux, 11 Aout, 1881. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1029. 4 Op. cit., p. 1124. 5 Loe. cit.