INJURIES OF THE BACK. 696 sures that the cerebral contusion demanded, were sufficient to relieve the lumbar lesions also, so that no special medication was ordered for the lumbar region until April 12, when a large belladonna plaster was prescribed, giving much relief. His recovery, how- ever, was not complete (as to the loins) until the 1st of June. Usually, considerable swelling across the loins soon follows such injuries of the lumbar region as have just been described. Subcutaneous ecchymosis may or may not attend the tumefaction. Sometimes the ecchymosis does not appear until several days after the accident. On tracing the spinous processes with the fingers, their positions are found to be the same as in the normal state. On examining the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae through the anterior wall of the abdomen, no displacement is detected. Tenderness under pres- sure, in such cases, is usually observed over a considerable space. Oftentimes the patient, with evident difficulty, and much exhibition of pain and weak- ness in the loins, will endeavor to place his vertebral column in an erect position; if his efforts be successful, and no deformity be presented, it may confidently be assumed that there is no fracture. The posture which patients having lumbar sprains generally assume in bed, is, as described above, that of lying on one side, with the trunk semi-flexed, and the knees drawn up; and, for many days, they are usually reluctant to make any change of posi- tion, from dread of the pains and spasms in the injured muscles, which all attempts at movement are liable to excite. When such patients begin to move themselves about in bed, of their own accord, they furnish the best possible evidence of progress toward recovery. The treatment, as shown above, does not differ essentially from that of sprained joints in general. The most important point is to enforce absolute quietude of the injured parts for a sufficient length of time. Commonly, it requires from four to six weeks’ confinement to bed for recovery to take place. If the bowels be at all confined, a mercurial purge may be adminis- tered with advantage. If there be febrile movement of a sthenic character, saline drinks may be given with benefit, and the diet should be low while it continues. Should the lumbar pains or the muscular spasms prove trouble- some, they may be quieted by exhibiting opium in the form of Dover’s powder. The diet must be nourishing in asthenic cases, and in all others likewise after the acute stage has been passed. Fomentations with decoction of poppies, applied to the injured loins, also appear to do good. But those which consist of a strong decoction of chamomile and wormwood (mentioned above), are perhaps still better. At a later period, camphorated oil, or camphorated soap-liniment, should be used instead of fomentations. The patient, when about to leave his bed, should be furnished with a riding-belt stiffened with additional whalebone. (Shaw.) At the same time, a large belladonna plaster can generally be applied with benefit. Inflammation of the Vertebral Articulations arising from Sprains, Twists, or Wrenches.—From such injuries, an inflammation of the over- stretched or lacerated ligaments, tendons, muscles, and connective tissue, more or less severe according to the nature of the case, soon ensues. This appearance of inflammatory reaction in the damaged tissues is a necessary consequence of the original lesions. Its occurrence should, therefore, be anticipated, and its treatment should likewise be provided for by the sur- geon from the very outset of the case. Moreover, this traumatic inflamma- tion may, in general, be completely controlled by patiently applying the principles and methods of treatment just enunciated. But when the presence of traumatic inflammation in the vertebral joints happens, from any cause, to be unrecognized, or, if recognized, to be made light of, and when, therefore,