599 ANGEIOMA OR VASCULAR TUMOR. subcutaneous forms. The caustic is first melted on the ends of probes or wires. An incision is made in the centre of the tumor with a tenotomy- knife, and with the knife, or with a director, the tissue of the tumor is thor- oughly broken up. Three or four of the coated probes are then rapidly introduced, one after the other, and the caustic soaks off from them into the interior of the tumor. Severe inflammation and, generally, sloughing ensue, and the disease is cured, but not without, in most instances, considerable scarring. Setons of silk are used to excite inflammation in the substance of the nsevus. They are often soaked before use in a solution of perchloride or subsulphate of iron. From one or two to six or more threads may be passed in different directions through the growth, at the same time. Usually, inflammation and suppuration take place along the line of each of the threads. The blood coagu- lates in all parts of the growth, and, after the withdrawal of the threads, a week or ten days after their introduction, the nsevus slowly shrinks; but the effect of setons is very variable. They set up in some tumors so little inflam- mation that they are well nigh useless; the operation requires repetition many times, and a cure is only effected with the greatest difficulty. In other instances a nsevus will slough completely out merely from the presence of two or three small threads; and between these extremes many gradations are observed. Nevertheless, the treatment is useful where a nsevus is diffuse and tolerably bulky, and in a situation whence it cannot conveniently be removed. Nsevi may be ligatured in several different ways. The operation is em- ployed chiefly for growths which are not deeply situated, but which are bulky. If the ntevus be of small size, a thread may be tied completely around its base, so tightly that the circulation is entirely arrested in the tumor. It is usual to make a groove for the ligature before applying it, in order to diminish the subsequent pain. If the ntevus be of larger size, a double thread may be passed immediately beneath it and divided into two parts, and each may be tied around one half of the base of the growth. Elongated nsevi may be tied in several different portions, care being taken so to arrange the threads that each segment is thoroughly constricted, and that no intervening tissue is left untied between the segments.1 And the larger, rounded mevi may be tied in four instead of in two segments. When the tumor appears thoroughly con- stricted, a puncture may be made in it to be sure that the circulation is entirely arrested. Sloughing quickly takes place, and in a few days the mass drops off, or is removed, and there remains only an ulcer which requires simple treat- ment. The objections to the ligature arc the surrounding inflammation and often severe constitutional disturbance which it creates ; the loss of skin which it entails, and the pain, which may last long after the operation. It possesses few, if any, advantages over excision, and the scar left by it is larger and more unsightly. The cautery may be employed either to remove or destroy an angeioma. The instruments most convenient for the purpose are the benzine (Paquelin’s) and the galvanic cautery.2 The heat employed should be red, not white, for the greater heat is apt to destroy the tissues beyond the limits of the tumor, and, instead of checking, to promote hemorrhage. The cautery, as an instrument of destruction, is chiefly used for the cure of superficial mevi, or of mixed cutaneous and subcutaneous mevi of small size. Where complete removal of a noevus can be accomplished, excision is, iu most instances, the best method of treatment. When the growth is bulky and well-defined, and does not affect the integuments over a wide area, removal by the knife is the most certain means of curing the disease, and does not 1 See Fig. 532, Vol. III., page 370. 2 See Figs. 77 and 94, Vol. I., pages 504 and 524.