FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 249 restored to their normal relation. Care must be taken not to overdo this, so as to produce an angle salient backward, which would give rise to most troublesome lameness. Ormerod1 records two cases in which this anterior displacement was not manifested for some time after the receipt of the injury; under such circumstances it would seem attributable to defective treatment. Section of the tendo Achillis, according to Malgaigne, was first proposed and employed as a remedy for this condition by Laugier. It would seem to have found more favor in England2 than elsewhere; a case has very recently been reported by Bryant,3 in which the operation was attended with success. Malgaigne proposed, for the correction of this deformity, the use of a steel point on a screw stem, passed through the centre of a bow of metal, which could be fastened to the back splint by means of a strap and buckle ; the bow being placed over the limb a little above the seat of fracture, the point was carried down through the skin, and screwed in so as to produce the requisite amount of pressure. An equally efficient and safer plan would be to sub- stitute for the point a little plate carrying a pad. By slightly shifting the point of pressure from time to time, all risk of its injuring the skin could be readily avoided. I am not aware that Malgaigne’s contrivance has ever been used, except in the very few instances mentioned in his work; and, indeed, nature does so much, in the way of rounding off projecting points of bone, that it would seem to me needless to interfere, unless the deformity were more marked than in any case that has ever come under my notice. A curious consequence of fracture of the leg has been recorded by Terrier;4 two months after the injury, a small cyst-like tumor showed itself on the inner surface of the limb near the fracture, and proved to contain free oil, effused from the broken bone; it was evacuated, and finally disappeared. Pseudarthrosis is not uncommon after fracture of both bones of the leg. In Agnew’s tables,5 6 out of 685 cases, 100, or nearly 15 per cent., were in this region. In thirty-one of these the exact seat of fracture is not given ; in one it is said to have been at the junction of the upper and middle thirds; in twenty-four at the middle; in six in the middle third; in nine at the junc- tion of the middle and lowrer thirds; and in twenty-nine in the lower third. Hence it would appear that non-union is met with, in both bones, very nearly as often in the lower third of the leg as in the middle third; but the fact that in so large a proportion out of the whole number the exact seat of the lesion is not stated, prevents the drawing of absolutely positive inferences upon this point. The treatment of this condition has been sufficiently discussed in a pre- vious part of this article. Union with deformity has been observed in a large number of cases of fracture ot both bones of the leg, and is often productive of such total dis- ability as to demand surgical interference. In not a few' of these cases it has happened that the callus has yielded after the patients have begun to walk, and in almost all there has been a progressive increase of the bending of the limb. When the shafts of the bones are concerned, the angle is almost always salient anteriorly ; I know of only a few exceptions to this rule, in which the bones projected backward. Toward the lower part of the leg, the deformity is, for the most part, like that of talipes valgus, the upper tibial 1 Op. cit., p. 54. 2 See Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xxxiii. 1849, and Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1855. 3 Lancet, June 2, 1883. 4 London Med. Record, Oct. 15, 1878, from Revue Mensuelle de Medeoine et de Cliirurgie, No. 7, 1878. 6 Op. cit., vol. i. pp. 752 et se<].