INJURIES OF THE BACK. 772 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 355. gunshot lesions of the spinal column may destroy life with great sudden- ness :— A gentleman was wounded by a pistol-shot in the back of his neck while lying asleep on his side ; his mistress, who was awake at the time, stated that he did not stir a limb nor move in any way, although the report was loud. Death, therefore, must have been instantaneous. Necroscopy showed that the missile entered at the median line, passed horizontally forward between the arches of the atlas and the axis, severed the spinal cord, and stuck fast in the odontoid process near its base, having fissured the same. The specimen is preserved in the museum of Middlesex Hospital. In regard to the second of these two modes in which life may be suddenly destroyed, it should be stated that gunshot fractures, involving any of those transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae through whose foramina the vertebral artery runs, may readily lay the artery widely open, and that the primary hemorrhage therefrom would soon prove fatal; certainly, death would ordinarily ensue before a man thus wounded could be removed from a field of battle. In this connection it may be well to state also that gunshot frac- tures of these transverse processes are not unfrequently attended by secondary hemorrhage of a fatal character, which usually appears some ten or twelve days after the casualty has occurred. For instance, Baron Dupuytren1 mentions the case of a carpenter, aged 31, who re- ceived a gunshot wound of the face and neck. The ball entered his nose. The wound did well for ten days, when secondary hemorrhage set in, and caused death. Necro- scopy showed that a transverse process of the second cervical vertebra was fractured, and that the hemorrhage arose from the corresponding vertebral artery. Usually, in such cases, the laying open of the artery, so that the blood may issue therefrom, is caused either by the separation of a slough consisting of the tissues which have been bruised by the missile in its passage, or by the perforation of the arterial tunics by an ulcerative process. In the following instance, however, it was caused by the beating of the vertebral artery itself against a sharp fragment of the transverse process which had been fractured:— Samuel S. was wounded at the battle of Williamsburg, May 5, 1862, by a musket- ball which entered his face to the left of the symphysis of the inferior maxilla, smashed: that bone, and carried away several teeth, with a part of the tongue and of the posterior wall of the pharynx, and lodged. He had extreme dysphagia. On the 13th, the ball and several teeth were removed from an abscess above the clavicle. On the 16th, copious hemorrhage from the original wound occurred, which was arrested by tying the common carotid artery under ether. Seven days after that, a fresh hemorrhage set in from the aperture through which the missile had been extracted; an unsuccessful attempt was made to find the bleeding vessel. He died on the same day (May 23) of amemic exhaustion resulting from the hemorrhage. Necroscopy showed that a trans- verse process of the third cervical vertebra had been fractured by the ball, and that the vertebral artery had rubbed against a spiculum thus produced until it was worn through ; hence the secondary hemorrhage arose.2 The first hemorrhage, doubtless, sprang from some branch of the external carotid artery in the face, mouth, or throat, which had been injured by the missile, and, therefore, it was possible to suppress it by ligaturing the common carotid artery. Gunshot contusions of the spinal column were, I believe, first mentioned by Dr. Louis Stromeyer, while writing from his experience as surgeon-in-chief of the Schleswig-Holstein army, in 1849. He says:— “In two cases the cervical vertebrae were contused by bullets which entered on the outer side of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and likewise bruised the brachial plexus of 1 Op. cit.