811 TRAUMATIC SPINAL MENINGITIS. lumbar vertebra. The spinal membranes surrounding the point of the missile were lacerated, injected, and of light venous color. The nerve-tissue within the spinal mem- branes was also injured ; it was reduced nearly to a pultaceous consistence ; white soft- ening. The fourth and part of the third lumbar vertebra, with the missile attached, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum. This specimen is represented by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 793).1 The intense agony which was engendered by the hyperesthesia in this case is some- thing too horrible to be contemplated without emotions of pity. It is worthy of remark that strychnia did harm to this patient, and that its use was suspended for this cause. It is also worthy of remark that the vesical and urethral hyperesthesia was notably lessened by giving belladonna, and that the application of dry cups was apparently useful on another occasion. The next example occurred in the Crimean war. Intense hypercesthesia appeared, and foudroyant symptoms. Death from coma (that is, from com- pression of the brain and spinal cord) resulted in five days. Private S. L., aged 21, was wounded in the trenches, August 23, 1855. A Minie ball passed through his right cheek, fractured the right alveolar processes and ascend- ing ramus of the lower jaw, with comminution, and lodged near the base of the skull. There was not much hemorrhage. The ball could not be discovered, and every attempt to find it caused very acute agony. There was no paralysis. But deglutition was diffi- cult, and every movement of his neck aroused intense pain, so much so as to cause him to scream violently. Delirium, stertor, and coma set in; death ensued on the 28th, five days after the casualty. Necroscopy showed both jaws to be fractured, and the lower comminuted. The missile had lodged just below the basilar process, having broken otf and almost detached a large piece of the atlas, and thus uncovered the spinal mem- branes. They did not appear to have been injured primarily; “but they, as well as the membranes of the brain, showed marks of acute inflammation having been set up.”2 On the same page, Staff-Surgeon T. P. Matthew, the surgical historio- grapher of the Crimean War, remarks: “Even where the spinal corcl, appa- rently, was not primarily injured, inflammation of it or its membranes was sometimes set up, and quickly proved fatal.” The following example of traumatic spinal meningitis and myelitis was characterized by the occurrence of tetanic spasms of the muscles in the extremities:— On the first of August, says Stromeyer, I extracted a bullet, which had entered on the 6th of July, between the laminae of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, and there had become fixed. At first there were no severe symptoms ; suddenly there occurred violent pains, with cramp in the extremities having similarity to tetanus, and accompanied by delirium. The operation was easily performed by the help of an ele- vator, after dilating the outer wound. On removing the bullet, a finger could be put into the spinal canal. The patient sank rapidly, and the autopsy showed inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes.3 Tetanic spasms of the muscles were likewise observed in the next instance, which occurred in our civil war:— An artillery soldier, aged 28, was wounded at Gettysburg, July 1, 1863, by a conoidal ball, which entered below the spine of the left scapula, struck the spinous pro- cess of the eighth dorsal vertebra, fractured it, but without displacement, and lodged in the angle between the spinous and transverse processes. He walked to the field hos- pital without assistance, and was able to move about and help himself until the 6th, when tonic spasms of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm set in. They steadily increased in severity; anaesthetics were administered, and the urine was drawn oft' by 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 448. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the British Army in the Crimean War, vol. ii. p. 337. 3 Op. cit., p. 38.