LYMPHOMA OR LYMPHATIC TUMOR. 588 celled sarcomas—a manner of treating them which is justified by the close resemblance of their structure to that of the round-celled sarcomas, hut still more by the similarity of the course pursued by the two diseases. They are usually described under the name of lympho-sareoma—a term which will be referred to in the section on sarcoma. If this view be adopted, it will follow, as a consequence, that many of the primary affections of glands now described as malignant lymphoma, or lymphadenoma, must be regarded as round-celled sarcoma, the structure of which is slightly modified so that the disease resembles the tissue of a gland; a circumstance not difficult to account for when the influence of the parent-tissue on the structure of a tumor is remem- bered. Many of the lymphomas and lymphadenomas ought, therefore, to be considered in the section on sarcoma, but it will be more convenient to include a general description of them here, if only because the account will be sought for in this section. A pure lymithoma might be imagined to be a tumor consisting of tissue precisely resembling that of a lymphatic gland, taking origin in adenoid tissue, encapsuled, and thus sepai'ate from the parent-tissue, increasing in bulk slowly but continuously, without pain or sign of inflammation, and present- ing generally a rounded shape and well-defined contour. But such a tumor does not appear to exist. The nearest approach to it is the general enlargement of a lymphatic gland, neither depending on tubercle, or syphilis, or inflammation, but rather hypertrophic in its character; affect- ing only one gland; slow in progress, but yet progressive; affecting the entire gland, but not tending to extend beyond the confines of the gland; not fixed to the surrounding structures; maintaining nearly the shape of the gland and its natural firmness; and presenting, on examination, the general and microscopic characters of the normal gland. Even this affection is very un- usual, and, when every case of glandular enlargement depending on inflam- mation and tubercle has been rigidly excluded, is rendered so rare that one becomes almost doubtful of its very existence. Of the natural history of such cases no trustworthy account can be presented, for, since Schiippel has shown1 that many of the enlargements formerly regarded as simple tumors or hypertrophies, are in truth tuberculous, the material from which the natural history should be drawn has been almost wholly withdrawn. Instead of a single gland, it is much more usual to meet with enlargement of several neighboring glands; for instance, in the neck, or immediately beneath the lower jaw. Although all of the group may be enlarged, one of them is usually far larger than the others, and its size renders it so obtrusive that it often overshadows the enlargement of its fellows. Such a gland may attain the size of a walnut, or a racquet-ball, and may remain without any evidence of inflammation, indolent, movable, firm, smooth, painless, and occa- sionally slowly increasing in size, for as many as four, or six, or more years. I have seen more than one such case in children or young adults, and have thought that the disease was a hypertrophy, or true lymphatic tumor, and in this belief have removed the largest gland. It has shelled out with perfect ease, and on section has presented a homogeneous or granular surface, a yellow- ish color, but absolute freedom from fatty degeneration or caseation ; indeed, all the characters which might be regarded as proper to a glandular tumor or hypertrophy. But microscopic examination has invariably discovered the presence of tubercles, usually very numerous and typical, with their central giant-cells, surrounded by epithelioid and lymphoid cells. It thus appears probable, if not, indeed, certain, that a tuberculous gland may remain almost Untersuchungen ueber Lymphdrusen-Tuberculose. Tubingen, 1871.