497 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. from open sinuses, while a large cicatrix over the sacrum marked the site of a former bed-sore. He was unable to work, and was consequently dependent for his support upon a sister who could ill afford to maintain him out of her wages as a maid-servant. Under these circumstances, I did not hesitate to recommend an operation, and accord- ingly performed excision in the usual way, before my clinical class, on December 21, 1878. The operation presented no unusual features, and except that there was profuse suppuration afterwards, and a good deal of trouble from bed-sores, the patient’s conva- lescence was uninterrupted by any special complication. The cure was completed in about six months, when the photographs were taken from which the annexed illustra- tions (Figs. 723, 724) are copied. They show on the one hand the amount of shorten- ing which followed the operation, and on the other the free range of motion which the patient had acquired. After his recovery he was employed in the hospital as a door- keeper and messenger, and the speed and agility with which he ran along the corridors, and up and down the long staircases, were a constant source of surprise to those who knew his history. After a time, I regret to say, he fell into bad habits, and Bright’s disease was developed and ultimately proved fatal. Once have I had occasion to excise both hip-joints in the same patient—the first instance, I believe, in which the double operation has been resorted to, though similar cases have been since recorded by Mr. Croft and Dr. Byrd. The result, in my case, was satisfactory as regarded the life of the patient, hut he was not able to walk without crutches as long as he remained under my observation. Excision of both Hip-Joints for Double Hip-Disease; Recovery—C. G., a boy between eleven and twelve years of age, was admitted to the Children’s Hospital in the autumn of 1872, suffering from hip-disease of both sides. In the right hip, the malady was of eight months’ duration and in its second stage, but in the left hip was advanced to the third stage, with an abscess discharging behind the great trochanter. The boy’s general health was much impaired by long-continued pain and suppuration. On September 9. 1872, I excised the left hip in the usual way, and removed a seques- trum from the acetabulum. The patient recovered rapidly from the operation, and by January, 1873, the wound was entirely healed. The disease on the right side, however, had meanwhile been progressing, and in April an abscess had formed and had under- gone spontaneous opening, so that on the 23d of that month—seven and a half months after the preceding operation—•! performed excision on the right side also. The head of the femur on this side was carious, but the acetabulum was healthy. A slight VOL. IV.—32 Fig. 723- Fig. 724. Result of hip-joint excision.