887 HIP-DISEASE. the joint.1 In certain cases the pain is very early, previous sometimes to any other symptom save an occasional limp. A means of distinguishing referred pain from any produced by disease at the spot itself, is by making pressure, not with the finger-tips, but with the whole palm, over the sensitive part. This will increase the pain if there be disease at the knee; but if elsewhere, the pain will not be augmented, and may even be relieved. Fixity of the limb is, of all symptoms hitherto recorded, the most important and reliable. I must strongly deprecate the old rough mode of investigation by forcibly driving the thigh upward against the acetabulum, and would inculcate all caution and gentleness. The fixation of the thigh may simply express itself by a limp, and, even when the patient is quite naked, the sur- geon may be unable to ascertain clearly whether or no, in walking, the thigh moves on the pelvis. He will then, placing his patient supine on a sofa, and himself about the level of the patient ’s calf, take in hand the sound limb a little below the knee, and, while moving it in every direction, observe that the thigh moves freely in its socket, the pelvis remaining quite or very nearly motion- less. He then gently grasps the other limb in the same way, and puts it, to a far less extent, through the like movements. If the hip-joint be sound, this limb will move like the other, and he may gradually increase the amount of motion; but, if it be diseased, the thigh will not really move on the pelvis. "Watching the salient points of the latter, he will see, by noticing the spine and crest of the ilium, the pubis, and the tuber ischii, that the pelvis follows every motion of the thigh, and that the hip-joint itself does not move at all. The movement is partly at the sacro-iliac joint, partly of the whole pelvis on the lumbar spine. Especially difficult is abduction ; all attempts to move the thigh in that direction very evidently impress considerable motion on the pelvis, while the adductor muscles, more conspicuously the adductor longus, are visibly and plainly contracted. Second Stage, or Stage of Lengthening.—This comes on gradually, when the initial stage above described has lasted some weeks, or, in certain cases, some months. The patient must now be examined both in the erect and in the re- cumbent posture. In the former the patient stands on the sound limb. The foot of the affected side, only touching the ground by the toes, or very lightly by the whole sole, is in advance; the knee of that side is bent, and also in front of its fellow. The buttock is flattened and flaccid, and its lower fold hangs in a flabby, bagging manner on a level below the other. Therefore the depression behind the great trochanter is broad and shallow, or quite obliterated; and the part looks broader than on the other side. The pelvis is oblique, that is, the iliac crest of the diseased side lies on a level lower than the other, and in consequence the rima natium slopes from below upward and toward the side of disease, and the lumbar spine is curved towards that side. If the child be told to stand level, with the feet together and both knees straight, he will, if he bring the feet together, bend the knee ; when told to straighten that joint, he will rise on the toes of the sound limb, and, by throwing back the other (diseased) side of the pelvis, protrude that buttock. By these manoeuvres, one or all, he endeavors to increase the distance between the acetabulum and the floor; but they generally throw him out of balance, so that he sways about and seizes on any neighboring object. Many children will not make these efforts, but when urged to do so will cling to a support and scream. The supine position shows that the child curves the body in a very pecu- 1 The pain in front of the thigh may he very severe ; I have had two patients who were in the habit of constantly pinching a fold of skin in that place, which they said relieved the pain. An unusual seat of pain is the inner side of the thigh, at the origin of the adductor longus. I have now under my care a young gentleman who has never complained of any other pain.