776 INJURIES OF THE BACK. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 444. appearance. The fractured spongy tissue of the vertebrae was suppurating. The mis- sile was lodged behind the pancreas. Secondary hemorrhage from the splenic artery had supervened, causing death seventy-eight days after the infliction of the wound.1 Fig. 781. Fig- 782. Interior view of the last dorsal and first two lumbar ver- tebra:, in the case of President Garfield. They have been laid open from behind by sawing vertically through thoir lamina: and bodies, a little to the right of their spinous processes. The intervertebral substances have been destroyed by the in- flammatory process. The cancellated tissue of the bodies is extensively disorganized by suppurative osteomyelitis, as well as by the impact of the missile. .|. Showing two lumbar vertebrse that were per- forated from behind forward, and were fissured vertically, through their bodies, by a conoidal musket-ball which passed into the peritoneal cavity. (Spec. 35S3, Sect. I, A. M. M.) In the case of President Garfield, the shot fractures of the last dorsal and first two lumbar vertebra; were followed by suppurative osteo-myelitis and de- struction by ulceration of the corresponding intervertebral disks, from which disorders arose the symptoms of septicaemia that presented themselves at one time in the history of his case, and, finally, the secondary hemorrhage that destroyed his life. The prognosis in cases of suppurative osteo-myelitis arising from vertebral fractures is always very bad; in fact, such cases are scarcely amenable to any treatment. In the following example, a conoidal musket-ball penetrated the lumbar portion of the spinal column from behind, passed forward through the bodies of the vertebra;, having crushed the spinal cord, and entered the abdominal cavity, where it wounded the liver, and likewise caused peritonitis, which proved fatal in four days:— A corporal, having been wounded in front of Petersburg, on July 30, 1864, was sent to Washington, and admitted to Douglas Hospital, on August 3, with complete paraplegia and peritonitis. He died on the same day. Necroscopy revealed the pas- sage of the missile into the abdominal cavity through the spinal column, and laceration of the liver, with peritoneal inflammation and the products thereof. The fractured vertebrae and the missile are represented in the adjoining wood-cut (Fig. 782).2 Small-arm missiles, as, for instance, musket and pistol balls, etc., often lodge in the bodies or apophyses of the vertebrse, in such a manner that either their position cannot be exactly ascertained, or they cannot be extracted in conse- quence of the firmness of their impaction. This important class of spinal injuries will be illustrated in a useful manner by the next half dozen abstracts and wood-cuts:— A soldier, aged 20, was wounded in the back at Monocacy, Md., July 9, 1864, and admitted to hospital at Frederick, on the next day. The missile (a conoidal musket-ball) 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1881, pp. 586—590.