SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 605 expresses its malignancy chiefly or only by its continuous extension. The presence of a capsule is not, however, constant. Sarcomas of the bones, and those of organs like the testis, possess no special capsule, hut the latter are, of course, contained for many months, or even years, within the tunica albu- ginea or tunica vaginalis, which has thus the appearance of a capsule proper to the tumor. Some rapidly growing sarcomas of large size present all the charac- ters of typical encephaloid disease. They are white, opaque, soft, and juicy; and streaked, or dotted, or blotched with blood. Some are quite as soft and juicy, but exhibit a slaty color. Some look, when cut, like the substance of a ripe plum or nectarine, juicy, semi-translucent, and yellowish-white, or deep yellow dashed with red. Indeed, there is scarcely an appearance among morbid growths which a sarcoma may not exhibit; for, in addition to the multiplicity of characters which may belong to the pure specimens, the dis- ease is so often complicated by the mingling of other tissues, that almost every kind of innocent tumor may be imitated by sarcoma. Probably the appear- ance of a withering carcinoma is less often observed than any other. In some parts of the body there is little or no difficulty in distinguishing, from the macroscopic characters, between carcinoma and sarcoma. In the breast, the absence of capsule, and of large cysts with intra-cystic growths, are alone sufficient to characterize carcinoma. And, when the carcinoma is contracted or disseminated, there is no difficulty in deciding between the two diseases. In other parts of the body it is impossible, unless by the chance admixture of some tissue, such as cartilage or bone, with the sarcoma, to distinguish be- tween sarcoma and carcinoma. The tumors of the testicle afford an admira- ble illustration of this difficulty of diagnosis. The round-celled, spindle-celled, and mixed-celled sarcomas cannot usually be respectively distinguished in any part. The spindle-celled tumor does, however, sometimes present a fasci- culated section, but this is not constant or reliable. But the typical myeloid or giant-celled tumor is firm, close-textured, and colored like the muscular substance of the mammalian heart. Its characters are quite unmistakable. The microscopic characters of sarcoma have been described in the definitions of the sub-classes and varieties. It must be borne in mind that, whereas they are generally so characteristic that they can scarcely be confounded with the minute structure of any other disease, yet some specimens are exceedingly perplexing. The resemblance of round-celled sarcoma to granulation-tissue, or inflamed tissue, is often most striking, nor do I think that, in every instance, the diagnosis can be made. (Plate X\ III. Fig. 7.) Again, lympho-sarcoma may be so exactly similar in appearance to hypertrophied lymphatic gland, that the minute appearances alone are not to be relied on for the diagnosis. Alveolar sarcoma sometimes presents the appearance of carcinoma, but usually the diagnosis is not difficult, for the walls of the alveoli are often formed of spindle-cells, and the contents are rarely so uniform and epithelioid in cha- racter as the contents of the alveoli of carcinoma. The real nature of a hemorrhagic sarcoma is not easy to discover. The tumor may be so largely composed of blood that it may be taken for a cyst. Many of the so-called blood-cysts are tumors of this description. To detect the presence of sarcoma in them, a very careful examination is required. Usually, round-celled or spindle-celled tissue is present in sufficient quantity in the rough wall of the cystoid cavity to furnish evidence of the presence of sarcoma; and, in addi- tion, trabeculae of spindle-cells may, in many instances, be discovered travers- ing the blood in various directions. Metamorphoses and Combinations.—Sarcoma is liable to many transform- ations of its structure. It may undergo fatty or caseous degeneration, the result of which is that many sarcomas contain areas, or streaks, or masses of