565 LIPOMA OR FATTY TUMOR. only disease which is liable to be mistaken for it, is a chronic abscess, and this may be distinguished by the absence of lobes, the certain fluctuation, and the less mobility of the swelling, even when there are no signs of inflammation. When the symptoms of fatty tumor and abscess are very evenly balanced, a puncture with a grooved needle or fine trocar and canula will aid the diagnosis. In certain situations the characters of lipoma are not so distinctive. The thick integuments of the scalp conceal the lobulation of the tumor, and lend to it a greater firmness than it ought naturally to possess. Lipomas of the nape of the neck are often composed of very tough fat, containing a large proportion of fibrous tissue, and instead of being circumscribed, lobed, and movable, are fixed and ill-defined. This often appears to result from the pres- sure of a basket or some heavy object frequently resting on this portion of the trunk. Though most fatty tumors appear to be spontaneous in their origin, cer- tain of them can be clearly traced to injury, or frequent irritation, or pressure. The lipomas of the nape of the neck are an example of this, and some of the growths about the shoulders are attributed to the rubbing of a strap or of a brace, while persons who ride much are occasionally the subjects of fatty tumors of the buttocks. The growth of a fatty tumor is usually very slow, so that in ten years it may not have attained the size of a fist; but some fatty tumors increase in size more quickly, and in the course of many years may produce enormous masses, weighing several scores of pounds. These huge growths are rarely seen at the present day, for people submit more readily to operations since the introduction and constant use of anaesthetics. It may be the same reason which renders the shifting of fatty tumors so rare that no case has been of late recorded. Cases have formerly been described in which a tumor has moved from its original seat to one far lower on the trunk, apparently slowly sliding in the subcutaneous tissue, because the loose attachments of the tumor have been too weak to sustain the burden of its weight. Although a fatty tumor usually forms a lobed and flattened mass, it is in some instances more prominent and globular, and is sometimes constricted at its base, and attached to the body by a long and narrow pedicle. Fatty tumors apparently are rarely inherited. They are in some persons multiple, rarely symmetrical. The multiple tumors grow usually in the subcutaneous tissues of the arms and thighs, but may appear in considerable numbers on the trunk and the extremities. They are not usually simul- taneous in origin, and often occur at intervals of many months or years. They seldom reach a large size, and may remain stationary during many years. Five years ago, Mr. Callender removed one of a number of fatty tumors from the forearm of a woman who, twenty years previously, had been treated by Mr. Liston for the same disease. During these twenty years a few more tumors had appeared, but the older growths had altered very little in size. Fatty tumors are very seldom tender, and not often painful; but occasionally a solitary tumor, or one of a large number of multiple growths, is the seat of exquisite pain. The slightest touch, or the pressure of the clothes, suffices to produce a severe paroxysm of pain, not necessarily confined to the tumor, but more often radiating widely around it. These are some of the “painful subcutaneous tumors,” which were formerly described as a separate class of growths. But, since these painful subcutaneous tumors vary much in struc- ture, their small size, their exquisite sensibility, and their tendency to affect the subcutaneous tissue, are not sufficiently weighty reasons for separating them from tumors which are not noticeably painful. The painful fatty tumors are, for the most part, very small, and soon cease to grow; but they do not