506 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. posterior edges of both bones with cutting pliers, so as to avoid all risk of injury to the tissues of the popliteal space. The bone-sections having been made (Fig. 728), the surgeon should examine the condition of the sawn surfaces, and deal with any softened or carious patches by the free use of the gouge and osteotrite. The same plan may be pursued with any portion of diseased bone or cartilage beyond the line of section. The next step of the operation is to clip away, with scissors curved on the flat, or with Mr. Butcher’s “ knife-bladed forceps,” any shreds of disorganized synovial membrane or ligament, taking care, however, not to disturb the floor of the wound, which should, if possible, be left intact. The surgeon may next proceed to adjust the resected bones, when, if they cannot be brought into position by any justifiable amount of force, he should divide the hamstring ten- dons, and if this does not suffice, must remove an additional slice of bone. All bleeding vessels having been carefully secured by ligature, the wound may be brought together by stitches, and the limb adjusted upon the splint which is to be employed during the after-treatment. This adjustment is, I think, best effected while the limb is elevated to nearly a vertical position, there being under these circumstances no difficulty in keeping the bones together, while, if brought down to a horizontal line, there is a constant tendency to displacement from the weight of the leg. The application of the splint should be completed before the patient is allowed to recover from the state of anaesthesia, which should be fully main- tained during the whole operation. Two points still require notice in regard to the operation itself: first, as to the control of bleeding during the operation, and second, as to the mode of dealing with the patella. I employ no tourniquet nor other means of interrupting the circulation during the operation; no large vessel is divided, and I believe it much safer to tie each small artery as it is cut, than to run the risk (which is by no means only theoretical) of having consecutive hemorrhage from vessels which, under temporary compression, have retracted, and which do not bleed until the patient becomes warm in bed. Even if the patella is not itself diseased, it should, I think, be removed; as the after-treatment aims at obtaining bony union, the patella is of no use, and statistics show that the risks of the operation are greatly increased by its retention. Penieres finds that while the removal of the patella diminishes