INJURIES OF THE BACK. 840 [' Charcot uses the term decubitus ominosus.'] 2 Op. cit., p. 213. Prognosis.—Neuropathic bed-sores, and neuropathic sphacelations in gen- eral, never bode any good. Still, they portend more of evil when they appear in the course of some affections, than they do when they appear in the course of others. For instance, a sacral eschar very seldom presents itself in a case of injury or disease of the brain which is to have a favorable termination; its appearance in such cases, therefore, constitutes a most inauspicious sign. We might in fact call it sphacelus ominosus, the ominous bed-sore, by way of distinction. (Charcot.1) This accident, I repeat, rarely proves deceptive in cerebral injuries and diseases ; and inasmuch as its existence may be discerned from its very incipiency, it becomes of great value, especially in doubtful cases. The only prognostic sign that can at all rival it in cases of sudden hemiplegia, according to M. Charcot, is a very marked fall of the central temperature below the normal, occurring at the outset of an attack. Thus, the vesiculse and bulbe which are the precursors of neuropathic sphacelus will, from their first appearance on the scene, enable us to form a prognosis with certainty in such instances. But, in spinal injuries and diseases, recovery may yet take place after neu- ropathic bed-sores have appeared. Many such examples are on record, and almost every experienced surgeon has witnessed several. There are, how- ever, certain phenomena which portend an unfavorable issue for the neuro- pathic sphacelations which result from spinal injury. These signs of impend- ing evil are the following: (1) An early appearance of such sphacelations— that is, their occurrence before the pressure resulting from the patient’s pos- ture in bed lias had sufficient time to share in their causation; (2) Their appearance in parts where pressure has had very little, or even no share at all, in their causation, as, for example, on the ankles, legs, inner surface of the thighs, etc.; (8) Their simultaneous appearance at several different points on both lower extremities; (4) Their very rapid enlargement on the one hand, or their steady enlargement in spite of treatment on the other; (5) The appearance of symptoms denoting that septicaemia, pyaemia, or ascending sup- purative meningitis from penetration of the spinal canal, has occurred—a sign which usually denotes that the end is not far off. In a case reported by Mr. Hilton,2 where a sacral eschar reached the interior of the vertebral canal and involved the membranes of the spinal marrow, pyaemia also supervened, and caused death in nine days. On autopsy the whole right lung was found pneu- monic, with numerous, well-defined, small collections of pus in different parts of it. Treatment.—The causal indications should be sought for and fulfilled as far as possible. To this end, in simple fractures and dislocations of the spinal column, reduction should be effected, for thus the risk of mechanical irritation of the spinal cord or its membranes, by the displaced vertebrae, will be more or less considerably lessened. In gunshot and other compound fractures of the spinal column, all foreign bodies should be removed from the wounds. In cases where spinal meningitis or myelitis is present and acting as the efficient cause of the bed-sores or sphacelations (and these cases form a numerous class), potassium iodide, ten grains three times a day, and fluid extract of ergot, one drachm three times a day, should be administered. When ergot has lost its effect, belladonna in rather large doses has sometimes been exhibited with benefit in cases of myelitis. But the chief internal remedies against spinal congestion, spinal meningitis, and spinal myelitis, are potassium iodide and ergot, and both drugs must, as a rule, be given in full or even excessive doses, to secure their good effects in these disorders. I advocate the trial of these