MULTIPLE AND SECONDARY TUMORS. 553 infects. This had previously been imagined, by those who hold the infection theory, to be a juice, or a seminium in the form of minute particles or young cells. But Gussenbauer declares that it is in all cases a minute molecule, highly retractile, easily distinguishable from the molecules which most cells contain. He has observed vast numbers of these molecules in the lymph- paths and in all parts of the affected gland, and further describes precisely the changes which take place in the cells of the gland, through which they pass to become cancer-cells. Ho class of cells seems capable of withstanding the infection, for lymph-cells, endothelial cells, connective-tissue corpuscles, and even muscular fibres are transformed into cancer-cells. But the endothe- lium of the bloodvessels is particularly liable to be infected. Gussenbauer’s paper is admirably worked out, and the statements which it contains are made in so confident a tone that his theory is very attractive. His observations, however, have not yet been confirmed, although two years have elapsed since they were published. Until they have been confirmed or contradicted, they must he regarded with caution: first, on account of the difficulty which must always be experienced in recognizing a particular molecule which has not any very characteristic features, and of observing the exact changes which occur in parts whose structure is so close and con- fused as that of the follicular ends and cords of the lymphatic glands; second, on account of a grave improbability which the author’s account contains. lie tells us that the existing cells of the infected tissues, no matter how old, and fixed, and stable they may be, are directly transformed into cancer-cells. So marvellous an effect of a seminium is scarcely conceivable, since it is so different from the effects which we are accustomed to observe. A seminium acting on a cell may be expected to cause swelling and proliferation, and it is perfectly conceivable that the cell or cells which result from this prolifera- tion may assume a very different form and properties from those of the parent cell. The difficulty of admitting the direct influeuce of the seminium, and the somewhat vague account of the manner in which the arrangement of the cells in acini, or tubes, or groups, resembling those of the primary cancer, is effected, constitute some of the chief objections to the acceptance of these statements. Either with or without glandular affection, secondary tumors may occur in various organs and tissues of the body. In some instances one organ, as the lung or liver, is the seat of very large or numerous secondary tumors, and no other organ or tissue is affected. In other instances, several parts possessing the same structure, for example, several bones or several muscles, contain secondary tumors. Again, in other instances, organs of a different structure and function, the liver, the spleen, and the kidneys, are affected. And some- times the disease is widely disseminated through the body, attacking many and different tissues and organs. Dissemination may he accomplished through different channels. The most usual, undoubtedly? is the blood, and the organ whose capillaries are first traversed by blood which passes through the pri- mary disease is that in which secondary tumors may he first expected. Thus, the lungs are secondarily affected by tumors of many different parts; the liver by tumors of the spleen, the stomach and the intestines. But this course is not by any means invariably pursued. Organs far distant from the pri- mary disease, and having no decided connection with it either by blood or lymph vessels, may be the seat of secondary tumors, while those organs winch are directly exposed to infection are, so to speak, neglected. From this it may be inferred that all organs are not equally inoculable, or do not all afford a suitable soil for the reception or growth of cancer. And further, there is reason to believe that certain forms of cancer, especially of certain organs and tissues, are much more readily inoculable than others, in parts