FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA?. •759 For example, Mr. Erichsen mentions the case of a woman admitted into Univer- sity College Hospital, with an injury of the neck, the nature of which could not be accurately ascertained. She was in no way paralyzed, hut kept her head in an im- movably fixed position. A few days after admission, whilst sitting up in bed, being startled by a noise, she suddenly turned her head, and fell back dead. Dissection showed that the spinous process of the fifth cervical vertebra was broken off short at its root, and was impacted in such a way between the arches of this and the arches of the fourth vertebra as to compress the cord.1 The impaction of the fragment and the compression of the spinal cord probably occurred at the instant of the involuntary movement of the head. I have already presented, in a foot-note, a somewhat similar case of Mr. Arnott’s, in which a man, aged 74, fell down stairs and injured his neck. There was paralysis of the upper extremities, but not of the lower. In one hour death ensued. Dissection showed that the spinous process of the axis was fractured, and that the fragment was wedged in between the axis and the third vertebra ; there was also effusion of blood in the vertebral canal, which probably caused death by compressing the cord. Notwith- standing these exceptions, the rule concerning the result in cases of pure fracture of the spinous processes, is as already stated, namely, that they generally end in recovery. Professor Agnew mentions the case of a young man, under his own care, in which the detached portion of a spinous process remained for several months movable, finally became necrosed, and was discharged through a sinus.2 Symptoms and Diagnosis of Fractures of the Vertebras.—When the fracture is compound, as it is in cases where small-arm missiles break the spinal column, the diagnosis can generally be settled with certainty by exploring the wound with the linger. In cases where the aperture in the integuments is not large enough to admit a finger, e. g., wounds made by buckshot and small pistol-balls, the exploration may be made with the porcelain-tipped probe of Nekton, or with the ordinary bullet-probe, and thus, likewise, the lesion of bone, if it be present, can generally be made out. In cases where the orifice of the wound is too far away from the spinal column to admit of examining it with a finger in the wound, the exploration must be made with a probe, in order to determine whether there is a fracture of the vertebrae or not; and, in case there is, what part or parts of the vertebrae are broken. Simple fractures of the spinous processes are attended by the following phenomena: Ecchymosis of the integuments covering the seat of fracture, pain and tenderness under pressure, also at the seat of fracture, with dis- placement and abnormal mobility of the broken spinous processes. If these be grasped by the thumb and fingers, they can be swayed from side to side, and the grating of the broken surfaces against each other will be felt by both patient and surgeon, as these movements of the broken-otf portions ot the spinous processes are made. But abnormal mobility may be imparted to the spinous processes from fractures of the corresponding pairs of lami- nae to which they are attached, as was noted in at least one of the cases above mentioned. Mobility of the spinous processes arising from this cause, how- ever, is not very liable to be mistaken for mobility arising from fracture ot the processes themselves, inasmuch as there are essential differences be- tween the false points of motion in the two cases; and no one having once had his attention called to the subject, would be likely to mistake the abnor- mal mobility of the vertebral spines which may result from fractures of the laminte they are attached to, for that which results from fractures of the spinous processes themselves. Again, when the patient bends the injured part of the spine strongly forward, and thus greatly increases the tension of the integuments over it, as well as the disposition of the spinous processes 1 Science and Art of Surgery, p. 291, Am. ed. 1854. * Op. cit., vol. i. p. 825