INJURIES OF THE BACK. 774 Op. cit., p. 38. 2 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871. belonging to the injured side ; it was followed by incomplete paralysis of all the limbs, ending in stupor. Antiphlogistic treatment had been entirely neglected.”1 Etiology.—Tlie impact of gunshot missiles upon the bodies of the vertebrse causes contusion thereof only when the force of the missiles is nearly spent, on the one hand, or when the direction of their flight is very oblique, so that they strike a glancing blow, on the other hand. When endowed with less force, they do no injury; and with greater force they produce fractures. Treatment.—The principal indication in the therapeusis of gunshot con- tusions of the spinal column is to prevent the occurrence of inflammation in the injured bone, and the spread of the inflammatory process therefrom to the meninges and medulla spinalis. This can best be accomplished by the extraction of all foreign bodies from the wounds, by the employment of anti- septic dressings, by thorough drainage by means of appropriate tubes, inserted for the purpose whenever necessary to prevent the collection of purulent secretions, and by enforcing perfect rest of the injured spinal column. Gunshot fractures of the vertebrae are caused by the impact of shell- fragments, spent cannon-balls, and small-arm missiles, but chiefly by the impact of the last named, after they have penetrated the integuments and other structures that cover the spinal column at the place of injury, or have reached it by passing through the great cavities of the body and organs which lie in front. In some rare instances, however, the fractures produced by cannon-balls and shell-fragments are simple, the integuments covering them being unbroken. Gunshot fractures of the vertebrae are usually com- minuted in character as well as compound ; and they are very often com- plicated with injury of the spinal cord and other important organs. For descriptive purposes, gunshot fractures of the vertebrae may advan- tageously be divided into two classes—namely, those which are restricted to the apophyses, and those which involve the vertebral bodies also. The former are some- times, perhaps frequently, unattended by in- jury of the spinal cord; the latter are but seldom uncomplicated with such injury. The former, too, are less fatal, as a rule, than the latter. The chief characteristics pertaining to gun- shot fractures of the spinal column, in general, are well shown by the following abstract, and by the wood-cut (Fig. 778) which accompanies it:— A soldier was wounded by a conoidal pistol-ball (calibre 44), which entered one and a half inches below and a little to the inner side of the left nipple, passed backward, grazing the apex of the heart, through the left lung, and onward through the body and left transverse process of the ninth dorsal vertebra ; it lodged in the subcutaneous tissue of the back, from which it was extracted, together with some small fragments of bone, through a small incision. The patient was paralyzed below the middle. He died of traumatic pericarditis and pneumonia, four days after the wound was inflicted.2 The deep groove across the spinal column which was punched out by the missile, and the comminution of the injured bone, are well depicted. The occurrence of paraplegia, of course, denotes that the spinal cord was also injured. Fig. 778. Showing a gunshot fracture of the body and left transverse process of the ninth dorsal vertebra. The missile and nine frag- ments of bone are also shown. (Spec. 5738, Sect. I, A. M. M.)