226 INJURIES OF BONES. blow, ‘ the ligament subsequently gave way completely on the outside, and a new patella formed in the very much elongated ligament on the inner side.” It must be clear that in so far as the separation of the fragments is due to effusion within the joint, it must lessen as the fluid is absorbed; and this phenomenon has been strikingly described by Malgaigne, as noted by him in two of his own cases. But the contraction of the quadriceps muscle can only induce a progressive increase of the interval, and may thus act, if unopposed, for a long time. Malgaigne says that the greatest separation within his knowledge was one observed by Sir A. Cooper, which amounted to four inches; but Cooper him- self says,1 “the bone maybe drawn five inches upward, the capsular ligament and tendinous aponeurosis covering it being then greatly lacerated ; and this, with one exception, is the greatest extent of separation which I have seen.” And MoVris2 says that “in St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum are two specimens in which the ligamentous union is six inches or more in length.” A curious shortening of the ligamentum patellae sometimes occurs; and though it is not generally of great extent, yet it contributes somewhat to the ultimate amount of separation between the fragments. Perhaps this is due in some degree to pressure by apparatus, which certainly often has the effect of causing the gap to be greater at the anterior surface than at the posterior. Callender3 has noted the occasional occurrence of hypertrophy of the frag- ments, as well as the fact that the opposite condition lias been met with, the broken portions becoming atrophied. He also mentions a specimen, in the museum of the Middlesex Hospital, in which the lower fragment has become united by bone to the tibia, so that the fibrous band between the fragments had come to represent the ligamentum patelbe. In one or two recorded instances, the upper fragment has contracted adhe- sions to the femoral condyles, but without any direct influence in impairing the usefulness of the limb. Befracture of the patella is not a very unfrequent occurrence. Sometimes, but rarely, the bond of union gives way. More frequently the bone separates at another point; and this, I think, is to be accounted for on the ground that as the use of the limb is acquired, one or other of the fragments comes to bear, as the original bone did, over the lower extremity of the femur, this portion then giving way under a “cross-breaking strain.” I have myself reported4 a case in which, under the use of Malgaigne’s hooks, I had succeeded in getting extremely close union of a transverse fracture, and the bone gave way, apparently at the same point, four months afterward, under a sudden slight strain. But instances of this kind are not common. Little5 has re- corded a case in which, ligamentous union having occurred, a second fracture, half an inch higher up, took place nine months afterward; so that when the patient finally recovered, there were three fragments and two clearly defined fibrous bands. Parson6 published an account of a case in which (in Decem- ber, 1874) the left patella was fractured at the junction of the middle and upper third; in October, 1880, the same bone gave way at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, and in August, 1882, it was again broken at the same point. Lloyd7 saw a patella broken by direct violence, which gave way again twice at intervals of twelve months. Bryant mentions a case seen by him, in which one patella had been broken twice, and the other three times. It is not very difficult to see why fracture of one patella should occasion 1 Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, p. 224. 2 Loc. cit., p. 1030. 3 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870, p. 49. 4 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Oct. 1861. 5 Med. Record, March 4, 1882. 6 Lancet, May 19, 1883. 7 Birmingham Medical Review, March, 1883.