DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 276 but absolute heat of a dry kind, and of as high a temperature as the patient can bear without pain. But it does not seem to me that its long continuance is of advantage; it may be used, according to its effect upon the pain, for from half an hour to an hour at a time, and may be repeated two or three times in the twenty-four hours. The simplest mode of application is by means of salt heated in a frying-pan, or in the oven, and placed in flannel bags—of which two should be provided, so that a fresh, hot one may replace that which has cooled. I suppose that this application acts as a derivative, for since tender- ness of the surface shows hypersemia of the superficial vessels, it is probable that the deeper parts are correspondingly made emptier. Blisters or other counter-irritants are not advisable during this stage of acute synovitis, but at a later period, when the object sought for, is, as we shall see, different, they may be properly employed. The treatment above described ought to quite suffice for subduing acute serous, sanguineous, or even purulent synovitis, and will be found efficient for that purpose; but patients of gouty, rheumatic, or even of strumous habit, may receive an injury resulting in synovitis, and the disease, becoming chronic, may, mingling with the constitutional taint, put on the characteristics of gouty, rheumatic, or other such disease. Such subacute or chronic endings of the disease are often unnecessarily prolonged, because the particular habit of body is either overlooked or too lightly regarded ; we should always, if not from the fii’st, still very early, consider the possibility of such complications, and we may then have to use, what need not be considered here, the appropriate remedies for these special forms of joint disease. But even if this do not occur, the reliquice of a severe attack of acute sy- novitis may be very lingering and very troublesome. Often, if considerable distension have been allowed to continue for some time, a certain laxity will render the part insecure, with a disagreeable sense as though something might readily slip out of place, while yet the joint is stiff and moves uneasily. Or again, after those cases in which the fluid is less, but the heat well marked— especially after purulent synovitis—there is left very considerable stiffness; every movement is more or less painful, the joint grates or crackles, and after use, as, for instance, in bed at night, it aches and will not lie comfortable in any position. If a little more exercise be taken, it not only is more painful, but may feel very useless, and may even swell again. In these states counter- irritation is often valuable. The milder counter-irritants, such as tincture of iodine, nitrate-of-silver solution, and others, may be applied directly over the joint; but stronger remedies, such as blisters, should be placed a little distance away, and generally above the synovial membrane, and, if possible, over the nerve or some of the nerves supplying it. Thus, for the elbow, a blis- ter occupying the inner aspect of the arm, just above the condyle, will do more good than if applied elsewhere; or if we wish to blister the knee, the application should be made above the joint, over the lower part of the inter- nal vastus, because here is situated a plexus between the crural and obturator branches, both of which send twigs to the knee. But I would not advise that blistering be carried far, and I myself prefer to stop short of vesication, repeating often what is little more than the use of a rubefacient. Another powerful means of causing absorption either of parietal thicken- ing or of remaining fluid effusion, as also of giving firmness to a relaxed joint, is compression. The mode in which I prefer to apply it is either by an elastic bandage or by strapping-plaster, according to certain circumstances. If there be mere weakness with thickening, with no or very little fluid effusion, compres- sion by strapping-plaster is best. The adhesive material may be either sim- ply the emplastrum resinse or the mercury and ammoniacum plaster of the British Pharmacopoeia; the emplastrum calefaciens is sometimes valuable, and