INJUKIES OF BONES. 126 during the expulsion of a child from the mother’s pelvis, the arm lying across the chest; and Hamilton mentions a similar case as having been seen by him, which had occurred in the practice of a Dr. Lockwood, as well as another related to him by Dr. Fanning, of Catskill, FT. Y. The latter case was one of head-presentation, and, as the right shoulder passed under the arch of the pubis, a snap was heard, the humerus giving way in its upper third. From Gurlt’s table, before quoted, it would seem that females are very much more liable to this injury during the first decade of life than in any subsequent one, while it is most common in males between the twentieth and thirtieth years. Under ten years, the cases in males and females are equally numerous, as they are also after the seventieth year; but in the intermediate period the cases in males are largely in excess. These statements, it must be remembered, are based upon a comparatively small number of cases; but they are sufficiently in accord with ordinary experience to be accepted, although further observa- tion may modify them to some extent. Under the term “ shaft of the humerus,” is comprised all of the bone between the lower limit of the surgical neck and the abrupt widening just above the condyles. Every variety of fracture may occur in the region thus included, and from every variety of cause—direct or indirect violence, or muscular action. Fractures from the last-named cause are, indeed, more frequently met with in the humerus than in any other bone in the body. A thorough knowledge of the muscular connections of the humerus is essential to a proper understanding of the mechanism of the production of these lesions, as well as of the displacements which ensue upon fractures from whatever cause. The upper extremity constitutes a mechanical system, of which the clavicle and scapula form a part, and in which the humerus is an intermediate lever; the ultimate object of the whole being the discharge of the functions of the hand. The muscles operating this system begin at the spinal column, taking their origin from its whole length, and from this point to the fingers each successive member of the system is in a rapidly increasing ratio of complexity of structure as well as of function, and in a diminishing ratio of mere strength. Perhaps it scarcely needs demonstration that on the humerus, as the only single lever of this system, and the member upon which are exerted the fix- ing muscles from the trunk, while from it arise the greater part of the moving muscles of the hand, the actions are all concentrated. The exact conditions of the leverage must vary indefinitely with the motions executed by the limb, as well as with the postures it assumes; and in very many of them the muscles passing downward from the humerus combine the arm, forearm, and hand into one continuous lever, in which case the stress upon the humerus must he proportionately increased. Accordingly, the humerus is by far the strongest of the bones entering into the system. Fractures of the humerus by direct violence need hardly be discussed, as regards the conditions of their production, since these are simple enough. Those produced by indirect violence, as by falls on the hand or on the elbow, or by striking a blow with the fist,1 are not difficult of comprehension. And the cases of fracture by muscular action, which is generally the effort of throw- ing, take place in obvious accordance with the laws of mechanics. So many instances of this kind are on record, that it is scarcely necessary to refer to them. I may, however, mention one reported by Lyon,2 in which a man, aged 30, had “a comminuted fracture of the right humerus, caused by violent muscular contraction in throwing a base-ball by the ‘ underhand’ method. The bone was broken into'several parts, extending from the lower to the 1 Lonsdale, op. cit., p. 166. 2 Trans, of Med. Society of Pennsylvania, 1878.