537 EXCISION OP THE KNEE-JOINT. to occur, but it is quite as likely for the bone to become necrosed, necessita- ting its removal at a later date, and thereby delaying union. Nature has intended the patella to act as a protection to the front of the joint, and also to give greater leverage power to the quadriceps-extensor muscle; but by removal of the knee-joint the usefulness of the patella is lost, and to leave it behind would serve no good end. Another question of practical interest is whether anything is to be gained by leaving behind the investing sheath of the patella. ' I have in all my own cases removed the patella, in some cases shelling it out of its bed like the kernel of a nut. I think that leaving the sheath is objectionable, for the reason that nothing is gained by doing so; as it acts as a periosteum, the vessels entering the bones are minute and numerous, and, being in fibrous tissue, great difficulty is experienced in stop- ping their bleeding; again, a cavity is left, which, after the limb is put up, fills with a clot of blood. In some of my cases the oozing from these vessels has been considerable. In the last three or four cases operated upon I have removed the patella and its investment, and have had much less trouble as regards hemorrhage. In contemplating the method of section of the bones, as above alluded to, it will be observed that they become locked as it were, the one into the other; in this position they are held by the muscles. As long as the bones remain in this relative position, it will be found that there is no chance of displace- ment ; indeed, I have experienced difficulty in separating them when the patient has slightly recovered from the anaesthetic. After removal of the joint, and of the tags which are sometimes found in the wound, all bleeding- points should be secured. This is a matter of great importance to the subse- quent success of the case; sometimes the vessels are very minute and very numerous, so that the bleeding is rather a general oozing than a hemorrhage from any vessel that can be ligated. Under these circumstances the appli- cation of hot carbolic lotion will be found of advantage. I have on several occasions packed the wound with sponge saturated with hot carbolic lotion, drawn down the flap, and proceeded to apply the splint, and have found on removal of the sponge, for the purpose of closing the wound, that nearly all bleeding had ceased. Various forms of apparatus are at the disposal of the surgeon, all having- one object, to retain the parts at rest sufficiently long to favor union of the soft parts as well as of the bones. This absolute rest should be combined with freedom from restraint. The apparatus should afford support to the limb, and at the same time should permit change of dressings, and removal of the patient from place to place, as occasion may require, without disturb- ing the bones. The apparatus which has seemed to me to answer the purpose better than any other, is that designed by Dr. Patrick Heron Watson, of Edinburgh. There are many advantages to be claimed for its use in dressing the limb after excision of the knee-joint. It is simple in construction, easy of applica- tion, and always at hand, and it admits of the application of dressings to the wound without disturbance or removal of the splint, thereby adding materi- ally to the comfort of the patient, and permitting careful cleansing of the part. In speaking of the splints devised by Mr. Butcher and others, Dr. Watson remarks, that he found them “ inconvenient and irksome in the last degree to both patient and surgeon.” He also draws attention to their unfitness for preventing displacement of the thigh, which is sure to occur “ in proportion to the restlessness of the patient.” And he says, “the displace- ments of the thigh I found, as described by every operator, to be of two kinds: rotation in a direction outwards, and abduction with a slight degree of pro- jection forwards. These displacements, I furthermore found, could not be