INJURIES OP BONES. 176 head of the ulna, and then makes pressure over the injured part by means of a wide band of adhesive plaster. Pilcher discards the compress, and uses the plaster only. I have myself used simply what may be called a very short splint—a slip of wood shaped so as to fill up the concavity just above the Figs. 615, 616. Levis’s splint for fractured radius. wrist, held in place by adhesive plaster first, and then with a bandage. When reduction has been completely effected in simple cases, without com- minution, either of these retentive means will suffice ; but they must be applied with great accuracy, and should be carefully watched, so that ad- ditional safeguards may be resorted to, if necessary. It should never be forgotten, in dressing these fractures particularly, that undue tightness of the bandage may lead to the most deplorable results. Reduction having been once effected, a properly fitted splint will keep the fragments in place, and permit the arm to be supported without any great constriction. All that is needed is that the roller should be put on snugly and uniformly. My own rule is to examine the condition of the parts every second day for the first two weeks, although this may be modified if there is no derange- ment of the apparatus, and if at the third or fourth time the fracture is found in perfectly satisfactory condition. Under such circumstances the in- terval may be extended to four or five days. Malgaigne’s practice in this respect, as stated by himself, seems to me to be scarcely a safe one to follow. He says:— “ I remove the apparatus at from the eighteenth to the twenty-second day, to ascertain the condition of things, and to remedy any displacement which may have occurred ; after this I do not touch it until the thirtieth day, when I leave the limb entirely at liberty. I would repeat, that by pursuing this method I have always found this fracture one of the easiest to cure, without stiffening, deformity, or the slightest impairment of the motions of the limb; excepting, of course, in those very grave cases complicated with actual luxation of the ulna.” Schede, whose splint has already been alluded to, uses a starched bandage over one of flannel, and makes passive motion every eighth day; removing the apparatus altogether at the end of three weeks. The starched or plaster-of- Paris bandage may. I think, be used with advantage in some cases after the second or third week, especially in the case of a restless child, or when the