953 pott’s disease of the spine. lower border of the old, when, as the old vest is drawn up over the head and removed, the new garment is made to occupy its place. The jacket, as already noted, must not be used in early or acute cases ; and it is, of course, useless when good consolidation of the part has ensued. It is inadmissible, also, in many cases where lung or heart complications exist, and in instances where an abscess projects in any part that would be covered by the jacket. The treatment also would appear, for many reasons, to be inadvisable in quite young children, although Mr. Golding Bird has applied Sayre’s jacket with success to an infant under twelve months of age.1 There are many objections to the use of plaster of Paris for the rigid casing. The plaster is apt to rub out of the bandages; it can rarely be applied so evenly as to exercise everywhere even pressure and support; it is heavy;2 and, lastly, it keeps the part from view for a long time, and often prevents serious complications from being detected. An abscess, that was not suspected when the jacket was applied, has shown itself for the first time by an escape of pus beneath the casing, and extensive excoriations also have occurred that might obviously have been prevented had not the jacket been immovable. Many of these objections are met by the use of the poro-plastic jacket. These jackets are made from a prepared felt, and are moulded upon a block so as to form corsets of various sizes suitable to patients of all ages. The patient is suspended in the usual way, and, wet clothes having been wrapped about the body, a corset of proper size is moulded to the figure. This moulding is readily effected, inasmuch as the jacket is rendered very pliable by a momen- tary immersion in boiling water. It is to avoid the injurious contact of the heated jacket that wet clothes are applied to the body durihg the moulding process. The felt soon “sets” again. The corset having been properly shaped, is then laced down the front, and, although it forms a perfectly rigid casing for the body, can yet be removed as often as is needed, and as readily reapplied. It has the further advantages over plaster of Paris, of being much lighter, firmer, and more equable in its support, and of requiring a shorter period of suspension. Agnew describes a jacket of half-tanned leather, which is thus applied: The child is suspended, and a Sayre’s jacket applied in the usual way. The patient is kept suspended until the plaster is dry, and the jacket is then cut clown in the middle line in front, and removed. From this jacket a cast in plaster of Paris is taken, and upon this the leather corset is moulded. The corset is strengthened by longitudinal strips of steel, and, when applied, is laced down the front. I fail to see the advantage of this apparatus over the simple poro-plastic jacket. Its use involves much trouble and labor, and great inconveniences to the patient, not the least of which is the prolonged suspension. The treatment of Pott's disease varies according to its situation. When the caries is in a part of the spine below the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, a jacket of some kind applied in the suspended posture may be used in the manner already detailed. But when the disease is at or above the third dor- sal vertebra, suspension is no longer of use, and the jacket alone would be also of no avail. In such cases the head must be fixed, and the upper part of the column kept rigid and extended by some form ot “jury-mast.” (Fig. 815.) This jury-mast consists essentially oi a rigid bar of malleable iron or steel, that is placed along the back (being moulded to its curve), and extends some way above the head. To the summit of the bar an apparatus is fixed, that 1 Trans. Internat. Med. Congress, 1881, vol. iv. p. 161. * The jacket, as applied to quite young children, may weigh five or six pounds. (Trans. Internat. Med. Congress, vol. iv. p. 168.)