161 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. porting splint may be left off, and in a week more the hand may he set at liberty; next the small splints may be removed, and then the apparatus may be permitted to become loose, and so worn for a few days, when it may be finally dispensed with. Pseudarthrosis, when it occurs in the ulna, is not easy to deal with on account of the presence of the radius. Of sixteen cases collected by Muhlen- berg,1 five were treated successfully by drilling, and in one the plan failed; four by resection, with one success, two failures, and the result in one not stated; three by frictions, with two successes and one failure; one successfully by tincture of iodine applied to the skin ; another by scraping the periosteum subcutaneously; and another by mere mechanical pressure. From this it would appear that the methods which do not involve much disturbance of the parts are, in the case of this bone, the most effective. I may add that Le Fort2 has recently recorded a case in which he succeeded in obtaining union by means of electricity. Malgaigne quotes from Berard a case of comminuted fracture of the lower fourth of the ulna, with division, not only of the muscles, but of the ulnar artery and nerve; he tied both ends of the artery, dressed the wound, placed the forearm first upon cushions and afterward in the ordinary apparatus for fracture of both bones, and succeeded in obtaining, at the end of sixty-eight days, complete consolidation and cicatrization. Fractures of the radius alone constitute a very large proportion of the whole number of fractures, not only of the upper extremity, but of the skele- ton in general. But this is due to the frequency with which the bone gives way at its lower part, close to the wrist; the other portions of it are much more rarely broken. In illustration of this statement, I may quote the figures given by Agnew,3 derived from the registers of the Pennsylvania Hospital. Out of 648 fully recorded cases, 24, nearly 4 per cent., were in the upper third of the bone; 53, a little over 8 per cent., in the middle third; and 571, about 88 per cent., in the lower. Hamilton’s observations present a curious agreement with these; out of 101 cases, 3 were in the upper third of the bone, 6 in the middle third, and 92 in the lower. Fractures in the upper third of the bone are generally, I think, the result of direct violence. But in 1856 I saw a case under the care of Dr. Milton- berger, in Baltimore, in which the radius had given way very high up as the patient was pulling very hard in driving a pair of horses. I do "not know of any other recorded case of the kind, but the history of this one was clear, and the mechanism may be easily perceived ; the twist impressed upon the bone by the action of the biceps was such as to overcome the strength of the tissue. Fracture of the neck of the radius, properly so called, may take place from direct violence, as in some cases of crushing of the elbow; although I think this' bone is more apt to escape by reason of its mobility and small size. But no instance is known to me in which it has been ascertained to be broken by itself. The specimen in the Mutter Museum, which has been sometimes said to illustrate this lesion, is, in fact, one of fracture through the tubercle, and the displacement is such as to show the action of the biceps upon the upper as well as upon the lower fragment; it is without history, which is much to be regretted. Moore4 has reported a case in which the separation was clearly high up in the shaft, and not in the neck itself; and he refers to another, observed by Parker, where there was luxation of the head of the bone, which 1 Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. pp. 768, 769, 770, 806. 2 Bull, et Mem. de la Society de Chirurgie de Paris, 1882. 3 Op. cit,. vol. i. p. 901. 4 London Med. Gazette, Oct. 17, 1845. VOL. IV.—11