TUMORS OF JOINTS.' 431 to the attachment of a tendon—or they are mushroom-shaped, having a small cylindrical stalk, and a broad, outspreading end. These are such as in their growth project against the skin or tight fasciae, or otherwise against firm obstacles.1 Indeed, the shape of these growths depends chiefly or entirely on the pressure of surrounding parts. They are often multiple, several appealing on different bones, or on the same bone, and the tendency to these multiple exostoses is certainly hereditary. In 1879 my friend, Mr. Whitehead, now of the Army Medical Department, brought me a boy on whom we counted 238 exostoses scattered over every bone which could be felt. The boy’s father, now no longer alive, had had, according to the lad’s account, a great number of similar growths; and Mr. Whitehead took some pains to obtain an opportunity of examining the boy’s brother, and told me that he had even more exostoses than the lad whom I saw. One form of bunion consists of a mushroom-shaped exostosis, springing from the inner part of the first metatarsal bone, close to the phalangeal joint. It is doubtless produced in the first instance by wearing pointed shoes, for- cing the great toe outwards, and causing excessive pressure to fall on the head of the metatarsal bone. Between the exostosis and the skin a bursa is developed, which frequently inflames, and sometimes suppurates. Exostoses are easily distinguished from all other growths by their form and situation; by their attachment to or union with the bone, following therefore its move- ments and being immovable independently; by their presence being unob- served until a certain size has been attained; and then by their slow growth. These tumors very rarely produce trouble in the joint itself, but they frequently embarrass movement by pressing upon tendons and fascia.', and thus interfering with their action. Treatment.—No internal remedy, nor any outward application, affects the growth of an exostosis, and therefore the only remedy is detachment. Such an operation, however, could not be thought of for a moment in the case of multiple tumors; nor, indeed, does it appear to me desirable in single growths, unless pain on movement or very considerable deformity be produced. The removal is, as a rule, very easy.2 A simple, longitudinal incision upon the most projecting point, or, if the growth be large, a semilunar cut, permitting a flap to be turned up, serves to expose the growth, whose base is then to be cleared with the scalpel or raspatory ; a narrow saw, an osteotomy chisel, or cutting bone-forceps, may then be used to sever the base of the growth from its attachment. The section should be made so that no part of the stem is left attached, but the bone surface must be made level and smooth. If this have not been effected bv the cutting instrument, the osteotrite or gouge must be used to make the part smooth and even. Great circumspection should be exercised in recommending this operation for the exostoses of bunions, especially in persons advanced in life. The late Mr. Maunder, observing that in certain cases accidental fracture of an exostosis had relieved the patient from all pain and trouble, imitated this fortuitous occurence in two cases.3 Protecting the skin by chamois leather, he seized the tumor in gas-fitters’ pliers, and broke its stalk, afterwards using passive movement to prevent reattachment. In one case this attempt was unsuccessful (exostosis above outer femoral condyle), but the tumor became reunited in a position which hardly at all incommoded the patient. In the second case (exostosis on inner tuberosity of tibia) the growth remained loose. 1 Exostoses which spring from the subscapular fossa and grow forward, are always thus flattened against the thorax. 1 We have not now to do with ivory exostoses. 3 Clinical Society’s Transactions, vol. xi. p. 59.