727 DISLOCATIONS OP THE VERTEBRAL not above 48 hours. In one of Dupuytren’s cases, that has just been men- tioned, death ensued in 10 hours; and Professor Hamilton refers to an instance of complete dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra, without fracture, in which death occurred in 2 hours. But, on the other hand, Mr. Bryant men- tions the case of a gentleman, aged 29, with complete paralysis below the fifth cervical vertebra, caused by a fall upon the neck, who was still alive over six years afterward, and breathing by the diaphragm alone. Mr. Hilton, likewise, has recorded the case of a man who lived for fourteen years com- pletely paralyzed from the neck downward, after sustaining a fracture of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. Such exceptions to the rule, however, are very rare. The prognosis in cases of dislocation or fracture of the cervical vertebrae must be mainly determined by the seat of the lesion, and the amount of dam- age which the spinal cord has received. Usually, the nearer the seat of the injury is to the respiratory centre, the greater is the danger to life. When, however, no paralysis appears in the case, it will generally end in recovery, for luxations of the vertebrae unattended by lesions of the spinal cord do not seem to be any more hazardous to life than luxations of other bones of a cor- responding size. It should not be forgotten, however, that where there is no paralysis at first, it may supervene in a few hours in consequence of the dis- placement of bone becoming increased, or from the extravasation of blood between the theca and the cord, or from the occurrence of traumatic inflam- mation of the cord or its membranes. Several illustrative cases have already been mentioned. In the following instance, paralysis and death resulted from traumatic meningo-myelitis:— Simon1 relates the case of a woman, aged 18, who fell eleven or twelve feet and was stunned. She walked home, three or four miles, and resumed work for eleven days. Then pain, fever, etc., appeared ; and, on the sixteenth day, paralysis. Delirium, “jumping of legs,” etc., followed, and, in eighteen days, death ensued. Fracture of the seventh cervical vertebra was found, and the spinal canal tilled with pus. (Ashhurst.) Certain symptoms are considered of peculiarly evil omen in cases of spinal injury. They are a steady increase in the extent or degree of the par- alysis, dysphagia, dyspnoea, flushed face, and alteration of the vital tem- perature. These symptoms, however, and their import, will be discussed further on in this article. Here, I will only mention a single case reported by Brodie,2 wherein the cervical portion of the spine was injured, and there was paraplegia with diaphragmatic breathing. A thermometer placed between the thighs showed the body-heat to be 111° Fahr. Death ensued in twenty-two hours. Displacement of the fifth from the sixth cervical ver- tebra was found, and laceration of the cord with effusion of blood in the spinal canal. The 'proximate cause of death m dislocations and fractures of the lower cer- vical vertebrae generally consists in a creeping upward of certain morbid processes which have been set up in the spinal membranes, or in the substance of the spinal cord, opposite the vertebral lesion, from the place of primary injury to the roots of the phrenic nerves (above the third cervical vertebra), whereupon these nerves cease to act, the diaphragm ceases to contract, and death from asphyxia ensues. In some cases the morbid process consists in extravasation of blood between the theca vertebralis and the cord, which spreads upward until it compresses the cord at and above the third cervical vertebra, as happened in the case of a soldier mentioned above, who dislo- cated his neck in vainly attempting to turn a somersault. In other cases, the * Proc. Lond. Path. Soc., vol. vi. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xx.