TUMORS. 548 If a tumor possesses a structure similar to that of the parent tissue, it is termed homologous. But if its structure differs from the structure of the parent tissue, even if it belong to the same histological series, it is termed heterologous. Thus, a fibrous tumor growing from the fibrous fascia of a limb, is a homologous tumor; an osseous tumor growing from the same fascia is heterologous. There is, however, a heterology of another kind—that in which a tumor extends into a tissue which belongs to an entirely different series. A tumor of epithelial origin and composed of epithelial tissues, may thus extend into connective tissues; or, Vice versa, a tumor of the connective- tissue series may extend into tissues composed of epithelium. With hetero- logy, especially with the second form of heterology, is often associated malig- nancy—but heterology does not necessarily imply malignancy ; on the other hand, it may be truly said that a tumor which is, and which remains homo- logous, is never a malignant tumor. The influence of the parent tissue is not limited to the structure which it impresses on a tumor. As will presently be seen in the life-history of malignant tumors, the origin of a tumor exerts a powerful influence on the course it will pursue, and even on the fact and method of dissemination. The effects which tumors exercise on the structures in the midst of which they grow, depend largely on the nature of the tumor and the manner of its growth. A tumor which increases slowly by interstitial growth, usually condenses the tissues in its immediate vicinity into a covering or capsule, which, separating it from the surrounding tissues, serves at the same time to connect it with them. Through the capsule it derives support by vessels 1 directly connected with the vessels of the normal parts. Such a tumor pro- duces most of its effects by pressure, causing atrophy and absorption, cutting off blood and nerve supply to near and distant parts. Or inflammation may be lighted up, with resulting adhesion or destruction of the inflamed struc- tures. The infiltrating tumors also produce atrophy and absorption of the natural structures by pressure of their invading elements, but their effects are not confined to these. The invasion is usually preceded or surrounded by a cloud of small round cells, probably colorless blood-corpuscles drawn from the vessels by irritation; these probably are not transformed into the cell-elements of the tumor, but disappear or retract before the advancing growth. The corpuscles of connective tissue, the endothelial cells of lymphatics and bloodvessels, proliferate, and the young cells which* result from the pro- liferation are probably transformed into the cell-elements of such tumors as sarcomas. But, whether a similar transformation takes place in carcinoma, is still a debated point. The alternative is that the elements of the invaded tissues are gradually destroyed and replaced by those of the growing tumor, which increase either by division or endogenous formation. The intercel- lular structures are at first incorporated in the substance of the tumor, and then, in many instances, destroyed. In the carcinomas, however, though fibrous tissues form the fibrous stroma of the tumor, or at least a goodly portion of the stroma, there is reason to believe that part of the stroma may be formed anew. Certain tissues resist the progress of a tumor far more ob- stinately than others. The hardness of the tissue is not the only force by which this resistance is effected. Thus, bone gives way more readily than cartilage or tough fibrous membrane; as may be seen in the sarcomas of bones bordering on joints, where the cartilage protects the joint long after every particle of the epiphyseal bone has been destroyed, and in the penetra- tion of the entire thickness of the skull by a tumor which has not yet perfo- rated the pericranium. The explanation of these facts is to be sought, not merely in the toughness of the membrane and elasticity of the cartilage, but,