ANGEIOMA OR VASCULAR TUMOR. 597 many surgeons to adopt an expectant plan of treatment. The course of the disease is watched, and as long as there is no very rapid increase of the tumor, no active measures are employed. Unfortunately, this reposal of con- fidence in the good otfices of nature is far too frequent and too long continued, and is apt to be met by a very ill return. The nsevus continues slowly and steadily to increase in size ; and what was a mere speck in an infant a few days after birth, becomes a plaque the size of a sixpence or a dime by the time the child is six months old. A tiny drop of nitric acid would, in the first instance, have sufficed for the complete cure, and the scar would have been scarcely appreciable. But now the cure is far more difficult, and the scar will be six times as large.1 Treatment.—If a neevus is increasing in size, it should be treated; nay, the safer rule for guidance is, if a nsevus is not diminishing in size, it should be treated. The selection of an appropriate method of treatment depends, to a certain extent, on the character and situation of the tumor, but is apt to be embar- rassed by the number and variety of methods from which the selection may be made. The various methods may, however, I believe, be classed under three heads: those which aim at inducing shrinking of the tumor; those which bring about its complete destruction; those by which it is at once removed. The means of the first class most commonly employed are pres- sure, the application of collodio 1 mi p • are rarely may be produced merely by pads and strapping, but the difficulty of main- taining equable and constant pressure, sufficiently firm to be of use and yet not hard enough to produce ulceration or sloughing, is probably one great reason why it is not more often employed. The application of collodion is of course easily made, and the collodion is easily removed; but, although under its use the vessels are constricted, and the tumor loses much of its color, the good result is for the most part oidy temporary. Galvanism is employed in the form of the continuous current, with the object of producing, not ulceration or destruction of the tumor, but clotting, with decomposition of the blood and perhaps of certain of the tissues, followed by shrinking of the mass. Any good constant-current battery may be em- ployed. A variable number of cells is required, according to the size of the [Revus, but an average number of six or eight,2 if the battery is in good work- ing order. Insulated needles made of gold are the best for the purpose: for a small naevus, one or two needles at the negative, and a charcoal point at the positive pole. The needles are thrust well into the tumor, so that the insu- lated portions are in contact with the integument; otherwise small sloughs are formed around each puncture. The operation lasts for several (ten or fifteen) minutes. Shortly after the introduction of the needles, bubbles of gas pass out beside them, and similar bubbles may be seen traversing the superficial vessels. The nsevus then becomes firm from the formation of a clot, and changes its color to a bluish-white. The operation is painful, so that an anaesthetic is usually administered, but there is no subsequent pain. From one to three or four sittings are required, according to the size and character 1 I have known a medical man in large practice bring his own child more than a hundred miles to London, for the treatment of a cutaneous nsevus of the face, about two-thirds of an inch in diameter, which he told me was a scarcely visible red point a week after the child was horn. If, Instead of watching it for several months, he had at that time touched it with the tiniest drop of nitric acid, the journey might have been avoided, and the nsevus cured without appreciable scarring. 2 As many as fifteen or even twenty-five cells are required when the weaker forms of battery are employed. successful, but the last named Pressure