576 TUMORS. this doctrine is not quite in accordance with those which have hitherto been taught. For, while it has been admitted that cartilaginous tumors are inno- cent, the admission has been modified by adding that certain of them are malignant, and examples have been cited of cartilaginous tumors of the testis and the bones, in which the disease has attacked the lymphatic glands, the lungs, and other organs, and has rapidly proved fatal. But, as I have pointed out elsewhere,1 this statement rests on an error of diagnosis; for the tumors which pursue this irregular course are chondrifying sarcomas, not chon- dromas. Treatment.—Removal with the knife is the treatment most appropriate to most chondromas. Even a small tumor of the septum nasi requires removal, on account of the partial or complete obstruction of the nostril which it causes. Chondromas of the salivary glands may usually be dissected out without seriously damaging the gland, provided that they are of small size. Those of the lachrymal gland and testis more often necessitate complete removal of the organ. Multiple chondromas of the fingers may and should be left uninter- fered with as long as the hand and fingers can be used; but if their weight, and size, and number, incumber the hand so as to render it not only useless but a burden, amputation at the wrist or forearm must be performed. When the affection is limited to a single tumor of a finger, a very different course may be pursued. Even the finger may be preserved, and remain a useful and sightly member, after the tumor, large in relation to the bone in which it lies, has been removed. One case I can call to mind at present, in which a tumor was scooped out of the interior of the second phalanx of a young lady’s finger, five or six years ago. At the last report (December, 1882) she was well, had never suffered from recurrence, and was able to use the finger easily ; yet the tumor occupied the interior of the phalanx from end to end, was so large that it produced great unsightliness, had destroyed all the bone, with the excep- tion of a very thin shell at the back and sides, and was so friable in parts that separate fragments required to be scooped out after the removal of the main mass, so that there appeared a danger lest some minute fragment had been left behind. From this and similar cases it is clear that an attempt should be made, wherever it is feasible, to remove the disease, leaving the part from which it grows. Osteoma or Osseous Tumor. An osteoma is a tumor composed of bone, either cancellous or compact. Bone tumors are not rare; they grow almost exclusively from the skeleton, but a few examples have been described in connection with the dura mater (separate from the skull), and even in the interior of the brain and of the eye. They are also observed occasionally in the lung and in the testis. The additamentary masses of bone which grow in the synovial fringes of joints affected by rheumatoid arthritis, scarcely belong to the category of tumors. And a similar objection may be made to the small masses of bone in tendons and aponeuroses, which are probably due to the ossification of inflammatory products. The cancellous osteomas grow usually from the long bones—the femur, tibia, and humerus above all others ; sometimes at the attachments of the muscles or tendons, but chiefly towards their extremities. They are found usually at or about the junction of the epiphysis with the diaphysis, where the increase in the length of the bone is effected. And, as they occur generally in young 1 Sarcoma and Carcinoma, chap. ii. London, 1882.