INJURIES OF THE BACK. 754 move only by supporting his head with his hands. Death suddenly occurred. Dissec- tion showed fracture of the odontoid process. (Ashhurst.) Professor Willard Parker, of New York, some years ago, had the case of a milkman, aged 40, who was injured by being thrown from a wagon about fifteen feet, and striking his head and face on the ground. There was pain in the neck and a protuberance on the left side thereof. He could not turn his head, but supported it with his hands. He got so well that he resumed his milk business, and survived the injury for five months. He died suddenly, after a hard day’s work, on the fragments becoming displaced by an accident, bis head dropping forward upon his chest, at the table, to such a degree as to compress the spinal cord. Dissection showed fracture of the odontoid process ; and the lower end turned back to the spinal cord. This patient would have recovered had he hut kept his head and neck at perfect rest until consolidation of the fracture had ensued. In the following example recovery did take place, and some time afterward the man died of a non-surgical disorder:— Mr. B. Phillips1 had under his care a laborer, aged 32, injured by falling head fore- most from a hay-rick. In a little while he was able to arise. In two days he went to work again. A month afterwards, he walked two miles to consult his surgeon. His neck was stiff, there was a protuberance at the back of the pharynx, with some difficulty in swallowing, but no paralysis. One year after the accident he died from dropsy. The antopsy showed fractures of the atlas and odontoid process, with displacement of some pieces forward against the pharynx ; the occipital bone had settled down on the axis, and formed a new joint; the spinal cord was unhurt. The spinal foramen in the first and second vertebrae is quite large ; and, therefore, these bones may be extensively damaged without seriously injuring the spinal cord. Mr. R. Debenham2 also mentions a case in which the odontoid process was fractured, and recovery followed. The subject was a shoemaker, and the lesion was verified by dissection two years after the accident. Cases in which the odontoid process was spon- taneously fractured, that is, fractured in consequence of disease, have been reported by Hyrtl, by Else, and by Flint; and, in each instance, death occurred instantaneously.3 Professor Stephen Smith, in an article on “Fracture of the Odontoid Pro- cess,”4 has collected twenty-two cases. Six occurred spontaneously, in con- sequence of disease, and all ended fatally except one, in which a portion of the bone was discharged through the throat; four were gunshot cases, all fatal; seven were caused by external violence, all likewise fatal; five were cases in which a portion of the bone had been discharged, with four recoveries and one death ; aggregating but five recoveries and seventeen deaths. Dr. Smith has found, by experiment, that, although the odontoid process is not fractured by being driven against the transverse ligament on the anterior arch of the atlas, the odontoid ligaments combined are stronger than the odontoid process, and “ that the efficient agents in this fracture are the odontoid ligaments.” The odontoid process has been fractured from violence directly applied; and from external violence indirectly applied, e.g., to the forehead, to the side of the head, and to the back part of the neck. The symptoms of this accident are pain and stiffness in the neck, swelling in the region of the first and second vertebrae, and a protuberance in the pharynx at the same region ; but, probably, the chief symptom is that the patient carries the head supported on the two hands. This symptom, however, has been observed in cases where the occipito-atloid articulation,that is, the articulatio capitis, has been disrupted, 1 Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx. p. 78. 2 London Hosp. Reports, vol. iv. p. 210. 3 P. Bevan (Dublin Med. Press, February, 1863) reports a case in which there was fracture of the odontoid process, perfect anchylosis of its apex with the occipital bone, and partial luxation forward of the atlas. (New Syd. Soc. Year-book, 1864, p. 280.) 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1871, pp. 338—58.