639 CARCINOMA. wherever carcinoma grows—it infiltrates the affected part. The outward signs of infiltration are induration and immobility. The degree of immobility de- pends on the nature of the part affected and the stage of the disease. An epithelioma is, at its commencement, fixed to the skin, or mucous membrane, and moves only with these structures, but in a later stage it may connect them with deeper and less movable parts, and the fixation may become complete. A carcinoma of the mamma is, in its earliest condition, an indu- rated portion of the gland, but is as freely movable as the gland itself. As the disease advances, it may attach the affected portion of the gland to the skin, or, worse still, to the pectoral muscle, or even to the ribs, when the im- mobility becomes complete. A carcinoma of the testis affects, as far as its clinical characters are concerned, the entire organ; the scrotum may never become adherent, and the impaired mobility which is noticed in the later stages is generally due to the size and weight of the tumor, and to the thick- ening and stiffening of the cord. Continued growth, and, where the disease is superficial, continual advance of ulceration, are also characters significant of carcinoma. The exception which occurs in the shrinking of some hard car- cinomas of the breast, must of course be borne in mind. In most instances, the growth is not only continuous, but rapid in comparison with the growth of all other tumors of the same part except sarcoma. Few carcinomas attain a large size; indeed, their largest bulk is insignificant in comparison with that of some of the sarcomas, and of many of the innocent tumors. A primary carcinoma may be of quite small size, even when it is the parent of numerous secondary tumors, and, when general carcinosis is far advanced. Multiple, primary carcinomas are very unusual, much more so than multiple, primary sarcomas. The progress of a carcinoma is almost invariably from bad to worse. Spontaneous cure, even by sloughing of the tumor, is almost unknown. But the natural duration of the disease, and the manner in which it terminates, are variable, and influenced by many circumstances. Even tumors of the same organ are subject to marvellous variation in the length of life vouch- safed to the patient. A carcinoma of the breast may run its course with every detail of malignancy in three or four months; and, on the other hand, well authenticated cases are on record, in which carcinomas of the breast have existed from twelve to twenty years, and have not then produced such exten- sive morbid changes as the more rapid tumors have effected in a quarter of a year. But the general tendency of the disease is to infiltrate and fasten together adjacent structures, to affect, in many instances, the neighboring lymphatic glands, and to produce secondary tumors in other tissues and organs. The affection of lymphatic glands is of such frequent occurrence that it has been regarded as essentially a character of carcinoma, almost alone sufficient to distinguish it from other malignant tumors. This is a false impression, which is corrected in this, and in the section on sarcoma. All carcinomas do not affect the lymphatic glands, but all carcinomas of certain organs and tissues affect them. The glands first affected are those which stand in a direct anatomical relation to the part in which the primary disease is situated; but the period at which the lymphatic glands become affected is subject to the widest variation. Thus, a carcinoma of the breast may be first noticed simultaneously with affection of the axillary glands, and, although there is no doubt that the latter is secondary to the former, there is very little doubt that the interval between the two diseases has not been very long, perhaps only a few weeks. In contrast to this rapidity of extension, there are cases of carcinoma of the breast in which affection of the glands has been deferred five, seven, or eight years. When a gland is once involved, although fhe