EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 472 flap-operations, the best is probably that with a semilunar or U-shaped in- cision, as advised by Morel and Bell (Fig. 698), but it makes an unnecessarily large wound, and the transverse division of the fibres of the deltoid muscle renders the arm less serviceable than it would be under other circumstances. It is a matter of some importance, when it can be done, to preserve the integrity of the long head of the biceps muscle, and this can usually be accom- plished by carefully opening the sheath, and having an assistant hold the tendon to one side with a blunt hook or a retractor. The capsular ligament is then to be divided, and the tuberosities of the humerus successively rotated into the wound, and cleared from their muscular attachments by using the probe-pointed knife. Finally, the head of the bone is made to project by pushing the elbow first backwards and then upwards, and its neck is then cut through with the chain-saw. If the glenoid cavity be diseased, it can next be attacked with the gouge or gouge-forceps; or, if too extensively in- volved to be thus dealt with successfully, may be exposed, by the aid of a transverse incision if necessary, and removed with the saw as directed in speaking of excisions of the scapula. Hemorrhage having been arrested, a drainage-tube is to be introduced, and the sides of the wound accurately ap- proximated by means of the interrupted suture. An olive-oil dressing may then be applied, and the arm may be supported upon a Stromeyer’s cushion until the wound has been fairly consolidated, after which a simple sling will afford sufficient support. The advantage in using Stromeyer’s cushion instead of an ordinary axillary pad, is that, by keeping the elbow somewhat forward and away from the side, the contraction of the wound is encouraged, and the ligamentous bands by which repair is effected are shorter than they would be otherwise. The first formal excision of the head of the humerus for disease appears to have been successfully performed by Bent, of Newcastle (England), in 1771,1 wdiile the first excision of the entire scapulo-humeral articulation was per- formed, likewise successfully, by the elder Moreau, in 1786. The first excision for gunshot fracture was that of Percy, in 1792, and the first American case of the same kind that of Dr. W. Ingalls, of Boston, which occurred in the winter of 1812-13. The operation is a very successful one, considering its magnitude, the death- rate in military surgery, as shown by the table on page 444, having been but 35.4 per cent.., while in civil practice the results have been still more favorable, 115 terminated cases of excision for disease, tabulated by Culbert- son,2 having given but 21 deaths, a mortality of only 18.2 per cent.; compar- ing these figures with those of shoulder-joint amputation,3 which show a death-rate for all cases taken together of 37.7 per cent., it is obvious that, even as a means of saving life, excision, when admissible, is entitled to the prefer- ence.4 The advantages of this operation are made still more apparent by the consideration that, in the successful cases in Dr. Culbertson’s table, 63, or more than two-thirds of the patients are known to have had useful limbs, while the “end-result” of the procedure in military practice was, according to 1 The operations of Charles White (1768) and Vigaroux (1767), appear to have been excisions in the continuity of the humerus (see p. J3, note), while those of Schaeifenberg (1726), Thomas (1740), and Boucher (1745), were extractions of sequestra or fragments, and not formal excisions. A German surgeon, named Lentin, is said to have excised the head and greater part of the shaft of the humerus in 1771, the same year as that of Bent’s operation. 2 Prize Essay : Transactions Am. Med. Association, vol. xxvii., supplement. 1876. 3 See Vol. I. p. 647. 4 The statistics of the War of the Rebellion, taken by themselves, show a less rate of mortality for shoulder-joint amputation, the death-rate of which operation, as given by Drs. Otis and Huntington, was 29.1 per cent., as compared with 36.6 per cent, for excision. (Op. cit., Third Surgical Volume, pp. 875-877.)