736 INJURIES OF THE BACK. The various kinds of cervical dislocation enumerated above are of great importance: (1) Because they constitute the sole lesions in about one-half of all the cases of vertebral injury which occur in civil life; (2) Because they are very deadly and often end very quickly; and (3) Because there is ground for hope that with improved methods of treatment their fatality may he considerably diminished. Dislocations in the Dorsal and Lumbar Regions.—Dislocations of the vertebne unattended by fracture are comparatively rare in the dorsal and lumbar regions. To illustrate this point, 1 will again state that, in 394 cases of spinal injury collected by Professor Ashhurst, only 17 examples of pure dislocation are reported as having occurred in the dorsal region, and hut 3 in the lumbar region, while 104 cases of uncomplicated dislocation are credited to the cervical region. Again, of 56 fatal cases of spinal fracture and dis- location observed at Guy’s Hospital, in which there were autopsies, 36 occurred in the cervical region (11 thereof being examples of pure dislocation, and the remaining 25 being instances of dislocation combined with fracture), 18 occurred in the dorsal region, and 2 in the lumbar (Bryant); but only two or three of the dorsal and lumbar cases, at the utmost, were examples of pure dislocation. The comparatively great infrequency of pure dislocations in the dorsal and lumbar regions is explicable: (1) by the fact that in traumatic spinal lesions of all sorts the cervical region is affected much oftener than both the other regions combined; and (2) by the way in which the articular processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae ai’e locked together, and by the extreme obliquity of the dorsal spinous processes, the consequence whereof is, as a rule, that at least some one or more of them is broken when a dislocation occurs in these regions. Luxations unattended by fracture are, therefore, quite exceptional in the dorsal and lumbar spine. Etiology.—Dislocations of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae are always due, directly or indirectly, to the application of external force; muscular action is never their chief cause. They are often produced by heavy falls from high places upon the back, shoulders, or buttocks; and, in such cases, the disloca- tion is, in the first-mentioned instance, directly, and, in the last two instances, indirectly occasioned, as a rule. Dorsal and lumbar dislocations, too, are not unfrequently caused, directly, by heavy blows upon the back and loins. For example, in 20 cases of dorsal or lumbar dislocation collected by myself, the lesion was caused by falling from high places, e.y., from trees, from the windows and upper floors of houses, etc., in 8 instances; by falling down fourteen or fifteen steps in 1 instance; and, by falling upon the buttocks in 1 instance. Also, the lesion was caused by a blow on the back from a ton- weight, in 1 instance; by being struck on the back by a falling door, in 1 instance; by the fall of a scaffold-pole, in 1 instance; by being struck by fall- ing timber on the shoulders, in 1 instance, and on the loins, in 1 instance; by the running of a carriage-wheel against the back, in 1 instance; by being struck on the back by a falling wall, in 1 instance; by the fall of a mass of chalk, in 1 instance; and, by striking the back against a beam in driving through an archway, in 2 instances. In each of the 10 cases, first mentioned, the luxation was caused by a heavy fall; and, in each of the remaining 10 cases, it was produced by a heavy blow on the back. To illustrate dorsal luxation, the following case is in point:— A man,1 from falling down through five hatchways, received a dislocation of the sixth from the seventh dorsal vertebra, and was brought to the Brooklyn City Hospital. “ No other injury was sustained. He presents all the symptoms of this lamentable 1 Medical Record, p. 145, vol. ix. 1874.