EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 617 whole on a pillow and in a large fracture-box. The condi- Fig. 744. tion of the joint, when it was laid open, amply justified our decision as to the necessity of interference, the semilunar cartilages having entirely, and the crucial ligaments almost, disappeared, the articular cartilages being eroded, and the femoral condyles and tibia being carious. The greater part of the joint was obliterated by the existence of intra-articular adhesions, while in front of the femur there was a portion of synovial membrane which had undergone the gelatiniform change, thus illustrating the fact, which is familiar to surgeons who see many of these cases, that the gelatinous and the ordinary form of arthritis often coexist in the same case, and that, as regards their pathology, they differ in degree rather than in kind. The convalescence of this patient after the operation was rapid and satisfactory. The wound united by adhesion, ex- cept at its extreme corners; the last ligature—only five were employed—dropped on the sixteenth day; the splint was removed for the first time during the sixth week, and, osseous union having occurred, was replaced by a pasteboard gutter about a week later. By the middle of May the patient was allowed to sit up, and in the latter part of the same month began to walk with crutches ; in the beginning of June the pasteboard splint was exchanged for a simple soap plaster and bandage, and on July 3, one hundred and one days after the date of operation, the patient was discharged, cured, a photograph, from which the annexed wood-cut (Fig. 744) is taken, having been previously secured. At this time the wound was firmly healed, and the patient could walk without artificial assistance. Result of excision of the knee- joint. One of the most difficult excisions in its performance, and at the same time one of the most gratifying in its results, that I have ever met with, was that which was briefly related on page 446. By a curious coincidence, two years afterwards, another lady of about the same age (32 years), and also a school-teacher, while visiting friends in West Chester, heard of the successful result in this case, and, consulting Dr. Massey in regard to her own knee, was by him sent to me. She had suffered from disease of the articulation in early childhood, and when she came under my observation had the joint fixed by bony anchylosis at an angle of less than 90°, so that she could only walk by the aid of a stilt-like support which she wore under her cloak. I operated upon her knee by Buck’s method (excision in a block) on April 17, 1879, and she returned to her home in the following September, with a straight and firm limb, which has since constantly increased in usefulness. Her convalescence was delayed by profuse suppuration, and by the oc- currence of secondary hemorrhage, without any obvious cause, during the third week after operation. I have, in all, excised the knee-joint 26 times in 25 patients—one case was an example of re-excision—with 22 recoveries (one of these after amputa- tion), 2 cases not terminated, and only 2 deaths. The particulars of all these cases are briefly included in the following table:—