TUMORS. 584 1 Krankliaften Grescliwulste, Bd. ii. S. 617. unaltered in its essential qualities, without inflammation or perceptible de- generation, during many years. The affection of several neighboring glands is indicative of strumous disease rather than of simple tumor. Of pure or simple lymphoma, then, there is reason to doubt the frequent occurrence, and to wonder if the disease does ever occur, either affecting a single gland or several neighboring glands. The term lymphadenoma, or Hodgkin’s disease, has been given to an enlarge- ment of several or many glands, certainly not tuberculous or simply inflam- matory, and as certainly not merely hypertrophic, for the disease is malignant and often pursues a rapidly fatal course. It commences most frequently in the glands of the neck, affecting at first a single gland, or a group of glands. The growth usually proceeds quickly, and while the disease spreads to other glands, those first affected become exceedingly enlarged, and, losing their separate mobility and separate shape, are often moulded into a large, irregu- lar mass of tumor. The glands on both sides of the neck are by and by diseased, and other groups of glands, those of the axilla, groins, chest, and abdomen, may become affected. But the disease is not necessarily limited to the lymphatic glands. The moulding of several glands into a single, solid mass is accomplished by the spreading of lymphatic tissue beyond and between the individual glands. Growths of similar lymphatic tissue occur in the spleen, liver, kidneys, skin, subcutaneous tissue, and walls of the intestines. And presently, usually within a few months or a year or two, the patient dies, borne down by the pressure of accumulated disease. Lymphadenoma may occur at almost any age, but it is most common in young adults. Those affected by it are often apparently of strong constitution and in admirable health; and this, with the adult age of the patient, helps to distinguish the disease in its early period from strumous disease. In its more advanced stages the diagnosis is not very difficult. The number of affected glands, the affection of widely distant glands and the absence of an adequate cause for their affection, the steady progress of the disease, and the absence of signs of inflammation, are characters proper to lymphadenoma, not to struma. Occasionally, suppuration is observed around rapidly increasing glands, and in rare instances large masses of such glands have sloughed completely out, leaving a cavity into which a closed fist could almost have been thrust. With the gradual progress of the disease, the health declines, and an increased num- ber of colorless corpuscles usually appear in the blood ; often as many as from six to ten, or more, in a single field of the microscope. Virchow has described as Hodgkin’s disease what he calls “ simple hyper- plasia of the lymph-glands.1” This disease he separates from lympho-sarcoma, and lympho-sarcoma again from sarcoma of the lymphatic glands. His account of “ simple hyperplasia” is very short, but there can be no question that he has included among the simple hyperplasias, cases of tuberculous glands, even if, indeed, his description of the disease is not entirely founded on the observation of very chronic tuberculosis of the glands. For, in the minute structure of the hyperplastic glands, he mentions the occurrence of giant and epithelial cells; and, in their general characters, speaks of the granular appearance of the section, and of rounded or elongated bodies scat- tered through the tumors. The glands of lymphadenoma, examined after removal, present a yellowish or brownish-yellow color and a homogeneous section. But they differ in appearance according as they belong to the hard or soft variety. The hard are usually yellow or yellowish-brown in color, and more fibrous in appearance; the soft are often white, and even brain-like. As