928 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF TIIE SPINE. tebnc, partly destroyed, may be found so pressed together as to have dis- placed backwards some fragment of a third and intermediate body more extensively destroyed than themselves. Or the vertebrae, in falling in together to close up the gap, may have included a sequestrum of varying dimensions that lies buried deeply in the angle of the deformity. Or, if the gap involve only the anterior half of the body of a vertebra, the posterior half may be found to have yielded to the superincumbent weight and to the inflammatory softening that invades it, and to have brought about the typical disfigure- ment by a bending or yielding of its parts. Further details as to the deformity in this disease will be reserved until the symptoms of the malady come to be considered. Abscess (Psoas Abscess; Lumbar Abscess; Iliac Abscess, etc.)—An abscess usually presents itself externally at some time in the course of Pott’s disease of the spine. There are cases, however, where the malady runs its entire course and ends in anchylosis and cure, and yet no abscess makes its appear- ance. Such cases are not infrequent, but they cannot be regarded as any evi- dence of the existence of angular deformity without abscess. Probably in all these Cases an abscess has existed at some stage of the disease. This abscess, as the cure has advanced, has itself undergone cure; its contents have become inspissated and caseous, or even calcareous ; its walls have become shrunken ami inert; and but meagre traces of a once large collection of matter have persisted. 1 am not aware of any specimen that can of itself offer an un- doubted example of spinal caries without abscess, and although the matter may still be regarded as unproven, it is probable that in all instances some suppurative collection is formed. The importance of the abscess in Pott’s malady cannot be exaggerated. It usually forms the most troublesome feature in the history of the case, and, more than that, it is directly or indirectly the most common cause of death in those who arc afflicted with the disease. I propose to deal first with the mode of formation of the abscess, and secondly with the various forms of the abscess as determined by position, etc. Formation of the Abscess.—Lannelongue1 has described this process in con- siderable detail, and his account agrees in its general points with that most usually given by pathologists, lie speaks of the granulations in the bone as penetrating the periosteum, and as spreading the disease in the parts outside that membrane. He speaks of the soft parts around as becoming inflamed and involved in the process, and as presenting granulation-tissue axiii to that which has been developed in the bone. Indeed, lie urges that the morbid pro- cess in the bone and in the soft parts outside it are identical, and are modified only by diversity of structure and opportunities for extension and develop- ment. The debris and suppurative matters that result from the caries in the bone are first included, perhaps, within bony walls, and then within walls formed partly by the diseased bone and partly by the inflamed soft parts about it. Lastly, if the purulent collection acquires any magnitude, the wall that bounds it is derived practically from the soft parts alone,and the share taken by the bone in its limits becomes very insignificant. As the disease is in the anterior segments of the column, the abscess appears upon the front surface of the spine, not usually immediately in front—on account of the resistance offered by the anterior common ligament—but a little to one side of the body of the diseased vertebra. The collection will at first be small and sessile. As it increases, it tends to gravitate, and so move downwards on the spine. In this 1 Alices froids et tuberculose osseuse. Paris, 1881.