330 MOVABLE BODIES IN JOINTS. 3 Pitha und Billroth, Handbuch der Chirurgie, Bd. ii. Abth. ii. S. 576. to the surface, and removed them. Afterwards, a tube is passed just within the cavity, and a strong stream of some aseptic fluid injected. I think carbolic acid is best for this purpose, as its stimulating effect is valuable. The tube is to be retained, and the joint dressed antiseptically (by this 1 do not mean of necessity by Lister’s method), placed on a splint, and left for two or three days, when it may be again washed out. The irrigation is to be continued every other day,at least until the wound is nearly healed ; the drainage-tube is to be gradually shortened and ultimately discontinued. This last method is the best and most certain means of treating large hydrarthrus with much fringe hypertrophy. It must, however, be employed with great caution; the temperature, and the condition of the system and of the joint being constantly watched. Movable Bodies in Joints. The singular bodies which sometimes exist, and which enjoy free or par- tially free mobility, within articular cavities, are very various in number, size, shape, constitution, and genesis, while in choice of locality they are far less capricious. They have indeed so strong a predilection for the knee-joint, that I estimate from collected cases 85 per cent, to occur in that articulation; the next most common seat is the elbow. Movable bodies occur, but rarely, in the hip and in the lower jaw. Sir Charles Bell found one in the ankle, and one has been seen in the wrist. There may be only one such body in the joint-sac, or there may be vast numbers; in the former case, or when they amount only to three or four, they attain to a measurable and perceptible size ; in the latter they are very minute, smaller than a grain of mustard seed. If we except a certain irregularly formed class (detached but normal por- tions of the joint), we may classify them according to shape into four catego- ries: 1. Oval or circular plates, bi-concave, bi-convex, or concavo-convex. 2. Globular, ovoid,or chestnut-shaped. 3. Conglobate, or mulberry. 4. Pyriform. The constitution of loose bodies may be either cartilaginous,1 bony, mixed bony and cartilaginous, fibrinous, or lipomatous. Their genesis is even more variable than their structure. (1.) They are formed from hypertrophied fringes, more especially from those prolongations which Rainey2 has so carefully described as secondary sacculi; each villus of a fringe consists of a small projection carrying an afferent and an efferent vessel; from some of these hang, by thin stalks, very small, extra- vascular sacculi containing synovial fluid. When hypertrophy of fringes takes place, these sacculi enlarge; some become vascular, and simply form part of the dendritic growth, but in others hypertrophy leads to new deve- lopment; cartilage-cells are deposited; the sacculi become nodules which grow while the stalks connecting them to the wall of the sac continue entire, and perhaps even longer. These, however, after a time break away, and the masses become free. By this means are formed many single and most ot the multiple false bodies—those which are found in old rheumatic cases, and those which are an early manifestation of arthritis deformans. Lipo- matous bodies, when two or three in number, are of like origin, as are also multiple lipomata, and among these 1 include that rare and singular condi- tion called by Volkmann lipoma arborescens articulorum.3 1 In the first recorded case (A. Pare, 1558), the body was a cartilage ; hence, movable bodies have commonly been called loose cartilages. 8 Pathological Transactions, vol. ii. p. 110.