TUMORS. 604 secondary tumors, which preserve not only the general characters of the pri- mary disease, hut even the transformed or degenerated characters which it presented. The chondrifying sarcomas of the testicle are, by this means, repeated in the glands and lungs; the ossifying subperiosteal sarcomas, in the lungs; the melanotic sarcomas of the eye, in the substance of the liver. That a sarcoma should take its origin in connective tissue has been laid down in the definition as essential. But the precise element of the tissue from which it is developed has not yet been demonstrated. That it is of cellular origin is almost certain. But whether it arises from wandering blood-corpuscles, from endothelium, or from the fixed cells, is still an open question. My own belief is strongly in favor of the theory of origin from the fixed connective-tissue cells, if not in all structures, at least in many. The theory of origin from wandering corpuscles, carries with it, almost of necessity, the belief that the tumor commences in the lymph-spaces through which these cells may he assumed to travel; and, therefore, that the tumor has free access to the lymphatic vessels with which these spaces are in com- munication. If this were so, the glands ought almost invariably to be affected by sarcoma. But glandular affection is not by any means an inva- riable occurrence. Nor do I think that the characters of what must still be spoken of as the mother-tissue would be so strongly impressed upon a tumor which originated from cells which may be regarded as indifferent, and of merely accidental occurrence in the mother-tissue. The same reasoning, as far as the lymphatics are concerned, would lead me to deny that the origin of any sarcomas was from the endothelium lining lymphatic spaces. Yet I can quite conceive that sarcomas of such parts as the testis, which certainly and early affect the glands, may arise from endothelium. In cartilage, it is proba- ble that the tumor arises from proliferation of the cartilage-cells; in hone, from the corpuscles of the marrow and soft tissue in the cancellous spaces, or from the cellular elements of the periosteum. Course of Sarcomata.—Sarcomas frequently grow rapidly, but their rate of increase is subject to remarkable variation. The situation of the tumor necessarily exercises some influence on the manner and rapidity of its growth. Tumors of parts which are loose-textured and abundantly supplied with blood, naturally grow more quickly than tumors which are poorly nourished and confined in narrow spaces. The increase is effected by continual addition to the surface, or rather by the continual invasion of the surrounding tissues by the new growth in the manner described in the introductory portion of this article. The capsule which incloses many specimens of sarcoma does not prevent them from spreading. They infiltrate the capsule, and extend into or affect the surrounding tissues. Sarcomas may occur at any period of life. Congenital tumors are occa- sionally met with; children are not unfrequently the subjects of sarcoma; persons in middle life are frequently attacked ; and old people may fall vic- tims to the disease in their eighth or ninth decade. Although children are not as subject as adults to sarcoma, sarcoma is nevertheless the malignant disease of childhood, for carcinoma is scarcely ever observed in children. Both sexes appear equally liable to the disease, but of course its seat is often largely influenced by sex. Appearances after Removal.—The macroscopic characters of sarcoma are so manifold that it is impossible to cover them with any general descrip- tion. The fact that the tumors are often surrounded by a capsule, has just been mentioned, and must he looked on as a somewhat singular circumstance in a disease which is unquestionably malignant, and which, in many instances,