516 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. tiniform condition, the semilunar cartilages having almost disappeared, the articular cartilage of the femur being widely eroded, and the femoral condyles deeply carious; a patch of caries, too, existed on the patella, but the tibia was healthy. The joint con- tained pus, and a large suppurating bursa extended upwards beneath the tendon of the quadriceps extensor femoris. The edges of the wound were approximated with iron- wire sutures, the line of incision was dressed with oiled lint, and the whole limb was firmly fixed in the bracketed wire splint, previously well padded with tow, and secured with broad strips of adhesive plaster and bandages. The patient was then restored to his bed, and the resected limb, splint and all, supported on a pillow, in a large, loose fracture-box. A good deal of constitutional disturbance followed the operation, but, upon the whole, the patient’s progress was for some weeks satisfactory. I find a note, on March 20, that all the sutures and ligatures were away, the wound united, the discharge lessening, and union of the resected bone-surfaces beginning. The pulse-rate, however, kept up to 120 or more, and the patient continued, as he had been since the operation, fretful and desponding. During April, it became evident that caries had recurred at the inner side of the limb, and in May it was noted that abscesses had formed above and below, that the discharge was increasing, and that the bones were less firmly united than they had been a fortnight before; with the approach of warm weather, too, the patient’s strength began to fail, and we were forced to see that a further attempt to save the limb would seriously endanger the patient’s life. On May 19, therefore, a little more than ten weeks after the date of excision, I amputated at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, cutting anterior and posterior flaps, the former from without inwards, and the latter by transfixion. From the time of this operation the patient convalesced without a single bad symptom ; he was as cheerful and happy without his leg as he had been gloomy and discontented with it. The flaps united by adhesion ; the last ligature dropped on the fourteenth day ; on the fifteenth the patient sat up ; and on the twenty-fifth the stump was suffi- ciently solid for him to begin to walk with crutches. On July 3, he was made an out- patient, and has been frequently seen since, in excellent health and spirits; several osseous spicula have come away from his stump, in which one sinus still persisted in January, 1877. Could the operator invariably recognize in advance those cases in which the powers of nature were, and those in which they were not, likely to prove sufficient for the process of repair after excision, this department of surgery would approximate to the rank of an exact science, and such a history as that just recorded would never have to be written ; but, as the matter stands at present, it is surely the surgeon’s duty to give the patient the benefit of the doubt, and, if amputation is not manifestly called for, to attempt the conser- vative operation of excision ; knowing that, if necessary, the limb can be subsecpiently removed with comparatively little risk to life—less, indeed, according to Peniere’s and Culbertson’s statistics, than attends amputation of the thigh for disease in general. Excision of Knee for Partial Anchylosis with Arthritis of nineteen years' dura- tion ; Recovery with Useful Limb.—The subject of this case, Kate H., twenty-six years of age, was sent to me by Dr. W. H. Bunn, of Philadelphia, and was admitted to the Episcopal Hospital on March 20, 1876. She had suffered more or less from disease of the left knee since she had been seven years old, the last attack having kept her in bed six months, and the joint at the time of her admission being very painful and ten- der, swollen, and somewhat contracted; the tibia was displaced backwards,and distinct grating was elicited on moving the articulation, while the characteristic “jumping” or “ starting ” pains at night showed the erosion of the articular cartilages, and the im- plication of the underlying bone. The patient’s general condition was, however, satis- factory, and there was no evidence of the presence of any visceral disease. After consultation with my colleagues, I excised the joint in the usual way on March 24, securing the limb after the operation in the bracketed wire splint, and placing the