MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF T1IE SPINE. 918 Those injuries must involve to some extent at least the joints that connect the various vertebrae together. If the more superficial joints of the body are exposed to sprain or contusion, they commonly enough become the seat of synovitis, and there is nothing in the structure of the joints between the articular processes of two vertebrae that exempts them from a like conse- quence. I believe, indeed, that simple synovitis of certain of the synovial joints of the spine, is common after sprains and contusions of the back, and that such a condition can probably explain the long-continued pain and stiff- ness that often persist after such injuries, and that are usually so very well localized. There is no reason to suppose that this synovitis is different from other forms of synovitis. It may be acute or chronic; and it may end in reso- lution or pass to suppuration. I am aware of no actual demonstration of simple synovitis of the vertebral joints; but many cases have been recorded of suppurative synovitis of these joints that has followed upon sprains and like lesions. The main symptoms arc long-continued, local pain, and rigidity from the painfulness of movement and some amount of muscular contraction. I am well aware that these symptoms may occur in cases where the muscles only are lacerated or contused, and perhaps the ligamentous structures torn, but there is nothing to disprove the suggestion that in some instances these symptoms may be due to intervertebral synovitis. Shaw states that not only may this synovitis of the joints between the articular processes go on to sup- puration, but the purulent collection thus formed may cause limited paralysis by pressure upon the nerves as they issue from their respective foramina. Moreover, the joint-abscess may burst into the spinal canal and lead to para- plegia and death.1 (2) Dr. John Ogle has placed on record two remarkable cases of peculiar perforation of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage that in each instance led to death from implication of the medulla spinalis. The first case occurred in a man aged 50, who had presented no distinct evidence of spinal mischief until one day, while at his meals, a piece of a mutton bone became impacted in his gullet. This was easily disgorged, but the act was immediately followed by a paroxysm of coughing, during which much pus was brought up. lie experienced also much pain in the neck. In process of time he became paralyzed—first in the upper and then in the lower extremities—and gradually sank, sensation having become impaired some few days before death. At the autopsy, a hole Avas found in the pos- terior Avail of the gullet, that led directly to a perforation in the fibro-car- tilage between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae. The perforation pre- sented an ulcerated appearance, and had gone right through the disk, and so opened into the spinal canal. The cord and its meninges were inflamed.2 The second case Avas that of a Avoman, aged fifty-two, who suffered from post-pharyngeal inflammation connected with some slight erosion of the sur- face of the bodies of certain cervical vertebrae. She died from spinal arach- nitis, and the post-mortem examination revealed a perforation in one of the cervical fibro-cartilages, that had extended hack and opened into the spinal canal.3 Pott’s Disease of the Spine. ^Nomenclature.—There is a well-known affection of the vertebral column that is most common in the young, and that is marked by certain very defi- 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. page 3G7. 2 Path. Soc. Trans., vol. iv. 1853, page 27. s Ibid., vol. xv. 18G3, page 1.