SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. 611 must depend still further on the suitability of the soil which it oilers for the reception and development of the malignant germs. Treatment of Sarcomata.—In the treatment of any given case of sarcoma, the freedom of the glands and distant parts from the disease must of course he proved and taken into account. Further, the necessity of wide removal of the primary disease must be borne in mind. Speaking in general terms, early operation is advisable for all sarcomas which admit of very complete removal, and is even justitiable in some instances, in which there is irremedi- able affection of the glands; when, for instance, the primary tumor can be thoroughly removed, and its presence is associated with excessive pain and infinite distress. An operation under these circumstances may be followed by a few months of case. The result of operation depends largely on the situation of the tumor. Even amputation high above the disease in some situations, while it affords certainty of freedom from recurrence of the primary tumor, offers little or no hope of cure ; for the course of the affection is so rapid that, apparently within a few weeks of the first appearance, distant tissues and organs are already affected. To complete this general sketch of sarcoma, some mention must be made of the distinctive characters of the four subclasses. The round-celled sarcomas may be regarded as the least developed of the four, for the tissue of which they are composed most closely resembles embryonic or granulation tissue. They affect the subcutaneous tissue and the bones; the eye and the brain; the lymphatic glands and the tonsil ; the kidney and the testis. They may occur at any time of life, from early infancy to advanced old age. They grow usually with rapidity, and quickly invade the surrounding tissues. They are often not encapsuled, and they form the most diffused tumors of all sarcomatous growths. By this character, together with their greater softness and friability, and their lack of fibrillation, they may be distinguished from sarcomas of the other subclasses. They are prone to undergo fatty and caseous degeneration, and may calcify or be organized into fibrous tissue, cartilage, or bone. But the tendency to organization is small, and, in the tumors of certain parts—the eye, the brain, the lymphatic glands, and the kidney—is almost absent. Nor are combinations of round-celled sarcoma with other tissues frequently observed. Round-celled sarcomas are not un- commonly multiple ; and, when they are so, they affect chiefly the glands, the bones, and the subcutaneous tissue. The prognosis of round-celled sarcoma, all other conditions being equal, is worse than that of either of the other sub- classes. The rapidity of growth and local infection is proportionately great; dissemination takes place early, widely, and with great rapidity. The struc- tures in which multiple tumors are usually observed are frequently the seat of secondary growths; and with them may be mentioned the liver and the walls of the intestines, in which secondary growths sometimes occur in large number. The spindle-celled, sarcomas are usually held to be composed of more highly developed tissue than the round-celled, in the same measure as a spindle-cell or fibre-cell is regarded as one stage nearer than the round cell to perfectly developed fibrous tissue. Certainly the tendency to develop into fibrous tissue is much more powerful in spindle-celled than in round-celled tumors. And, with the changed form of cell which marks the higher development, some traits of the savage malignancy which stamps the round-celled tumors appear to have been lost; for, as a class, the spindle-celled tumors are less active than the round-celled. They form in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the fascia; and aponeuroses, the nerves, the bones, the breast and the testis, and