871 REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. the adjoining vertebral bodies. In such cases, the destructive process begins more frequently at the junction of the vertebrse with the intervertebral sub- stances than in the intervertebral substances or vertebrse themselves, because, as Mr. Hilton has pointed out, we know that in accidents, at least as far as we have been able to discover, “ the most frequent lesion in injury to the spine is a partial severance of the vertebra from the intervertebral substance.”1 A number of illustrative examples have already been presented,2 and inasmuch as this topic has already been pretty thoroughly discussed, no apparent need exists for presenting any additional instances of the same sort. I will, however, take space to present a very instructive case, in which there simultaneously occurred lumbo-sacral abscess and suppurative spinal menin- gitis, in consequence of a blow on the spinal column :— A lad, aged 15, employed with his parents in a travelling show, was in good health until May 12, 1856, when, while playing with another lad, he received a blow on the back with the fist. He thought little of it at the time; but, subsequently, the pain becoming severe, he applied for and obtained admission into Guy’s Hospital on May 15. After the application of leeches he was so much relieved that he thought of going out, but the pain soon returned more severely, and fever ensued. An abscess formed on the right side of the sacrum, which was opened, and continued to discharge, the flow of pus being increased by pressure on the abdomen. He continued to get worse daily, having much irritative fever and severe pain in the back. During the last week of his life he was exceedingly restless, and often delirious; and he complained of pain in all parts of his body, but particularly in the extremities. His head was generally drawn backward as in tetanic opisthotonos. On one or two occasions he had loss of power over the bladder and rectum, but had no other symptoms of paraplegia, and could move freely in bed. On June 4 he died, twenty-two days after the casualty, and nineteen days after entering the hospital. Autopsy An aperture in the integuments at the right side of the sacrum led into a very extensive abscess, external to the peritoneum, which occupied the forepart of the sacrum behind the rectum, and extended to the ilia on both sides behind the psoas muscles. The bones were exposed but not diseased. Although the abscess had dis- charged externally on the right, it was most extensive on the left. It had burrowed up to the left side of the last lumbar vertebra, and through the sacro-vertebral foramen into the spinal canal. When the theca was opened, it was found to contain a quantity of greenish pus, spread over its inner surface and over the cord itself. The spinal dura mater (theca) at the point indicated, was softened and destroyed, and the cauda equina was lying bathed in the pus which filled the sacral canal. The membranes of the cord were inflamed throughout their whole extent, and there was purulent effusion as high as the dorsal region. The spinal dura mater was thickened, its inner surface had lost its smoothness and transparency, and was of a dull-green color. Pus could be squeezed out from beneath the visceral arachnoid in considerable quantity. The spinal cord itself was firm, and the microscope revealed no morbid condition in its substance. On opening the cranium, traces of acute arachnitis were found over the whole surface of the brain, greenish-colored lymph being effused into the sub-arachnoid tissue, especially at the base. The inner surface of the dura mater, around the foramen magnum and on the adjacent part of the occipital fossa, was of a greenish color, from lymph effused upon it. Bronchial tubes filled with tenacious mucus. Lumbar and bronchial glands slightly enlarged. All other organs entirely healthy.3 The purulent infiltration of the spinal meninges which was observed in this case, occurring coincidently with the formation of a lumbo-sacral abscess, but without the production of paralysis, could scarcely have happened unless the sacro-vertebral articulation had previously been opened, both externally and internally, by disease of the articulation itself, in such a manner as to allow the products of inflammatory action to flow freely out of, as well as 1 Op. cit., pp. 47, 48. 2 See pp. 686-709 supra. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1856, pp. 158, 159.