FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. 115 Fractures of the neck of the scapula have been hy some authors regarded as of more common occurrence than they really are. In fact, the neck of the scapula as described hy anatomists—the constricted part of the bone close to the glenoid cavity—has never been found fractured upon dissection. A few cases, however, have been studied, and among them one reported, and the specimen figured, by Callaway,1 in which the line of breakage has run from some point in the upper margin of the bone, so as to include the supra- scapular notch and coracoid process, downward and outward to some point in the outer margin, more or less close to the glenoid cavity. Upon an examination of a normal scapula, it will be found that such a line of separation, running as in Callaway’s case for example, first downward and then outward, would surround a portion of the bone which constitutes really its thickest part. A portion of the root of the spine is included in it. By Gurlt and others it is proposed to call this the “ surgical neck” of the scapula, while to the narrowed portion just around the glenoid cavity is given the name “anatomical neck.” The extreme improbability of a fracture through this last-named part will be obvious at once to any one wno looks at a vertical section displaying the arrangement of the bony texture, and who considers the relations it bears to surrounding parts; the former being such as to diffuse as much as possible any stress brought to bear upon the bone, in any way whatever, and the latter being such as to render its fixation, so that a “ cross-breaking strain” could be exerted upon it, impossible. I think, therefore, that it may be asserted that the neck of the scapula, surgically speaking, corresponds to the line above mentioned ; and that when fracture occurs in this part of the bone, it follows very nearly the direction thus marked out. With this view clinical facts are entirely in accord. In order to arrive at a clear understanding of the mechanism of the dis- placement in fractures of the scapula, the attachment of the muscles to it must be carefully studied. Let it be remembered that this bone finds its sole direct connection with the thorax through its articulation with the clavicle. Apart from this, it is merely supported by muscles. When fracture takes place across the fiat part below the spine, the lower fragment tends to ride up, either in front of the upper or behind it, according to the action of the fracturing force; and this tendency is favored by the con- traction of the rhomboidei and teres major; the latter aided by some, at least, of the fibres of the serratus magnus. A number of museum specimens which I have examined, as well as several figured by Gurlt, and two by Malgaigne, illustrate this. In one case, recorded by Easley,2 where a longitudinal frac- ture of the body was caused by great violence, the patient having been run over by a wagon the wheel of which passed lengthwise over the scapula, the displacement from muscular action was very marked. When the upper angle is broken off', the tilting action of the levator anguli scapuke is quite distinct, as in a bone represented by Gurlt ;3 a gap is even left at the posterior edge between the fragments. When the fracture affects the body and spine, as in the case seen by me, from which Fig. 605 was taken, the fragments may be so nearly balanced by the contraction of opposing muscles, as to be in reality very slightly disturbed in their relations to one another. In the cases of fracture of the neck of the bone, it appears that there is sometimes very little displacement. Thus, in an instance reported by Ash- hurst,4 in a boy five years old, the diagnosis could only be made by exclusion. 1 Op. cit., p. 93. Plate I. fig. 1. 2 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1878. 3 Op. cit., Bd. ii. S. 528, Fig. 45. 3 Trans, of Coll, of Pliys. of Philadelphia, 3d s. vol. i. 1875.