OSTEOMA OR OSSEOUS TUMOR. 577 subjects before the full stature has been attained, it may be assumed that these naturally active parts of the bones have been excited to undue and ill- directed activity, and have consequently put forth processes or outgrowths of cartilage and bone. For these exostoses do not merely consist of cancellous bone, but are capped with hyaline cartilage, forming in some specimens a layer of considerable thickness. The question of the propriety of regarding them as cartilaginous tumors was discussed in the last section (on chondroma). The tumors which occur at the attachment of tendons are chiefly due to the ossi- fication of a portion of the tendons. Cancellous osteomas grow also from the irregular and short bones—the vertebrae and tarsal bones; and a very favorite situation is the dorsal aspect of the last phalanx of the great toe, where they protrude beneath the nail and form small but very painful tumors. The compact tumors grow usually in connection with the flat bones and the jaws. Those which grow from the scapula and flat bones of the skull, are usually rounded and often quite smooth exostoses, rarely of large size. Some of them, which are formed of compact layers, arranged like the lamellae of an onion around a pedicle or central stem, are so hard that they can scarcely be cut into with a saw or chisel; they have been named eburnated or ivory exostoses. The tumors which originate in the jaw-bones, and espe- cially those of the upper jaw, often bear the character of diffused enlargements of the bones, and consist sometimes of compact, sometimes of finely cancel- lous bone. Although many of the compact osteomas attack young subjects, the rule is not as strict for them as for the cancellous tumors. They occur not infrequently in adults of from thirty to forty years of age. Course of Osteomata.—The growth of osteomas is very slow. Some tumors exist for from ten to twenty years, and only attain the size of a racquet ball. It is, indeed, unusual to find a tumor, composed only of osseous tissue, of large size. Yet osseous tumors, apparently pure, have occasionally been observed of enormous size ; one, of the tibia, mentioned by Sir James Paget,1 measured a yard in circumference. Appearances after Removal.—The macroscopic characters of osseous tumors are those of bone. The cancellous growths are like the cancellous tissue of the ends of the long bones, but for the most part coarser and less regularly formed. They are capped either with cartilage or with a layer of compact bone. The spaces which they contain are in some instances very large and filled with marrow. In outward form they vary much; from pedicled knobs or hook-like processes, to smooth and sessile lumps, or to rough, irregularly- shaped excrescences and masses. The surface of the larger masses is generally nodular or tuberous. They may generally be easily gouged from the bone on which they grow, and the surface left by their removal is rough and like can- cellous bone. The compact growths may be so closely set that no spaces are visible, or, on the other hand, may be composed of a very fine cancellous tissue, the spaces of which can on 1/with difficulty be distinguished. Some of these tumors form large masses of irregular shape; particularly the tumors of the upper jaw, which completely fill the antrum, and, enlarging the bone in all directions, encroach on the neighboring cavities. Both upper jaws maybe affected in the same patient; and, with these, the other face-bones are, in some rare instances, the seat of irregular bony outgrowths, and the face is by this means horribly distorted and disfigured. The appearance of the features 1 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 233. VOL. IV.—37