575 CHONDROMA OR CARTILAGINOUS TUMOR. the first, that the bone is the result of organization in the cartilage. But the minglings of fibrous and gland-tissue with cartilage are true combina- tions. The former is observed in almost all chondromas, Avhatever be their situation; the latter is only found in chondromas originating in glands, and is especially frequent in the parotid. Of such tumors, it may of course be doubted whether the gland tissue is not merely a remnant of the natural structure of the organ. But in some instances there are characters which lead to the belief that a new formation of gland-structures occurs, similar to that which takes place in many tumors of the breast. Chondromas are rarely the seat of inflammation, and do not often ulcerate. Diagnosis.—In most instances the characters of chondroma are very clear, and the disease need seldom be mistaken. The extreme hardness of the hard variety, the nodular or tuberous contour, the slow and painless growth, and the situation of the tumor on bone or cartilage, or in a gland, are sufficiently distinctive. Multiplicity in certain situations is another important feature of the disease. Tire phalanges of the fingers and toes are not uncommonly the seat of multiple chondromas, of which there may be two or three grow- ing from each finger. Whether these phalangeal tumors are single or mul- tiple, and even when they are of central origin, and so large as completely to destroy the bone in which they grow, they seldom affect the joints, which may remain for years intact, although their action is interfered with by the size and situation of the growths. An osteoma may be mistaken for a chondroma, but the mistake is unim- portant. Very similar as are the characters of the two diseases, the diagnosis is, nevertheless, in many instances very simple; for the tumors generally select very different seats. Chondromas are frequently found upon the toes and fingers, osteomas rarely upon any save the last phalanx of the great toe; multiple osteomas of the ribs and long bones are not unusual, multiple chondromas, except of the hand and foot, are rare; chondroma of the salivary glands is of tolerably frequent occurrence, osteoma so rare as to be almost unknown ; osteoma seldom originates in any of the soft parts, but is much more common in connection with the bones than is chondroma. A fibrous tumor is occasionally taken for a chondroma when it is exceedingly firm, and contained within a very tightly-fitting capsule. Here, again, the mistake may usually be avoided by attention to the seat of the disease. The most important and the most frequent mistakes are made between chondroma, whether soft or hard, and sarcoma, for the latter affects the same situations as the former, and may consist in large part of cartilage. In certain situa- tions, liable to both diseases, chondrifying sarcoma much more frequently occurs than pure chondroma; the long bones and the testis may be adduced as examples. It is of extreme importance to avoid an error of diagnosis, because the prognosis in the two cases is so widely different. The unequal consistence and the rapidity of growth of sarcoma are often the only distinc- tive features; but the unequal consistence is not quite reliable, for even this sign may be observed in some of the soft or softening chondromas. Prognosis.—The prognosis of an uncomplicated cartilaginous tumor is favor- able, for the tumor is quite innocent. The gravity of the disease is height- ened, naturally, by large size or multiplicity of the tumors, or by the impor- tance of the organ which is attacked. Thus, multiple cartilaginous tumors of the fingers may necessitate amputation of the hand, and chondroma of the testis may lead to destruction and removal of the organ. But there is little likelihood of local recurrence of a chondroma, and no tendency to affection of the lymphatic glands, or to dissemination of the disease. I am aware that