216 INJURIES OF BONES. too curious, but to assume that the condyles are involved, and to act accord- ingly. The treatment of these injuries consists, first, in allaying inflammation by the ordinary means, keeping the joint immovable by placing it on a well- padded back-splint, and employing extension by the weight and pulley from the very outset. After all swelling has subsided, and the parts are again in a healthy condition, the limb may be laid on a pillow, and the extension kept up until the fourth or fifth week, when passive motion may be very care- fully tried. Union generally occurs favorably, and, in many cases, a perfect recovery has ensued. Yet it must not be forgotten that there are chances of grave constitutional disturbance, and that in all injuries of large bones, especially in the neighborhood of joints, there are risks which cannot safely be ignored. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur is a rare accident, although perhaps it sometimes occurs without being recognized. It belongs, of course, to the period of life in which consolidation with the shaft has not yet occurred, that is to say, before the twentieth year (sometimes as late as the twenty-fifth). As far as I know, in all the recorded instances the patients have been males, and none of them have been over sixteen years of age. The epiphyseal line is just above the boundary of the knee-joint, and when a separation takes place exactly through it, that cavity will not be involved, although it may become so secondarily. Holmes says:1 “A reference to such of the published cases of ‘ separation of epiphysis’ as are accompanied by anatomical examination, will satisfy the reader that most of them have been of this nature, viz., injuries in which the line of fracture has been close to the epiphyseal line, and generally, in all probability, corresponding with it in more or less of its extent; but accompanied with fracture in almost all cases, and, therefore, as Helaton has truly observed, presenting identical symptoms with those of fracture.” Sometimes, as in a specimen figured in the work just cpioted (Fig. 43, p. 261), another line of breakage extends down between the condyles. The cause of this injury has been in almost every case, I believe, indirect violence. Madame Lachapelle is cpioted by Malgaigne as having seen the lower epiphysis of the femur and the upper one of the tibia separated at once by traction on the foot in aiding delivery. Coural2 has observed in a boy of eleven years, wThose leg was buried in a hole up to the knee, while his body was thrown forward, a separation of the femoral epiphysis; the upper fragment was carried backward, aud on proceeding to amputation, which became necessary, the condyles were found in front of the shaft, and so tilted that the articular surface was directed forward. In several3 cases the injury was the result of entanglement of the leg in the spokes of a wheel. Hobson4 has reported three cases. In one, in a boy of fifteen, hurt in a colliery acci- dent, the lower end of the diaphysis projected into the popliteal space, tightly stretching the large vessels and nerve; in another, in a boy of six, the same deformity was observed; and in both, amputation was necessary. In the third, in a boy of fifteen, caught in a belt and carried around a shaft, there was the same displacement; union occurred, and excision of the knee was ulti- mately performed with success. In the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital, 1 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, first ed., p. 259. 2 Fontenelle, Archives Generates, Oct. 1825. 3 One seen by Hamilton, and two quoted by him. Callender published another in the St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports for 1873. « Liverpool Medico-Chirurg. Journal, July, 1883.