746 INJURIES OF THE BACK. ensued. Death occurred twenty-three days after the accident. The autopsy showed dis- location with slight fracture of. the twelfth dorsal vertebra, fracture of the first lumbar vertebra, and secondary deposits in both knee-joints. (Ashhurst.) (4) Luke1 refers to the case of a man having fracture of the seventh dorsal vertebra, with displacement, which was reduced by extension, the reduction being accompanied by an audible sound. Death from erysipelas occurred seven days after the injury. The spinal cord was found to be softened and disorganized; there was purulent matter. (Ashhurst.) (5) Birkett2 relates the case of a man, aged 31, who fell into the hold of a ship, striking his back, and dislocating the lower part of the spinal column. The fascia was torn off from several dorsal spines, and there was paralysis, etc. Extension under chlo- roform gave no relief; it was followed by great pain. At the end of four and a half months death ensued. The autopsy showed displacement of the eleventh from the twelfth dorsal vertebra, with fracture of the articular processes; spinal cord disorganized ; sup- puration of the kidneys. (Ashhurst.) In but one of these live cases can it be asserted with any plausibility that the efforts at reduction were themselves attended by any misadventure what- ever. In the last case, the employment of extension did not relieve the symp- toms, and was followed by severe pain. Still death did not occur until four and a half months afterward; and, whether the advent of the pain was merely a coincidence, or not, it is certain that the use of extension was not, per se, attended by any destructive lesion. In the other four examples, death was caused by erysipelas, by septicaemia, and, probably, by myelitis. Moreover, three cases of vertebral fracture with considerable displacement are related by Professor Konig, of Gottingen, in the Centralblatt fiir Chirur- gie, No. 7, 1880, in each of which the deformity was corrected by suspending the patient, without any bad effect; and, in No. 46 of the same journal, we find a paper by Dr. W. Wagner that tells of two similar cases. All five patients recovered.3 Thus, we perceive, that the experience recorded on this point is already rather voluminous, and that it decidedly favors the employment of judicious and intelligently directed efforts to reduce the displacements in cases of dorsal and lumbar dislocations and fractures, as well as in those of the cervical region. Fractures of the Vertebra. Men suffer from traumatic lesions of the vertebrae, from fractures as well as from dislocations of these bones, much more frequently than women, because the former, by their occupations, are much more exposed to the various acci- dents in life which cause these lesions, than the latter. Fractures of the vertebrae may be, (1) simple, (2) compound, (3) comminuted, and (4) complicated. By a pure fracture is meant a simple fracture, which is not complicated with a dislocation. Compound fractures of the vertebrae are chiefly caused by the impact of gunshot missiles. Gunshot fractures of the vertebrae are of frequent occurrence. They constitute a special class of inju- ries, and will be separately considered. All forms of spinal fracture are frequently, but not necessarily, complicated with injury of the spinal cord, as well as with dislocation. An inspection of the recorded cases of spinal injury involving the vertebrae and not caused by gunshot missiles, that is, of the recorded cases which occur in civil life, shows that the lesions consist of pure fractures in about one-fifth of the instances, of pure dislocations in another one-fifth, and of dislocations combined with fractures in the remaining three-fifths. 1 Lancet, 1850. 2 British Medical Journal, 1859. 3 Medical News and Abstract, 1881, p. 105.