518 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. Table showing the Particulars of Twenty-six Cases of Excision of the Knee-joint for Disease of the Articulation. No. Sex and age. Nature of disease. Duration of disease before operation. Result; duration of treat- ment after operation. Remarks. 1 Male, 10 Anchylosis and arthritis Four years Recovered ; 5 months Useful limb. 2 Female, 11 Arthritis Six years Recovered ; 1 year Useful limb. 3 Male, 18 Arthritis aud abscess One year Recovered; 16 months Useful limb. 4 Male, 9 Arthritis and abscess Three months Recovered ; 4J months Useful limb. 5 Female, 9 Arthritis and anchylosis Two years Recovered; 20 months Useful limb. 6 Female, 8 Gelatinous arthritis Three years Recovered ; 13 months Useful limb. See No. 24. 7 Male, 5 Gelatinous arthritis Over two years Recovered ; 6 months Useful limb. 8 Male, 6 Gelatinous arthritis One year Recovered ; 5 months Useful limb. 9 Male, 5 Gelatinous arthritis About two years Recovered; 1 year Useful limb. 10 Male, 7 Anchylosis and arthritis Two years Recovered ; 9 months Useful limb. 11 Male, 28 Gelatinous arthritis Three years Recovered ; 6 months Amputation. 12 Female, 26 Arthritis and anchylosis Nineteen years Recovered; 3£ months Useful limb. 13 Female, 30 Arthritis and anchylosis Twenty-three yrs Recovered ; 6 months Useful limb. 14 Male, 9 Arthritis and anchylosis Over one year Recovered; 15 months Useful limb. 15 Female, 32 Anchylosis Many years Recovered ; 5 months Useful limb. 16 Female, 9 Gelatinous arthritis Four years Recovered; 10 months Useful limb. 17 Male, Female, 13 Arthritis and anchylosis Six years Recovered; 6 months Useful limb. 18 6 Gelatinous arthritis Four years Died; 4 weeks Death from septicsemic pneumonia, etc. 19 Male, 9 Gelatinous arthritis Nearly two years Recovered; 1£ years Useful limb. 20 Male, 17 Anchylosis, etc. Several years Recovered; 3 months Useful limb. 21 Male, Female, 5 Gelatinous arthritis Two years Recovered; 10 months 22 6 Anchylosis, etc. One year Died ; 10 days Death from double pneumonia. 23 Male, 6 Gelatinous arthritis One year Recovered; 1 year Useful limb. 24 Female, 17 Anchylosis Seven years Recovered; 1 year Useful limb. Re-excision ; [years See No. 6. 25 Male, 14 Gelatinous arthritis Two-and-a-lialf Still under treatment Doing well. 26 Male, 40 Syphilitic arthritis Several years Still under treatment Doing well. In considering the applicability of the operation of excision in the treat- ment of disease of the knee-joint, I may put what I have to say in the form of answers to the following questions:— (1) When should the surgeon abandon expectant measures in the treatment of knee-joint disease, and what may be considered the indications for a resort to operation ? (2) Operative interference having been resolved upon, how shall the sur- geon decide between excision and amputation ? In order to give an intelligent answer to the first question, it is necessary to consider what are the prospects of recovery without operation, and what the condition of the limb is likely to be if such a recovery can be obtained. To no class of diseases is the maxim “ obsta prineipiis” more applicable than to joint-affections, for if carefully treated from their beginning they seldom terminate badly. Of course I am not speaking now of wounds of joints, for these are always very serious injuries, and too often end, even under the most favorable circumstances, in the loss of life or limb. But, in their early stages, inflammatory affections of even the largest joints, whether following upon contusions or sprains, or of non-traumatic origin, are usually quite amenable to treatment. Xo doubt in some few cases there is such a constitutional pre- disposition to destructive bone-and-joint disease, that from a very slight cause very serious consequences may ensue: thus, many years ago, a boy was under my care, who, from a fall on the ice, received a contusion of the elbow, fol-