150 INJURIES OF BONES. Fractures of the olecranon are, for the most part, united by fibrous tissue only, the length of the band, as well as its thickness, varying in different cases. Yet there are many instances on record of true bony union; and this might be much oftener obtained, but for the difficulty of keeping the frag- ments in complete apposition. In Fletcher’s case of fracture of both olecra- nons, before quoted, this result took place on each side, as proved by dissec- tion after the patient’s death nearly a year subsequently. When osseous union occurs, there is on the outer aspect of the hone a deposit of callus, which gradually becomes absorbed ; on the articular surface there is, as in other cases of fracture running into joints, a depression or groove marking the line of the fracture. In the case of ligamentous union, there are sometimes numerous bands passing from one fragment to the other, sometimes two or more at either side, and occasionally a thin membrane-like sheet, apparently derived from the periosteum. A curious specimen exists in the Warren Museum,1 of “a piece of bone broken from the olecranon, and fifteen years afterwards removed from the elbow-joint.” It seems probable that this was a fragment from a comminuted fracture, torn away entirely from its fibrous connections, the remainder of the bone having become solidly united; but the account is not as full as it might be. The difficulty often met with in maintaining the contact of the fragments, is due to several circumstances. One of these is the contraction of the tri- ceps muscle, which, when the fibrous tissues surrounding the bone are torn through, must tend to draw the fragment up along the back of the arm, tilt- ing it at the same time so as to widen the gap posteriorly. Another is the effusion which takes place in the joint, and which may be very copious. Still another is the upward traction not only of the triceps, but of the biceps and brachialis anticus (the latter especially), tending to crowd the end of the humerus between the fragments. All these belong especially to the early period, and vary in their degree in different cases. Sometimes the smaller fragment, drawn upwards, contracts adhesions in its new position, and thus, when swelling has subsided and muscular contraction has been quieted, may resist all efforts at bringing it down. The result of experience is that the usefulness of the limb after a fracture of the olecranon is not dependent altogether upon the shortness of the band uniting the fragments. Even if union is effected by bone, there may be adhe- sions within the joint, o.r about it, limiting the movements of the forearm upon the arm. And, on the other hand, it sometimes happens that, although the separation of the fragments is considerable, the freedom and strength of the limb are but little impaired. In most of the ordinary functions of the hand, actwe extension of the elbow is less indispensable than flexion. The analogy between fractures of the olecranon and those of the patella, in regard to the recovery of function even with a fibrous connection of some length, will be pointed out in connection with the account which will be given of the fractures of the latter hone. Absorption of ligamentous union is recorded in one case by Mr. Ik Cooper.2 He says:— “The patient should be cautioned against using his arm too freely, till the uniting ligament has acquired strength and firmness. A patient of Mr. Mayo’s, whose olecra- non had been fractured, and had united in six weeks by a ligament of the ordinary firm- ness, suffered severely from neglecting this precaution ; for after using the arm as much as possible for some time, he found that it became weaker and weaker ; the uniting liga- 1 Catalogue, p. 171. 2 Op. cit., p. 475, note.