SYNOVITIS FROM ABSORPTION dP MORBID MATTERS. 293 tion of morbid matters, while there is no evident connection between these maladies and subacute rheumatism. Moreover, the supposed “ consecutive rheumatism” has never the slightest tendency to induce pericarditis or endo- carditis. The joint-disease of typhoid fever is peculiar, as having a marked tendency to attack the hip and to produce rapid dislocation. I have seen three cases of this kind, and my colleague,Mr. Bellamy, had another case under his care, in which suppuration of the left hip occurred during the course of typhoid fever. In the three cases which I saw, the dislocation occurred, in one, during an unknown period of the fever; in two, some time during the third week. In two cases the patients were very apathetic and comatose, and did not com- plain of pain; in one of them the dislocation was only discovered as the patient began to convalesce. In one of the three cases the patient suffered much at the hip during three days, when the pain almost suddenly ceased; probably this cessation was due to the dislocation, and consequent relief of tension. In none of the cases could the bone be replaced. There is occasion- ally, too, during typhoid fever, a multiple form of synovitis, of which I have seen but two examples. Mumps is, as is well known, subject to singular metas- tases—sometimes to the testicle, less usually to the brain, still less commonly to one or more joints; it rarely passes to more than two articulations, and more often is confined to one. When the two former changes of place occur, the parotid ceases, as a rule, to be inflamed; but the disease may leave the part secondarily attacked, and return to its first locality. When a joint or two joints become affected, the parotitis continues; nor does the joint-dis- ease exhibit sudden shifting of place. It is characterized by rapid effusion into the synovial membrane, and by severe pain. I believe this condition to be brought about by impregnation of the blood with inflammatory products. Exanthematous synovitis may be either a mild or a very severe affection ; it is multarticular, and in its milder manifestations is so very like acute rheumatism as to be generally mistaken for that disease; in its severer forms it not only leads to local lesions, but comports itself like ordinary traumatic or puerperal pyaemia; scarlatina is that, exanthem which is most often followed by these manifestations, especially in the more violent forms; measles that which leaves the most persistent, chronic sequelae, after passing through the usual acute stage. I cannot see any generic difference between the milder and the severer form ; the amount of poison absorbed, or the condition of the poison at the time, causes a difference in the amount of local and constitu- tional evil produced. There is also a peculiar joint-disease, consecutive to, rather than a cotemporary of, the exanthemata, more especially scarlatina and diphtheria ; it is uniarticular, and attacks the larger, never, as far as I know, the smaller joints; it is marked by very rapid and considerable, but painless, efiusion, and occasionally by dislocation; it attacks, in preference, the shoul- der, hip, and elbow. Synovitis has been observed after dysentery, more especially after epidemic dysentery; the disease begins with the commence- ment of convalescence, never attacks any joint but the knee, and is marked by considerable effusion.1 It is a rare disease. Measles is followed rather than accompanied by a later and a slower form of synovitis, extremely apt to become quite chronic, and to degenerate into the ordinary form of Strumous synovitis. All who have had much experience in the maladies of childhood, must have noticed how frequently the commencement of scrofulous disease of the cervical glands, of the viscera, or of the joints, tallies in point of time with the convalescence from measles. 1 See Braun, Sclimidt’s JalirUuch. Bd. xviii. S. 202; and YVitowsky, Prager Vierteljalirssclir.