829 SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. These violet-colored points or patches of sanguinolent infiltration rapidly widen, and soon their edges run together or coalesce. Thus, in a short time, there supervenes in the affected part a mortification of the cutis vera, which is at first superficial, but soon becomes profound, and may involve not only the subcutaneous connective tissue, but likewise the subjacent muscles, and even the subjacent bones. Thus the eschar is constituted in the neuropathic cases under consideration. If there be some chance for a favorable issue still remaining, the work of reaction against, and elimination of, the mortified tis- sues at once begins ; and, should the prospect become more favorable, a period of reparation will follow, which, however, is liable to exhibit many fluctua- tions in its course. It should have been stated that in cases of typhus and typhoid fever, a cuta- neous affection of the sacro-gluteal region, etc., not unfrequently occurs, which bears a strong resemblance to the neuropathic bed-sore now under considera- tion, and which, perhaps, arises in part from analogous conditions. This cuta- neous affection of the buttocks, in typhus and typhoid fevers, has been minutely described by Piorry, in France, and by Pfeiifer, in Germany. In the production of neuropathic bed-sores, the patient’s posture in bed often plays an important part. For instance, it is not unusual in cases where the patient is so placed as to repose on his side, during part of the day, to find, in addition to the sacral eschar, large necrotic ulcerations occurring over the great trochanters. It is also cpiite common to see in cases of spinal injury attended with paralysis, that the different parts of the paralyzed limbs which are exposed to only slight and brief pressure, such as the ankles, heels, and inner surfaces of the knees, present lesions characteristic of neuropathic bed- sores. On page 675 (supra), I have presented, with a wood-cut (Fig. 765), an abstract of the case of a soldier whose spinal cord was severed by a knife opposite the fifth cervical vertebra; neuropathic sphacelus soon followed, attacking all the projecting points on the lower part of his body, and pro- ceeding rapidly until it almost bared the sacrum. In some rare instances, I have also seen neuropathic eschars present themselves over the seapulce and over the olecranon process. Clinical Relations.—In the foregoing pages I have mentioned or referred to a great many cases in which neuropathic eschars appeared in connection with fractures or dislocations of the vertebrae, and consequent injury of the spinal cord. In regard to the time when the symptoms of neuropathic eschars are most likely to present themselves in cases where the spinal column is injured, Dr. E. Gurlt, whose opinion on this subject is based on the study of a very large number of cases, holds that the first symptoms of this affection usually appear from the fourth to the fifth day after the accident. But the initial erythema and bullae may appear very much earlier than that; for, on page 721 (supra), I have presented, with a wood-cut (Fig. 772) illustrating the ver- tebral lesion, the case of a soldier who dislocated the fourth cervical ver- tebra with much displacement and much damage to the spinal cord, in a vain attempt to turn a somersault, and who survived the accident only forty- four hours; nevertheless, it was found at the autopsy that “ ulceration over the sacrum had already commencedthat is, a well-marked bed-sore was already formed. In this case, then, the initial erythema and vesicles or blebs must have presented themselves within a few hours after the accident. The initial symptoms of a neuropathic eschar on the breech appeared in less than thirty-six hours after the injury, in a case under the late Dr. James R. Wood’s care, at Bellevue Hospital:— The patient was a stableman, aged 30, who fractured the seventh cervical vertebra by falling down stairs, at 7 P. M., on June 13. He was insensible for the moment.