545 ETIOLOGY OF TUMORS. tumors are not necessarily ot the same variety in parent and offspring; the mother may suffer from carcinoma, the daughter from sarcoma; or the father may suffer from spindle-celled sarcoma, the son from glioma. _ The tumors are not necessarily of the same organ or tissue in both generations; the mother may die of tumor of the breast, the daughter of tumor of the uterus; or the father of tumor of the tongue, the son of tumor of the femur, if or can inheritance, even when it is thought to exist, always be traced directly to the parents, but has to be sought in grandparents, in uncles or in aunts, or even in persons more distantly related. The age at which a tumor, supposed to be inherited, occurs, is often not the same in the transmitter and in the inheritor. Even this modified form of inheritance of malignant tumor is only discovered once in every five or six cases among hospital patients, and about once in every three or four cases among private patients, whose family histories are more perfect—a proportion so small that it is scarcely to be wondered at that doubts have been cast upon the whole theory of inheritance. Mr. Cripps has pointed out1 that, if parents and children are alone considered, the death-rate from cancer in the parents of cancerous patients is scarcely greater than the proportionate death-rate from cancer to the general death-rate of adults in the community, and that therefore, cpiite apart from inheritance, one cancerous patient in so many cases must have had a cancerous parent or relation. Probably the kind of evidence which has lent most support to the theory of inheritance, is that derived from the his- tories of certain families. Sir James Paget2 speaks of a lady who died “with cancer of the stomach, one of her daughters died with cancer of the stomach, another died with cancer of the breast; and of her grandchildren, two died of cancer of the breast, two of cancer of the uterus, one of cancer of the axil- lary gland, one of cancer of the rectum.” Broca3 mentions a case even more extraordinary than this, in which, of the members of a particular family who lived to reach adult life, very few escaped death from cancer. Cases such as these, although they aro by no means numerous—nay, are very rare—must inevitably attract attention and secure adherents to the party which believes strongly in inheritance. It must be admitted, however, by the stoutest par- tisans of the theory, that it is exceedingly difficult to explain who! is trans- mitted or what is inherited. It is net the tumor itself which is inherited, for congenital tumors arc comparatively seldom claimed to be inherited. It is not the tendency to a particular form of tumor, or to tumor of a certain organ or tissue, which is inherited. What is it, then, which is inherited ? Is it a germ, or collection of germs, or a tumor-parasite, or merely a weak condition of certain organs and tissues, which renders them liable, under the influence of some exciting cause, to produce such tumors as sarcomas and carcinomas ? Surely the evidence in favor of the inheritance of malignant growth is yet by no means satisfactory. Within the last few years,4 Cohnheim has put forward a new theory to explain the occurrence of new growths, but particularly of heterologous growths. It is, that in an early period of the development of the embryo, more cells are produced than are necessary for the foundation of the various parts of the body, anti that there remain behind, therefore, unused masses of cells, probably only of small dimensions, but possessing great capabilities on account of the embryonic character of the cells. Under the influence of an excitement, an increased flow of blood, for example, these masses may develop into tumors. This theory scarcely admits of demonstration: its chief claim 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xiv. p. 287. 1878. 2 Pathological Society’s Transactions, vol. xxv. p. 319. 1874. 3 Trait6 des Tumeurs, t. i. p. 151. 1866. 4 Vorlesungen ueber allgemeine Pathologie. Berlin, 1877, Bd. i. S. 622. VOL. IV.—35