DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 394 weight should be from one to three pounds, according to the size of the child. It is well, lest the power slowly drag the patient downward, to raise the foot of the bed by placing blocks about four inches high beneath the supports of that end, establishing a general slope downward to the head, and causing the child’s body-weight to act as a counter-extending force. But, as a rule, I prefer to achieve both objects—immobilization and extension—by the use of my extension-splint, with a bracket of steel or brass interrupting the support- Fig. 664. Bracketed extension-splint for hip-disease. iug parts, and so shaped that the upper or body portion shall be nearer the patient than the limb portion. The former must be long enough to reach from axilla to ilium; the latter from a little below the trochanter to three • inches below the foot. The mode of pi’ocuring extension has already been described (p. 315). The value of this appliance is, that it secures immobility. It may also be used to rectify malposition, for which purpose it is more effectual than the weight. If, when the surgeon first sees the case, there be less malposture, and if the pain be comparatively slight, sudden rectification will not be necessary; but the patient being placed in bed, elastic extension may be at once applied. It ought to be made in a plane slightly lower than that of the axis of the limb. In some cases the pat ient may be placed on a bed with a hinged base, so that the part below the middle can be placed at an angle with the rest, the part on which the limbs rest, together with the weight, being lowered a very little day by day. Or the same thing may, with less expense but with more difficulty, be managed with a board beneath the mattress, that can gradually be lowered. With my extension splint it is only necessary to bandage, or, rather, to strap on with a broad belt, the upper division of the splint, and to apply the extension. The elastic force soon tires out the contracted1 muscles, and the deformity yields more or less rapidly, according to the tension of the India-rubber spring. An attendant must, from time to time, hook this up higher on the chain, to equalize and maintain the force. By one or other of these means the limb is to be placed in a good posture, and, for a period varying from ten days to six weeks, or even more in very severe cases, the patient is to be kept in bed, and, as far as the hip-joint is concerned, rigidly still.2 At the end of this period the symptoms, though still persisting, will have become more quiescent, and now means should lie adopted which will allow the patient to take exercise, generally with the aid of crutches. American surgeons may rightly claim priority in the invention of splints designed to maintain extension while the patient moves and walks; 1 Contracture in the sense already explained lias not yet commenced. 2 I give here what I find, from very considerable experience, to be the best treatment in by far the greater number of cases, though it should be noted that some surgeons apply apparatus, to be now described, and let the patient walk at once. That method succeeds in a certain percent- age only of cases.