363 CHRONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. ease; the greater preponderance of neuro-muscular phenomena also plainly indicates the true nature of the malady. When the osseous wall gives way outward, and the inflammatory products mingle with those already in the soft parts, abscesses, either deep or approach- ing the surface, give their characteristic fluctuation, while the skin reddens over those which are superficial. But if the bone cavities open into the already granulating and suppurating joint, no definite change of symptoms marks the occurrence. Occasionally the intraosseous disease is quickened, and a central necrosis, or an abscess without necrosis, forms in the epiphysis, and may with more or less rapidity pass towards a surface ; the approach of the inflammation or abscess towards some bone surface other than the arti- cular, is heralded by a spot of persistent tenderness on pressure, as well as by redness, while the subjacent tissues are swollen, soft, and boggy. A still nearer approximation is marked by pitting, and afterwards by obscure fluctuation. If the inflammation or its products extend towards the joint, hitherto but little affected, marked exacerbation of the articular swelling, much fluid in the cavity, increased pain, and especially more violent starting pains, will de- note the time of its coming near to the cartilage. The actual entry of pus into the cavity will give rise to no symptoms if the joint be already consider- ably inflamed; indeed, since intraosseous pressure is relieved by the discharge of matter, some of the most distressing symptoms will for a time subside. After forty-eight hours, however, there will supervene, if much pus have entered the joint, a peculiar appearance of the part. The skin becomes swollen and sodden-looking, with superficial pitting; it is very white, save in one or two broad wavy lines, or in foliaceous pink patches. Such a joint is much influenced by the pressure of the limb’s weight, so that as it lies on the splint or cushion it is flattened on its upper and lower aspects, and broadened out at the sides. The patient’s health is much depressed; he is weak, hectic, and pale, with a white, sodden tongue. The thermometer is but little above normal in the morning, but rises two or more degrees in the late afternoon and evening. Certain cases present symptoms which are rather enigmatical to the prac- titioner who is not considerably versed in this class of diseases. The patient may have had considerable pain in a bone-end, and some slight swelling of the soft parts over it, combined with stiffness of the joint, restless nights (waking and crying out, if a child), starting pains, and evidence of pain on moving, or, at least, disinclination to move the joint. But with all this there may be no articular swelling, save the spot over the bone-end above mentioned. Suddenly, or all but suddenly, this condition will be unplea- santly interpreted by the appearance of a violent synovitis, which, if not at first suppurative, very soon becomes so.1 The symptoms denote that the osteitis has begun very near the joint surface; perhaps that necrosis has even involved the articular lamella ; that the cartilage has suddenly given way, and that pus, with other inflammatory matters, has been poured into the joint. The slow form of disease first depicted, and also the latter, more rapid malady, if the first violence be overpassed, leave the soft and hard constituents of the joint granulating and suppurating; abscesses open to the surface, and sinus-mouths, crowned with large granulations, perforate the skin. These sinuses and abscesses differ a good deal in their appearance, according as the osseous disease is a caries or a necrosis. In the case of caries, the pus is thin, irritating, and copious; the sinus-mouth, some distance from the seat of dis- ease, is crowned by large florid granulations, of a peculiarly brilliant color, and bleeding very easily; the skin around is tightly drawn, of a bluish shade. For symptoms see p. 282.