812 INJURIES OF THE BACK. a catheter. On the evening of the 7th, he fell into a sleep ; but, upon awakening, the spasms returned and continued until 11 P. M.. when death occurred.1 Though the track of the missile was traced in this case, and its [dace of lodgment discovered by a post-mortem examination, it does not appear that the spinal canal was laid open, and that the spinal meninges and cord were submitted to inspection. Had such an exami- nation been made, the evidences of traumatic spinal meningitis would doubtless have been revealed; for it should be observed that the tetanic spasm first appeared in the muscles (of the abdomen) that were supplied by spinal nerves (the seventh and eighth dorsal) which issued from the spinal column at the place of injury (the eighth dorsal vertebra), and consequently from the focus of traumatic inflammation, whereas true tetanus usually begins with trismus or lock-jaw. There is, then, little room for doubt that the tetanic spasms of the abdominal muscles, etc., which appeared in this case, were merely symptoms or phenomena that resulted from the inflammatory lesions of the spinal membranes and spinal cord. Moreover, tetanic spasms characterized an example presented on page 782, together with a wood-cut to illustrate it, that bears a strong resemblance to Stromeyer’s case as briefly related above. In both, a small-arm missile struck the spinal column, and became impacted between the laminae of two lumbar vertebrae. In both instances, severe pain in the spine and tetanic spasms in the muscles of the extremities ensued. In both instances the mis- siles were extracted, and both patients died. The autopsy of Stromeyer’s patient revealed traumatic inflammation of the spinal membranes and cord. But the autopsy of the other patient does not appear to have been carried far enough to expose the spinal membranes and spinal cord to view. Never- theless, the symptoms which characterized this case, e. g., the intense raehi- dian pain, the extreme degree of restlessness or general liyperaesthesia, and the tetanic spasms, constitute a group of symptoms often seen in cases of epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis when the spinal symptoms predominate; and, without doubt, these symptoms arose in this instance also from an acute inflammation of the spinal membranes, but having a traumatic, instead of an epidemic origin, just as they did in Stromeyer’s case. Epileptiform convulsions, as well as tetanic spasms, are sometimes observed in cases of traumatic spinal meningitis. Charles Bell2 reports an example in which a subluxation of the last cervical upon the first dorsal vertebra was followed, on the eighth day, by general convulsive movements, accompanied by signs of inflammation of the spinal membranes. The patient died twelve days afterward of exhaustion, not having been completely paraplegic at any time. The autopsy showed a little subarachnoidean effusion of serum in the cranium, and an abundant deposit of pus within the theca vetebralis, lying between it and the spinal cord. This case has already been mentioned (page 738). Pathological Anatomy of Traumatic Spinal Meningitis.—The spinal mem- branes, like the cranial, are not much disposed when injured to exhibit inflammatory changes of a destructive character. Still, when their vulnera- tion is attended or followed by influences adverse to healing, they, like the cranial membranes, are liable to take on inflammatory action which may cause death. Having thoroughly discussed the symptoms of traumatic spinal meningitis, it is next in order to consider the structural lesions which it engenders. They consist in the exudation of serum, the formation of plastic lymph and purulent matter, and the perforation, etc., of the membranes them- selves by ulceration. The following abstract and wood-cut (Fig. 794) will serve to illustrate at least some of these lesions. 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 452. 2 Surgical Observations, p. 145.