INJURIES OF BONES. 236 to separation of the fragments no longer exists, and the patient may be allowed to lie in bed with merely a back splint on the knee, and with the limb otherwise unconfined. A week later he may be permitted to sit up, and to move about in a wheel-chair; after which the use of the limb may be gradually resumed, the back splint being left off. It may very probably be that the uniting medium will be found to stretch, and the gap between the fragments to be thus widened ; but in time the parts will acquire firmness, and the result will be satisfactory. In the rare instances in which this does not happen, but the limb remains weak and useless, the propriety of resorting to more energetic means may be considered. I do not myself think that any great risk is run in using Malgaigne’s hooks, but I do not think that any great gain is effected by them. And, although much is claimed for the graver procedures, the resection and suture of the fragments, I think that a faithful trial should first be made of the reparative powers of nature, aided by frictions, shampooing, and well- regulated exercise, before the patient is subjected to the hazards which they cannot but involve. Everything else failing, and it being clear that the want of union between the fragments is the sole cause of the disability, extreme measures may be taken; but the patient should be made fully aware of the extent of the dangers attending them, and of the chances of anchylosis, or of still worse evils. As to section of the quadriceps or its tendon, it seems to me to be merely the substitution of one evil for another. If incomplete, it is useless, while, if complete, it must almost of necessity involve the wounding of the knee- joint. Compound fractures of the patella are always of grave importance, largely increased if the knee-joint be directly involved. These injuries are always due to direct violence, and the bone is often comminuted. The arthritis which is so apt to ensue upon simple fractures may be looked for in even a higher degree in the cases in question, and is much more likely to assume the suppurative character, as it will almost certainly do if the synovial cavity is laid open to any extent. Gross1 mentions a case followed by abscess, necrosis, and removal of the patella, the knee-joint becoming partially anchy- losed. Levergood2 records an instance in which, the patient having been inefficiently treated, and having left his bed four weeks after the accident, suppurative arthritis ensued, and the joint was emptied by incision ; ampu- tation was proposed but refused; recovery took place, and the patient was dismissed with “ slight anchylosis.” Poland,3 among 85 recorded cases, found that 20 proved fatal; suppuration occurred in 63, and anchylosis more or less complete resulted in 31 out of the 65 in which recovery took place. The symptoms are generally sufficiently clear. The diagnosis is only obscure, in some instances, in regard to the involvement of the knee-joint, which may be but slightly punctured; sometimes the opening is large enough for the finger to be readily passed in, and in any case the escape of synovia, if abun- dant enough to be distinctly perceived, is conclusive. The prognosis, it need hardly be said, is to be carefully guarded. If the immediate danger of shock is surmounted, there remain too many chances against both the limb and the life of the patient to warrant the surgeon in presuming upon success. Yet it does sometimes happen that complete recovery takes place, even under apparently adverse circumstances. The treatment is not materially different from that of ordinary simple frac- 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 1004. 2 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1860. * Med.-Cliir. Transactions, vol. liii.