GENERAL CHARACTERS AND DIAGNOSIS OF TUMORS. 557 are frequently mistaken for tumors ; nor is this remarkable when it is borne in mind how closely the course of tubercle resembles that of some malignant tumors, and how prone syphilis is, as Hutchinson has pointed out, to produce imitations of other diseases. The source of the infection-tumors, which would be an important aid to diagnosis, is not in every case apparent, hut they are almost invariably associated, soon or late, with inflammation, and, if they do not actually suppurate, are a frequent cause of suppuration in the adjacent structures. Associated signs of syphilis and tubercle are in many instances present and easily discoverable. In the diagnosis of an individual case of tumor, many other points besides the local features must be taken into account. The age of the patient is often of extreme importance. Numerous examples in proof of this may he adduced: almost the only true tumor which attacks the testes of hoys under ten years of age, is sarcoma; inflammations of the breast are common during the child-bearing period, carcinomas are common after the inflammatory period has passed: carcinoma of any part of the body is almost unknown in persons under adult age; cartilaginous and bony tumors commonly affect children or young adults. Sex often plays an important part in diagnosis. For, setting aside those parts of the body which are peculiar to the sexes, and those which are more highly developed in one sex than the other, certain regions, apparently of equal importance in both sexes, are much more liable to tumors in one sex than in the other. Thus, the tongue and the oesophagus are much more often the seat of carcinoma in men than in women. The lip and the external ear are rarely cancerous in women, frequently in men. The affection of neighboring lymphatic glands has already been alluded to as an effect of malignant tumors which is not produced by innocent growths. It is a frequent association of acute, not so frequent of chronic inflammations. It is of common occurrence in connection with tubercular affections, but is scarcely ever observed as the result of gummata. It is not merely one or the other of these conditions which is of value in diagnosis. It is the combination of conditions which establishes certainty. A firm, rapidly-increasing, ill-defined tumor in the breast of a woman more than forty years of age, with retraction of the nipple, adherence of the skin, enlargement of one or more axillary glands, and a history of six or nine months’ duration, is practically certain to be a carcinoma. A foul sore, with indurated base and edges, of the lower lip of a man of seventy years, which has been forming slowly during twelve or eighteen months, and is asso- ciated with enlargement of the glands beneath the jaw, is surely a squamous- celled carcinoma (epithelioma). But, should the tumor lie in the breast of a suckling woman of twenty-five years old, and be of two or three months’ instead of six or nine months’ duration, the diagnosis is completely changed. The probability is now as strongly in favor of chronic inflammation as it was formerly in favor of carcinoma. Or, should a woman of twenty years bear the foul ulcer on the lower lip, the diagnosis will be syphilis, not carcinoma. In the diagnosis between innocent and malignant tumors, the duration of disease and rapidity of growth are often, apart from other signs, of value. Thus, the diagnosis of the malignant character of tumors of the upper jaw, depends mainly on the relatively large size to which they attain in the space of a few weeks or months. In the same respect, the part of the body affected is often of importance. Thus, the eye is very rarely the seat of innocent tumors, not uncommonly of malignant tumors; the testis is much more often attacked by sarcoma and carcinoma than by any innocent growth; the gums are often the seat of innocent tumors (fibrous epulis), rarely of malignant growths. The nature of a doubtful swelling may often be proved by puncture with a grooved needle or a fine trocar and canula. This method of diagnosis is