362 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. are about that part one or two places where tenderness may be found, and perhaps some obscure fluctuation, often false, may be detected. All this time, and the condition may remain almost unchanged for months, the joint itself, that is, the synovial membrane and cartilages, will be quite healthy, and if the osteitis be cured, no articular immobility will result. It is advisable that, the surgeon should measure the different parts of the joint; the tape often gives no information, but a pair of small callipers, easily carried in the pocket, will greatly help him in verifying the increase of size, let us say, of one condyle, of a part of the tibial tuberosity, of the lower end of the ulna, etc. Moreover, the instrument will tell him if one part only of the joint-end be enlarged. To exemplify the method of using this instrument, let it be assumed that the inner femoral condyle is the suspected part; the first measurement may be across the whole lower end of the bone (that is, from the outer face of the external, to the inner aspect of the internal condyle); if this be found larger than the corresponding part on the other limb, the condyle itself can be com- pared with its fellow by measuring, first, from close to the inner edge of the patella to a point just inside the inner margin of the semi-membranosus mus- cle ; and secondly, from above downward, viz., when the knee is bent at right angles, from a spot just in front of the insertion of the adductor magnus, to the angle where the inner, non-articular face becomes the horizontal joint-facet. A source of fallacy may be presented by a certain tumefaction of the soft parts, but an educated touch will be able to estimate the amount of this thickening, and subtract it from the difference given by comparison of the diseased with the sound limb. By these or similar means, at other joints, a fairly accurate judgment as to the reality and amount of bony enlargement may be obtained. About this period of the disease, the skin over the affected part assumes a peculiar aspect; it is white, looks as if tightened over the underlying parts, and has a lifeless or bloodless appearance. The swelling is not by any means sufficient to produce stretching, and, unless the condition be caused by derivation of blood from the superficies, or by some condition of nervous supply, I know not how to account for the phenomenon. After an interval, the skin over the affected part becomes reddened, gene- rally intermittingly; at first, it often pits slightly on prolonged pressure; a point may even appear to fluctuate, and this usually indicates that the osteitis is very near that particular spot. At this stage, muscular phenomena (con- traction followed by contracture) usually set in, and starting pains are soon after added. The time when these symptoms commence is quite uncertain ; it depends on the proximity of the abscess to the articular facet. It may be that the neuro-muscular phenomena precede any implication of the synovial membrane, or any redness of skin, or they may come after such affection has commenced; but under either condition, they are, in respect to the synovial disease, very early; that is to say, when disease has commenced in the synovial membrane, greater morbid changes of that tissue take place before starting occurs than when disease commences in the bone. Also, in many cases, subluxation slowly sets in much sooner than it does in mere synovial malady. However slowly the perisynovial tissues respond to the inflamma- tion, they do, after a time, unless the epiphysitis cease, reply by a process of proliferation and granulation, whereby the whole membrane becomes thick- ened and enlarged^ Pus may be formed in the joint and in the extra-articular tissues, even before intraosseous abscess has opened in either direction; thus the symptoms of granulating synovitis are superadded to those above de- scribed, but nevertheless they are not quite like those produced by disease primarily synovial, for the enlargement of the periosteal and osseous tissues at the original site of the malady still marks the pre-eminence of osseous dis-