204 INJURIES OF BONES. stretched through a cleft in the bone, so tense as to resemble a violin-string. The patient had broken his thigh at sea, seven days before the arrival of his frigate in the sound.” 13urr, however, has reported1 an instance of occlusion of the femoral artery from fracture of the femur; gangrene of the leg ensued, and amputation was performed. And Weinlechner met with a case2 in which the artery and vein were both ruptured,with hemorrhage and consequent gangrene; amputation was submitted to on the third day, but death from septicaemia followed. Such lesions are much more apt to occur when the shaft of the bone is broken very low down. Thus, Travers3 relates that “ a man broke his thigh; the bone protruded above the patella; at the same time a diffused aneurism of the popliteal artery was produced by a spiculum of the fractured bone penetrating that vessel, though it was discovered only on the fourth day. The femoral artery was immediately tied by Mr. Bransby Cooper, whose patient he was. The ligature came away on the sixteenth day; in another week the aneurismal swelling had disappeared, and the fracture was soundly united in six weeks.” Another case is reported by Mr. B. Cooper,4 * in which, the patient having been admitted into Guy’s Hospital with compound frac- ture of the femur, there was so much tension of and injury to the soft parts, that it was thought unadvisable to put the limb in splints. During the night spasm came on, and the femoral artery was lacerated by a portion of the splintered bone coming in contact with it. A ligature was placed upon the vessel, and the fracture united so quickly that Mr. Key remarked of the case, that “the quickest way of producing union of fracture of the femur appeared to be by tying the femoral artery.” Sometimes fractures of the shaft of the femur are complicated with luxa- tion of the hip, as in the case recorded by Murdoch,6 where the bone was broken in its upper third, and its head lodged upon the ischium; the latter lesion was only discovered after death, which resulted from hemorrhage con- sequent upon an operation for non-union. Gayet is reported6 to have expressed the opinion that hydrarthrosis of the knee was very apt to ensue upon fracture of the femur. Ollier had seen the same in other joints, and thought it might be due to propagation of irritation through the bone. [According to Gosselin, the intra-articular effusion is due to irritation of the outer surface of the synovial capsule, by the extravasated blood which gradually finds its way downward from the seat of fracture; hence this symptom may not be observed until some hours or even days after the reception of the injury.] The diagnosis of fractures of the shaft of the femur does not often present any difficulty. Yet a case was reported, and the preparation shown to the Eighth Congress of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Cliirurgie,7 in 1879, of ampu- tation of the thigh in its upper part, by Langenbeck, for supposed malignant tumor, in a man aged forty-eight. There was found, however, only a simple fracture, with great separation of the broken ends, excessive growth of cal- lus, and a distinct false-joint. No history of traumatism could be elicited. Analogous cases are said to have been cited by Langenbeck, Martini, Koser, and Kuster. Such cases are certainly rare; yet, while there can seldom be any trouble in ascertaining the mere fact of the existence or non-existence of fracture, it 1 Trans, of Med. Soc. of State of New York, 1873. 2 Quoted in the Index Medians for March, 1883, from the Aertzl. Ber. der k. k. allg. Kranken- haus zu Wien, 1882. 3 A Further Inquiry, etc., p. 436. 4 Lancet, Dec. 5, 1840. 5 Trans, of Pennsylvania State Medical Society, 1878. e Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 30, 1871. 7 Verhandlungen, S. 30.