914 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. arthritis of the vertebral articulations. There are not many who would allow this disease to be ranked with simple inflammations; and even if it were an inflammatory change, it could hardly be said to be essentially a change involving the bones. Still the term has been accepted, and very generally accepted, and, as has occurred before, scientific accuracy must give way to custom. Spondylitis deformans, then, is the term used to denote chronic rheumatic arthritis of the vertebral column. An account of the general pathology and symptoms of this disease will be found in the article on Diseases of the Joints.1 Etiology.—This disease is met with usually in later middle and advanced life, and slight grades of the disease are of much more common occur- rence than is generally supposed. In the subjects, for example, brought to the dissecting-room of the London Hospital Medical College, I have met with many examples of this vertebral affection, and believe that a slight de- gree of the disease is one of the commonest causes of the cyphosis of old age. Spondylitis deformans is sometimes met with at an earlier period of life. Dr. Allen Sturge2 records a severe case in a man aged 2(5, and states that Eulen- berg has met with a typical instance of the disease in a patient aged 12 years. Dr. Todd also mentions the ease of a young girl who had chronic rheumatism of all her joints, and anchylosis of the spine. Many instances have been recorded in patients about thirty. With regard to sex, the affection is much more commonly met with among males than among females. Occupation would appear to have some influence in the etiology of the disease, spondylitis deformans being more common in those whose employment involves frequent stooping or arching of the back. As may be supposed, it is of more common occurrence among the poor than among the well-to-do, and its appearance may in some cases be very possibly influenced by exposure to cold and damp. In at least the severe cases ol spondylitis, there is a history of rheumatic tendencies in the patient’s family. Pathological Anatomy.—In this disease the spine becomes curved and rigidly fixed in the abnormal position. Any part of the column may be involved, and in not a few instances the entire spine has shown evidence of the disease. The lower dorsal and lumbar regions are, however, the portions most commonly affected, and next in frequency comes the upper cervical region. The pathological changes are identical with those that indicate chronic rheumatoid arthritis in other parts, and are marked in the main by absorp- tion of the articular cartilages, by the outgrowth of nodular masses of dense bone, and by the occurrence of a certain amount of true or false bony anchy- losis. Among the earliest changes in spondylitis, is some absorption of the inter- vertebral disks, and the development of osteophytes from the bodies of the vertebne. These osteophytes are most common at the sides of the bodies, between the edge of the anterior common ligament and the transverse pro- cess. They grow as rounded masses from the contiguous margins of adjacent vertebne, and, meeting opposite the middle of the intervertebral disk, become locked together, and in time may fuse in firm, bony anchylosis. In the mean while the disk between the vertebne becomes shrunken, friable, and of a duskier color. In some cases it may entirely disappear, and the vertebrae it once served to separate may then become firmly anchylosed together.3 In this way 1 See Arthritis Deformans, page 369. 2 Clinical Society’s Trans., vol. xii. page 204. London, 1879. 3 Bonvieret Rouland, Diet. Encyclop. des Sc. M6d., art. Racliis (deviations), Cyphosis.