INJURIES OF BONES. 68 raents which seem hopelessly detached will adhere and live, perhaps helping materially to preserve the contour of the face. Generally the attention of the surgeon is confined to the prevention of de- formity after these injuries; but sometimes other bad consequences may ensue. Thus, Martin reports1 a case in which amaurosis followed a fracture of the nasal portion of the superior maxilla, as well as of the palate bone, and most probably of the lachrymal; the patient, a man aged sixty, had been struck with a stone. Sight was ultimately restored. A number of instances are on record in which foreign bodies have been forcibly thrust into the orbit, producing fracture of its bony walls, and in- juring the eye, or even the brain itself; but these will be more appropriately discussed elsewhere. The treatment of fractures of the facial bones must be directed to the re- placement, as already said, of the fragments. This may often be done (after the careful removal of all foreign bodies, if the fracture be compound) by simply moulding with the fingers. Compresses should then be applied, ex- actly adapted to the size of the part over which pressure is to be made, and fastened in place by means of strips of fine isinglass plaster, or of rubber adhesive plaster. Of course the eyebrows, moustache, or any hair that may interfere with the dressing, should be carefully shaved. A light ice-bag, not filled so full as to prevent its taking the shape of the part, should be laid on, to keep down infiammation ; the patient should be placed in bed; and liquid diet only should be allowed. If the effort of swallowing even this be pro- ductive of pain, or disturb the fracture, nutritive enemata may be employed. It is rarely necessary to confine the lower jaw; but this may readily be done in case of need by means of a broad strip of rubber plaster applied under the shaven chin, and brought up with the ends crossed above the forehead. When the fracture involves the alveolar margin of the upper maxilla, it may become necessary to have a cast taken of the teeth, and on this a vulcanized rubber mould, to serve as a splint. (In large cities it is generally easier to have this done by a dentist, to whom the process is thoroughly familiar.) Having put the splint in place, the surgeon brings up the lower jaw against it, and applies the broad strip of plaster above mentioned. A roller may be employed, in the form known as “Barton’s bandage,”2 if there be any objec- tion to shaving the chiiq or, in the case of females, to shaving the “front hair.” Fractures of the Zygoma.—Fractures of the zygomatic arch are very rare, and can only be caused by great violence. Malgaigne quotes from Duverney an account of “ a young child, who, having in his mouth the end of a lace- bobbin, fell headforemost, so that the end of the bobbin, piercing the soft parts, broke the zygomatic apophysis from within outwards ;” and another, in which Duverney says that he detected the fracture by passing his finger through the patient’s mouth. But since, as Malgaigne justly remarks, the zygomatic arch cannot be reached in this way, there is good reason to doubt both these stories. I have seen one case of fracture of the zygomatic arch, firmly united with deformity outward. It had occurred several months previously, by the fall- ing of some chains on the head and left shoulder of the man, who was a sailor. When the deformity is outward, which may perhaps result from the jam- ming backward of the malar bone, simple pressure inward may, in a recent case, overcome it. When it is inward, resort may be had to incision, and the 1 Medical Press and Circular, Sept. 23, 1874. 2 See Yol. I. p. 493.