TUMORS. 594 thus, appears to spread by punctiform dots scattered in close proximity to the tumor, but apparently unconnected with it until the intervening space becomes filled, or is bridged over, by lines of vessels. Anatomical Appearances.—The venous and capillary, like the arterial nsevi, consist of dilated, coiled, and twisted vessels, many of which pursue a cork- screw course. They rarely maintain a uniform calibre, but become varicose and sacculated. Their walls are usually thickened, but no new elements are introduced into them. The growth of new vessels may probably be by any one of the different methods by which new vessels are formed physiologically and pathologically. Two methods have particularly been described: one, the formation of loops by granulation buds, which grow out from the walls of the previously existing vessels; the other, by the channeling of the bodies and processes of anastomosing branched cells. The formation of granulation- tissue in large quantity has been observed in the immediate vicinity of some growing angeiomas. The microscopic characters of venous and capillary angeiomas are such as the macroscopic appearances would lead us to expect. The course, even of capillaries, cannot be followed far, but the twisted and corkscrew course can often be discerned, and the irregular dilatation and sacculation is very evident. The thickening of the vessel-coats, which is almost constant, is also very plain. In addition to the thickening of the vessel-coats, an inter- vascular material is always present, generally a wavy fibrous tissue, nucleated but not richly so. The constancy of this or some other connective tissue in venous and capillary nsevi, and in the cavernous tumors, and the abundance in which it is present in some tumors, has led certain surgeons, among whom Birkett may especially be mentioned, to conclude that all these tumors ought rather to be regarded as highly vascular, fibrous or connective-tissue growths, whose solid structure is their essential feature, and whose vascularity is, so to speak, an accident. Unquestionably there are grounds for the acceptance of this theory, but there are stronger grounds for its rejection. The diseased vessels are not only the most striking feature of these mevi, but, in every respect, their most important element. They form much more than the moiety of the tumor, and the extension of the disease is always by new vessels. If it recur after removal or destruction, the recurrence is invariably in the form of vessels. From the beginning to the end of its career the connective tissue of the tumor holds a subordinate position, and appears to exercise no influence on its course. Metamorphoses, etc.—The decrease and disappearance of venous and capillary nsevi have been mentioned. The manner of their occurrence is not thoroughly understood. It is not improbable that thrombosis of the supplying vessels is an early and essential element in the cure. Either as a part of this pro- cess, or of separate occurrence, are what are called the fibrous and fatty degenerations of nsevi. Instead of merely shrinking and slowly disap- pearing, the nsevi remain as solid masses, much smaller than the original tumors, and apparently not more vascular than an ordinary fibrous or fatty tumor. The vessels, however, have not been obliterated, for when these masses are examined years after this transformation has occurred, numerous vessels filled with blood clot may often be discerned. The combinations of vascular with other tissues are very numerous, but probably many of them are only examples of excessive vascularity of other tumors. Fibromas, sar- comas, myxomas, myomas, lipomas, are all liable to be thus hyper-vascular. Nsevi are very subject to inflammation and ulceration. The central por- tions of the growth are usually affected. The ulceration in some instances penetrates deeply into the substance of the tumor, but in other instances remains quite superficial. In either case it is often the cause of severe hemor-