INJURIES OF THE BACK. 800 in the corresponding parts, and paralysis of the bladder and rectum, were the imme- diate consequences. The patient was prostrated for forty hours, and then reaction was followed by fever for several days. The wound healed rapidly. The urine was with- drawn by a catheter for eight days. Cutaneous sensibility returned on the fifth day, and imperfect use of the limbs about the fifteenth. After five years he still walked with crutches. Dr. Hurd fully believed that the spinal marrow was divided in this case, and that afterward it united or grew together again. Dr. T. Peniston1 relates another successful case:— A man, aged 34, received a stab-wound from a dagger between the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae, on the right side. It was attended by paralysis of the right leg. In eight months he recovered so far that he walked with a cane or crutch. (Ash- hurst.) The following example is very instructive as well as interesting:— M. Vigues2 reports the case of a man, aged 28, who was admitted into Professor Nekton’s ward, at the St. Louis Hospital, on February 4, 1850, shortly after he had been wounded in the back with a sword by a police-officer. The point of the weapon, entering three centimetres (one inch) from the line of the spinous processes and to the right thereof, and making a transverse cut one centimetre and a half (half an inch) in length, passed obliquely toward the left and a little upward, between the ninth and tenth dorsal vertebrae, into the spinal canal, and wounded the spinal cord. There were paralysis of the lower extremities, with retention of urine and feces, and marked hyper- aesthesia of the left lower limb and genital organs. On February 20, a slough was found on the right side of the sacrum ; the patient had not felt anything there. In April, voluntary motion had returned in both limbs, but sensibility was still deficient in the right. On June 15, the patient could walk with the help of a cane; and he left the hospital, although the sensibility was not yet fully restored in his right limb. Three years afterward the patient was again seen; he stated that he was quite well, and that he could walk without difficulty or fatigue; but, a year later, having walked a distance of many leagues, he found a large eschar, produced, he said, by the friction of his pants on his right knee; he had felt no pain, and was surprised when he found this sore. Although the sensibility was still deficient in this limb, its movements were all executed freely and without fatigue. Without doubt, the weapon, in this man’s case, gashed the spinal cord ex- tensively, and the severed nerve-filaments reunited in a comparatively brief time. Here is still another successful case of the same sort, which was recorded by Morgagni:—3 A young man was struck with a quadrangular and acute poniard, which entered his neck below the left ear, and passed into his spinal cord. Immediately, sensibility and voluntary motion were lost in all the parts below the head. The respiration was en- entirely diaphragmatic. He complained of being cold ; and, without his feeling it, the application of a hot metallic vase caused burns on his thighs, legs, and feet. On the seventeenth day, he began to recover some feeling in the left side of his body ; and, on the twentieth, he began to move the toes and fingers of the same side ; these faculties gradually increased. On the thirty-second day, there was a return of some feeling in the right side of his body; movement also, but at a later period, returned slowly there. On the fortieth day, there was sensibility and movement everywhere, but not enough to allow the patient to stand up. The recovery was so slow that, four months after the casualty, he was just beginning to get out of bed, and to walk as a child learning to walk ; and, even then, there was less capacity for feeling and movement in the right than in the left side of his body. 1 New Orleans Med. and Surg. Journal, 1851. 2 Moniteur des Hopitaux, 3 Septembre, 1855, p. 838 ; Brown-Sequard, op. cit., pp. 97-100. 3 Lie Sedibns et Causis Morborum ; quoted by Browu-Sequard, op. cit., pp. 103, 104.