FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 173 as to the best means of accomplishing the indications, which in themselves are simple enough—to correct the malposition of the fragments, and to main- tain them in accurate contact until union shall have occurred. I do not know how to express strongly enough my conviction, that the great reason why deformity so often follows fractures of the radius close to the'wrist, is because of failure to carry out the first of the above indications. Reduction is not effected at all. If this is once thoroughly accomplished, a good result can be obtained with almost any form of apparatus fitted to the case with ordinary skill and care. If it is not properly attended to, it makes no difference how elaborate may be the appliances used, the deformity will surely become permanent. Authors have differed greatly as to the condition of such fractures with re- gard to reducibility. Callender said, that “ in a great number of cases the im- paction so fixes the fragments that they cannot be unlocked, and the deformity is permanent.” Colles, on the other hand, said: “If the surgeon lock his hand in that of the patient and make extension, even with moderate force, he restores the limb to its natural form ; but the distortion of the limb instantly returns on the extension being removed.” Sir A. Cooper thought that power- ful extension was required, but that the moment it was relaxed the deformity recurred. Moore holds that if the head of the ulna is disengaged from the annular ligament and tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, the whole diffi- culty is overcome. Pilcher regards the dorsal periosteum and the ligament between the cuneiform bone and the styloid process of the ulna, the former especially, as the parts at fault. I venture to suggest that each of these practical surgeons could have cited cases in proof of his special views ; and that, in fact, the conditions met with are anything but uniform. Therefore I think it vain to insist on any one method of reduction as the proper one; each case is to be studied for itself, and such manipulation adopted as seems to promise best. Failing this, some other plan may be tried. Moore’s method is a very good one: he grasps the prone hand of the patient with one hand, the forearm with the other, his thumbs being applied against the head of the ulna so as to act as a sort of double fulcrum. I have once or twice succeeded by using my knee as a fulcrum, grasping the hand and frag- ment with one hand, while steadying the forearm with the other. Lonsdale1 says: “ The ends of the bone may often be unlocked by suddenly supinating the arm to the utmost.” One thing seems to me of great importance, viz., to act as much as possible directly upon the fragments themselves. Too often extension is made upon the hand alone; and although in old persons, with soft or brittle bones, such a procedure may disengage the lower fragment, yet in others, and especially if the fracturing force have been severe, and if the upper fragment have been strongly driven into the lower, it may totally fail. By such a ma- noeuvre the soft parts may be drawn out into something approaching the normal shape, the fragments still remaining in their false relation, so that no real good is eftected. Often, as Hamilton points out, the ligaments are torn. The circumduction recommended by Moore for disentangling the head of the ulna will sometimes free the lower fragment also. Precise directions cannot, however, be given for every case. It is of the utmost consequence that the surgeon should know what is the normal form which he wishes to restore, and that he should have sufficient ingenuity and mechanical dexterity to ascertain and overcome whatever difficulty may exist in each case, as far as it is possible to do so. Op. cit., p. 146.