489 EXCISIONS IN TOE HAND. 2 Op. cit., page (124. See table on page 444. flaramation has spread to other parts of the wrist, necessitating amputation, and when this has not occurred anchylosis has commonly followed, impairing of course the usefulness of the limb. The statistics of wrist-joint excision are quite favorable as regards the life of the patient: of 119 cases in military surgery analyzed by Prof. Gurlt,1 only 19 proved fatal, a mortality of less than 16 per cent., while 85 termi- nated cases of excision for disease, tabulated by Dr. Culbertson,2 <rave but 10 deaths, a mortality of less than 12 per cent. Sixteen cases of excision for injury other than gunshot wound, collected by the same author, gave only two deaths, a mortality of 12.5 per cent. On the other hand, subsequent amputation was required in 10 cases of excision for disease, in Dr. Culbert- son’s tables; in 11 the preserved hand was “not usefuland in 16 more the result as regards utility was uncertain—thus reducing the number of certainly successful operations to 42, or less than one half. Gurlt’s figures also, as given in the table on page ^32, show that after operations for gun- shot injury the preserved limb has usually been anything but satisfactory, the cases therein recorded having given seven “bad” results, eight “ medium” results, and only one “ good” result among the whole sixteen. Hence, while the operation may be properly resorted to in selected cases—and particularly in favorable cases of compound fracture and dislocation in civil life—it cannot be said that the wrist is a locality in which the advantages of excision are conspicuous. Excisions in the Hand.—The metacarpal bones may require excision on account of gunshot fracture, tumor, or necrosis. Compound fractures result- ing from injuries other than gunshot wounds, usually, if any operation is demanded, require amputation. A single longitudinal incision on the back of the hand suffices to expose one of the metacarpals; precautions must be taken not to injure the extensor tendon, which should be carefully held to one side. If a partial excision is to be practised, the bone may be divided Fig. 714. with cutting pliers, but for a complete excision, disarticulation from the phalanx should be first eftected, and the bone then held up with Fergusson’s forceps while it is separated from its palmar and carpal attachments. In cases of necrosis, an effort should be made to preserve the periosteum. When