INJURIES OF THE BACK. 714 of incomplete luxation of the occiput on the atlas; cause not stated. The patient was relieved, and lived more than one year. Death resulted from other causes—tubercle of the brain. (Ashhurst.) Dariste exhibited the speci- men to the Anatomical Society of Paris. Dislocation between Occiput and Atlas—In respect to the direction of the dis- placement in dislocations at the summit of the spinal column, involving the articulation with the head, it seems that the occipital bone may be displaced backward, as well as forward, upon the atlas, for in Bouisson’s case it is stated that, the atlas was found dislocated forward on the occiput—that is, the occi- pital bone was, in reality, found to be dislocated backward on the atlas and the whole spinal column. In regard to the consequences of this dislocation, whatever be its direction, it is worthy of remark that, while Bouisson’s subject died immediately, Lassus’s patient lived six hours, Paletta’s five days, and Dariste’s more than a year, death in the end resulting from another lesion. But, it is well known that any injury of the spinal cord above the origin of the phrenic nerves, that is, above the third cervical vertebra, which arrests the functions of the cord— for instance, severe compression or crushing of the cord—always causes instant death. This result, however, was noted in only one case. It is therefore evident that the degree of compression of the cord, or the amount of the dis- placement of the luxated bones which caused the compression, was materially less in the other cases, and very much less in two of them. This circumstance directs our attention to the fact that the foramen spinale is much wider in the atlas than it is in the other vertebrae: that the foramen magnum of the occi- pital bone is almost ecpial to it in extent; and that, therefore, a good deal of displacement of the bones may occur in disjointings at the articulation of the head, without causing much compression of the spinal cord. In regard to the etiology of the luxations which are met with at the occipito-atloid articulation, an inspection of the above-mentioned examples indicates that the application of great force, in such a way as to bend the head on the atlas far forward or backward, is requisite for their causation. This force may be directly applied, for instance, by means of a crushing weight striking on the neck, and, perhaps on the head also, as was noted in the observations of Lassus and Bouisson; or it may be indirectly applied through the cranium—for example, by falling head-foremost from a great height and striking thereon, as happened in Paletta’s case. But a disloca- tion of the occipital hone from the atlas has never been caused, as far as known, by stretching the head and neck, however great the extending force may have been, although the experiment has often been made in executing the death-sentence on criminals by hanging. Even in those cases in which the head has been torn completely off from the trunk, from laceration of the neck by the rope, the vertebral ligaments, it is believed, have always given way at some point other than the occipito-atloid articulation—at some point where the ligaments are less able to withstand the stretching. Spontaneous luxation, however, may occur at the occipito-atloid articula- tion, in consequence of the destruction or extreme weakening of its ligaments by disease. Boyer mentions an example which he had seen at La Charite, and refers to a case related by Daubenton, the specimen from which was placed in the king’s cabinet. Sandifort has described five specimens, found in the museum at Leyden. Mr. Hilton has presented a very instructive case of the same sort, illustrated with two wood-cuts.1 In these cases, the ligaments con- necting the first vertebra to the occipital bone must have been destroyed by Op. eit., pp. 56-58.