INJURIES OF THE BACK. 846 Op. cit., p. 202. explanation utterly fails to account for a numerous class of cases in which no catheters excepting those perfectly free from septic matters are employed, or in which the urine is found to be ammoniacal and phosphatic on the very first occasion that the catheter is introduced, or in which catheterization is not employed at all from first to last, and still the urine is ammoniacal and phosphatic. Moreover, the use of catheters, and bougies, and sounds is a common thing in the practice of surgery, and yet no such effects appear in any other class of cases. I have no doubt that these effects mainly arise from neurotrophic or neuropathic disturbance of the kidneys and bladder, as was originally pointed out by M. Brown-Sequard. The sanguinolent or muco-purulent qualities of the urine, in such cases, result directly from congestion or inflammation of the kidneys and bladder. I have also seen some cases belonging to this category in which the quantity of the urinary secretion was much increased above the normal. Finally, excess of phosphates occurs in many cases of cord-disease, inde- pendently of bladder-paralysis (as is generally known and admitted); I, there- fore, claim that the neutral or alkaline condition of the urinary secretion, with its remarkable proneness to speedily decompose, which is often witnessed in the same, as well as in analogous cases, also occurs independently of bladder-paralysis, and, like the former, results from the rachidian lesion, in consequence of the disturbance it effects in the working of the kidneys. In this way alone can be satisfactorily explained the strongly ammoniacal odor perceived at the moment of emission, in urine that contains neither mucus nor pus, which I have observed in at least one instance of traumatic para- plegia arising from displacement of the lower cervical vertebra, in less than thirty hours after the accident, when the subject (a man) was previously in perfect health, and when it was not possible for the kidneys or bladder to have sustained any direct injury. The urinary secretion became abnormal in this case, in consequence of the morbid excitation of the spinal cord which was produced by the injury. Inflammation of the Urinary Organs.—As we have seen that important alterations of the urinary secretion very often result from injuries and diseases of the spinal cord, and as we have found that acute bed-sores and other neuro- pathic sphacelations of the integuments not unfrequently arise from the same causes, so also we shall find that inflammation of the kidneys, and of the ureters, and of the bladder, or rather of the mucous membrane which lines these organs, often has an identical origin. This form of renal and vesical inflammation is a very important disorder, because (1) it gives much trouble to patients and their attendants, and (2) it very often proves fatal; for, as Mr. Bryant justly remarks, when death occurs as a result of injury to the dorsal region of the spine, suppuration of the kidneys, cystitis, and bed-sores,'are the most common proximate causes thereof1 M. Brown-Sequard first called attention to the neuropathic origin of this highly destructive form of renal and vesical inflammation. In 1858, he said :— “Another morbid change due to a mechanical excitation of the spinal cord may cause death after a fracture of the spine ; it is the alteration which takes place in the kidneys [and bladderJ, an alteration sometimes amounting to a real inflammation. We hardly need to say that the changes in the urinary secretion, owing or not to an inflam- mation of the kidneys, also the haematuria, and the alterations in the mucous membrane of the bladder, in cases of fracture of the spine, are morbid phenomena depending upon