INJURIES OF THE BACK. 864 « Ibid. * Ibid. inch to the left of the median line, passed obliquely upward and forward, and lodged. There was retention of urine, but no paralysis of sensation or voluntary motion. On the 25th he was very restless, and suffered great agony from the wound. But little change was noted until August 6, when slight tetanic spasms, with delirium and un- consciousness, occurred. They continued with increasing severity. On the 8th, opisthotonic spasms recurred at frequent intervals, the pupils were largely dilated and fixed, and he died on that day. Autopsy—The missile was found about three inches from the point of entrance, embedded in muscular tissue. The spinal column was in a suppurating condition. The osteological specimen, represented by Fig. 806, was sent to the Army Medical Museum. It consists of a wedge-shaped portion of the sacrum, showing a fracture into the spinal canal at the second sacral vertebra, with the first and second spinous processes wanting from being broken off.1 Fig. 806. Fig. 807. Showing a shot penetration of the sacral canal. (Spec. Showing the saernm and a part of the right ilium, 4208, A. M. M.j with the bullet which perforated the former. (Spec. 1245, A. M. M.) This case, in which the upper part of the sacral canal was opened by a gun- shot missile, is a very important one, because traumatic spinal meningitis ensued. The symptoms appeared on the fifth day, and were extreme rest- lessness, and “great agony” from pain in the wound, followed by tetanic spasms, which steadily increased in severity until opisthotonos followed, with delirium, unconsciousness, and death. The autopsy revealed a suppurating condition of the spinal canal. Another instance of shot-fracture of the sacrum in which death resulted from spinal meningitis and myelitis, is likewise re- ported in the same volume, on page 248. (Case 726.) “The lower part of the spinal cord was softened, and of a dark appearance.” In this case, too, the missile after striking the sacrum lodged. The very interesting specimen which is represented by Fig. 807, was obtained at the autopsy of a soldier, aged 26, who was wounded by a conoidal musket-ball at Chancellorsville, May 3, 1863, and died at Douglas Hospital nineteen days afterward, apparently from septicaemia. The case is also remarkable for the absence of peritonitis and paralysis.* In the next example the missile lodged in the spinal canal, and, notwith- standing that the cauda equina was compressed by it (through the meninges), the sensibility and motility of the lower extremities were not affected :— Private Michael H. was wounded June 27, 1862, at Gaines’s Mills, Virginia, and died of exhaustion on December 27. The wound closed, and there were no symptoms