STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. 318 occupied; to mere thickening and restrictions of movement, if only the peri- synovial district has been involved; its progress is marked, first by disap- pearance of any pre-existing abnormal mobility, and then by increased stiffness of the limb. When the process is complete, the diseased joint is nearly always smaller in circumference than the sound one. This is due in great measure to the cicatricial contraction of the newly-formed tissues, but may also be owing to arrest of epiphyseal growth. That subject will be more fully discussed hereafter. The destructive 'processes are at first often masked; they may not attack the whole area of disease, but only localities here and there, while elsewhere actions of an entirely different character may be going on. Indeed, it is in some cases, and for a certain time, difficult to say towards which goal the action is tending. The key is to be found partly in the local, but also very much in the general conditions. While the hectic decreases, or, at the least, remains stationary, some hope may well be entertained; but if the thermometric fluctuations increase, showing a generally higher temperature, but with wider range between morning and evening, the prospect is bad. This condition of temperature is accompanied by a more capricious state of the appetite, greater restlessness, and probably profuse night-sweats. Diar- rhoea also sometimes supervenes. The state of the spleen, liver, and kidneys must be carefully investigated. The local signs are increasing softness and size of the joint, while the limb below, as well as above, wastes more rapidly. I have also learned to look upon a desquamative condition of the skin over the joint, and immediately above and below, as very suspicious. The desquamation is not furfuraceous, but in large flakes, the size of the flat surface of a split pea, and these are often of a light-brown color, a tint darker than the skin of other parts. The bones become more and more movable in abnormal directions, the malposture continuing nearly always in the direction of flexion, and the subluxation increases. At last any doubt is set at rest by the appearance of an evidently fluctuating spot, near to or just beneath the skin; yet even now the pus does not rapidly cause distinct pointing, but a slightly pink hue, which, although it very rarely assumes the deeper tinge seen in acute forms of abscess, gradually deepens a little, and at the same time spreads. Examination of such a spot will show that the pus is 'separating the skin from the underlying tissue. When an opening, natural or artificial, is made, a good many flocculi come away with the ill-formed pus, and soon afterwards fresh granulations, pale-yellow and pus-sodden, crop out, and generally overlie the skin all around the opening. The pus then does not escape, as in the sinuses of caries, by a central opening, but by various inter- stices in the granulations, and by the chink left all around between them and the edge of the skin. If a probe be passed in here, it may, as a very general ■rule, be carried round under the corium a considerable distance from the wound. The skin is “ undermined.” There may be several openings of this description, sometimes even a long way from the joint. As a rule, they are chiefly on the limb-segment below, but also are not uncommon on that above the joint, where, however, they are usually less distant. As the disease still goes on, the hectic and exhaustion increase; yet patients do not die of joint disease alone, but of affections of the viscera. Very many young children succumb to tubercular meningitis, which, how- ever, usually destroys life at an earlier stage of the malady than that to which we have traced strumous synovitis. Those who have survived thus far usually die either of tubercles in the cerebral meninges or lung, or of larda- eeous disease of the abdominal organs (liver, spleen, and kidneys). When the presence of the latter complication is feared, the-condition of the urine.