801 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. It should be observed that the complete loss of sensibility and voluntary motion, which occurred at the outset of this case, arose from the intra-thecal extravasation of blood and consequent compression of the spinal cord, as well as from the section of certain parts of the cord itself by the poniard. Xo doubt, the severed nerve-fibres reunited in this case also; and the clinical history clearly shows how very slow the process of reunion sometimes is. But incised and punctured wounds of the spinal cord may give rise to inflammation of the cord and its membranes, and so cause death, as happened in the following instance:— M. Gama1 2 relates the case of a soldier who received a bayonet wound between the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebra?, which injured the spinal cord. On the seventh day he died, without having had any paralysis. There was at the outset pain, which diminished after several venesections. On the second day, however, lie had the most excruciating pains and violent cramps in all the parts below the wound, and they con- tinued until his death. There was also extreme hypersesthesia, and the skin on the lower part of his trunk and inferior extremities was so sensitive that one did not dare to touch him, and he had to keep himself on his knees and hands. Necroscopy revealed a wound of the spinal cord. There was an inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes, and also of the brain. The pains and cramps in the legs, etc., arose from the meningeal inflam- mation involving the contiguous spinal nerves. The hypersesthesia, however, arose in part from this cause, and in part from the inflammatory lesion of the spinal cord, but mostly from the latter. Brown-Sequard has ascertained by experiments upon animals, that a wound on the posterior surface of the cord is followed by a greater hypersesthesia, in the lower limbs, when made at the middle of the enlargement whence the spinal nerves proceed to these limbs, than when it is made higher. In unilateral injuries of the spinal cord, there is often observed a loss of voluntary motion on the same side of the body, with a loss of sensibility on the opposite side. This point is an important one, and can best be illustrated by presenting the abstracts of a few cases:— Dr. F. RiegeB records the case of a man, aged 22, who was stabbed in the neck with a knife. After being insensible for some time, he presented the following symp- toms : On the left side of the body, there were paralysis of all the muscles excepting those of the head and neck, augmented sensibility to touch, changes of temperature, and pain, and increase of reflex irritability ; at a later period, there was atrophy of the paralyzed muscles, with corresponding thermometric changes. On the right side of the body there was almost entire anaesthesia as regards all forms of sensation, with [com- plete power of motion. From the symptoms, Riegel concludes that the left half of the spinal cord was divided in the neck. The tremors and reflex irritability were success- fully treated with hypodermic injections of arsenious acid. M. Bernhardt gives a case of the same kind.3 Boyer4 mentions the case of a drummer who was wounded in the back of the neck by a sword thrown at him, which penetrated the upper part of the right lateral half of the neck. An incomplete motor paralysis ensued in the right side of the body; and, it was accidentally discovered some time afterward, that sensibility was lost in many parts of the left side. After twenty days, the wound was cured and the man left the hos- pital, but he was still paralyzed. Dr. J. Hughlings Jackson5 reports a stab-wound of the cervical region involving one side of the spinal cord. There were loss of motion and ptosis on the same side>as the lesion, and loss of sensation on the opposite side. 1 Traite des Plaies de la T6te et de l’Encephalite, 1830, p. 318 ; Brown-Sequard, op. cit., pp. 60, 61. 2 Berlin klin. Wocli., 1873. 3 New Sydenham Soc. Biennial Retrospect, 1873-74, p. 123. 1 Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, t. vii. p. 9 ; Brown-Sequard, op. cit., p. 101. 5 London Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 337. VOL. IV.—51