38 INJURIES OF BONES. clear that the uniting material is formed under the osteogenetic influence of the periosteal membrane. Marcy1 quotes the statement of Ercolani that neither the periosteum nor the ends of the fractured hone are concerned in the formation of osseous cal- lus, but that the periosteum is destroyed at the points where callus is formed. He thinks that the material for the callus is furnished from the blood of the lacerated vessels of the injured tissues, including those of the medulla and Haversian canals. In healed fractures, both in man and animals, he found definite evidence of atrophy of the ends of the fragments. And from his ex- periments on animals, he concludes: that the old periosteum at the point of injury becomes destroyed ; and that the exudation from the parts surround- ing the fracture is well developed as early as the sixth or eighth day, and covered with a new periosteum. By the osteogenetic action of this new membrane he thinks that the exuded cellular elements are transformed into bone. Hence Klein2 observes:— “From the description of the appearances in the microscopical specimens as given in the paper, it appears that the formation of the osseous callus takes place in essentially the same manner as that described by Billroth, that is to say, the new bloodvessels and the cells of the soft callus, as well as the new periosteum—or rather its osteogenetic layer—it seems, are derived from the medullary tissue of the Haversian canals at the extremities of the fractured bone.” As to the mode in which the uniting material, the blastema, whencesoever derived, becomes bone, authorities have differed. Paget says :— “ It may become, before ossifying, either fibrous or cartilaginous, or may assume a structure intermediate between these ; and in either of these cases, ossification may ensue when the previous tissue is yet in a rudimental state, or may be delayed till the complete fibrous or cartilaginous structure is first achieved “ The new bone, through whatever mode it is formed, appears to acquire quickly its proper microscopic characters. Its corpuscles or lacunae, being first of simple round or oval shape, and then becoming jagged at their edges, subsequently acquire their canals, which appear to be gradually hollowed out in the preformed bone, as minute channels communicating with one or more of the lacunae. The laminated canals for bloodvessels are later formed. At first, all the new bone forms a minutely cancellous structure, which is light, spongy, soft, and succulent, with a reddish juice rather than marrow, and is altogether like foetal bones in their first construction. But this gradually assimi- lates itself to the structure of the bones that it repairs ; its outer portions assuming a compact laminated structure, and its inner or central portions acquiring wider cancel- lous spaces, and a more perfect medulla. It acquires, also, a defined periosteum, at first firm, thin, and distinctly lamellar, and gradually assuming toughness and compact- ness. But in regard to many of these later changes in the bonds of union of fractures, there are so many varieties in adaptation to the peculiarities of the cases, that no gene- ral account of them can be rendered.” Yircbow’s description of the formation of callus may also be quoted, as it gives in some respects a fuller idea of the process, and from a slightly different stand-point. He says:— “ The pre-existence of cartilage is by no means necessary for the formation of bone ; on the contrary, an osteoid substance is very frequently formed by a direct sclerosis in connective tissue, nay, ossification is thus really more easily effected than when it takes place in real cartilage. We see also by the history of the theories concerning callus, that the endeavor to show that it is always developed in the same way or out of the same substance (e. g., extravasated blood, periosteum, medullary tissue, exuded fluids, etc.), has proved the greatest obstacle to the true perception of the real state of things, 1 Trans, of Amer. Med. Association, 1881, pp. 907 etseq. * London Medical Record, Feb. 15, 1882.