122 INJURIES OF BONES. inward, and thus to tilt up the lower end of the upper fragment, so that its fractured surface tends to look outward. The lower fragment is at the same time drawn inward by the muscles attached to its upper end, while it is pulled upward by the deltoid, biceps (short head), coraco-brachialis, and sca- pular head of the triceps. Hence, the moment that there is any engagement of the two fragments in their changed relation, the tendency of the muscles is to keep up, and even to increase, the disturbance of the upper fragment. The line of separation in epiphyseal disjunctions has already been spoken of; in fractures through the surgical neck, I think it is, as a general rule, from without inward and downward, or nearly parallel with the plane of the anatomical neck—a circumstance which tends to lessen the degree of the deformity, since the long point of the upper fragment within, and that of the lower fragment without, are in the way each of the other’s displacement. When, however, there is an obliquity also from before backward, or from behind forward, the upper fragment may be so tilted as to point outward. Of this form of displacement one notable example exists in the Mutter Museum, in a specimen of epiphyseal disjunction, the lower fragment over- lapping the other inwardly, and in close contact with it, while the latter is so tilted by the action of the scapular muscles, that a space, tilled up, however, by callus, is left between the two fragments at the outer part of the fracture. This is by no means an isolated instance. In the majority of the speci- mens figured by Sir A. Cooper, Malgaigne, Gurlt, and other authors, and notably in one illustration first given by Moore, and borrowed by Hamilton and others, the same mechanism is clearly traceable; and this evidence is the stronger, in that it is altogether unintentional on the part of those pre- senting it. Malgaigne, indeed, says: “ The upper fragment is in a position answering to the greatest elevation of the arm in its normal state.” A striking illustration of this tilting action once came under my notice in a case of railroad injury, the humerus being crushed to within a few inches of the shoulder. While the patient was being etherized preparatory to the removal of the limb, the point of the upper fragment was repeatedly thrust strongly against the inner surface of the deltoid by the muscles mentioned. Further confirmation of this view is afforded by the fact that in most cases of fracture in this region there is, after recovery, a limitation of the move- ment of the arm directly upward, by reason of the approximation of the points of insertion of the scapular muscles to their origins. Sometimes, along with fractures in this region, the head of the bone becomes dislodged from the axilla. Hingeston’s case,1 in which the neck of the bone was broken into six pieces, which became united again, is a very remarkable one. Dr. J. Watson2 reports two cases, in both of which the cause of injury was direct violence; in one the fracture was through the surgical neck(?) “midway between the upper end of the bone and the insertion of the deltoid,” and in the other “ near the tubercles.” Reduction was effected immediately in both, without splinting the limb; in the latter case the arm was drawn out at right angles with the body, and the head of the bone coaxed into the glenoid cavity by manipulation with the fingers. Richet3 has placed on record a case of fracture of the surgical neck of the left humerus, with luxation of the head of the bone into the axilla. Reduction was effected by manipu- lation with the fingers, a few days after the accident, and ultimately the shape and usefulness of the limb were entirely regained. Norris4 reports a case 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1st S., vol. v., 1840. 2 New York Medical Times, July, 1854. 3 Quoted in Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1854. 4 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan., 1855, and Summary of Transactions of College of Physicians of Philadelphia, N. S., vol. ii. No. 6.