574 TUMORS. of normal cartilage. In the first place, two or more varieties of cartilage may be present in the same tumor, and, instead of forming distinct and separate parts of the tumor, may be intimately blended in all parts. Thus, hyaline and fibrous cartilage may be mingled, and, with them, areas of cel- lular cartilage may be blended. In the second place, the cells usually differ from those of normal cartilage in their larger size, their greater usually observed in the hard chon- dromas, and their presence in the soft varieties may justly be explained by the close relation which subsists between soft cartilage and mucous tissue, of which mention will presently be made. Cellular cartilage, such as that which forms the chorda dorsalis of the embryo, is rare in tumors, and probably never forms a large propor- tion of their structure. Metamorphoses and Combinations.—Chondromas are very prone to undergo partial ossification or calcification. The doubt has already been expressed, whether the cartilage-capped exostoses ought not more correctly to be termed ossifying chondromas than osteomas. But, setting these aside, the ossifica- tion or calcification of cartilaginous tumors, both of the hard parts and of the soft, is quite an ordinary occurrence. The metamorphosis affects usually the central portions of the tumor, and, in calcification, the lime salts are deposited in the matrix of the cartilage. In tumors consisting of numerous separate pieces of cartilage, the central portion of each piece may thus be calcified. This was so in the case already alluded to of tumor in a woman’s arm. Ossification and even calcification of chondromas seem to belong so closely to the natural order of occurrences, that they excite scarcely a feeling of curiosity. But there is another metamorphosis of cartilage, by no means uncommon, of which no such satisfactory explanation can be offered. In this, the mucous transformation, the cartilage grows softer and more translu- cent, until it may be so altered as to form a gelatinous material or even viscid fluid. Probably only the hyaline cartilage thus degenerates, but large masses of it may be liquefied, and the liquid, lying in the interior of a solid tumor, gives rise to the appearance of a cyst. Many cysts, or rather cystoid cavities, of this nature, may be found in a large chondroma. The contents may vary in color, consistence, and clearness. But they are generally yellow or yellow- ish-white, viscid, like synovia, and quite translucent. A microscopical exami- nation discovers numerous spindle-shaped or stellate cells, with long, delicate processes, formed by transformation of the cartilage-cells or nuclei, or per- haps rather derived by descent from the cells of the cartilage than due to transformation. The liquid is as probably due to a metamorphosis of the matrix. The hard chondromas yield chondrin in chemical analysis; the softer chon- dromas, and those which are actually liquefied, yield mucin. Cartilage is frequently combined with other tissues in tumors. Bone, fibrous tissue, gland-tissue, and sarcoma-tissue, all or severally may occur in combination with cartilage. Of the last of these it would generally be more just to say that the sarcoma-tissue has been organized into cartilage; and of IIUII1UUI ity, ttliu. their irregular disposition in the matrix. The spindle and stellate cells so freciuently described are not