360 DISEASES OP THE JOINTS. a rarity it occurs in tliis latter form, viz., as tuberculization of indolent granulations, that the so-called tubercular osteitis occurs. But great caution must be used before those non-vascular spots, formed by compressed endo- thelial cells surrounding two or more giant-cells, are accepted as tubercle, for all minute districts of granulation-tissue, which in their growth become deficient in vascularity, are apt to develop giant-cells, and these in their ex- pansive growth starve and compress the endothelial cells lying in their im- mediate vicinity, thus producing a globular (on section a circular) envelope to the central large cells. But the strumous is very closely related to the tuberculous diathesis, and it is only too common to find that patients suffering from strumous joint- maladies will, after a time, develop tubercle of the cerebral meninges or of the lungs. Such a sequence may be interpreted in one of two ways: The first, that a given patient is affected with struma, and therefore is prone to a closely allied disease, and that by a wearing and exhausting joint-affection the patient has been reduced to a condition especially favorable to the production of tubercle. The second, that a certain bacillus has produced the primary tubercle, and that its spores are afterwards transported from its original site to the lung or the membranes of the brain. The former of these interpreta- tions is a view which has been common in the profession for very many years, and nothing material is here to be added on the subject. The latter encounters many difficulties. No peculiar bacillus has, as far as I know, been discovered in tubercular organs to which air has no access; and it would be very difficult to imagine—probably impossible to prove—that a develop- ment of tubercle in one part could call forth tubercle in another not directly connected with it by circulation, lymphatic or sanguineous; but there is no difficulty in seeing that the constitution which develops tubercular deposit may do so at two places simultaneously or consecutively; or, indeed—and this lies nearer to my views—that the diathesis which produces strumous malady in structures not prone to tuberculosis, may cause tubercle in organs prone to that deposit. In other words, there is at present no proof of infec- tion from person to person, nor from one organ to another and a distant organ; but there is plentiful proof of constitutional and hereditary tendency to certain forms of disease. Hereditary tendency is a characteristic entirely different from what we know of diseases produced by bacilli or microzymes.1 The fatty and suppurative degeneration of inflammatory tissues, if exten- sive and long continued, leads to a morbid condition of certain abdominal organs—liver, spleen and kidneys—often called amyloid, a term which should be forgotten, but better named lardaceous. This change, being a sequela of long-continued suppuration, when large in quantity is more apt to follow on suppuration of bony tissues, which is always prolonged, than on that of soft parts, which is usually less enduring. Dr. Wilks and Dr. Grainger Stewart2 both associate it with deep-seated cachexia, such as is produced by strumous or syphilitic disease, particularly if it affect the bones, and it further appears to be owing, as Dr. Howship Dickinson3 has shown, to a diminished alkalinity of the blood, produced by draining away of certain salts with the 1 At page 299 et seq., some account was given of Dr. Schuller’s experiments in injecting vari- ous tubercular—or supposed tubercular—materials into the blood of animals in whom a knee- joint had been severely injured; the experiments seem to prove that the joints are hardly to be rendered tuberculous by any such process.) At the same time some doubt was indicated as to the truly tubercular character of all the aniline-dyed bacilli found in sputa, or in the pus of phthi- sical cavities. Those paragraphs were written, as was the text above, before the appearance of Dr. Spina’s researches and of his excellent criticism of Dr. Koch’s work. To these I would refer the reader. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1864 and 1865. 3 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. 1. p. 39. 1867.