DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 402 of the joint, is accessible without any great difficulty, a gouge and the osteo- trite will remove the disease, and may entirely cure it, though probably slowly. But when a passage leads right through the sacro-iliac joint into the pel- vis, very careful examination and consideration of the case are required. The passage may either affect the joint only, or it may be a sinus leading to very extensive disease in front of the sacrum. All this must be examined into by the methods above described. If no clear evidence of anterior sacral disease can be found, the proper course is to enlarge this passage, clear away any soft- ened bone with a small trephine or with a gouge, and pass a drainage-tube into the pelvis. Such treatment will often be useful,1 but the case will pro- gress very slowly. j If the surgeon have reason to believe that the front of the sacrum is dis- eased, his course will depend upon the more or less debilitated state of the patient. If he be emaciated, and much worn by pain or by suppuration, there is probably nothing to be done save by rest and medicine to alleviate his sufferings. But if he be still fairly strong and robust, I would strongly advise perforation along the sinus-track, and drainage. The rapidity of the disease is certainly lessened by keeping the pelvis and the carious surface as free from pus as possible. Anchylosis. The term Anchylosis, or Ankylosis, which is derived from a Greek word (ayxvxooj. to bend sharply), did not originally signify, as it now does, fixity or stiffness, but a bend or angle. This singular change in meaning necessitates the use of awkward and pleonastic language; we often have to speak of a straight or of an angular anchylosis. Anchylosis has been frequently mentioned in the foregoing pages as one of the modes in which affections of joints may terminate; it is therefore not a disease, but the more or less inconvenient result of a past malady. It is due to the adherence together, by bands of new and abnormal material, of two joint-bones. The new material is formed from inflammatory products, nearly always from granulations which have become tissue that may have remained fibrous, or may have developed into bone. In the former case, the anchylosis is called false, in the latter, true anchylosis.2 The new material is an inflam- matory product, whose origin has to a certain degree been traced. We will here take up the narrative at that point when either a synovial or osteal inflam- mation has destroyed the cartilages and the articular lamella, filling the joint- cavity with granulations springing from the synovial membrane and from the bony cancelli, or rather from the membrane lining the cancelli. When these granulations, more especially those from the two opposite bones,have coalesced, the next step is the conversion of these embryonic formations into fibre-cells, and then into a coarse, cicatricial fibrous tissue, which, of course, involves also the granulating synovial and perisynovial structures. Thus, the two bones become joined together by a strong bond which has taken the place of the joint-cavity. If a section be made of an articulation advancing towards this condition, it will be noticeable that fibrification of granulations proceeds chiefly 1 Three years ago I performed this operation for a young woman, and in three months she was able to walk short distances without pain, wearing a broad belt. The discharge from the wound became quite trilling, but this remained open for nineteen and a half months, and then healed ; she is now perfectly sound. 8 Other causes of joint stiffness, viz., thickening and shortening of synovial and perisynovial tissues, and muscular contraction, will be discussed hereafter.