519 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. lowed in a few days by suppuration of that joint, and then by acute necrosis of the humerus and pyarthrosis of the shoulder, and whose life was barely saved by amputation at the shoulder-joint; but such cases are happily excep- tional, and in a large majority of instances, if the patient can be at once put under careful and judicious treatment, a favorable result will follow. But, unfortunately, these cases at first seem so trivial that they are too commonly neglected until the disease is far advanced. And so it happens that in many—perhaps half—of the cases of joint disease which are brought to our hospitals, the time has already past during which treatment, to be most efficient, should have been employed. Thus of the 26 cases of knee- excision embraced in my table, in only one had the disease lasted less than one year, the duration in the other cases ranging from one to twenty-three years. I do not deny that in some of these cases recovery might perhaps have been eventually obtained without operation, but what kind of recovery would it have been ? We do, indeed, meet men and women hobbling about on crutches, with knees bent, and limbs withered and deformed, and such results may doubtless, in a certain sense, be called spontaneous cures; but what I maintain is that the limbs preserved by expectant treatment in these advanced cases of joint disease, are inferior to the limbs secured by the con- servative operation of excision, and little, if any, better than no limbs at all. I have dwelt upon this point at some length, because I believe that there are still many members of the profession who look upon excision of the knee-joint as a remedy of doubtful excellence, and who think that cases not bad enough for amputation should not be operated on at all. In deciding whether an operation is required in any particular case of knee- joint disease, the surgeon must consider the age and general condition of the patient, the duration of the affection, and the stage to which it has advanced. As regards age, no operation should as a rule be performed in cases occur- ring in very young children. ISTo doubt in some rare instances the life of the patient may be in danger from the exhaustion produced by an inflamed and suppurating knee-joint, and in such cases the surgeon must choose the least, of two evils, and remove the source of irritation by amputating the limb. But in the large majority of cases it is better to temporize, to put the part in as good a position as possible by straightening the limb, dividing tendons if necessary, and, as it were, patching up the joint, until the patient reaches an age when operative interference can be adopted with a better prospect of suc- cess. Excision of the knee is not a very successful operation in quite young children; these suffer more from confinement than those who are older, the restraint necessary during the after-treatment is more irksome to them, and they are, I think, more liable to the insidious development of tuberculous and other constitutional diseases. My own rule has been to postpone opera- tion until the child lias attained to at least the age of five—better nine or ten—years, and those cases which I have seen operated on by others at an earlier period of life, have usually done badly. Again, in persons past the middle age, unless amputation is positively required to rescue the patient from impending death, it is better as a rule to avoid operation. The mortal- ity after excision is so great in these cases that prudent surgery would, it seems to me, under such circumstances, dictate rather to take the chances of a cure by the effects of nature, than to attempt to hasten recovery by operation. The following table, compiled from Culbertson’s figures, shows in a very satisfactory manner the mortality of knee-joint excision at different ages:—