DISEASE OF THE ATLO-AXOID REGION. 957 ryngeal abscess may burrow down behind the pharynx and reach even to the mediastinum. In other cases the pus may go towards the spinal canal, and may form a collection between the dura mater and the bone: or having pierced that membrane it may enter the arachnoid space, and lead to a rapidly fatal result. Follin and Duplay assert that the vertebral artery may be opened by the suppurative process, and such a hemorrhage take place into the spinal canal as to lead to compression of the cord. As in Pott’s dis- ease, the mischief may progress to a fatal issue without remission, or a cure may follow without any previous evidence of abscess, or a like good result may follow after the abscess has appeared, and that too after it has discharged itself through the skin. In cases where anchylosis has taken place, the outlines of the bones involved may be very confused, and the deformity remarkable. In a case noted by Sir ffm. Lawrence, the atlas, axis, and occipital condyles were fused together in one firm mass. The bones had been partially dislocated from one another, and the odontoid process was thrust so far into the foramen magnum as to really occupy the cranial cavity.1 In a specimen described by Dr. Lochee and Mr. C. II. Moore, the four upper cervical vertebrae and the occipital condyles were fused together. The bones were all much compressed and distorted, and their outlines very confused. There was no trace of the odon- toid process. The bodies of the two upper cervical vertebrae had invaded the foramen magnum, and were practically in the cranial cavity. The spinal canal, at the seat of disease, was, as may be imagined, much diminished in capacity.2 Lastly, it is to be noted that the spinal cord may be compressed or crushed by fragments of bone separated in the progress of the disease. Etiology.—The etiology of disease in this region is very similar to that of Pott’s malady. The disease occurs mostly in childhood and youth, and is ascribed in the bulk of instances to the influence of scrofula. It is rare in those of mature age, and very rare in the old. The mischief may also follow after injury, and this would seem to be one of its most frequent causes in those cases that appear late in life.3 Cold, unwonted use of the part—as in carry- ing weights upon the head, etc.—rheumatism, gout, etc., have been somewhat vaguely regarded as active causes in producing disease of the upper cervical spine. Syphilis would appear to be a frequent cause of the disease, and espe- cially of that form of it that principally attacks the bone. There are several recorded cases where disease of the upper vertebrae has followed upon deep ulcer ol the pharynx, and it is very probable that all these examples have been due to syphilis. Symptoms.—The symptoms of spinal disease in this region may be conve- niently arranged under the heads, (1) Pain, (2) A certain rigidity of the neck, (3) Swelling, (4) Deformity, (5) Signs of abscess, and (6) Evidence of pressure upon the cord. (1) Pain is very often one of the first signs of the malady under considera- tion. This pain is mostly complained of along the course of one or more of the following nerves: the great occipital, the small occipital, the great auricular, the superficialis colli, and the descending branches of the cervical plexus, viz., the sternal, clavicular, and acromial nerves. It is necessary to remember that the first cervical nerve escapes between the occiput and the atlas, the second between the atlas and the axis, and the third beneath the latter bone. So 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. 1827. 2 Lancet, vol. vii. 1867, p. 637. 3 See example ol occipito-atloid disease, ending ii> anchylosis, in a man aged sixty-four. It followed upon a fall on the head. There was no fracture. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv. 1841.