683 CARCINOMA. beneath a tight foreskin, the irritation, or injury, of the anus by the passage of hard and ill-digested motions, may all be looked upon as possible, if not probable, causes of carcinoma. The carcinomas which occur on other parts of the skin may often be traced to a similar cause. For instance, those of the scrotum to the irritation of soot, those of the face to the scratching or tear- ing off of previously existing warts. Among the glands for which carcinoma has the greatest liking, the foremost place is taken by the female breast; then, but separated by a long interval, the testis, the pancreas, the parotid, the liver, and the kidneys. The thyroid and the supra-renal capsules are also selected from among the ductless glands. The reasons for the frequency with which the female breast is attacked, are thought to be the injuries to which it is exposed, and the great changes which it undergoes in development and in decline, in evolution and in involution. Some of the tumors of the skin, and many of those of the mucous membranes, are really tumors of glandular origin, the former originating in the sudoriparous and sebaceous glands, the latter in the crypts or mucous follicles. The causes which have been mentioned are not so potent as to account for all the peculiarities which are observed in the origin of carcinoma. Why, for instance, should the disease affect the lower lip so much more frequently than the upper? Why are some glands scarcely ever affected, while other glands resembling them in structure and in function are comparatively frequently attacked ? Why is carcinoma almost unknown during infancyand childhood, so rare during adolescence, so common after the middle period of life? The answer to the first question is sought in the greater irritation to which the lower lip is habitually exposed. The answer to the second question is scarcely attempted. The third question is thought to be answered by saying that the epithelium is more active during later life, or that it is subject to irritations which are unknown in earlier life. The insufficiency of these and simi- lar answers is evident. The epithelium of many parts is as active in the young as in the old ; the epithelium of the breast and testis can scarcely be supposed to be degenerate in women of thirty-five, or men of thirty, in whom carcinoma is not uncommon ; the anus and the rectum are subject to precisely similar irritation in early and in later life. Even if the disease he due to the introduction of a parasite (micro-organism), it is not easy to understand why this should only gain access to the epithelium, or only produce its disastrous results, after a certain period of life. The organs and tissues primarily affected by carcinoma are not necessarily or most frequently those affected by secondary carcinoma. Thus, the glands, the skin, and the mucous membranes, are rarely the seat of secondary tumors, but the bones and the brain, parts never attacked by the primary disease, are among the most common, next to the lungs and the liver, of the parts in which secondary tumors grow. Etiology of Carcinomata.—The age and sex of persons subject to carcinoma have been touched on in the preceding paragraphs. I lere it may he added that although carcinoma attacks some parts of the body much earlier than others, it is rare in any part in persons under thirty years of age. It is sometimes seen in the testicle in men little over twenty years, on the labia in girls of scarcely twenty, in the breasts of women between twenty and thirty years. From thirty-five to fifty years it is met with frequently in the breast, the vulva, and the uterus, on the tongue and the penis, in the testis and the bladder. The carcinomas of the lip and the oesophagus are more frequently noticed at a later age—from forty-five to sixty-five. The sexes are very unequally exposed to the occurrence of carcinoma, on account, of the great liability of the female organs of generation to the disease. The breast, for example, fur-