SYNOVITIS. 277 the emplastrum plumbi iodicli, save in gouty constitutions, may aid in promot- ing absorption.1 The strapping should be cut in strips of about three-quarters of an inch in breadth, and evenly applied from below upward with a certain amount of tightness and pressure. But if there be some little fluid in the joint, it is better at first to use elastic compression; this of course may be done by sundry means, as, for instance, by the elastic caps which are made for all the important joints of the limbs; but I prefer a simple, elastic, web-bandage, which may be trusted to do all the work more evenly and better. It upholds the weak joint, and procures absorption both of solid thickening and of effu- sion. It should be noted, however, that all such appliances aid in producing wasting of the muscles above the joint, of those which move the lower of its segments, and more especially of the extensors. Dr. Martin, of Boston, Massachusetts, extols his solid, India-rubber band- age, the use of which “alone” or with aspiration, he says is always curative of “ synovitis and its sequelse, in every form and degree of severity, in every variety of diathesis and complication.”2 By “ alone,” Dr. Martin means among other things that he does not allow rest of the joint. The observation of the profession at large does not corroborate this experience. Therefore caution must be exercised, and especially the bandage should not be employed where the limb is much wasted, and it should not be continued longer than necessary. After these various methods have been sufficiently employed, and have had their full effect, the patient may still find consider- able difficulty in employing the limb, especially if the inflammation have been severe, and have been in a joint of the lower extremity, whose work is more onerous than that of the upper. To overcome this last remnant of disease is of course a work of time, which may be greatly aided by two procedures— shampooing and passive movement. These, more especially the former, are carried out under surgical superin- tendence by “ medical rubbers,” the manoeuvres being called, in England, “ rubbing ;” on the Continent, “ massage” (kneading); the mere act of rub- bing or kneading the part being conjoined with certain movements which the surgeon should so direct that they may affect the most shortened muscles. The rubbing itself should be done with the palm, the ball of the thumb and that of the little finger being chiefly called into play; the direction should be that of the venous circulation, the skin being protected by powdering with flour or starch, or sometimes by inunction with oil; the friction should be energetic, one hand following the other rapidly up the limb; these manoeuvres certainly aid in causing absorption of indurations and of thickenings, but I cannot ascribe to them all the somewhat wonderful results that their more enthusiastic advocates claim,3 although there is no doubt that restoration of form may be to a large extent hereby produced. Passive movement is one of the most powerful means at our command for overcoming the stiffness so often left after any form of articular inflammation. I shall, hereafter, de- scribe various modes of carrying out the necessary manoeuvres, and will, therefore, relegate to a future occasion what must be said on the subject. Here it need only be remarked, that, as simple synovitis rarely leaves behind any considerable muscular shortening, the surgeon has chiefly to do with thickening of periarticular tissues. 1 Souty persons are most injuriously affected by lead, and they absorb it into the system with marvellous ease. * Transactions of the International Medical Congress. London, 1881. * The prophet of “massage” is par excellence Dr. v. Mosengeil, to whose papers readers, curious in this matter, may refer (Verhandl. der deutschen Gesellsch. fur Chirurg., 4ter Congress, 1875), and he describes a number of slightly differing manoeuvres which have, in his opinion, very diverse effects.