385 HIP-DISEASE. femoris and the upper back part of the acetabulum ; hence follows cartilagi- nous ulceration at those points—a decubitus, or pressure-sore—which is merely secondary, and which constantly occurs, even though the disease may have begun in quite another part of the joint. If this pressure continue, the result- ant ulceration becomes deeper and deeper, and involves the bone of both joint constituents ; the femoral head is then flattened down while the acetabulum is prolonged and hollowed upward toward the dorsum ilii. Hence arises part of the “ real shorteningthe other part results from loss of growth, and, in severe cases, probably, also from decrease in length of the neck, consequent on disease about the diaplij'seal aspect of the epiphyseal junction. The causation of a certain early symptom, pain at the knee, must also be elucidated ; it has been ascribed to various causes, but we may eliminate all except two, viz., distribution of nerves, and sympathy of the bone-ends one with the other. Of the former, it may be said that the sciatic and obturator nerves supply twigs to both joints; the anterior crural only occasionally does so. Either of these may, by irritation referred to a distant part, as is so com- mon in nerve-irritation, cause a sensation generated in the hip to be felt at the knee. There is no doubt that the chief factor in this sort of knee-pain is the obturator nerve; it sends a considerable branch to the hip, and supplies that particular part of the knee to which pain, when distinctly localized, is most often referred. Sympathy between the two ends of the bone has been proved by more than one observation.1 I myself have in three instances found pressure on a dis- placed femoral head to produce pain at the knee. Many patients, when the thigh is pressed upward, complain of pain, not at the hip, but at the femoral condyles. It is to be observed, that these sympathetic bone-pains are always centrifugal—that is, they are never nearer to the trunk than the disease, but at a greater distance; the sympathy of the lower end is greater when the upper end than when the shaft is affected. The course of the disease is, save for these points which arise out of its physiological anatomy, very much as in other joints; but certain other pecu- liarities may be noted, namely, that suppuration is probably more common at this place than elsewhere, and that dislocation when it occurs is usually complete. Of the former, it must be remarked, that abscess perceptible through the skin is not always intra-articular; that the pus often passes a long way between muscles and along fasciae previous to pointing—hence, it may make its appearance at the front of the thigh, below Ponpart’s ligament, or behind the great trochanter; and that the locality is not always a sure guide to the place of formation. For instance, intrapelvic abscess may point at either of the two last-named spots. Pus formed at the lower part of the fem- oral head may come to the surface in front of the thigh, but more commonly appears behind the great trochanter, following the track of the external obtu- rator muscle. Luxation of the thigh does not mean that movement from its place which depends on the furrowing upward of the acetabulum, the head remaining in the altered socket; it means an absolute exit of the head out of the cavity, and its lodgment elsewhere. In certain cases dislocation is no doubt sudden, in others it is as certainly gradual. I have in resections found three times the head of the femur resting on the margin of the acetabulum, and marked by a transverse, semicircular, ulcerated depression, evidently the impression of that edge. hen luxation is complete, the bone nearly always rests on the dor-urn ilii. The only two exceptions that I know of, are a case in which I assisted 1 See Wedemeyer, liber Caries und Necrose. Grafe u. Waltber, Journal der Cbirurgie, 5ter Band, 3ter Heft., S. 620. VOL. IV.—25