(891) MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. BY FREDERICK TREVES, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT SURGEON TO, AND SENIOR DEMONSTRATOR OP ANATOMY AT, THE LONDON HOSPITAL. Spina Bifida. The term “spina bifida” is applied essentially to a hernia of the mem- branes of the cord through a congenital fissure in some portion of the bones forming the spinal column. Pathological Anatomy.—Speaking generally, the congenital deficiency that leads to spina bifida is in the posterior segments of the column, and is at the expense of the laminae and spinous processes. Through the bony gap the spinal membranes protrude, distended by an abnormal amount of cerebro- spinal fluid. Often the cord itself, or some part of it, takes a share in the protrusion. The spina bifida, therefore, appears as a tumor of variable size, situated in the middle line, covered with normal or more or less modified integuments, and presenting the essential features of a simple cyst. Causes.—As to the causes of spina bifida nothing definite can be said, and the etiology of the affection must for the present be hidden under the general term, “arrest of development.” A vast number of theories have been pro- pounded upon the subject, supported for the most part by a minimum of facts; and it must be confessed, that in spite of long argument and a multi- tude of opinions, little real addition has been made to our knowledge of the causes of this and like deformities. Perhaps the most essential question that requires to be answered is this: Which is the primary defect, the arrest of development in the bones, or the dropsy of the membranes? Does the defici- ency in the bony canal encourage a protrusion of the membranes, or lias the protrusion prevented the proper formation of the osseous canal ? Those who are interested in this discussion will find the matter fully argued out by Folliu and Duplay, in their Traite de Pathologie Externe. Site.—The common situation for spina bifida is in the lumbo-sacral region. Indeed, it may be said that the deformity is rare elsewhere. Next in fre- quency to the lumbo-sacral region comes the upper cervical region, and then the rest of the cervical spine, while the least frequent spot for a spina bifida is the mid-dorsal region. Number.—The spina bifida is usually single. In rare cases, however, there may be two examples of the deformity in the same person. Thus there may be a spina bifida in the lumbo-sacral region, and another in the neck. Bryant