490 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 2 See Vol. I., pages 634 et seq. 1 Op. cit., Third Surgical Volume, page 875. the metacarpal bone of the thumb is the part to he removed, disarticulation may be first effected at either end, as may be found most convenient. (Fig. 714.) Excision of a metaearpo-phalangeal joint, which may be required either for compound fracture or dislocation, or for disorganizing disease, may also be satisfactorily accomplished through a longitudinal, dorsal incision, the tendon being held out of the way, and the bones divided, either before or after dis- articulation, with cutting forceps. (Fig. 715.) For excision of the interpha- Fig. 715. Iangeal joints, a similar operation may be practised, but in this locality the longitudinal incision should be made on one or other side, instead of on the dorsal surface. These operations commonly result favorably as regards the life of the patient, 114 terminated cases of resection of the bones of the hand for gun- shot injury, tabulated by Drs. Otis and Huntington,1 having given 11 deaths, a mortality of less than 10 per cent. But a finger that has lost its metacarpal bone or metaearpo-phalangeal joint, commonly becomes distorted and short- ened, and not only is the symmetry of the hand lost, but its functions are more or less seriously interfered with. Metacarpal excisions may be sometimes required in connection with partial amputations of the hand, but no general rules can be given for their perform- ance under such circumstances.2 Excisions in the Lower Extremity. Excision of the Hip-Joint.—This operation may be required in cases of injury (especially from gunshot wound), or of hip-disease, and possibly in some cases of necrosis of the upper part of the femur, though in that affec- tion it would usually be right to wait for the spontaneous separation of the dead portion, which could then be removed with comparatively little risk. Excision of tbe hip has also been performed in cases of malignant disease, of anchylosis, and of rheumatoid arthritis. If anchylosis in a bad position be accompanied, as it sometimes is, by extensive caries, the operation may be properly resorted to as a means of relieving both conditions, but under other circumstances subcutaneous osteotomy, by Mr. Adams’s or Mr. Gant’s method, would be preferable, as promising an almost equally good result, and as being attended with very much less danger. For the other conditions