640 TUMORS. affection may have been long delayed, the disease often spreads quickly from gland to gland, and this before any individual one of a group of glands has acquired a notable size. Nothing is more deceptive than the impression gained by feeling a full axilla. What has appeared to be a single, slightly enlarged gland, proves, in many instances, on opening the axilla, to be only one of a large group of diseased glands, each of which is of considerable size. Two very interesting questions in connection with this subject deserve attention: first, whether glands which are enlarged in the immediate neigh- borhood of a carcinoma, and in the lymphatic course, are necessarily carci- nomatous ; second, whether glands which are not obviously enlarged may nevertheless be carcinomatous. The answer to the first question is manifestly negative. A gland beneath the jaw, in a case of epithelioma of the tongue, may be enlarged, and the enlargement may be due to the presence of the epithelioma, yet there may be no carcinoma in the lymphatic gland. In proof of which, in more than one instance, such a gland has been allowed to remain when the primary disease has been removed ; the swelling of the gland has entirely subsided after removal of the ulcer, and the patient has been free from all signs of carcinoma after the lapse of several years. It is, however, quite clear that, unless there be some well marked contra- indication to the removal of such glands, no reliance should be placed in practice on this exceptional condition. The second question may be answered in the affirmative. For it is by no means an unusual circumstance, after an operation for carcinoma, to see the glands slowly enlarge, although at the time of the operation they appeared to be quite healthy, or, at least, no en- largement of them could be discovered. Of such cases it must be surmised, either that a separate outbreak of carcinoma has occurred in the lymphatic glands, or that they were already affected when the primary tumor was removed. It need scarcely be stated that the latter is the correct view: if there were no other proof, the histological resemblance of the disease of the glands to the primary disease would suffice to decide the question. In some cases, cords formed by thickened or swollen lymphatics can be felt between the enlarged glands and the primary disease. I hit this is not invariably the case: indeed, the anatomical relations of the parts affected may render it impossible to distinguish these lymphatic cords even if they exist. Where they can be distinguished, they should be regarded as undoubtedly carcinomatous in all questions relative to treatment. Their structure, and the manner in which the glands become affected without disease of the inter- vening lymphatics, were discussed in the introductory portion of this article. The production of secondary tumors in structures other than the glands, depends partly on the seat of the primary affection, and perhaps partly on the variety of the carcinoma. The secondary tumors usually bear a strong resemblance to the primary disease, so much so that the characters of a secondary tumor of the liver may indicate the nature and even the probable seat of the primary growth. The liver and the lungs are the parts most fre- quently attacked by secondary tumors; but the skin, bones, brain, heart, kidneys, and other tissues and organs, are also liable. The soft, spheroidal- celled carcinomas of such parts as the breast and testis are the tumors from which the widest dissemination may be expected. Slowly growing and hard squamous-celled carcinomas (epitheliomas) of the lip and scrotum exhibit very little tendency to dissemination. As in the affection of lymphatic glands, so in the formation of other secondary tumors, there exists the widest difference in respect to the period at which the dissemination is effected. The same kind of tumor, in the same parts, may produce numerous secondary growths within a few weeks or months of its first appearance, or not till after many years.