FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. 67 venient hampering of its movements, not remediable, as mere shortening is, by the wearing of a boot with a thick cork sole, or with a metallic stirrup to make up the want of length ; and for such a condition the surgeon is justified in adopting severer measures, and running greater risks, than for one less distressing. One or two instances are upon record in which surgeons have shortened a sound limb in order to obviate the limp due to a badly healed fracture in the other. I mention the fact only to enter a protest against any such pro- cedure, which, in my opinion, could never be otherwise than rash and un- surgical, and the result of which could not be satisfactory. Reference will be again made to the subject of union with deformity in connection with certain special fractures. FRACTURES OF SPECIAL BONES. Fractures of the Bones of the Face. From the size, shape, and arrangement of the bones constituting the skele- ton of the face, they are, with the exception of the lower jaw, unapt to be broken singly. By crushing forces, such as a fall from a height on the face, the kick of a horse, or the passage of a wheel, very extensive injury may be inflicted. These fractures are generally compound, and often comminuted. Cotting has reported1 the case of a man run over by a cart, who had “ a fracture of the lower jaw on one side, and a dislocation on the other; and a separation of the whole face from the base of the skull. The patient recovered without much deformity.” A man was brought to the Pennsylvania Hospital in 1855, who had had his head caught between the platform of a steam hoisting-machine and a floor. The face was separated—bones, soft parts and all—from the cranium, as far back as the sphenoid; a ghastly gash across the face, with a curious falling away of all the features from the forehead, had been produced, and the shock was so great that death ensued in a few hours. A very remarkable case of smashing of the facial bones, not fatal, may be found recorded by Heath.2 Such very severe injuries are rarely met with ; and the cases vary so much that they can only be discussed in the most general terms. Although at first sight they may be frightful, and it may seem as if recovery, if possible at all, would be necessarily attended with hideous deformity, the surgeon should not despair. He should endeavor to ascertain the exact extent and character of the fractures, and to replace the broken portions of all the bones involved. It may tax his ingenuity to keep them in place, but by careful adaptation of the means to be presently described, a great deal may be done. Union takes place very rapidly, and the disfigurement ultimately resulting is often far less than might at first be expected. One rule is recognized by all the authorities in regard to compound com- minuted fractures of the facial bones; it is, that splinters of bone should not be removed until they are actually necrosed and thrown off. Loss of sub- stance produces the worst deformity; and it often happens that small frag- ' American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. 1850. 2 Diseases and Injuries of the Jaws, p. 55. London, 1868.