608 TUMORS. ancl undermined; it has not been invaded by the growth, but has given way from pressure. Sarcomas occasionally, but very rarely, slough completely out and undergo spontaneous cure. I have seen one of several tumors in the back of a boy’s thigh, thus perfectly removed, nor was there any recurrence, although the patient lived more than a year after this accident. It is, however, more usual for a large fragment of a tumor to slough out without benefit to the patient; and still more rare than sloughing, is spontaneous cure by the gradual withering of a tumor. Indeed, a sarcoma rarely, under any circumstances, diminishes in bulk. In the patient of whom mention lias just been made, a tumor of the testicle decreased notably in size during the course of weeks or months, hut the progress of the disease was not arrested. During this period the pelvic glands were steadily enlarging, and, although the testis diminished, it did not regain its normal size or consistence. Symptoms of Sarcomata.—To give a general description of the clinical characters which shall apply to all sarcomas, is impossible, for no class of tumors is so liable to variation. So much depends on the situation of the growth and other associated conditions. Yet there are certain characters which are sufficiently general and important to he noticed in this section. That a sarcoma may be as hard as bone or as soft as jelly ; that it may grow slowly or may increase with rapid strides; that it may be very smooth or very uneven; that it may he movable or fixed, are characters which might be ex- pected from what has been already said of this disease. Indeed, it is difficult to imagine characters which a sarcoma may not present. But a combination of symptoms is often observed which is very characteristic of sarcoma. Mul- tiple tumors, not secondary to one among their number, affecting different yet nearly allied tissues, increasing steadily and often rapidly, invading neighboring structures and becoming speedily less movable even when they are of small or moderate size, without signs of inflammation, yet tending to produce discoloration of the integuments over them—can scarcely be other than sarcomas. Unequal consistence, rapid growth, the absence of signs of inflammation, the occurrence of the tumor in one of the well-known seats of election of sarcoma, and increasing immobility, are probably the most charac- teristic symptoms of the disease. But every one of these symptoms may be absent, and yet the disease may be a well-marked specimen of sarcoma. In tbe sketches which will presently he given of the sarcomas of certain tissues and organs, the most important features of each will be described, and at the same time attention will be drawn to the characters upon which most weight should be placed in making a diagnosis. Prognosis.—The prognosis of sarcoma is never favorable. The sarcomas of some parts are quickly fatal, and this, not because the disease primarily attacks vital structures, but because of its essentially malignant nature; thus, subperiosteal sarcomas of the bones run usually a very rapid course, and, becoming generalized, sometimes kill in three or four months. Sarcomas of the foot ai’e also very malignant, and sarcomas of the tonsil more so, perhaps, than primary sarcomas of any other part. The manner in which the disease invades surrounding parts has been already spoken of, and the fact that it often—nay, almost always—oversteps its apparent limits (that is, its capsule), and grows, microscopically, in the tissues just beyond. (Plate XXI. Pig. 24.) Thus is accounted for the recurrence of sarcomas, the intense obstinacy with which some of them are re-formed, not once but many times. A tumor, per- fectly encapsuled, shells out with ease; the capsule is not opened, so that there appears no reason to believe that any of the tissue of the growth has