CARCINOMA. 637 and colnmnar-celled growths. The majority of the squamous-celled tumors are formed of a dense, opaque, dull-white material, presenting no trace of fibrillation, but containing usually numerous plugs of yellow, cheesy matter. They are generally friable, but are sometimes very tough. They very rarely form large tumors; indeed, there is often nothing which deserves the name of tumor, for, beneath the ulcer, which almost invariably forms, there exists only a layer of carcinomatous material, from a line to half an inch in thick- ness, with a notched or fringed border abutting on the subjacent parts. Whatever be the appearance of the disease, one character is almost always apparent in a carcinoma, that of infiltration. In the section on sarcoma it was pointed out that the tumor is often circumscribed and encapsuled, and that the infiltration of surrounding tissues, which almost invariably occurs, is veiled, and may not be suspected. In carcinoma the case is different; in- filtration is not only present, but is usually plainly visible. The tumor is, in very many instances, not a separate mass, but an altered condition of the part in which it grows. Again, the carcinomas are very vascular, or, if the tumor itself be not very vascular (for example, an epithelioma), the vessels which supply the parts immediately around it are always large and full. Other general characters of carcinoma depend upon the part attacked, and upon changes which the tumor undergoes. Thus, the hard and the soft varie- ties, and the typical epitheliomas, are all liable to fatty and caseous degeneration, and these changes, when they are extensive, naturally produce a striking effect on the appearance of portions of the tumor. The hard carcinomas, of the breast especially, are prone to shrink, and, by shrinking, become still harder, and draw in toward the tumor all the surrounding tissues, so that dis- tortion, puckering, and an appearance of scarring, are produced. Organization, with the exception of fi.br fication, is very rare in carcinoma. Bone and car- tilage are scarcely ever met witti ; nor is calcification more frequent. But there is one transformation of the tissues of carcinoma which is not by any means uncommon in the tumors of several parts, a transformation so striking in the effects which it produces that it has led to the belief that the tumors which were affected by it belonged to an entirely separate class of carcinomas; it is the colloid transformation. Colloid carcinomas are almost always easily recognized by their gelatinous appearance, and by their locular structure. The loculi or alveoli are, in some tumors, very large ; in other tumors so small that they present the appearance of a fine network, with meshes filled with jelly, or viscid, transparent fluid, softer and more diffluent than jelly. Colloid carcinomas are met with in the abdomen, in connection with the omentum and mesentery, and in the stomach and intestines down to, and within, the rec- tum. They occur, too, occasionally in other parts, such as the breast. They often form large masses, and spread, along the intestine especially, over many inches or even feet. They grow, for the most part, slowly, and are less malig- nant than the carcinomas of the same parts which are not colloid, as if the col- loid change ot structure had involved some change of property or capacity in the tumor, fortunately in the direction ot rendering it less capable of mischief; yet they run the same course as other carcinomas of the same part, but are slower in every stage of it. Thus, the colloid tumors of the breast are slow ot growth, late in returning after they have been removed, late in affecting the lymphatic glands, and slow to affect other organs. But they may do all these things, provided that sufficient time is granted them. The reasons for believing colloid carcinoma to be only a modified form of one of the sub- classes, are shortly these: it is sometimes found in combination with one of the other forms, the spheroidal-cel led especially, and the gradual transition ot the one into the other can be clearly traced; the cells which are seen in the colloid material resemble those found in other carcinomas ; and the course