TUMORS. 658 while those in the interior, undergoing a liquid transformation, form the con- tents of the cyst. Or, the cyst-wall may be formed by condensation of the surrounding tissues ; the lining and contents by changes in the cells. Certain of the cysts in the ovary, the kidney, the thyroid, and other organs, and many of the cysts in tumors, are probably thus derived from changes in cells, either connective-tissue or epithelial. III. Cysts of Uncertain Origin. The C37sts of uncertain origin include some of the congenital cysts and cystic tumors, some of the dermoid cysts, and some of the anomalous mucous sacs and bursae. The origin of some of the congenital cysts has already been traced ; others of them are derived from changes in meningoceles, whether of the brain or of the cord, owing to which the communication between the sac and the arachnoid has been obliterated. But the origin of others cannot so certainly be discovered: they are, therefore, classed among the cysts of doubtful origin. Again, certain of the dermoid tumors are unquestionably developed in unclosed or oidy partially obliterated embryonal clefts, as in the branchial tissures. Thus they occur in the sides of the neck or behind the sternum, and their presence is not necessarily observed during infancy or childhood. An accidental circumstance may cause the tiny cavity to enlarge, until it may reach a considerable size, and, being inflamed, may open or per- haps be opened. The interior of such a cyst is generally quite smooth and lined with epithelium in layers, resembling the epithelium of the skin. The contents are, for the most part, soft-solid, resembling in appearance the con- tents of a sebaceous cyst, and consisting of epithelial scales which have been cast off from the lining of the wall. In addition to this substance there are fre- quently hairs, and, less commonly, solid masses covered with skin and fur- nished with hairs, and with sebaceous and even sudoriparous glands. Some of the dermoid cysts contain teeth, or fragments of cartilage or bone. It is thought that most, if not all, of the dermoid cysts are formed hy arrests and modifications of development. They are found in many different parts of the body—in the skin and subcutaneous tissue (especially of the temporal and orbital regions), in the testis and ovary, uterus, brain, pleurae, lungs, and mesentery, and in the neck and anterior mediastinum. Relations of Cysts to Solid Tumors. Before proceeding to discuss the general characters and treatment of any of the special forms of cyst, it will be well to advert for a moment to the rela- tions between cysts and solid tumors. But first, the combinations of cysts with other cysts must be referred to. Several or many cysts may be developed in one or other of the ways which have been described, and, lying close together, may constitute a compound cystic growth. Or, cysts may he formed within a cyst, which, until it be opened, bears the appearance of a simple cyst. These intracystic or secondary cysts are not necessarily developed in the same fashion as the mother cyst; for, while the latter may be the result of disten- sion of a previously existing cavity or sac, the former may be due to the inclusion of spaces between papillary growths from the inner surface of the wall of the mother cyst, or to transformation of cells or groups of cells. Large cysts with intracystic cysts are not uncommon in the ovary. By similar processes to those by which the secondary cysts are formed, tertiary cysts, or cysts within the secondary cysts, may be developed.