FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 241 Crepitus is rarely wanting, and is in general developed by the slightest handling of the injured limb. Swelling occurs very rapidly, and may mask the other symptoms in a great degree. Ecchymosis also attends almost every case, by reason of the tearing of the periosteum ; it often takes place only gradually, and increases for some days. I have repeatedly seen the discoloration of the skin outlast the period of consolidation of the bone. Along with the ecchymosis there is very apt to be a formation of bullte or blebs, containing a more or less bloody serum; but these, if carefully let alone, will dry away without trouble. They are apt to be a source of great alarm to the patient and his friends, and to inex- perienced practitioners. Gross1 says that a symptom which is seldom absent is “ a spasmodic twitch- ing of the limb, coming on soon after the accident, and frequently lasting for several days, or even weeks, much to the annoyance and distress of the patient.” I have never had my attention called to this phenomenon unless other symptoms of disorder of the nervous system were also manifested. The course of these fractures is subject to like variations. In some cases, after the first dressing, there is no pain, union takes place promptly, and the patient’s only inconvenience is in the confinement necessarily imposed upon him. Sometimes, however, very grave symptoms manifest themselves. Mr. Green2 reports a case of simple fracture of the leg followed by gangrene, for which amputation was performed, with a fatal result; the autopsy showed no wound of the vessels, which may, however, have been pressed upon by one of the fragments. The patient was a man aged forty-seven. Another case is reported by Trask.3 Dupuytren4 records six cases in which arteries were wounded by the fragments, the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial, and the peroneal being known to have thus suffered. Three times amputation was called for, and twice ligation of the femoral. Leigh5 records the case of a man, aged forty-eight, who fell from a height, and fractured both hones just below the knee. On the twentieth day he was thought to have an abscess, which was punctured, hut only blood escaped ; two days afterward the wound was opened, and the anterior tibial artery was found torn across. The vessel was tied, but death occurred in a few hours. Borcheim® has published an account of a case of fracture of both hones, in which an aneurism of the posterior tibial artery was formed, and the femoral was tied at the apex of Scarpa’s triangle; union was not interfered with. Edwards7 has reported to the Pathological Society of London, the case of a woman, aged sixty-three, who was run over, sustaining a fracture of the right tibia at the junction of the middle and lower third. On the third day some bullte appeared on the foot; on the fifth day the foot was cold; amputation was performed, hut death ensued. “ The anterior tibial vessels had been occluded by being nipped between the fragments; and a large blood-clot was found in the calf, pressing on the posterior tibial vessels.’’" Stimson8 says that lNTepveu in a recent paper,9 cites more than fifty cases of fracture involving injury to various vessels in the leg. Occasionally the nerves are likewise injured. Callender10 records four cases of this kind, in which bullre, causalgia, glazed skin, and the other phenomena recognized as due to nerve-lesions, were present. ! Op. cit., vol. i. p. 991. 8 St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1836. a Am. Journal of the Merl. Sciences, Oct. 1850. 1 Lesions of the Vascular System, ete. ; Syd. Society’s Translation. 5 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. iii. 1868. 6 Medical Record, Dec. 30, 1882. 7 Med. Times and Gazette, May 26, 1883. 8 Treatise on Fractures, p. 568. 9 Bulletins de la Soc. de Chirurgie, 1875. 10 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870. VOL. IV.—1(3