569 FIBROMA OR FIBROUS TUMOR. built up of flat, irregularly-shapecl bands, whose length only slightly exceeded their breadth. Placed at a little distance apart, these bands gave off from every side—or, rather, split up into—coarse radiating fibres, which, joining or interlacing with the fibres of the surrounding bands, formed a delicate network. The design thus worked is very ornamental and very difficult cor- rectly to trace or copy. The soft fibromas have more often the structure of loose areolar tissue, in the meshes of which is contained the serous fluid which oozes away in such abundance after removal of the growth. They in- variably contain cells, but generally not in larger proportion than many of the hard tumors. Elastic fibres are present in these soft fibromas, wound round the bundles of white fibres, and many of the hard fibromas contain elastic fibres, but the proportion is in most tumors very small. The fibromas are not usually very vascular; the vessels are provided in most instances with true vessel walls. The varieties of structure exhibited by fibromas of the same region, and apparently of the same tissue, have led Recklinghausen to the conclusion that the difference in their structure depends on the fact that, even when they appear to arise from the same tissue, they really arise from different tissues, or from different layers of the same tissue. In this way he accounts for the marked differences which exist in the structures of fibromas, apparently of a similar origin, in cases of multiple fibroma—assum- ing that the structure varies according as the tumor arises, now from the reticular layer of the skin, and now from the covering of the nerves.1 Metamorphoses and Combinations.—The metamorphoses to which fibrous tumors are subject are not many ; they may, however, become partially calci- fied or even ossified. I have seen one small tumor, on the back of a young man, completely encased in a thin shell of bone. Small portions of a fibroma may, too, undergo fatty or caseous degeneration. But the combinations of fibrous with other tissues are numerous. Thus bone, cartilage, fat, mucous tissue, gland-tissue, muscle, vessels, and sarcomatous tissue all occur in combination with fibrous tissue. It is of course doubtful how far many of these mixed tumors are to be regarded as in reality combination tumors. Some of them are unquestionably examples of transformation of tissue. The combinations with sarcoma, for instance, are undoubtedly in many cases organizations of sar- coma into fibrous tissue. Large vascular tumors (mevi) occasionally become less vascular and more fibrous with increasing age, and are then said to have undergone fibrous degeneration. But, of the mingling of fat with fibrous tissue, and of gland-tissue with fibrous tissue, there can be no doubt. The former was described in the section on fatty tumors; the latter occurs with great fre- quency in the breast. It occurs, too, in the parotid and other glands. The proportion in which the two structures are mingled varies in different tumors; the fibrous tissue may predominate, or the glancl-tissue may be most abundant, and, as one or the other appears the more important element, the tumor may be termed an adeno-fibroma or fibro-adenorna. Fibromas, like lipomas, are subject to inflammation and ulceration, but these are rare events, and occur only in tumors of considerable size, or in growths which have been greatly irritated or injured. Cysts are occasionally found in fibrous tumors, but they are almost invari- ably due to the presence in the tumors of structures other than fibrous. The cysts in a cystic fibroma of the testis, for instance, are formed in connection with the (glandular structures, and are, so to speak, independent of the fibrous tissue. The same remark applies to the cysts in cystic fibromas of the breast. In neither case do the cysts depend upon the fibrous character of the inter- On Multiple Fibromas, 1882.