TUMORS. 600 entail a larger or more disfiguring sear than most of the other methods which have been described. One great objection to it is the loss of blood during the operation—a loss small in quantity, perhaps, but very serious to a young child or infant. But this danger may be obviated by adopting the recom- mendations of Wheelhouse1 and Davies-Colley.2 Hare-lip pins are passed beneath the growth so as to project just beyond its margins. Beneath these an elastic band or tube (an ordinary drainage-tube will suffice) is tightly bound, so as to cut off the circulation through the tumor, which may then be dissected as entirely and carefully as may be desired. The wound may he closed and the dressings applied before the pins and elastic have been removed. Lymphangeiomas, or lymphatic-vascular tumors, are not nearly as frequently observed as blood-angeiomas; indeed, they belong to the less common forms of tumor. They may be composed of a number of dilated lymphvessels, or may resemble the cavernous blood-angeiomas. The cavernous variety is the more usual. It occurs in the tongue, in macroglossia; in the skin and sub- cutaneous tissue, in elephantiasis; and in the lips. The disease occurs more frequently in combination than unmixed. Thus, neither macroglossia nor elephantiasis are due solely to lymphatic dilatation and disease. Certain of the congenital cystic tumors are probably lymphangeiomas, and lymph- angeiomas have been described in the buttock, the thigh, and other parts. The disease is recognized partly by the plexiform or cavernous nature of the tumors, partly by the clear fluid contained in the tubes or spaces. When the walls of these tubes and spaces are examined after they have been treated (when quite fresh) with a half-per-cent, solution of nitrate of silver, it is found that they are lined with endothelium similar to that which lines lym- phatic vessels. The solid tissue between them varies in quantity and char- acter. It may be fibrous, or mucous, or fatty. Most of the lymphangeiomas are congenital, but the disease may occur in adult life. The clinical characters of the uncomplicated lymphangeiomas are so little known that it is impossible to write a satisfactory account of them. The congenital cystic tumors which are lymphatic, do not appear to exhibit characters which distinguish them from those which are not lymphatic. In one instance in which a lymphangeioma was developed in the thigh of a child, the swelling was mistaken by Billroth for a cold abscess, and was opened. The result was a lymphatic fistula, which did not cease to flow until the tumor, which was perfectly circumscribed, was extirpated. This case deseiwes par- ticularly to be borne in mind, for it illustrates the result which may follow the incision of a lymphangeioma, and still better the manner in which the disease may be treated with success. Sarcoma or Embryonic Connective-tissue Tumor. A sarcoma is a tumor which has its origin in one of the tissues belonging to the connective-tissue series. It consists in great part of cells embedded in a more or less abundant basis-substance. The cells multiply, usually, by division. The vessels, which are often very numerous and very thin-walled, run between the cells. Four great subclasses of sarcoma are recognized according to the character of the cells of which they are composed: round-celled, spindle-celled, giant- celled, and mixed-celled. 1 British Medical Journal, 1878, vol. ii. p. 205. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1879, 3d series, vol. xxiv. p. 437.