934 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. * Gaz. des Hop., 1858, p. 108. Loc. cit., p. 478. Where the intervertebral disks are alone destroyed, and in some cases where the loss of bone is very limited, the vertebrae on either side of the gap may become fused together by a true, central, bony anchylosis, in addition, possibly, to union by bony processes at their periphery. M. Michel1 alludes to a case where the fibro-cartilages between all the lower cervical vertebrae had been lost, and where the bodies concerned had become welded together by firm, but irregular, new bone. If sequestra have formed they may be eliminated, or if they remain in situ they will be usually encysted and hidden from view. The tissue that incloses them may be either fibrous or bony, although it more usually belongs to the softer structure. Cloquet2 records a case m which the last two dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae were necrosed, apparently en masse, but in which the entire sequestra were firmly inclosed in a solid, fusiform cyst of bone. By this means the solidity of the spine had been maintained. Lastly, it must be remembered that the longer the disease has lasted, the less can the vertebral column look to the spinal muscles for support. From long continued disuse these muscles waste, and become degenerate, and by their feebleness add an additional source of weakness to the already debili- tated column. Symptoms of Pott’s Disease.—The symptoms of Pott’s disease of the spine vary considerably, both in their comparative frequency and in their intense- ness. They vary also in the order and time of their appearance, and will obviously be influenced by the locality of the mischief in the column. They can be most conveniently considered under the following distinct heads: (1) Rigidity of the spine. (2) Local pain. (3) The spinal deformity. (4) The abscess. (5) The cord and nerve symptoms. (6) The gait and general aspect. (7) Some general symptoms. (1) Rigidity of the Spine.—A rigidity of that part of the vertebral column which is the seat of the disease is usually the earliest sign of Pott’s malady, and is, apart from this fact, a feature of great importance. This rigidity is, when of early occurrence, due to contraction of the muscles of the back, and is nature’s mode of endeavoring to keep the inflamed parts at rest. It is exactly to be compared to that rigidity of inflamed joints that is to be especially observed when disease commences in the articular ends of the bones. At a later period of the vertebral disease, this symptom is also due to the permanent rigidity of the posterior segments of the spine, and to those various conditions that lead to a false or true anchylosis of the diseased portion of the column. In advanced cases, where the muscles have become flaccid and atrophied, this latter condition is probably the sole cause of the symptom. To fully appre- ciate this early evidence of spinal caries, it is well to make one’s self familiar with the degree of mobility permitted in the normal column in children and adults of various ages. In examining a young child, it is most convenient to have it placed flat upon its face, and then, on lifting up the lower limbs and moving them (together with the pelvis) in various directions, with the unoc- cupied hand placed upon the back, any rigidity of the column can be soon estimated. In Pott’s malady, the portion of the spine which is the seat of the disease, appears to move in a piece, and will permit of little or no bend- ing or rotation in any direction. In adults this feature can be investigated in the same manner, if an assistant moves the lower limbs and pelvis, and also by making the patient stoop and lean first to the one side and then to the other, or attempt any series of movements that will test the mobility of the spinal column.