DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 326 nary effect of counter-irritation appeared to follow. A slower local action of mercury may be produced by using, under a compress, for several consecutive nights and days, equal parts of mercurial and iodide of potassium ointments ; or, if gout be certainly absent, another part of iodide of lead ointment may be added. Iodide of cadmium is also much extolled, or the iodide of potas- sium ointment may be used alone. The judgment which I would give as to all these remedies, is that as adjuvants to other means they may be advan- tageously employed, as long as they are considered as mere aids; but that they should never be used as though they could be of the slightest use without careful mechanical treatment. In the mean time, such remedies as are useful in rheumatism should be given internally; but the medicinal treatment will fall more naturally into our subject when discussing the remittent form of the disease. While thus placed, the patient being at rest (in bed if the disease be in the lower limb), careful watch must be kept lest an unnecessary anchylosis, or considerable joint-stiffness, accrue. The ease and rapidity with which rheu- matic disease leads to anchylosis must be borne in mind, as also the liability to adhesion of tendons to their sheaths, or to neighboring parts. While pain and tenderness at the special points1 are present, absolute rest must doubtless be continued; but when these are absent, some change of position, not at first by passive movement, but merely by changing occasionally the angle of the splint, may advantageously be used, while note is taken concerning any increase of pain, or any rise of temperature. When the inflammatory signs have ceased, or are but very slight, the malady comes into the same category, as far as treatment is concerned, as the slower and more remittent form to which in the description I have given the second place ; that is to say, we have to do with a diathesis which marks itself by fits of exacerbation, alternating with intervals of apparently perfect health. It appears to me that such sequences can only be interpreted in one way. The system elaborates, or fails to excrete, or both, a certain constituent which, accumulating, brings on, after a time, these characteristic symptoms; by treatment or otherwise, this constituent (poison, if the word be preferred) is extruded from the body, and the symptoms then cease, leaving mere effects of the disease behind them ; then the same sequence of events recurs. We have, therefore, to do with two phases of the malady, the active and the preparatory. In the active stage, the treatment must be very much guided by the condition of the urine and other excreta. In some patients the bowels and liver are evi- dently much in fault; the alvine evacuations are scanty, and sometimes clay- colored, a condition in which a mercurial purge or alterative, according to the more or less robust powers of the patient, is useful; or if it be designed to use mercury locally, podophyllin or leptandriu may be substituted. But the great guide to medication must be the condition of the urine, and the amount of pyrexia. If the excretion be highly acid, and if it deposit the lithate of ammonium in large quantities, bicarbonate and nitrate of potassium and ammonium are indicated, and, when pyrexia is superadded, these may be administered also as febrifuge remedies; thus of carbonate of ammonium,, twenty-five grains, in a fluidounce of water, may be given in an effervescent form with citric acid, twenty grains, in a similar solution; to this may be added, when the fever declines, the wine of colchicum or the iodide of potas- sium, or both. Or again, if the fever be high, salicylic acid, or the salicylate of sodium may be employed. In the mean time, butchers’ meat must be cut off, and, in most cases, all stimulants also; but if this be undesirable, the safest form of stimulus is old and pure whiskey, in a large quantity of water. 1 See page 310.