INJURIES OF BONES. 18 Less interest attaches, however, to cases such as those just given (the list of which might be almost indefinitely extended), which are inevitably fatal, than to those in which only two or three fractures are sustained, and in which the treatment presents points of much difficulty. In April, 1882, a boy, aged 14, was brought to St. Joseph’s Hospital, having been carried ten times around a revolving shaft. He had fractures of the right humerus, radius and ulna, and femur, and of the left radius and ulna; also dislocation of the hip and elbow on the right side. There was marked shock ; but he ultimately made a good recovery. I was called, in 1881, by Dr. Downs, of Germantown, to a young man, aged 22, who had had his right arm caught around a shaft, and had sustained fractures of the humerus, radius and ulna, and metacarpus. The swelling of the whole limb and shoul- der was so great as to mask the injuries somewhat, and to interfere with the manage- ment of the case ; but, as it subsided, we succeeded in getting the bones into good position, and an almost perfect restoration of all the functions of the part was effected. When a part contains two bones, and a fracture of both is caused by the same violence, although at such different levels that the Fig. 583. two lesions are quite separate, the case is not said to be one of multiple fracture ;* nor is the term applied to cases where several ribs are broken, unless the injury should affect both sides, or be not only at different points, but due to forces acting distinctly only on those points. Two or more separate fractures, each requiring special attention in the way of treatment, must exist in order to bring the case properly under the present head. Of course, very various combinations of fractures may present themselves, and must be dealt with accord- ing to the best judgment of the surgeon. Some of these combinations will be referred to more in detail in speak- ing of fractures of special regions. Transverse, Oblique, and Longitudinal Fractures. —Fractures are further divided according to their direc- tion, into transverse, oblique, said longitudinal; these terms having reference to the relation of the line of fracture to the longitudinal axis of the portion of bone involved. (Fig. 583 ; a, transverse; 6, oblique; c, mixed oblique and longitudinal.) Transverse fractures, strictly speaking, are extremely rare. Occasionally they are met with in the succulent bones of the very young, and sometimes as the result of extreme violence. I once saw a thigh-bone broken directly across by the impact of a heavy charge of shot at very close range. But as an almost universal rule, a greater or less amount of obliquity may be looked for in fractures; a fact which has already been alluded to in support of the leverage theory of the mechanism of the production of these injuries. Longitudinal fractures are also very rare, except as subordinate to other lines of breakage. Fig. 584, copied from Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,” represents 1 Non-professional people often say that a man had his leg “broken in two places,” when they merely mean that both hones were broken. Transverse, oblique, and longitudinal fractures.