INJURIES OF T1IE BACK. 704 3 n,id. 4 London Hospital Reports, vol. iii. pp. 347, 348. the power to micturate at will and to defecate naturally, when the respiratory movements, after being solely diaphragmatic, are again performed in a nor- mal manner, when the sensibility and power of voluntary motion are seen to be returning to the paralyzed parts in general, etc. rl hese signs, and others like them, are of good omen in all cases ot spinal injury. Fractures of the cervical vertebrae, if attended by symptoms which show that, the spinal cord is injured, are almost always fatal. Several illustrative cases, as well as the causes of the great fatality of these lesions, have already been presented and described with sufficient minuteness of detail to answer all practical purposes. Of ten patients with fracture of the five lower cervical vertebrae, whose cases are collected by Professor Hamilton,1 one survived twenty-four hours, one eleven days, one fifteen Fig. 776. weeks and six days, one four months, and only one, whose case I shall presently relate and illustrate with a wood-cut, lived fourteen years. To the sad rule which is thus portrayed there are, however, some notable exceptions on record, for example:— Ollivier d’Angers2 reports the case of a man who injured his neck by falling backward from a wheel, and striking the ground with it. There was para- lysis, with mobility about the seventh cervical ver- tebra. After two months the paralysis began to diminish under general treatment. At the end of three years he was nearly well. (Ashhurst.) Again, the same author3 relates the case of a car- man, aged 21, injured by falling and striking the back of his neck. There was paralysis, etc. In two and a half months he recovered. Six months alter the original accident his neck was broken afresh, by being pushed down while he was taking a long walk. There was sudden paralysis, etc.; and in thirty-four days death ensued. Dissection showed that the original injury consisted of fractures of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, the body of the fourth having been broken ; and that the callus had been fractured by the second fall. (Ash- hurst.) Had there been no second accident, this man (there is but little doubt) would have recovered entirely from the original fractures. Mr. Hutchinson,4 likewise, reports two cases, the one being that of a woman and the other that of a man, in which there was fracture of the lower cer- vical vertebrae, with partial paralysis, and yet both patients recovered. Mr. Hilton has reported a case, with a wood-cut (Fig. 77G), in which there were fractures of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, with complete paralysis from the neck downward, and yet the pa- tient survived in a paralyzed condition for fourteen years, ultimately perishing from injury of another Sunday morning in May, 1836, fell from a tree, about e probably, upon his head. He was stunned to un- Showing a vertical section of the first nine vertebrae, excepting the atlas, from Mr. Hil- ton’s case, in which there were fractures of the bodies of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, and the patient survived for fourteen years. The fractured vertebrae are 6een to be consolidated by bone, both at their bodies and at their arches. part:—John Carter, aged 21, on a forty feet, upon his back, or, mor 1 Fractures and Dislocations, p. 155. 2 Traitfi des Maladies de la Moelle EpinRre, t. i.