523 RESECTION OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. Recovered without further operation 354 or 58.7 per cent. Recovered with useful limbs ..... 246 or 40.8 44 Died without further operation .... 166 or 27.5 U Result undetermined without further operation . 5 or 0.8 44 Recovered after subsequent amputation 65 or 10.8 44 Died after subsequent amputation .... 12 or 2.0 44 Result undetermined after subsequent amputation 1 or 0.2 44 Death-rate of terminated cases in which no further operation was performed .... 31.9 44 The antiseptic method is extolled by Ollier1 in its application to excision of the knee, and he records 7 cases treated with antiseptic precautions, of which 6 ended in recovery, and 1 in death—apparently as the result of car- bolic-acid poisoning. These results are not as good as those which I have myself obtained without any attempt to enforce Listerian measures. Ollier lays great stress upon the importance of preserving the periosteum and joint- capsule, making a small H-shaped incision in order to expose the bones, and additional lateral incisions for drainage. He takes particular pains not to divide the lateral ligaments, and, removing the patella, employs sutures not only to keep the sawn bones in apposition, but also to unite the tendon of the quadriceps femoris above to the ligamentum patellae below. In trau- matic cases, he advises that a single, longitudinal, median incision should be adopted, dividing the patella, which, under these circumstances, should not be removed. He attributes the first employment of the transverse section of the patella, as practised by Golding Bird, to Volkmann. Excision of the Patella.—What is sometimes called partial excision of the patella—that is, gouging away its external surface—is an operation attended by no particular risk, and may be resorted to without hesitation in cases of caries or superficial necrosis affecting this bone; I have myself per- formed such an operation, in a case of syphilitic necrosis, with a favorable result. But when the whole thickness of the bone is removed, the knee-joint is necessarily implicated,2 and the danger correspondingly increased. The operation may be required in cases of compound fracture, especially from gunshot injury, or of caries or necrosis. The bone may be conveniently exposed by means of a crucial incision. Ileyfelder and Boeckel tabulate twelve cases, to which may be added others recorded by Rhode, Wood, and Gay, and two cases referred to by Prof. Agnew as having occurred at the Pennsylvania Hospital. Of the wdiole 17 cases, 3 are said to have proved fatal, and 3 to have required subsequent amputation, while 11 terminated successfully. Resection of the Bones of the Leg.—Resection of the tibia may be required in cases of irreducible compound fracture, ununited fracture, or frac- ture united with great deformity ; and complete excision of the shaft of the bone has been successfully practised by various surgeons in cases of acute necrosis following subperiosteal abscess. The bone may be readily exposed by a longitudinal incision over its anterior, subcutaneous surface, supple- mented, if necessary, by a short transverse cut. When the whole thickness oi the tibia is resected, a corresponding disk must ordinarily be removed from the fibula, so as to allow union to occur without altering the axis of the limb. In cases of acute necrosis, however, the fibula is not interfered with, and the 1 Revue de Chirurgie, 10 Avril et 10 Mai, 1883. 2 Bceckel, of Strasbourg, quotes a ease in which Held removed the whole patella, in a state of necrosis, without opening the joint, which was walled off by a layer of granulations; such an operation is practically little more than a sequestrotomy.