STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. 315 exercise of only slight force putting the limb into the desired posture, and fixing it by means of a rapidly drying plaster-of-Paris bandage, which must be allowed to harden sufficiently before sensibility returns. I have insisted upon slight force, because I deprecate at this stage any replacement by much stretching; if ligaments or muscles be by too great an exercise of power ren- dered tense, they cause the two joint surfaces to press injuriously on each other. It is far better to put the limb nearly into the proper posture by gentler efforts; to retain it there for about ten days; and then to remove the band- ao-e, and make a second attempt. Very often, even without an anaesthetic, the joint can now be easily reduced to a good position ; if not, ether may again be o-iveu. The avoidance of an over-amount of force is especially to be incul- cated in diseases of the knee-joint, which, under such circumstances, is very apt to suffer posterior subluxation. The gradual reduction in still early mnl- posture may be carried on in the same way, but without anaesthesia. An assistant holds the limb as nearly as possible in the required posture, while the surgeon fixes the appliance; in a few days a much further step may be gained, and so on until perfect posture is acquired. This plan answers ad- mirably for the elbow and wrist. At the ankle, it sometimes happens that the sural muscles produce considerable extension ot the foot; the position ot their tendon, so far behind the joint, and the peculiar ease with which those muscles are thrown into painful cramp, render it sometimes advisable to divide the tendo Achillis previous to reduction, rather than run the risk of the pressure which would be produced by a forcible replacement. This is the only tendon which ought to be divided for the purpose in question. But of all joints, the knee requires in these manipulations the greatest care,1 and presents the greatest difficulty. If the flexion be pretty strongly marked, and endeavors be made to place the limb straight, the upper end of the tibia may slowly glide back as the lower end comes forward. The surgeon finds that he is producing a partial dislocation backward. Sometimes that malposi- tion already exists to a slight extent, and to attempt rapid replacement would then be a decided error. Hence, in strongly-marked flexion, or when some displacement is already present, it is far better to trust to weight or elastic extension. This may be effected by a strip of plaster applied on both sides of the leg, so as to form a loop below the sole, and rendered more firm by circular strapping or bandaging. The loop is fastened to a cord which plays over a pulley at the foot of the bed, and to the other end of which a weight is suspended. Dr. Sayre recommends that another band should pass under the upper part of the calf, the weighted cord attached to which runs almost perpendicularly upward to a pulley in the ceiling. I have not found this efficacious; it tends to keep up the flexion, and cannot act in reducing or preventing backward displacement unless a third force hold down the lower part of the femur. I have found a simple “ extension splint,” acting by elastic force, extremely efficacious. It is like a Desault splint, with the addition that between the forks a pulley plays on a straight axle, and from the ends of the fork a steel wire projects inwards, carrying a pulley which works below the sole; at the upper end, and projecting outwards, is a steel bracket, also bearing a pulley. This splint should reach from a little below the axilla to about four inches lower than the foot would be if the limb were straight. Plaster looping under the sole is applied as above; the cord passes from the loop over the lowest pulley, and, running up outside the splint, ends in an “ accumulator,” the upper end of which is supplied with a wire hook. A perineal band em- braces the upper part of the patient’s thigh and the splint; it carries a cord. I do not even except tlie hip, which forms, however, the subject of a separate section.