INJURIES OF THE BACK. 778 phlogistic measures of an active character were employed. Stimulating frictions were frequently applied to the legs and hips, and the chest was enveloped in an oil-skin jacket. He died on the 19th. Necroscopy—The ball was found imbedded in the body of the seventh dorsal vertebra, encroaching upon the medulla spinalis, as represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 785). The lungs were hepatized at their bases; and, near their apices, were filled with a dark, frothy liquid.1 A colored soldier, aged about 25, was wounded at Brownsville, Texas, January 28, 1866, by a pistol-shot, and died in thirty-eight hours, from shock and internal hem- orrhage. Necroscopy showed that the missile had Fig. 786. entered two inches below and outside of the left nipple, gouged its calibre from the upper border of the eighth rib, passed downward, inward, and back- ward, through the lower lobe of the right lung, the diaphragm, and the right lobe of the liver, and had lodged in the body of the last dorsal vertebra, frac- turing it as shown in the adjoining wood-cut (Fig. 786), which represents the specimen now preserved in the Army Medical Museum.2 showing a pistoi-haii (calibre 37) lodged A quartermaster’s sergeant, aged 36, was wounded in the body of the last dorsal vertebra, hav- , . t a -i i i oei i , , , . , ... . . at Compton, Ba., April 4, 18b4, by a grape-shot, ing fractured the same with much coninii- ... 1 7,1 J 1 r ’ nation. (Spec. 37so, Sect, i, a. m. m.) which entered his loins one inch to the right of the spinous processes, and about two inches below the last rib, and, passing forward and slightly downward and inward, struck the spinal column, and, lodging, was not extracted. On the 10th he was admitted into University Hospital, at New Orleans. There was no paralysis. The symptoms of pyaemia, however, supervened, and he died of that disease on the 18th. Necroscopy revealed a round iron ball, about one inch in diameter, lodged on the left psoas magnus muscle. The spinous processes and laminae of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebral were frac- tured and displaced, and thus the spinal canal was laid open. The specimen is repre- sented by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 787). Purulent infiltration was found in the psoas muscles, with their investments, and in the peritoneal cavity. Two small circum- scribed metastatic abscesses were found in the right lobe of the liver. There were no signs of paralysis present during life.3 A sergeant of infantry was wounded at Opequon Creek, near Winchester, Va., Sep- Fig. 788. Showing fractures of the spinous processes and laminae of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, caused by a round iron ball about one inch in diam- eter. (Spec. 3739, Sect. I, A. M. M.) Showing a conoidal musket-ball imbedded in the intervertebral substance between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. (Spec. 3796, Sect. I, A. M. M.) tember 19, 1864, by a conoidal musket-ball, which penetrated the lumbar region through the erector-spinae muscles, a few inches above the posterior crest of the ilium, and lodged. 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 438. 2 Ibid., p. 441. » Ibid., p. 443.