302 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Moreover, it is a very instructive outcome of these experiments, that in no single instance was a joint, that had not been artificially injured, affected with inflammation. If a tuberculous condition of body could render the person or animal peculiarly liable to fungating forms of synovitis, many of those ani- mals, which succumbed or were killed, after a certain number of weeks or months, with lungs and other viscera stuffed or studded with tubercle, would, we should suppose, have shown some marks of joint-affection. But such a condition, save merely as regarded the direct result of injury, was uniformly absent. We know that struma and tubercle are in some way (though we know not how) closely allied; we see, again and again, children with stru- mous joint-maladies dying of phthisis, or of tubercular-meningitis, while still the articular disease is nascent, and certainly non-tubercular. In this fact, again, we have therefore another evidence how little prone to tubercu- losis are the synovial membranes. I confess to have believed that the inflam- matory granulation-tissue of strumous synovitis was very apt to be affected by tubercle; but the difficulty which Dr. Schuller encountered in producing that neoplasm in “contundirt” joints of tuberculized animals, seems to render a re-examination of the subject desirable. But although the healthy synovial membrane, and perhaps the inflammatory tissue generated from it, appear to resist the invasion of tubercle, the latter, especially when it becomes old and fungoid, yields in certain spots to other forms of degeneration. The suppu- rative and fatty are common ; the caseous (without passing through previous phases) not very uncommon; and also not very unusual is another, the patho- logical place of which is doubtful, in which one sees, in certain parts of the ielly-like granulation-tissue, little spots, rather dry and dull, looking almost as if grains of tine powder had fallen into it. So small are these that, were there but one or two, they would be imperceptible, or would, at all events, escape notice; but, as they are many, they give a peculiar, almost dusty, look to the specimen. Examined with a microscope of sufficient power, these spots show a closer packing of the cells, which may be round, or more often seem by pressure to have been shaped into a variety of epithelial-like forms. They generally lie so as to give the impression of a circular or ovoid arrangement, and in the centre of this circle are frequently one or two giant- cells ; indeed, it appeal’s to me that it is the growth of these giant-cells which, compressing those around them, causes the closer agmination, and the appearance of circular arrangement above described. That pressure has some share in the matter, may be seen by the fact that, when the section passes just over or through one or two of these spots, they cause a little projection of pin-point size, or sometimes larger. Whether or no these little spots be tubercle, must be decided by some future histologist. If they are so inter- preted, they are merely the tubercle of inflammatory products; even those found in the injured joints of Dr. Schuller’s animals belong to that category ; and I suppose it has, for many years, been known that inflammatory pro- ducts, when sufficiently persistent, are apt, in strumous individuals, to become tuberculous. But that is not the question—it does not even touch the only question of real interest and importance—which is, Does tubercle ever become deposited in a previously healthy synovial membrane,1 and give rise to a typical inflammation ? At present we have no evidence that this ever occurs; and Dr. Schuller’s book goes very far to prove its non-occurrence, since even inflamed synovial membranes were with difficulty infected; and since, in the highly tuberculized animals which were the subjects of his experiments, there was not found a single spot of tubercle in anyone uninjured (“nicht con- tundirt”) joint. 1 Cancellous bone-tissue stands in the same conditions