INJURIES OF THE BACK. 708 No irregularity in the line of the spine could be perceived; and, although she sat up for examination, there was no particular part of the back which seemed to be particu- larly weak. Both upper extremities and the right lower extremity were deprived of voluntary motion ; but sensation was nearly perfect, for she spoke only of a little numb- ness in them. Reflex movements could not be excited in the paralyzed upper extremi- ties, while they were particularly lively in the paralyzed lower extremity. The breathing was not disturbed. There was at first retention of urine ; and, for a few days, incon- tinence ; but soon afterward she regained the natural control over urination. The bowels acted regularly. During the first ten days no perceptible change took place; but in the following fortnight a slow and gradual increase of power over the paralyzed limbs was observed; after that, however, all progress seemed to cease. She was re- tained in the hospital for three months; but her subsequent history is not known. “ That in this case,” says Mr. Shaw, “ the blood which escaped had been poured into the loose space intervening between the osseous walls of the canal and the theca spinalis seems most probable; and, also, that the source of the blood was the venous sinuses which line the interior of the canal in the form of plexuses.” He further says: “ As the paralysis was partial, three alone out of the four extremities being affected, and motor power being the only property lost, it may be inferred that, if blood extrava- sated external to the theca were the compressing agent, it had been collected in the canal in unequal quantities at different parts. Such an hypothesis would explain how one of the lower extremities escaped being deprived of its motor power.”1 But, inasmuch as there was no autopsy in this case, the conclusion that intra-vertebral hemorrhage had occurred externally to the theca vertebralis must be held to be unproved, and as at least, to that extent uncertain. Dr. Deville, in 1843, in examining the body of a man who had died in consequence of falling from a great height on to the pavement, found, on laying upon the spinal canal, a most extensive extravasation of blood, com- pletely filling up this canal in its whole length, and extending upward, even beyond the point where the spinal cord had been cut across, when the brain was taken out. No trace of injury whatever was detected in the cranial con- tents. This man, when admitted to hospital, was collapsed and perfectly insensible. There was no paralysis, nor muscular spasm. In this state he lay for some hours, and then died. Except the intra-vertebral hemorrhage, no cause of death could be found.2 Mr. Le Gros Clark mentions a remarkable case of the same kind, which was narrated to him, but which he did not see:— A man was violently struck on the back by a chain-cable ; there were no immediate symptoms of spinal injury, but a paraplegic condition soon supervened, extending rapidly upward and destroying life by asphyxia. The theca was found distended with fluid blood, derived from a ruptured spinal artery. He likewise mentions another case: A man was injured in a collision in the tunnel, four or five miles from Brighton. He walked this distance with some difficulty into the town ; and, within twenty-four hours, became entirely paraplegic. He slowly recovered, so that, at the end of two years,, he was able to walk as well as before the injury. One spot on the back was always tender; and, at times, still continued so.3 The close resemblance which the symptoms that presented themselves in this case, bore to those that were observed in the preceding case, indicates that the pathological lesion was the same in both instances, namely, extrava- sation of blood within the spinal dura mater from ruptured spinal arteries, whereby the spinal cord was compressed. The symptoms which result most frequently from this lesion are those of 1 Loc. cit., pp. 364-366. 2 Mem. de la Soc. de Chirurg. de Paris, t. iii. p. 180; also Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 300. 3 British Medical Journal, October 3, 1868.