263 SYNOVITIS. disintegration of tissue. There is then a clear pathological and clinical dis- tinction between this last disease and the other forms already mentioned. Xo doubt there may be in exceptional cases phases of transition, the inflam- mation at times tending to pass from a mere surface condition to a parenchy- matous affection, and occasionally actually doing so, or, on the other hand, retrograding. But since the two forms of disease are in their natural history as in their gravity so different, it will be advisable to treat in the present por- tion of this article of simple synovitis, including the serous, sanguinolent, and purulent varieties, and of dry synovitis, leaving the suppurative form to a sub- sequent page. Simple sero-synovitis usually follows some slight injury, such as a blow or a sprain, but a condition which locally is indistinguishable from this affection may follow simple over-fatigue, exposure to cold, or even some error in diet. The first pathological change is no doubt liyperaemia of the synovial mem- brane, and this is very rapidly followed by increased secretion into the cavity of the joint, or, if the hyperaemia be pretty considerable, by simple exudation rather than by exaggerated secretion. The fluid is in such cases thinner than normal synovia, and very soon, if not quite at first, becomes a little cloudy. This haziness may be so slight that it cannot be perceived by mere inspection of the fluid; but, if it be allowed to stand a few hours in a conical glass, a deeper deposit than normally occurs in human synovia will be observed. Ex- amination of this deposit by a microscope of sufficient power, shows it to consist of endothelial cells that have been cast off from the synovial surface, and of leucocytes. Any considerable increase of these cells renders the fluid turbid, milky, or creamy, producing all the stages and phases between simple and purulent synovitis. Sometimes the fluid, instead of being thinner, is thicker than normal, viscid, glairy, and somewhat sticky; such states of the secretion are most common when the attack is rapid and severe. This condition is undoubtedly produced by an exuberance of fibrin in the fluid, and this fibrin is very apt to coagulate (I had almost said crystallize out) into little floating glomeruli, which may be perfectly clear and apparently structureless, looking like drops of white of egg floating in water. But if the excess of synovia contain many cell-forms, these become inclosed or entangled in the gelatinous concreta, and they then appear hazy and white, like shreds of cotton-wool; or, again, if the disease be. sanguinolent, the shreds are stained of a darker red than the surrounding liquid. These glomeruli are apt to fall upon and adhere to the articular parietes, cartilage or membrane, and there is great reason to believe, although I am not aware of any absolute proof of the fact, that their adhesion to a synovial surface produces at that spot a considerable amount of local- ized pain and tenderness. That they ever contract such organic adhesion as to. become vascularized, and to aid in the formation of the hypertrophied fringes which will be described immediately, is doubtful. In the mean time, and pari passu with the act of hypersecretion, the walls of the joint-cavity undergo certain changes. The capillaries immediately next to the surface are .affected by those acts of dilatation and stasis which have already been described (Yol. I. p. 15 et seq.) as essential parts of the Mamma- tory process. The rapidity of cell-production on the surface increases; in some parts these proliferating bodies remain adherent; in others they fall away, leaving the basement membrane bare ; while, at the same time, the parenchy- matous constituents of the tissue increase, the whole, therefore, being thick- ened, and, in consequence of multiplication of its cell-elements, rendered slightly turbid. Thus, on looking at the surface of such a membrane, Ave see very plainly the blush of liypenemia, yet not immediately on the surface, but