698 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Ibid., pp. 51, 52. 2 Ibid., pp. 52, 53. lateral, or one-sided, when caused by disorders between the occiput and the atlas, or between the atlas and the axis. The most probable explanation of this peculiarity is, that a spinal disorder occurring between the occiput and the atlas, or between the atlas and the axis, may be confined to only one of the joints between these bones, whilst a disorder of the lower cervical, dorsal, or lumbar vertebrae, generally involves the bodies of the vertebrae or the in- tervertebral substances, entirely or completely.1 I have, however, lately seen a case wherein pains of this sort, that were caused by chronic inflammation following a wrench of the lumbar vertebrae, appeared on one side only. The following case, which is related by Mr. Hilton, illustrates the symp- toms of this lesion, when it involves the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae, in a most useful manner:— It is that of a moderately robust little girl, aged years, who, while enjoying good health, fell down out of bed upon her back, a distance of about two feet. But nothing appears to have been thought of it at the time, though she at once began to lose flesh, and her face become anxious. About three months afterwards, she began to complain of symmetrical pains in her belly, was easily fatigued also, and stooped a little in walk- ing. Her fall upon the back having been forgotten, she was treated for the abdominal affection by several surgeons, but rapidly grew worse instead of better. She became much reduced in flesh and strength, and unable to walk about, from spasmodic pinching pain in the abdomen, which “ doubled her up.” In a -short time, however, having been kept quiet in bed, she recovered her flesh and strength, so as to be enabled to walk about a little without pain. But, quickly, all the untoward symptoms again super- vened ; the abdomen became large and tumid, the bowels irregular, with pain in the belly, as if a cord were drawn tightly around the abdomen and tied. Another surgeon was now consulted, who declared the mesenteric glands affected. The urine was phos- phatic and ammoniacal. She was allowed to go about as usual. In a short time the alteration and unsteadiness of gait became more marked, and, the other symptoms con- tinuing, she was taken to London for advice. Disease of the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae was detected, with slight projection backward, or angular curvature. Her fall upon the back had recently been remembered. Uninterrupted rest in the recumbent posture was ordered, with no medicine, and the child completely recovered in four or five months.* It is apparent that in this case the real cause was, for a long time, entirely overlooked ; that the abdominal symptoms were treated as depending on some error in the abdominal viscera, when they wholly depended on the spine ; and that the spinal condition itself was meanwhile altogether ignored. Nevertheless, almost all the symptoms which attend chronic inflammations of the vertebral joints, in consequence of neglected sprains and wrenches, were present in this case. For example, there were pains in the belly, which were due to irritation of the sensory filaments of the ninth pair of dorsal nerves. There were also cramps or muscular spasms in the belly, which were caused by irritation of the motor filaments of the same pair of nerves, during their passage through the intervertebral foramina. Besides, there was paraplegia (incomplete), which probably resulted from compression of the spinal cord. The urine, too, became phosphatic and ammoniacal, and the bowels tympanitic, in consequence of accompanying myelitis. More- over, tfie appearance of angular curvature of the spine, at the seat of injury, served to show exactly what joint was sprained, and the nature of the dis- order which invaded the bodies of the contiguous vertebrae in consequence of the articular lesions. By adding to this account of the symptoms, a state- ment that tenderness under pressure and some swelling of the soft parts were found over the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae, which without doubt was