691 SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. bags being placed one on each side of the head. The only medicine employed was one- sixteenth of a grain of bichloride mercury twice a day, during about two months. At the expiration of three months the patient had lost all pain and tenderness, and had regained the use of the arm, neither did pressure nor rotation of the head induce pain. The ful- ness in the neck had also disappeared.”1 * To conclude the case, this lady left town, and, afterward, reported herself quite well, being perfectly cured. The -wrench of the vertebral column, in this example, appears to have been attended with cerebral concussion, caused by the same blow on the head which produced the sprain of the neck, and there was loss of consciousness for some little time. She was placed in bed, but she was not kept there long enough for the injured joints connecting the first, second, and third cervical vertebra: together to become sound again. The consequence was, that, as soon as she got up and began to go around, the inflammation in the sprained joints increased, the contiguous sensory nerves became irritated thereby, and pains appeared in the parts to which they were distributed, that were mistakenly considered to be rheumatic pains; and so the poor lady went on for nine months, constantly under treatment for rheumatism and hysteria, but getting worse the whole time. Rest, that is, enforced quietude of the injured articu- lations, was the sole means of importance, which finally secured her recovery ; and the same means, had it been applied to her case at the outset, for only a few weeks, would have saved her from a year of intense suffering. Fig. 770. “ The next case is that of a surgeon,” writes Mr. Hilton, “ who was in the yacht of another gentleman. Running along from one part of the ship to another, he struck his head against the top of a door, and was thrown backward with great force. Very shortly after- ward he had pain in the distribution of the occi- pital nerves at the back part of the head and the back of the neck. [See Fig. 770, «, b. J Six weeks from that time (he still continued in the yacht), having experienced some increase of pain, and heard and felt a grating sensation in his neck, he was somewhat alarmed, and came to me, suffering from pains indicating disease of the second or third cervical vertebra. He was ulti- mately cured by lying down—that is, by rest. On the 8th of February last he came to me per- fectly well, and says he was quite cured by rest. Time will not permit me to dwell on the details of this surgeon’s case.”1 In order to illustrate the varieties in strains of the neck, together with the symptoms and treatment of recent cases, the following examples must be briefly presented:— Showing, or, the portion of the scalp supplied by the occipitalis major nerve; 6, the portion supplied by the occipitalis minor nerve ; c, the porton supplied by the auriculo-temporal nerve. (Hilton.) A young carpenter, while stepping backward, tripped on a heap of planks, and fell upon his back. His shoulders were received on the planks ; but, his head and neck projecting beyond them, the neck was abruptly bent backward with much force. Swelling at the back of the neck, from occiput to scapulte, so great as to be visible at a distance, appeared soon after the accident. He was unable to keep his head erect; and before attempting to do so, placed a hand on each side to steady it. He was placed in bed. At the end of a month, having been provided with an artificial support, he was made an out patient.3 1 Ibid., pp. 54, 55. J Ibid., pp. 55, 56. 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 359.