271 SYNOVITIS. may be wiser to give the stronger remedy ; and if a joint of the lower limb be involved, and especially if the individual be in the habit of taking much exercise, a purgative should be employed, since he must certainly be debarred from his usual active habits, and very likely must be confined altogether to a bed or couch. The choice of particular drugs, whether cholagogues, hydra- rogues, or mere alvine purges, must depend on the state of the tongue, the color of the conjunctive, and other principles of general medicine. Many patients, suffering even a mild inflammatory attack, one which barely raises the temperature, show at once some constitutional response to the disease by a rather scant and high-colored urine, which, in some persons, deposits uric acid. In such cases it is well to give some diuretic, probably— indeed certainly if there be uric acid deposit—combined with an alkali, nitrate and carbonate of potassium, with nitrous ether, or an effervescent draught containing citrate of potassium and ammonium; while, if the uric acid de- posit be pretty copious, a little wine of colchicum may, for two or three days, judiciously be added. It is rare that the pain of sero-synovitis is sufficiently severe to need opiates. Traumatic cases may, however, require these remedies for the first night or two. The most reliable indication for such medication is the amount of pain, which is not merely to be regarded as a passing and temporary in- fliction. Pain produced by inflammation is, I am sure, a direct irritant, and a cause of its persistency. Opium or morphia, by the mouth or subcutane- ously, are the most reliable remedies; but smaller doses may be rendered suf- ficient by combination with atropia, or with bromide of potassium; or, again, if the fever be pretty well marked and the skin dry, with a small quantity of tartarized antimony. Chloral as a remedy for pain is unreliable, or even useless. Another drug should be mentioned. I have rarely had occasion to use it, but when it has been called for I have found it valuable, especially when the fever has run high. I refer to aconite, which in these cases is most useful; its mode of administration and its action will be more fully discussed when the treatmeiit of dry synovitis is under consideration. The local treatment of acute or subacute synovial inflammation,1 consists, in great part, in rest. This word does not merely mean that the patient is to ab- stain from active exercise and keep the limb motionless; indeed, such voluntary abstention from, such guarding against, movement, is often the very reverse of physiological, producing, if not quite at first, yet after a certain interval very considerable, and frequently painful, muscular effort. To keep a limb really at rest, it is necessary to secure it in some stiff support, which shall prevent movement independently of, and in spite of, muscular action. But before doing this, it is necessary to consider the position of the part. If the surgeon be called in while the disease is still quite recent, he will find the joint in no forced position, and, in all probability, easily movable without any marked pain. But if called in later, and more especially if the synovitis have come on rapidly with unusual severity, he may find the part in strong flexion, from which it cannot be brought without very considerable violence and the infliction of much pain. The posture is, as we have seen, forced upon the part by neuro-muscular phenomena, which, though difficult of elucidation, are, with extremely rare exceptions, constant. Now this flexion, especially if to a considerable degree, is not only a result of inflamma- tion, but it comes to be a cause of its continuance, and is always productive of pain. Moreover, the surgeon, prudently looking to the future, will remember that the disease may get worse; may, exceptionally, however, in mere simple 1 Though most chronic inflammations must be likewise so treated, yet as there are certain exceptions, the word “chronic” is omitted in the text.