INJURIES OF BONES. 108 2 Ibid., April 8, 1882. * Medical Record, March 4, 1882. however, has seen old fractures of this bone united with great overlapping, but with no apparent weakening of the member. The amount of injury done to the soft parts can scarcely be left out of the account in forming a prognosis, since bruising of the large nerve trunks passing beneath the bone may interfere seriously with the nutrition and functions of the arm and hand, perhaps even permanently. Of this there is obviously most risk in fractures due to direct violence. Treatment.—The treatment of fractures of the clavicle is a subject upon which a great deal has been written, and a vast amount of study expended. Hamilton justly says, in regard to the varieties of apparatus: “A catalogue of the names only of the men who have, upon this single point, exercised their ingenuity, would be formidable, nor would it present any mean array of talent and of practical skill.” I shall endeavor to set forth the principles involved, and the means devised for carrying them out, as briefly and clearly as possible, referring the reader to other sources for more detailed descriptions of such contrivances as are not now in general use. Cases occasionally do well even without any treatment at all. Newton1 has recorded one in a soldier, and Porter2 one in a doctor ; in each the result is said to have been “ good.” As in the case of other fractures,, the treatment of the broken clavicle, consists in its reduction, or the correction of the deformity, and in keeping the fragments in proper position until their union is accomplished. The first of these processes varies greatly in the degree of difficulty attending it in different cases; being sometimes effected with the utmost readiness, while it is occasionally impossible. Oblique fractures, as a general rule, are more easily reduced than transverse; and those attended with but little irregu- larity of the ends of the fragments, give less trouble than those in which they are deeply serrated. When the displacement is readily overcome, how- ever, it is apt to be as readily reproduced ; or, in other words, the difficulty of reduction and that of retention are inversely proportionate. Some writers, and Malgaigne among them, have described various modes of procedure for the replacement of the fragments; such, for example, as for the surgeon to apply his knee between the patient’s shoulders, while with his hands he pulls the shoulders backward. Unless the views I have pre- sented as to the mechanism of the displacement are at fault, manoeuvres of this kind are needlessly forcible; and in my own experience I have found that reduction is best effected by grasping the scapula, and bringing it back around the thorax toward the median line. Generally it will be found that as the acromion is thus shifted it carries with it the outer fragment of the clavicle, and that the line of the latter bone is restored. When the patient is very muscular, or the fragments are strongly inter- locked, it may be well for the surgeon to commit the management of the scapula to an assistant, and to employ his own hands in gently moulding and pressing the fragments, which will often yield to this coaxing process, and the bone will thus resume its normal shape. Such a procedure is especially applicable to fractures seated at or close to the sternal end of the bone. By most authors it has been laid down as the great principle of treatment of fracture of the clavicle that the shoulder must be carried upward, out- ward, and backward. My only objection to this statement is that it is not quite precise enough; it is the acromion, upon the position of which the retention of the fragments must depend. That this is quite a different mat- ter may be readily shown.