VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 19 a remarkable instance of a tibia split for a considerable portion of its length. Generally, the fractures called longitudinal are merely extremely oblique, so as to be nearly parallel to the axis of the bone. It almost always happens that the fragments are serrated along their margins, by the irregularity with which the fibres give way. Sometimes the serrations are fine and close, but oftener the line of fracture is extremely jagged, and presents several strongly marked, tooth-like processes. The proper coaptation of these edges may be very diffi- cult, by reason of their interlocking; but if it be once effected, they serve to prevent the reproduction of the displacement. It will readily be perceived that project- ing portions of the fragments are apt to be broken off, and that they may occasionally give rise to much trou- ble by acting as foreign bodies. Varieties of Incomplete Fracture.—So far, refer- ence has been made only to complete fractures, in which the whole thickness of the bone is broken through. It remains to say something of incomplete fractures—a term which embraces a variety of forms of injury. Fissures or cracks need hardly be formally defined here. They occur mostly as accessory to complete fractures, from which they branch off, fre- quently in a spiral course. In the flat bones, and especially in those of the cranium, they are often met with, and may be stellate, radiating, or came- rated. Very rarely, they exist alone in the long bones, as the result of vio- lence not quite sufficient to break the whole thickness of the shaft; in such cases they may be unsuspected until much and long-continued mischief has been caused. Some of the recorded instances will be referred to in connec- tion with the special bones concerned. Splintered fractures are such as consist in the detachment of a small por- tion, generally an edge, of a bone, the main body of which is left intact. They are seen occasionally at the brim of the pelvis, or at the spine of the tibia; but for obvious reasons they may readily pass unrecognized unless attended with a wound making them compound. Perforations of bone are always compound fractures, and almost invariably the result of gunshot injury; the reader is therefore referred, for information concerning them, to the article on Gunshot Wounds.1 Sprain fractures have been already briefly mentioned under the head of “fractures by avulsion,” as those in which small fragments of bone are pulled away by excessive stress put upon the ligamentous fibres attached to them. Thus Bruce2 has published a case in which, by a fall from a second story window, a boy aged 12, had a piece torn out of the right tibia, and one out of the left femur, in each instance by the anterior crucial ligament. And Dittel3 is reported to have met with an instance in which the spine of the I tibia was thus wrenched away in a man who was violently kicked in the ham. Cases are referred to as observed by Poncet, and one at the University College Hospital, in London, in a boy aged 11, who had been run over by a cart. Dittel failed to produce this lesion experimentally on the dead subject. Shepherd4 has described a fracture of the portion of the astragalus into 1 Vol. II. pp. 119 et set/. 2 Trans, of the Pathological Society of London, vol. xviii. 1867. 3 Med. Times and Gazette, Sept. 30, 1876 (from Centralblatt fiir Chirurgie). ■ * Med. News, june jo, 1882. Fig. 584. Longitudinal fracture of tibia.