DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 316 which, passing over the upper pulley and down outside the splint, ends in a chain ; now, by stretching the accumulator so that the hook can be hitched into any chosen link of the chain, the appropriate amount of extension can he produced. There is no occasion for bandaging, save around the lower part Fig. 639. of' the chest, until the limb is nearly straight; indeed, the apparatus will work perfectly without any bandage at all, but an attendant must, as the knee straightens and the foot descends, hook the accumulator higher and higher on the chain. A case which has advanced far enough to require correction of the sort described, will, in all probability, require somewhat lengthened treatment. At first, while the inflammatory symptoms are pretty strongly marked, and advancing from the joint into the surrounding parts, perfect rest must be secured by some of the means indicated for the treatment of acute synovitis. If the elbow or wrist, and sometimes if the shoulder, be the seat of disease, it will probably not be advisable to keep the patient in bed more than a few days. But if the disease be in a lower limb, a longer stay in the horizontal position becomes necessary. As soon, however, as the more pressing symptoms of inflammation have subsided, the patient must be got up, and be allowed to move about with such appli- ances as shall keep the affected joint at rest, while permitting exercise of other parts of the body. American surgeons have worked very well and successfully in this direction. Taylor’s long splint, or Pancoast’s appa- ratus, originally devised for the hip, but likewise applicable to the knee, if additional straps higher on the thigh and lower on the leg be superadded, answers this indication extremely well. Dr. Sayre’s extension method is, I believe, much used in America, but in Europe the use of plaster for making exten- sion has not been found very successful; partly because of skin irritation, partly because of loosening and the necessity for fre- quent renewal. Thomas recommends the same splint which lie uses for kuee-disease in bed, to be also employed in walk- ing with crutches, as shown in Fig. 641; the ring at the lower part being turned transversely so as to give sufficient width to the tread. The instrument, however, is somewhat spnTfor aueTeTf heavy and clumsy for use in this way. Its chief point of the knee-joint. improvement over Taylor’s and Pancoast’s appliances, lies in the substitution for their too yielding and flexible pelvic and perineal bands, of a firm metallic ring encircling the upper part of the thigh, and in the furnishing better support by means of the leather apron instead of the too narrow calf and thigh plates. A very valuable apparatus is one to which, during the International Con- gress of London, Dr. von Wahl, of Dorpat, drew my attention, and in the devising of which he bore some part, though the chief merit of the invention Fig. 640.