fiOO SARCOMA OR EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. been inoculated in the wound; healing occurs rapidly and completely; but iu less than six months the growth appears in, or in the immediate vicinity of, the scar. The completeness of the removal was but apparent; an area of the tissues immediately around the capsule, tissues unquestionably affected, ought to have been sacrificed. Multiplication and Recurrence.—But the malignancy of sarcoma is not limited to this local infection. The disease may affect the lymphatic glands. Contrary to the general teaching on this point, the glands may be affected as early and as certainly by sarcoma as by carcinoma ; nor is there at present any evidence to prove that the manner in which the affection is produced is different in the two diseases. The glandular affection in sarcoma depends, not on a special malignancy of individual tumors, but on the seat of origin of the disease. Thus, sarcomas of the eye, the upper jaw, the bones, the larynx, and the breast, rarely or never affect the glands. But those of the foot, the tonsil, the testis, and, probably, the kidney, affect the glands certainly, and in most instances early. In connection with this subject, two points require elucidation : first, the reason why the sarcomas of certain parts affect the glands, while the sarcomas of other parts do not affect them; second, the reason why the glands are occasionally affected by sarcomas which do not habitually affect them. The answer to the first question may be sought in several circumstances, such as the subclass or variety of sarcoma, the absence of lymphatics in certain parts, and the precise origin and manner of growth of the tumor. The subclass or variety of sarcoma does not appear to exercise the slightest influence on glandular affection. Every kind of sar- coma which attacks the testis affects the glands, and the peculiarities of the primary tumor are almost invariably repeated in the tumors of the glands; on the other hand, not one of the subclasses or varieties of sarcoma of the breast or upper jaw affects the glands. Nor can the tendency to, or freedom from, affection of the glands depend chiefly on the presence or absence of lymphatics in the part primarily diseased, for certain of those parts which are not associated with glandular affection are largely provided with lym- phatics—the breast for example. That the course of the disease may be influenced by the absence of lymphatics, cannot, of course, be questioned. Indeed, it seems quite possible that the freedom of the glands from secondary affection in primary sarcoma of the bones, may depend on the absence of lymphatics from the osseous system. It is, however, premature to speak too decidedly on this point, for the proof may yet be forthcoming that the bones arc provided with lymphatics. The certainty and speed with which the glands are diseased in connection with sarcomas of certain bones (those of the foot) tend to prove that there must he a close relation between th<j lymphatics and these hones. The exact origin of the primary tumor, how- ever, and the manner of its growth, are the conditions to which we must look for an explanation of the affection of lymphatic glands in cases of sarcoma. Those tumors which do not affect the glands must originate in elements of the part which are not in direct communication with the lym- phatics, and the new growth, instead of making its way into the lymphatic capillaries, must rather close them in its progress. Those tumors which affect the glands must originate in elements, which, if not actually within the lymphatics, have free access to them. The absence of glandular affection in connection with the sarcomas of certain organs, is the more noticeable on account of the certainty with which the glands become affected by car- cinomas of the same organs. The breast and larynx may he used to illustrate this point. The second question is almost more difficult to answer than the first. Sar- vol. iv.—39