174 INJURIES OF BONES. The fragments having been disengaged, if there have been no crushing of the cancellous substance, their apposition can be readily maintained, and it will be found that the articular face of the bone has resumed its natural posi- tion, looking slightly toward the palmar aspect of the limb. The “silver- fork” deformity will be markedly diminished, although it may be that swell- ing will already have taken place to such an extent as to constitute a fulness on the dorsum of the wrist. The concavity of the palmar surface of the radius will be restored, and, if the hand be placed in a natural position, neither Hexed nor extended upon the forearm, the ball of the thumb will be seen to bulge strongly downward, thus apparently increasing the concavity just mentioned. At the same time the ulna will have gone back into its proper place, and the ulnar edge of the wrist and hand will make with it a slight entering angle. It must be remembered that if there have been crushing of the substance of either fragment, or if the lower one be comminuted, this complete restoration may be impossible, and a certain amount of distortion will remain in spite of the surgeon’s best directed efforts. When such is the case, the patient should be notified that he has to expect more or less deformity to be permanent. In the rare cases in which the displacement has occurred in the opposite direction, namely, with the lower fragment bent toward the palm, the manoeuvres must be modified accordingly; the details will readily suggest themselves. I need hardly say that in cases which present any degree of difficulty, the surgeon’s task will be rendered much easier by having the patient in a state of complete anaesthesia. A very large array of splints has been devised for the treatment of frac- tures of the lower end of the radius. By the older surgeons, the dorsal and palmar boards were employed, with pads to push the fragments into place. Dupuytren, in the hope of correcting the projection of the ulna and the ab- duction of the hand, applied a curved bar along the ulnar edge of the forearm and hand; it is best known, perhaps, by its French name, as the “ attelle cubitale.” The same end has been sought by means of a pistol-shaped board, placed on the dorsum of the forearm and hand; some surgeons have thought that this answered a better purpose if laid along the palmar surface. By most authors this contrivance has been called “ iNelaton’s splintbut it is not mentioned in that author’s Pathologie Chirurgicale, published in 1844. Malgaigne speaks of wooden splints, “which should first cover the forearm in the ordinary way, and which at the wrist should bend sharply inward, not by their surfaces, but by their edges.” These, he says, were proposed by Blandin in 1836, but had been “previously known.” The fact is that the pistol-shaped splint is clearly described by Goyrand,1 as an improved form of apparatus devised by himself. Skey thought that the hand ought to be sedulously supported; Gordon, of Belfast, believes that its weight may be made useful as an adducting force. Bond’s splint, proposed in 1852, has had a very wide popularity in Ame- rica, and with some modification is a very good one. It consists of a board cut to the outline of the normal hand and forearm, and furnished with a pal- mar block, over which the fingers are flexed. Leather strips are generally tacked along its edges to keep the parts more secure. This splint is greatly improved by fastening along its radial margin a block of wood, so shaped as to fill up the concavity before noted as normal in this part of the limb. Without this, and especially with the palmar block as large as is usually made, Bond’s splint can only keep up the deformity it is meant to correct. I 1 Journal HeMomadaire des Progres des Sciences Medicates, F6v. 1836, p. 177.