612 TUMORS. more rarely in other parts which are subject to sarcoma. Their occurrence, like that of the round-celled tumors, is not limited to certain ages, but they arc much more common in persons who are not placed at the extremes of life. 1 If they occur in children, it is more often in older children than in infants, and they seldom attack old people of either sex. They are often encapsuled, and the capsule may be thick, strong, and complete. They frequently pre- ; sent, on section, an aspect resembling that of fibrous and muscular tumors, for the bands of small and closely set spindle-cells look, to the naked eye, like bands of fibrous tissue. The}' are, too, usually of firmer texture than the tumors of the last subclass. But these characters are not always present, and a spindle-celled sarcoma may be soft, homogeneous, and quite brain-like. The spindle-celled tumors not only tend to organization into fibrous tissue, but into cartilage and bone, and they are subject to all the degenerations which affect sarcomas. True cysts are more often formed in connection with spindle-celled than with round-celled tumors ; indeed, in the breast and testis they occur almost invariably in connection with the spindle-celled tumors. j Multiple spindle-celled tumors occur in the skin, where they are often pig- mented (melanosis), in the nerves, and more rarely in other structures. The growth of spindle-celled tumors is not usually as rapid, nor is their dissemi- nation as widely spread as that of the round-celled tumors; but it must not be supposed that there are not exceptions to this rule. The parts most fre- quently attacked by secondary growths, not taking into account glandular affection, are the lungs and pleurae, the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue. The mixed-celled sarcomas may be met with in many of the parts subject to sarcoma, but the best examples are observed in connection with the bones, j Here, not only are the tumors composed of cells of several shapes, but many tissues may be mingled in strange confusion to make up the tumor: fibrous tissue, bone, and cartilage, with sarcoma-tissue, calcifying or becoming fatty, i In these tumors large cystoid cavities frequently occur, true cysts much more ; rarely. The mixed-celled tumors are usually very malignant, and secondarily affect the lungs, perhaps more often than any other organs. The giamt-celled or myeloid sarcomas are the least malignant of the four sub- classes. They are almost limited, as primary growths, to the interior of the bones, and exhibit a marked predilection for the lower jaw, the femur, and the tibia. Giant-celled tumors have also been observed in the testis, the breast, and other of the soft structures, but the giant-cells of which these tumors are composed are very different in character from the giant-cells of the central tumors of the bones, and their origin is probably very different. A sarcoma should not be termed giant-celled unless the giant-cells constitute at least half its bulk. The giant-celled tumors seldom occur at the extremes of life ; they are more frequently met with before or about the middle period. They grow for the most part slowly. I have seen a myeloid tumor of the lower jaw no larger than a small walnut at the end of seven years. They are not generally encapsuled, but are usually perfectly circumscribed, and sur- rounded by the cortex of the bone. Most of them are firm-textured, homo- geneous, and red or brown in color. They are less prone than the other sarcomas to organization, and not very prone to degeneration. Occasionally cystoid cavities form in them. Myeloid tumors are rarely multiple and rarely disseminated, but multiplicity and dissemination may both occur. The want of sufficient space will not permit even a short, separate account of the sarcomas of every locality which these tumors affect. But an account of some of them is highly desirable, if not absolutely necessary, to prove how largely the disease is influenced by the situation of the primary growth.