738 INJURIES OF THE BACK. parts of the back were made, and absolute quietude was enjoined. Besides the opium, potassium iodide, 5 grains every four hours, was given internally. Thus, it will be perceived, that strong measures were adopted from the out- set to allay any inflammation of the spinal membranes or the spinal cord which might threaten to follow the injury. To these antiphlogistic measures I attribute most of the success which was obtained in the treatment of this case. The non-employment of extension and counter-extension was evidently a mistake; for, had they been continuously applied for two or three weeks, the displacement of bone would not have increased, as actually happened, and the bladder would not have become paralyzed on the day after the accident. The excellent results which were obtained, in this case, by obviating the ten- dency to inflammation in the bruised and strained spinal membranes and spi- nal cord, by employing appropriate treatment internally as well as externally, should teach us to do likewise in all similar cases. That there is a real need for so doing, in such cases, the following observations will prove:— A man, aged 40, was admitted to the Saint Andre Hospital, at Bordeaux,1 with severe injury of the back. Mobility of the eleventh dorsal spinous process was detected. Temporary loss of consciousness from shock occurred. Then severe pain in the seat of the injury, which was near the origin of the eleventh dorsal nerves, was complained of. The parts supplied by the sacral and lumbar plexuses of nerves were paralyzed, and voluntary motion of the lower extremities was abolished. Anaesthesia of the lower extremities, and of the abdominal wall as high as the umbilicus, existed, with exagge- rated reflex motility in the lower extremities. There was priapism, with retention of urine and feces, and tympanites, from vesical and intestinal paralysis. The pulse rose to 112; the breathing became diaphragmatic and difficult; and, on the eleventh day, death occurred. Dissection revealed fracture of the lamina; of the eleventh dorsal ver- tebra, with dislocation of its body in front of the twelfth, contusion of the cord, and ascending myelitis. Here, then, a contusion of the spinal cord arising from a disloca- tion with fracture of the spinal column, eventuated in a traumatic inflammation of the spinal cord, which caused death by spreading upward until it involved the roots of the phrenic nerves, and thus suppressed the respiratory movements; and the fatal issue of this case could have been prevented, only by averting the consecutive inflammation of the spinal cord. Bryant2 reports the case of a laborer, aged 33, injured by timber falling on his shoulders. At first, there was loss of sensation, but not of motion; afterward, loss of motion, but return of sensation ; finally, loss of both. In ten days death ensued. Dis- location forward of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, with fracture of the twelfth, was found ; and the spinal cord was disorganized. (Ashhurst.) In cases such as this, the disorganization of the spinal cord which directly precedes, and is the proximate cause of death, is always due to inflammatory action ; and well directed efforts to subdue it should always be made, by appropriate treatment, both general and local. Robert3 mentions the case of a laborer, aged 25, who was injured in the back by a scaffold-pole falling on him. There was paralysis (paraplegia), etc., noted, but no deformity. In eleven days, however, lie died. Dislocation of the fifth from the sixth dorsal vertebra was found ; and the spinal cord was diffluent. This case clearly belongs to the same category as the last two, and in it an ascending myelitis of a destructive character also resulted from the injury, and caused death. Charles Bell4 relates the case of a coal-wagoner, thrown from his cart while drunk, striking upon his neck and shoulders. He complained of a stiff neck, could not stand alone, and dragged his legs when supported; but when lying in bed, no paralysis ap- peared. Between the shoulders, at the root of the neck, there was swelling and ecchy- mosis; and in the loins acute pain. Leeches were applied to the swelling. On the 1 Pousson et Lalesque, Revue Mensuelle, Juillet, 1880; Lond. Med. Record, Jan. 15, 1881. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d S., vol. v. 3 Half-Yearly Abstract of Med. Science, 1854. 4 Surg. Observations, Part ii., p. 145.