EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 482 ted to the Episcopal Hospital on March 24, 1873. A year before, the left elbow had re- ceived an injury, the nature of which wras un- known, and for which no treatment had been employed. The joint at the time of the patient’s admission was partially anchylosed, tender and painful on motion, with considerable thicken- ing of the soft parts, and a distortion which simulated partial displacement of the radius. The part was constantly getting hurt, and every fresh injury left the limb more crippled than before. Excision was performed in the usual way on March 27, the lower epiphysis of the hu- merus being found to be separated, and slightly carious, and the soft tissues of the joint present- ing in parts the characteristic changes of gela- tinous arthritis. The after-progress of the case was perfectly satisfactory ; all the sutures were removed on April 1 (no ligature had been re- quired) ; on April 18, the patient was allowed to get up ; by May 17, the wound was almost healed, and the functions of the part in a great measure restored ; and finally, on November 13, the patient was discharged from the hospi- tal cured, the photograph from which the annexed illustration (Fig. 708) is taken having been secured a few days before his departure. In addition to the seven cases of which I have given the above brief abstracts, I have twice excised the elbow, in adults, for severe compound fracture into the joint, and once (a partial excision, involving only the olecranon and upper part of the ulna) for syphilitic necrosis (hereditary) in a child: this case ended favorably, the boy acquiring good motion in the joint, hut both the traumatic cases were followed by death—in one from delirium tremens, and in the other from traumatic gangrene. The following table summarizes in a compendious manner the facts of the whole ten cases referred to. Table of Ten Cases of Excision of the Elbow. No. Sex and age. Nature of affection for which operation was required. Result; duration of treatment after operation. Remarks. 1 Male, 56 Arthritis of left elbow Died; 33 days Death from exhaustion. 2 Male, 25 Gelatinous arthritis of right elbow Died ; 19 w’ks Deatli from tuberculous meningitis. 3 Female, 7 Arthritis of right el- bow from injury Recovered ; 16 months Anchylosis as to flexion and extension. 4 Male, 51 Compound fracture and dislocation of right elbow Died; 7 days Death from delirium tremens. 5 Male, 10 Arthritis of left elbow from injury Recovered ; 4^ months Normal motions of part restored. 6 Male, 4 Arthritis of left elbow Recovered ; months Normal motions restored. 7 Male, 6 Right elbow destroyed by hereditary syphi- lis Recovered from operation Utility of limb fairly restored ; death from syphilitic disease of brain nearly a year and a half subsequently. 8 Male, 6 Partial fibrous anchy- losis of left elbow, with recurrent ar- thritis Recovered; 7£ months Normal motions of part restored. 9 Male, 38 Railroad crush of el- bow Died ; 5 days Death from traumatic gangrene. 10 Male, 10 Necrosis of ulna from hereditary syphilis Recovered ; 10 weeks Normal motions preserved. (Partial excision.) Fig. 708. Result of excision of elbow-joint. (From a patient in the Episcopal Hospital.)