676 INJURIES OF THE BACK. In tliis case it does not appear that the spinal cord or spinal nerves sus- tained any injury. No other examples belonging to this category were re- ported during the late civil war. Dr. Meryon1 presents a very instructive case of incised wound in the back, penetrating the vertebral column and injuring the spinal cord, in which com- plete recovery took place. A boy, aged 15, received a wound from a cutting instrument in the back, which penetrated between the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae, and probably divided the right half of the spinal marrow. There was complete paralysis of motion, and incom- plete loss of sensibility in the right thigh and leg. The patient made a good recovery, and at the end of two months was able to walk four or five miles. A prominent symp- tom in this case, which has often been observed in similar cases, was the escape of a quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid from the wound during the first twelve days after the injury. Dr. Schwandner reports a somewhat similar instance, in which a punctured wound of the back injured the spinal cord between the second and third dorsal vertebrae. Paralysis of the right foot and leg, shortness of breathing, together with involuntary defecation and micturition, were present. The foot remained partially paralyzed; but, in other respects, the recovery was complete.2 Under the head of punctured wounds of the hack, the following examples are also embraced:— Hennen reports that, “in a sergeant of the Enniskillen Dragoons, wounded at Waterloo, a piece of the shaft of a Polish lance stuck fast between the spinous processes of the last two dorsal vertebrae, completely paralyzing him until it was removed.”3 In arrow-wounds of the back the missile sometimes penetrates the verte- bral column, as happened in a case the specimen from which is represented by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 766). This speci- men was obtained from the body of a white man killed by Indians (by an arrow-wound of the heart, etc.) in 1869, at an outpost near Fort Concho, Texas, and was sent to the Army Medical Museum. It con- sists of the fourth and fifth, together with portions of the third and sixth, dorsal vertebrae. An arrow-head is shown impacted in the right transverse process of the fourth dorsal vertebra and posterior extremity of the rib. The spinal canal was not opened by the missile.4 “ The force with which arrows are pro- jected by tlie Indians is so great that it has been esti- mated that the initial velocity of the missile nearly equals that of a musket ball. At a short distance an arrow will perforate the larger bones without commi- nuting them, or causing a slight fissure only.”5 One example of an incised flesh-wound of the sacral region has come under my own observation. The patient was a lad, aged about 18, who was cut by the lower angle of an axe that accidentally fell from his right shoulder, upon which he was carrying it as he walked, and struck against the sacrum, a little to the right of the median line. The wound was about two and a 1 Researches on the Various Forms of Paralysis, p. 69. London, 1864. Quoted from L’Union Medicate, 1860, p. 552. 2 New Sydenham Soc. Year-Book, 1859, p. 429. 3 OP- cit. p. 350. « Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871, p. 153. 6 Ibid., p. 160. Fig. 766. Showing an arrow-head, im- pacted in the right transverse process of the fourth dorsal ver- tebra.—(Spec. 5673, Sect. I. A. M. M.)