INJURIES OF THE BACK. 848 had become choked with coagula. There remains, then, no appreciable or perceptible cause whatever for the remarkably inflamed state of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder, which the autopsy revealed in this case, excepting the excitation of the spinal cord by the secondary meningitis and myelitis, which had supervened two or three days before the urinary secretion “became tur- bid.” Thus, it is shown that the urinary lesions in this case had a neuro- pathic source. Moreover, an acute bed-sore—that is, a neuropathic eschar— presented itself, at the same time, over the sacrum, in this patient; this cir- cumstance also affords presumptive evidence that the urinary lesions had a similar origin. The urinary lesions appear to have been the chief proximate cause of this patient’s death, which occurred about ten days after the signs of these lesions first became visible. This neuropathic nephritis and cystitis, etc., therefore, ran a remarkably rapid course, and quickly proved fatal. The symptoms presented themselves in the following order: On the first day, it was observed that the urinary discharge was “turbidno doubt it was also ammoniacal. Two days afterward, it was remarked that the urinary discharge was highly “ammoniacal and thick with mucus,” that the “bowels were loose,” and that great prostration with “a very high temperature (105°)” was also present. After still another day, hematuria supervened, and the urethral outlet of the bladder becoming plugged with clotted blood, it was necessary to introduce a catheter. On the same day it was noted in the clinical history that the patient was also suffering from bed-sores. In three days more there was extreme anorexia, with very great gastric irritability; and in four days after that death ensued. This "pemeute inflammation of the urinary organs wrought the following structural changes: The kidneys were intensely hypersemic, and therefore enlarged, while the pelvis of the left one was filled with puru- lent matter. The coats of the bladder were intensely inflamed, dark-purple in color,and thickened; its mucous membrane had also sloughed off in patches. The ureters, likewise, were very dark in color and intensely inflamed. In consequence of these structural changes, the urinary secretion speedily became loaded with muco-purulent matter and blood. The hsematuria which occurred during life was obviously caused by the rupture of the over-distended blood- vessels of the kidneys, etc. Ho wonder, then, that general prostration of an extreme character should rapidly come on in such a case of renal and cystic inflammation, and that death should speedily ensue. Another highly instructive example of neuropathic inflammation of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder, has likewise been mentioned in these pages already (p. 820); but it is well worth further study, and I shall therefore speak of it again. It was originally recorded by Sir W. Gull:— A man, aged 25, contracted acute myelitis of the dorsal region in consequence of straining lii:Tback in lifting a heavy weight. No bones nor ligaments, however, were injured. On the morning of the second day after the accident lie found himself para- plegic on walking, in consequence of the rachidian inflammation. On the fourth day after the injury he was admitted into Guy’s Hospital. There was already complete paraplegia, together with a sacral eschar; and ammoniacal urine constantly dribbled from his paralyzed bladder. Forty-one days after the accident, or thirty-seven days after entering the hospital, he died. At the autopsy, commencing suppuration in the cortical substance of the kidneys was noted. The mucous membrane of their pelves was green- ish in color, with patches of greenish-colored fibrinous exudation thereon. The mucous membrane of the ureters and bladder was in the same condition. The bladder con- tained a quantity of muco-purulent fluid. The substance of the spinal cord was changed into a thick, greenish, muco-puritorm liquid throughout its entire thickness, opposite the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebrae, while the cervical and lumbar portions of the cord were unchanged.