876 INJURIES OF TIIE BACK. (voluntary-motor paralysis), and muscular atrophy. The hiccough and vomiting, which were frequently observed for many months in this case, were probably dependent upon the origin, distribution, and connections of the phrenic nerves, and arose partly from disease of the membranes, and partly from disease of the cord-substance, in the cervical region. In regard to the muscular atrophy, which was progressive and exceedingly well marked, it also must be looked upon as one of the remote effects of spinal injury, resulting directly, however, from inflammatory irritation of the pos- terior columns and gray substance of the spinal cord. The attentive reader will doubtless have already observed that, in the case just related, the gray substance was found to be hyperaemic at the autopsy, and that the posterior columns, but especially the right one, exhibited structural changes of a dis- tinctly inflammatory character This variety of muscular atrophy was formerly regarded as a primary affec- tion of the muscles themselves. Its origin, however, really lies in certain morbid alterations which have taken place in the gray substance of the spinal cord, particularly the anterior cornua thereof. I shall next present a remarkable example which will prove very useful in the way of exhibiting progressive muscular atrophy and chronic inflamma- tion of the rachidian substance as remote effects of spinal injuries, such, for example, as concussions of the spinal cord that are thought nothing of at the time when they are received; and, what is of greater importance, it will serve to show how difficult it sometimes may be for even the most skilful observer to make a correct diagnosis as to the essential lesion in such cases. In this example an erroneous opinion was entertained as to the nature of the disease, until this was revealed by the autopsy. Sir W. Gull has related the following very instructive case of chronic myelitis, involving first, as well as most markedly, the cervical portion of the cord, and arising from concussion thereof produced by a blow on the neck:—1 A steamboat-stoker, aged 23, intemperate but healthy, was admitted into the hos- pital, June 5, 1851. Five years before, he had been struck in a pugilistic combat, unexpectedly and severely, “ by another man’s fist on the side of the neck, near the articulation of the skull with the vertebral column. Since that he has occasionally had difficulty in deglutition, particularly of fluids, which would be expelled through the nose. For the last year he has had a choking sensation ; and, at times, difficulty in passing water.” Meanwhile, his right arm became weak and wasted, from the shoulder down- ward, which he ignorantly attributed to an injury of the back of his right hand by the failin'* of a piece of iron. lie continued to work with his left arm for three months longer; but, about 1850, he began to suffer from what he termed “bile,” that is, fre- quent vomiting, unattended by any pain in the head, or giddiness. These attacks of vomiting continued to return for four months ; and then, as they subsided, there was increased difficulty of deglutition, and both legs became weak, the left first, and to the greatest degree. In the autumn he improved, and was able to walk about, but the bladder was so far paralyzed that he needed the catheter to be passed for several weeks. The improvement, however, was only of short duration. When admitted into hospital, Ins right arm was completely paralyzed at the shoulder-joint, and there was great wast- ing of the muscles; only slight power of moving the fingers remained. There was anaesthesia, increasing toward the hand, but most marked in the branches of the ulnar nerve No actual paralysis of the left arm, but the muscles were flaccid and weak. He had pains running over the back of his head. He could move his legs slightly. Sen- sation impaired as high as the hips. No deformity of the spine, nor tenderness on per- cussion. No sense of constriction at any part of the trunk. Vision somewhat impaired. Urine and feces passed involuntarily. Pulse 90. Tongue clean and pale, lie im- i Ibid., 1856, pp. 181-185.