421 NEUROSES OF JOINTS. mislead diagnosis; it is to be remembered that certain joints of persons between fifteen and eighteen, the age of greatest growth, habitually crepitate in this manner. A coarser crackle may sometimes be detected in old long- standing cases of hysteric malady, more especially in such as have been treated as though affected with real disease. Moreover, the limb segment above the joint does not waste; it is true that if the patient have been long laid up, and have not used the limb for some time, it may be slightly smaller than the other, but not in the same way or degree as in organic joint-disease. The flexors are not tighter nor harder than the extensors; usually, indeed, the latter are the more contracted. These points should be examined in two ways: the one, while the patient’s attention is fixed on the joint; the other, while it is, as far as possible, diverted by conversation in some other direc- tion, when the formerly rigid limb will often be seen to relax, or the pre- viously very sensitive joint may be touched with impunity. Certain points of difficulty arise when the hip is the affected joint; but some astuteness in the method of examination will eliminate them. The patient being probably in bed, the posture (lengthening, shortening, and flexion) is to be visually noted. If, now, the hand be passed gently over the region of the great trochanter, great manifestation of pain will occur; if the surgeon take the knee, and endeavor to move the femur, it will probably be rigid ; but rigid by means of great tightening of muscles—the thigh and nates may be felt hard and resilient. Nevertheless, if the limb be watched during subse- quent procedures, it will not be found to maintain a constant angle with the pelvis. Very often, if the patient’s attention be directed quite other- wise, one may, by grasping, not the thigh or knee, but the foot, place the limb, unsuspected by the patient, in various different positions, without moving the pelvis. The first posture-symptom of true hip-disease is nearly always that of lengthening ; in hysteric hip, the first change, if any, us that of short- ening, in the great majority of instances; but it is excessive in regard to the other symptoms, while some parts of the posture itself are exaggerated; the buttock is thrown too violently back, but the nates, instead of being loose, are tense, and have not that increased breadth characteristic of the real disease in this stage. The spine is also excessively curved and twisted. Very often the patient stands thus, but with the foot lifted from the floor— a position which I once saw in sacro-iliac disease, but have never seen in hip- disease. If the patient be left standing, with some such support for the arms as the back of a chair, and if other conversation be introduced, one sees, as fatigue begins, the malposition gradually grow less; but if a word be said shortly and sharply about the change, it will almost suddenly return in its former intensity. These signs may not all be present in any one case—a pecu- liarity of hysteria is variability—but some of them will exist, while the limb- wasting is invariably absent. While wishing to emphasize the necessity of examining the patient so as to put her off her guard, I would also deprecate any questions or observations which might indicate to her the true symptoms. The most difficult cases are those which have been already submitted to much examination, which has enlightened the patient; especially difficult, both to recognize and to cure, are such as under mistaken diagnosis have already been treated for a considerable time by the use of splints, rest, blisters, etc. Treatment.—A very great part of the management of hysteric joint-dis- ease must depend on the absence or presence of any uterine affection; dys- menorrhoea and amenorrhoea must of course lie treated according to their cause; menorrhagia, or, which is more common, slightly excessive and too fre- quent menstruation, should at once be stopped by the use of such astringents