273 SYNOVITIS. immediate use of some immovable apparatus, such as plaster of Paris, water- glass, or gum and starch. I prefer, for many reasons, a removable splint, and in my own practice have found that known as the Amesbury splint to answer well. This consists of two metal gutters, one for the thigh and one for the leg, hinged together, and having behind a screw to change the angle. There is also a footpiece, which can be brought nearer or farther from the hinge ac- cording to the length of the patient’s tibia; its angle, also, can be changed. It is important to make sure that the back of the joint does not lie a little off from the splint, so as to allow, for instance, the easy introduction of a finger into the popliteal space. I have seen many a limb rest on or about the middle of the thigh, the calf, and the foot, while the joint has not been fairly on the splint; the rest under such a vicious arrangement is very imper- fect, and much pain, generally attributed to the disease, is in reality due to the defective treatment.1 The ankle, when inflamed, should be so placed that the foot is at a right angle with the leg, and care must be taken that the former does not roll either inward, or, what is more usual, outward, so that the weight falls on either lateral ligament. If the disease be pretty severe, the knee also should be immobilized, otherwise the plastic-felt, or leather splint, moulded to the outer side of the leg, is sufficient. The cause of my preference for removable apparatus is that it gives opportunity for local treatment, which is prevented by the use of plaster of Paris, or other such means as cover in the joint. Concerning local remedies and their value, there is considerable difference of opinion and of practice in different parts of the world, since varieties of habits and surroundings pro- duce in our patients conditions and states of body essentially unlike. This remark applies more especially to the desirability or otherwise of topical bleeding by leeches or the cupping-glass.2 To justify any local loss of blood as a remedy for joint-inflammation, two conditions must be coincident: one a severely acute, local inflammation, the other a sthenic constitution. But though the coincidence of these may justify blood-letting as productive of no injury, we must also ask ourselves if it will do good. .Now, though I only use this remedy in severe cases, and most generally in those of traumatic synovitis which have come under treatment while the disease is yet developing, yet I am con- vinced that in such cases it often retards or prevents further increase, and arrests the disease at the point it has then reached. It is most valuable if the joint be a superficial one, such as the knee, elbow, or wrist. The leeches should not be applied immediately over the synovial membrane, but to a point above, where the larger veins which receive blood from the articulation are near the surface. By the former method, the superficial capillaries merely are uselessly emptied ; by the latter, we probably deplete the deeper venous radicals, those vessels, namely, in which inflammatory retardation and then stasis of circulation first occur. The time at which this remedy is most useful, is at any period of an acute attack in which swelling, already pretty considerable, is still on the increase, the joint becoming larger, more tense, and more painful. A repetition of bloodletting, or even its employment at a later stage of the disease, is to be deprecated as worse than useless. A more reliable remedy, and one producing more rapid results, is evacua- tion of the joint. All observation shows that pain is in very close, if not in exact proportion to the amount of tension; moreover, it is to be noticed 1 Other forms of splint will he mentioned hereafter. 2 The cupping-glass has, at all events in London, fallen into almost complete desuetude. In the earlier days of my professional life, that is, about thirty years ago, several persons in the metropolis made very good incomes simply by cupping ; a considerable portion of their practice was in cases of inflamed and injured joints. VOL. IV.—18