191 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. obvious, as, for example, when the bone gives way by reason of the patient tripping, or in merely turning around suddenly. Here the great leverage afforded by the length of the femur is almost doubled by the addition to it of the length of the leg; and it can scarcely be a matter of surprise that the neck of the bone should yield. The accidents which cause these fractures may be various: falls on the feet or knees, driving the femur upward, or falls or blows upon the trochanter, in whatever direction these may come. Sometimes it is difficult to tell whether the fall is the cause or the result of the fracture, in the cases especially of old people, and when the fracture is evidently within the joint. I may, perhaps, anticipate somewhat here, by saying that in practice the distinction is not always easily drawn between the two forms of fracture. The differential signs so clearly laid down by authors may not exist, or they may be masked by swelling, or by the obesity of the patient. After what has been said of the mode of production of these injuries gen- erally, it will not be difficult to see how the capsular ligament and periosteum may be only partially torn, and may sometimes even remain entire. Under but slight stress, momentarily sustained, the fibrous structures may be only stretched. If they give way at one part only, that part will correspond to the greatest separation of the bone. Such cases are by no means rare. One instance is on record, and the specimen is preserved in the Warren Museum,1 of partial fracture or fissure of the neck of the femur. It was taken from a man aged forty-two, who had fallen through two stories of a building, upon a hard floor. The shaft of the bone was also broken trans- versely at about the middle. “ The fissure involves about three-fourths of the circumference of the neck, the inner anterior portion only being spared; and to a considerable extent it runs along very near to the head of the bone. It is quite closed, but there is considerable motion between the head and neck, when the head and shaft are grasped, and moved upon each other; and the fissure would undoubtedly result in a perfect fracture if much force were used.” Coulon is quoted.by Holmes2 as having seen “ the neck of the femur frac- tured in straightening a diseased hip, though no chloroform was given, and the extension so gently conducted that the child did not cry.” The symptoms of fractures of the neck of the femur are very variable in the degree ot tlieir distinctness. Cases sometimes occur in which a mistake would be impossible, while in others the utmost care and skill cannot enable the surgeon to arrive at a positive conclusion. In well-marked cases there is loss of power in the limb, standing and walk- ing are out of the question, and the patient cannot even raise the knee as he lies in bed. The limb is drawn upward, or shortened; this fact being appa- rent at a glance, and verified by measurement made from the anterior supe- nor spine ot the ilium, or trom the umbilicus, to the inner malleolus. Vari- ous forms of apparatus for making this measurement have been devised by Hoi ton3 and others, but are scarcely available except in hospital practice, and equally accurate results may be. arrived at with a good tape-line, carefully used. Ihe patient should be laid perfectly straight, on a level surface, such a> hat ot a hard mattress, or upon blankets folded and placed on the floor; ancl care should be taken to have the pelvis exactly transverse. I do not mi v it ot any use to mark the points 1121011 the skin, as is the practice of some surgeons, since such marks cannot but be movable. The tape should be n/nCa\f°iSU«’-P' 18\No- 1055 ; see> also> Hamilton, pp. 98 and 396 ; and Mussey, Am. Journ. ot the Med. Sciences, April, 1857. 2 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, 1st ed., p. 244. Surgery in the Pennsylvania Hospital, p. 288.