770 INJURIES OF THE BACK. 1 Op. cit., p. 204. the spinal nerves. Bryant has seen several cases in which marked relief has been afforded by this meansand the records of surgery contain many others. When practised with discretion, the reduction of vertebral fractures by extension is undoubtedly a valuable mode of treatment. When the dis- placement shows a decided tendency to recur, and likewise when there is marked shortening, it will often be advisable to make the extension continu- ous by means of weights attached to the patient by strips of adhesive plas- ter, and suspended from the head of the bed, in the manner already described while discussing the treatment of vertebral dislocations. When there is much pain at the seat of fracture, or in the terminal branches of the spinal nerves which issue from the spinal column through the intervertebral foramina at the seat of fracture, opium or morphia must be administered in full doses, and at sufficiently short intervals to subdue the pain and keep it in subjection. Afterward, the patient should be kept mode- rately under the influence of morphia as a precautionary measure against con- secutive spinal meningitis and myelitis, and, by the way, opium or mor- phia thus administered, is one of the most efficient agents for this purpose in the materia mediea. If, in a few hours after the accident, signs of compression of the spinal cord from extravasation of blood within the theca vertebralis should appear, the fluid extract of ergot should be given in full doses, and at short intervals, and an ice-bag should be applied over the spinal column, with a view to suppress the bleeding. Efforts to abate the inflammation of the injured structures at the seat of fracture, and thus to prevent the occurrence of consecutive meningitis and myelitis, should be made by abstracting blood with leeches, by applying cold lotions, and by keeping the fractured bones as nearly immovable as possible. The attentive reader, doubtless, has already noted that, in many of the suc- cessful cases of spinal fracture related above, blood was abstracted, either generally by venesection or locally by cupping, that cooling lotions were applied to the injured part, and that the patient lay quietly in bed. Should spinal paralysis begin one, or two, or more days after the accident, or should a pre-existing paralysis then begin to increase or invade new parts, or should any other symptoms denoting the presence of spinal meningitis or myelitis appear, the surgeon should seek to control the inflammation of the membranes and substance of the spinal cord, by administering ergot and potassium iodide in full doses, and by insisting on having pei’fect rest for the injured parts, if this remedial measure have not already been thoroughly enforced. Should there be inability to micturate, catherization must be employed morning and evening, and oftener if necessary. Should there be constipation, the bowels must be moved at appropriate intervals by giving senna, and by administering enemata. The alimentation of the patient must be attended to, and a nourishing but easily digestible diet allowed. Every possible pre- caution, in the way of cleanliness, etc., should be taken against the formation of bed-sores. In regard to the use of mechanical contrivances to keep the broken parts of the spinal column in apposition, and free from all motion, thus performing the offices that splints do in fractures of the extremities, it is obvious that it these ends could be accomplished by any mechanical contrivance, the patient’s recovery would be considerably expedited, and the risk of consecutive menin- gitis and myelitis would be considerably lessened by employing it. As such an apparatus, the plaster-of-Paris jacket, devised by Professor Sayre, has