341 MOVABLE BODIES IN JOINTS. meniscus,1 or from an articular cartilage previously healthy,2 * or, as Mr. Teale® and more recently Sir J. Paget4 have pointed out, a certain district of cartilage may die by a process of “ cpiiet necrosis,” slowly become detached without suppuration from the underlying hone, and then break away from its lateral surroundings and be shed into the joint. The above descriptions indicate that certain cases are in their origin a part of a diathetic disease, an outcome of grave changes in the joint-structure, a form of rheumatic synovitis, of arthritis deformans, or sometimes of obscure disease affecting all the articular tissues, generally traumatic in origin ; in other cases, one or more false bodies are accidental occurrences, if such a term may be used; they arise, at all events, without the accompaniment of any severe or demonstrable malady, from a fortuitous deposit in the perisynovial tissue of a blood-clot, or of fibrin, or from enlargement of a single fringe-villus, which afterwards is excited to additional growth by the joint movements, or perhaps by being pinched between the bones. The mere presence of a smooth, hard, or soft body in the joint-sac is not necessarily productive of disease, particularly if it be quite free; but bodies which remain attached, by constantly dragging on the pedicle—and even sometimes such as are quite detached—often set up an irritation which tends to the production of hydrar- thrus. Moreover, a distressing accident is very liable to occur, namely, intrusion of the loose body between the articular surfaces, or other sufficiently tense part of the joint; this produces intense pain, and is very generally fol- lowed by a smart synovitis, which, if frequently recurrent, will shortly be very detrimental to the integrity of the part. Symptoms.—A disease whose etiology varies as much as that in question, or rather, it might he said, a condition which may arise from such very dif- ferent diseases, can hardly present a homogeneous set of symptoms. But since those maladies of which the presence of false bodies is a part, possess certain well-marked characteristics of their own, we need here do little more than mention them. The tendency of subacute rheumatic synovitis to form multiple false bodies has already been mentioned, and the method whereby these may generally be detected has been described; and further considera- tion will be given hereafter to the bodies connected with the earlier period of arthritis deformans. Painless, or nearly painless, persistent, fluid effusion should always lead to the suspicion that false bodies, one or more, may be in the joint. Ot course, these can only be detected by physical examina- tion when the joint is not greatly distended, or when it lias been partially emptied. But the presence of a solitary false body, or of a small number of false bodies, may remain entirely unknown until discovered by accident. The patient, believing that I16 is entirely sound, may by chance feel with his fingers that there is in one of his joints—generally the knee, less often the elbow—a very mobile little lump, which as soon as it is touched glides away like a frightened mouse into its hole (joint-mouse, “ Gelenkmaus,” the Ger- mans call it), and it may be days before he finds it again. More otten the patient discovers the loose cartilage in a far more unpleas- ant manner. Thus, while walking, unconscious of any disease, still less of danger, he may be suddenly seized by a pain so severe that he turns sick and faint. Unless some support to which he can cling be at hand, he falls. The joint being fixed by spasm ot the muscles, the pain gradually relaxes, and at the same time comes a feeling that if he could only bend, or otherwise 1 See a case by Mr. Brodliurst. Path. Trans., vol. xviii. p. 214. * See Klein’s case in Virchow’s Arcliiv, Band xxix. Heft 1 und 2. 8 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxix. 4 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi.