767 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAL processes were crushed, but there was no paralysis ; there was a wound over the sacrum. She was treated by rest, etc., and in ten and a halt' months recovered. She lay for eight months with body bent and legs drawn up; but had regained the erect posture when discharged. Dr. Dorrance1 relates the case of a cooper, who was struck by a hilling tree. There were fracture and backward projection of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, with spinal para- lysis. He recovered in one year, and resumed his occupation ; but slight deformity remained. Mr. Shaw2 reports four cases of vertebral fracture in the dorso-lumbar region, but without paralysis, in which each patient recovered sufficiently to resume work again. But Mr. Teale3 has recorded the most interesting case of all. In it the body of the second lumbar vertebra was crushed, and there was spinal paralysis ; still, the patient made a complete recovery, but with angular curvature, and survived twelve years in good health, when, having died of typhus, the diagnosis was verified by an autopsy. The patient was an adult man. His injury was caused by a beam falling across his back. When admitted to the infirmary, all the usual signs of vertebral fracture, with displacement, were present in the lumbar region. He was unable to move his legs ; and, for three weeks after admission, required the use of a catheter to empty his blad- der. Sensation was not wholly lost at any time. At the end of three weeks, he mic- turated without assistance, and could walk across the floor with the aid of a stick. Six weeks after the accident, he walked well, and was discharged cured. A projection of the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra had been felt from the first, and was still present when he left the hospital. After twelve years’ good health, he was again admitted for typhus fever, of which he died, and then the specimen was obtained. It showed an obtuse bend forward in the upper part of the lumbar region. The body of the second lumbar vertebra had been crushed ; and, at the anterior border, had not more than half the normal thickness. Anchylosis had occurred between the first and second lumbar vertebrae. Some seven or eight additional eases of fracture of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, in each of which recovery ensued, will presently be mentioned or referred to under the head of treatment. In France, besides the cases of Dupuytren mentioned above, several successful exam- ples belonging to the same category have been reported, two by Begin,4 four by J. Clo- quet,5 and at least one by Malgaigne.6 In most of these cases there was complete spinal paralysis, but it gradually disappeared ; and, after some months, or even years, of treatment, recovery ensued. Many other successful examples of the same sort, if time permitted, could doubtless be collected. Numerous other cases of vertebral fracture, in the dorsal and lumbar regions, in which the patients survived a long time, notwithstanding that the spinal cord was severed, or that the broken bones were much displaced, might like- wise be collected. But few of them, however, will be presented. Professor Hamilton 7 mentions a case under Mr. Key’s care, in which the first lum- bar vertebra was fractured. The patient, a boy, survived the accident for one year and two days. Necroscopy showed bony union, and the spinal cord completely divided. Sir A. Cooper8 gives the case of a man, aged 28, under Mr. Harold’s care, with frac- tures of the first and second lumbar vertebra? caused by a mass of chalk falling upon him. There was spinal paralysis, which affected the bladder and intestines as well as 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 0. S. vol. xvi. 2 London Med. Gazette, vol. xviii. p. 936 ; Trans. Pafholog. Soc. London, vol. iii. p. 420. 3 Brit, and For. Medico-Chirurg. Review, October, 1869, and New Syd. Soc. Retrospect, 1869- 70, pp. 247, 248. 4 CEuvres Chirurg., t. ii. 6 Dictionnaire de.Mgdecine, t. ix.; Maisonnabe, Journal des Difformittis, t. i. 6 Op. cit., t. ii. i Op. cit. 8 Disloc'ations and Fractures of Joints. V