635 CARCINOMA. the latter are subordinate in character and degree to the former. Xot until the disease is advanced, and a definite tumor has been formed, which can be recognized with the naked eye as carcinoma, are cells resembling those within the (iucts and sacs found in the surrounding tissues. Birch-IIirschfeld1 has shown that the changes in the testis, which lead to carcinoma, commence in a similar manner in the epithelium, and Carmalt2 has performed a similar ser- vice in respect to epithelioma (squamous-celled carcinoma) of the oesophagus. The multiplication of the epithelial cells appears to be, in most instances, by endogenous growth, and the young cell or cells can often be discerned within the parent cell. But multiplication by division appears also to take place. On the whole, it is more difficult to trace the extension of the processes which are observed within the glandular apparatus of an affected organ into the surrounding tissues. At one time, I was disposed to believe that when the ducts and sacs became filled and distended with cells, their walls gave way, and the epithelium escaped into the surrounding tissues; and I still think that this is one of the ways by which the epithelium, so to speak, escapes. But that there are other ways by which the connective tissues become infiltrated with epithelial cells, I cannot doubt. From specimens which Mr. Eve has shown me, it appears probable that instead of, as it were, dribbling out on all sides of the distended sacs, the epithelium may put forth buds or processes of cells at one or more points, and that these may grow till they become long bars or solid cylinders of cells in the interstices of the connective tissue. Again, Mr. Cripps3 has shown that, in columnar-celled carcinoma of the rectum, the nuclei of the columnar cells which line the follicles pass out through the basement membrane and wall of the follicles into the surrounding tissues, and there, becoming surrounded by protoplasm, develop into new cells similar to those from which the nuclei escaped. The grouping of the nuclei, and consequently of the cells, resembles that of the cells in the follicles, and thus the follicular structure is maintained in all but the most rapidly growing rectal carcinomas. I have not yet been able to convince myself of the correctness of the infection-theory as applied to the growth of carcinoma; yet it is affirmed by many good observers that “indif- ferent” corpuscles, connective-tissue corpuscles, and endothelial cells, are all capable of being converted into epithelium in the immediate vicinity, and under the influence, of growing carcinoma. If there exist this capacity, I might almost say readiness, on the part of various cells to assume the form and pro- perties of carcinomatous epithelium, it has always seemed to me a singular circumstance that the cells in a lymphatic gland arc not infected almost en masse. But, in fact, in the carcinomatous invasion of lymphatic glands, the new cell-growth adopts a determinate course, passes between or around masses ot lymph-corpuscles, but appears to produce no other effect upon them than that which may be ascribed to inanition. Again, there is uncertainty respecting the source of the stroma of most forms of carcinoma, and the manner in which it is produced. It is, for the most part, fibrous tissue, and, in the hardest varieties of spheroidal-celled carcinoma, a coarse and tough fibrous tissue. It may contain no cellular elements of its own, and may inclose only the cells proper to the carcinoma, or it may be infiltrated with cells like leucocytes, respecting the origin and precise nature of which there exists a wide diversity of opinion. Some pathologists aver that they are wandered-out corpuscles of the blood ; others, that they are derived by proliferation from the connective-tissue corpuscles, or 1 Archiv der Heilkunde, Bd. ix. S. 538. 1868. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. lv. S. 481. 1872. 3 Cancer of the Rectum, chapter iii. London, 1880.