149 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. Both olecranon processes are reported to have been broken in one case observed by Mr. Fletcher ;* the patient was a youth of sixteen, and it seems likely that the lesions might have been more correctly called epiphyseal sepa- rations. They were due to direct violence. Hamilton mentions having had occasion to reduce a backward dislocation (of nine weeks’ standing) of the radius and ulna in a boy aged seven, in whom the olecranon, still, of course, an epiphysis, was separated by forcible flexion during the operation. He says further: “I have twice since broken the olecranon in attempts to reduce old dislocations of the radius and ulna backward, and I have not regretted the occurrence,since it enabled me to reduce the dislocations without cutting the triceps.” In most cases there is a perceptible gap between the detached portion and the rest of the bone, due in some measure at least to traction on the fragment by the triceps muscle ; but there may be so much of the periosteum left intact as to prevent any separation. Cases do occur in which the fragment is drawn up along the back of the arm, but they are more rare than might be supposed. Flexion of the elbow increases the gap when one exists. Tillaux1 2 expresses the opinion that when there is separation of the frag- ments, it is due not to the drawing up of the upper one, but to the flexion of the elbow, removing the lower one; and cites in proof of this view the fact that the gap disappears when the elbow is again extended. As soon as there is any separation at the point of juncture, the elbow-joint is of course opened, and, although the injury is subcutaneous, effusion takes place from the torn and irritated synovial membrane; a circumstance which, although it would not in itself suffice to push the fragments apart, certainly does not tend to diminish the gap.3 The symptoms of this injury are: immediate loss of the power of extend- ing the forearm, and pain in the elbow on attempting to do so; some pain and soreness in the part, although this has not been marked in the cases I have seen; a cleft or gap between the fragments, tilled up when wide by a soft, almost or quite painless, fluctuating swelling; generally there is also some bulging of the triceps muscle at its lower part, just above the seat of injury. Lonsdale4 quotes from Earle the case “ of a gentleman who fractured the olecranon, and where the separation did not take place till the sixth da}* after the injury, at which period it was caused by the patient attempting to tie his neck-cloth.” The detached portion can be grasped between the surgeon’s thumb and finger, and moved by itself with more or less freedom. Crepitus is, of course, wanting uuless the fragments are in contact; and the smaller the portion broken off, or, in other words, the nearer the fracture is to the sum- mit of the process, the less likely is it that, the surfaces can be rubbed upon one another. Ecchymosis is very commonly present, and may gradually extend along the ulnar margin of the forearm for several days. These symptoms may vary considerably in distinctness, but they are, as a general rule, well enough marked to make the diagnosis clear. Bransby Cooper5 6 * saw a case in which the power of extension of the forearm was so far retained as to give rise to much doubt. 1 Med. Times and Gazette, Aug. 16, 1851. 8 Anatomie Topographique, p. 578. 3 In this respect the olecranon differs from the patella, which is of less size as compared with the knee-joint. In fractures of the latter bone, it is held by some high authorities, that the sepa- ration of the fragments depends largely upon the free effusion of liquid into the articular cavity. But the patella clearly belongs among the “ sesamoid” bones, while, according to Owen (Gray’s Anatomy, p. 135, note), the olecranon is homologous with an extension of the upper end of the fibula above the knee-joint, which is met with in the Ornithorhynchus, Echidna, and some other animals. 1 Op. cit., p. 156. 6 A Treatise on Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, by Sir Astley Cooper. Edition of 1842, p. 471.