INJURIES OF BONES. 156 Other cases, followed by recovery, and hence open to some doubt, have been reported. The causes of fracture of the head of the radius are those of similar injuries in the other bones of the same region; cases resulting from blows, falls, in which there is sometimes a doubt whether the violence has been direct or indirect, and railroad crushes, have thus been observed. In Hulke’s case, affecting both arms, it can scarcely be doubted that there was indirect vio- lence ; in Bryant’s, it is distinctly stated that the woman had a fall, striking on the elbow. But in either class of cases, the mechanism is readily enough explained. As to the symptoms, they are by no means as clear as might be supposed, in view of the ease with which the head of the radius may be felt in the normal state. Pain, loss of power of rotating the hand, as well as of flexing the elbow, crepitus on passive motion, very rapid swelling, and synovitis of the elbow, are quite sure to occur; but the determination of the exact nature of the injury is not so simple a matter, especially in view of the fact that in so many of the recorded instances other lesions have also been present. The prognosis of these cases must, of course, depend, in some measure, upon the amount of damage done to the joint, and to neighboring parts, as ivell as upon the success of efforts directed toward allaying inflammation. A con- siderable degree of stiffening may always be looked for, and this, in some cases, will be permanent. As to the treatment, the flrst object must be to keep down inflammation in the joint, by the usual means, the forearm being semi-flexed. Nothing can be done in the way of correcting displacement, should such exist, which does not seem to have been the case in any of the recorded instances. The limb should be placed in the posture which affords the greatest ease, and lightly bound to a well-padded, angular splint. Passive motion should be attempted af about the tenth day, and repeated every twenty-four or forty-eight hours; the movements should be made with the utmost gentleness, but very thor- oughly, and any irritation caused by them must be allowed to subside com- pletely before the joint is again disturbed. If the irritation run very high, and last long, and if, on each successive occasion, it become more decided, the forearm must be bent at a right angle with the arm, in semipronation, in order to give the greatest use of the hand in case the stiffening becomes permanent. Fractures of the Elbow.—A few words may be said here in regard to these injuries, which comprise all those in which not only the lower end of the humerus, but one or both of the other bones entering into the joint are involved. They may be either simple or compound, and the extent of the lesion, whether of the bones or of the soft parts, may vary greatly. Some- times the fragments are very much displaced, while, in other cases, they may remain almost undisturbed. Generally the cause is great direct violence, such as the passage of a wheel over the arm, or other crushing force. When these fractures are compound, the position and extent of the wound of the skin will be influenced in some degree by the character of the cause. If the latter lie direct violence, the wound may be at the back of the elbow ; but if indirect, the skin being, as it were, burst open by the projection of the bone, the anterior surface of the arm just above the flexure is most frequently involved. In the former case, also, the wound is apPto be smaller than in the latter; although this, of course, is by no means a constant rule. Some- times, although the fracture is compound, the joint is not laid open to the air, and this fact "'lessens the gravity of the inj ury. Fractures of the elbow may occur to either sex, at any time of life; but,