MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 926 some of their elements. Such exudations show also a remarkable tendency to resist absorption, and to linger in the tissues, the affected area becoming rapidly non-vascular. Among the common products of these inflammations are giant-cells, and* if a certain stage of the process be reached, tubercles. The "tendency of the process is to degenerate, not to organize, and the degene- ration usually takes the form of caseation. At the same time, these inflamma- tions have a tendency to extend locally and to infect adjacent parts, and their products present certain peculiar properties when inoculated upon animals. Lastly, the great feature of the process is this: it tends to commence in and to most persistently involve lymphatic tissue, and so actively is the marrow or lymph tissue of bone involved in the condition now under notice, that this at first consists essentially in an inflammation of marrow. This account will, I think, very fairly represent the nature of the process in many cases of Pott’s malady of the spine. It must, however, be confessed that this condition is not met with in all instances. It is not to be expected in the caries that may follow after injury in a robust person free from any disposition to tubercle-producing inflammations. Such caries will usually be more active in its progress, will show less disposition to indiscriminate spreading, will be surrounded by a barrier of healthier action, and will show a less degene- rate condition of its products. On the whole, it will present a more favorable aspect of the disease, but, apart from such marked cases as these, it would be scarcely possible to diagnose the presence of tubercle with any certainty from naked eye appearances only. (2) The Changes in the Intervertebral Fibro-cartilages.—In most cases of Pott’s disease, the intervertebral disks share in the destructive change. These bodies become softened and friable, show more or less extensive and often irregular losses of substance, and may be so entirely destroyed as to leave no trace. In cases where many vertebrae arc attacked by a superficial erosion, a like ero- sion is generally to be seen on the front or sides of the corresponding disks, or in the centre of the disk a large cavity filled with more or less fluid matter may be discovered, that may he fairly compared to the cavities formed in the bone. There is generally a disproportion between the amount of destruction in the bones and that in the intervening cartilages. As a rule, the destruc- tion is most marked in the vertebral body, a condition to be explained pos- sibly by the fact that the mischief usually commences in the hone and then spreads to the articular disk. In this way the bone may be found extensively destroyed, and the cartilage thereby laid bare, and marked by a certain amount of softening of its parts, and by some irregular losses of substance. If the bodies of two or three adjacent vertebrae are entirely destroyed, there will he probably no trace of the disks that once intervened between them, although, in some cases, fragments may still be detected among the debris, of such an outline as to faintly mark out the position of the lost centra. In exceptional cases the disease would appear to commence in the intervertebral fibro-car- tilages, and those bodies may not only present the greater amount of destruc- tion, but may exhibit the sole changes observed in the column. Broca1 gives the case of a young man, whose spine, after death, showed superficial erosion of all the dorsal vertebrae, with destruction, however, of no less than nine of the intervertebral articulations. In the place of the fibro-cartilages was a whitish, pap-like matter, and some bony debris, derived probably from the rubbing together of the bared surfaces of bone. Chassaignac2 reported a case, also in an adult, where there was no trace of any intervertebral disks between the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrae. The bones appeared sound, 1 Gaz. Hebdom., p. 298. 1864. s Gaz. des Hopitaux, p. 156. 1858.