357 CHllONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. be large in quantity, that loosening or separation of the epiphysis may like- wise occur. Epiphysitis never reaches beyond the first stage without a certain invasion of the surrounding tissues, which become first ocdematous and then thickened. Whether or no the cartilage itself increases in size, I am not able to say ; it is, at all events, not impossible. After a time, an abscess outside the bone, inde- pendent of—that is, having no communication with the intraosseous abscess— may form, sometimes remaining close to the part (adjacent), sometimes reaching to a certain distance (neighboring). I am unable to account, to my own satisfaction, for a singular tendency which epiphysitis possesses to spread to the contiguous part of the opposite bone. For example, if the outer condyle of the femur be affected, the outer portion of the tibial tuberosity becomes after a time involved, and usually before the other side of the femoral epiphysis participates. Thus, also, inflammation spreads from one tarsal hone to another, so that we very rarely find one considerably inflamed with- out detecting, on anatomical examination, a like condition, but less advanced, in other contiguous bones. Such a phenomenon among smaller bones and joints is of course more easily accounted for.1 In epiphyses or in short bones, which are still quite immature, the inflam- matory process is considerably modified, constituting what I have been in the habit of naming to my class “ nuclear epiphysitis.” In the earliest stage, the bony nucleus is alone hypersemic, but afterwards the cartilage around it is also implicated; serum is effused between the one and the other, generally in spots here and there, sometimes more widely, and occasionally throughout. This fluid becomes, by the addition of leucocytes derived chiefly from the tissue-elements, turbid and milky, and slowly changes to pus. Extravasations of blood also take place in spots within the nucleus, or on the cartilage close to it. Where these effusions of fluid take place, the nucleus and the sur- rounding cartilage become separated from each other, the new surface of the latter being dendritic, rough, and generally vascular, while the shreds which hang from it float in the effused fluid. The nucleus itself becomes discolored, gray or greenish-gray, in small spots or in one large blotch ; these spots gene- rally break down into abscess-cavities. Either by conversion of the first effused serum into pus, or by suppuration of the newly formed bone, or by both processes, the nucleus is separated through a certain extent of its pe- riphery from the surrounding cartilage. Sometimes, indeed, the whole osse- ous kernel is thus isolated, and when the cartilage is bisected, drops out of the cavity as a nut out of its shell.2 Now the pus thus lying in a cavity will not continue long to be quiescent. In one direction or another the cartilage becomes inflamed and ulcerates, and the abscess opens into the joint-cavity either by a large rent, or, as I think more often occurs, by a number of little channels. If this irruption of pus be almost sudden, violent synovitis, as in Mr. Brown’s case,3 or, if less explosive, a less violent but still acute joint-disease, ensues.4 When, as more often happens, an intra-epiphyseal abscess passes more slowly toward the articulation, some inflamation of the joint-tissues precedes the irruption of pus ; these are, therefore, no longer in the excitable condition natural to healthy synovial 1 It is in great measure from tarsal bones which have been secondarily, and therefore less deeply involved, that I have been able to trace out the earlier phases of infantile epiphysitis. 2 Of course, to make these observations on separate cases of joint-malady would be impossible ; a lifetime would not afford sufficient opportunities ; but in the opposed joint-bones, and in the bones less advanced in tarsal disease, one finds examples of nuclear inflammation in all stages. In these I have discovered and traced out all the conditions above noted. 3 Clinical Society’s Transactions, vol. ix. p. 175. 4 Mr. Smith, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. x. p. 190.