586 TUMORS. Treatment of Lymphoma.—The very uncertainty which prevails respecting- the exact nature of a lymphatic enlargement, leads to a corresponding uncer- tainty in treatment. A disease which appears at the first sight to he almost trivial, may resist treatment of every kind ; while a disease, extensive in the number and bulk of the affected glands, and most threatening in its aspect, occasionally yields unexpectedly to medicine, and undergoes complete and permanent resolution. The general rule should, therefore, be observed, with respect to all glandular affections, that no case is too trivial to deserve serious attention, and that no case is too grave to be despaired of. The treatment of strumous atfections of the glands does not demand consideration here. Nor need attention be devoted to the treatment of the leu kauri ic affections, in which the constitutional condition plays so large a part. The treatment of the remaining diseases may he by medicine or operation. In the first place, the precaution should not be neglected of removing everything which may possibly be a source of irritation, and thus tend to protract or increase a glan- dular affection. Skin eruptions, decayed teeth, ulcers of the tongue, and similar causes of glandular enlargement, should he sought for in the neigh- borhood of the affected glands, and, if possible, should be removed early in the course of treatment; and where a lurking doubt exists of strumous taint, cod-liver oil and steel with other suitable remedies should be adminis- tered. But where the disease exhibits characters pointing to a sarcoma, and is, indeed, a fair example of what has been described under the term lymph- adenoma, in a stage not very advanced, no hope can be entertained of im- provement from these remedies. In such cases arsenic has been recommended, and with justice, for the results of a carefully conducted course of arsenic are in some instances surprisingly successful. I have myself seen greatly en- larged glands, which I believed to be incurable—which had been steadily increasing in size during many months, or even a year—subside in the course of a few weeks under arsenical treatment. One young man, whose upper cervical and submaxillary glands formed a mass as large as his two fists, and w-ho had been under treatment with iron, cod-liver oil, iodide of potassium, and other drugs, for a period of upwards of a year, with the only result that the glandular disease extended and continued to increase in bulk, rapidly im- proved on arsenic, and in two months was dismissed as cured. The prepara- tion which is employed is almost always the liquor arsenicalis, in doses at first of from 5 to 8 minims, three times daily, after meals. Every week the quantity of the arsenic solution is increased by one minim, until symptoms of slight poisoning are produced—dryness of the fauces, suffusion of the eyes, pains in the epigastrium, and slight tremulousness. The quantity of arsenic which will produce these symptoms varies in different individuals, but in most instances from 13 to 15 minims of the preparation named may be given three times daily before actual discomfort is experienced. The disease seldom begins to yield until the larger doses have been reached, but the subsidence of the swelling is then sometimes very rapid. Injection of the tumors with liquor arsenicalis has also been practised, but the success claimed for it is scarcely sufficient to induce one to employ it, while an unfortunate chance, or slight want of caution, might be attended with very untoward results. Only one or two minims are thrown in, and the injection is repeated at inter- vals of two or three days. Violent inflammation or sloughing may be occa- sioned, or the tumor which is injected may grow much more rapidly than before. I have never been tempted to use arsenical injections, but have administered injections of perchloride of iron and of "tincture of iodine. In one instance in which the latter was employed, a large mass of glands rapidly increased in size, and in a few days sloughed out, leaving a deep cavity in the