CONGENITAL SACRO-COCCYGEAL TUMORS. 903 cystic tissue, the rudiments of limbs, portions of bone or cartilage, or repre- sentatives of the head and of the intestinal tract. A complex variety of such a tumor I have described in Yol. XXXIII. of the Pathological Society’s Transactions. Treatment.—These tumors have been subjected to many operations for the purpose of effecting their removal, but the most successful measure of this kind that has been pi’oposed is excision. If the mass is considered suitable for removal, there is no better plan of accomplishing this than by the knife. The ligature is strongly to be condemned, and the galvanic cautery has no advantages over the knife, while it entails certain grave additional risks. These tumors are not extremely vascular, and such hemorrhage as has occur- red during their removal appears to have always been readily checked. Exci- sion of the mass is only to be advised in those cases where the tumor can be entirely removed without great difficulty, and without damage to neighboring important structures. These tumors are usually well defined at their origin, and show less inclination to invade the pelvis than do those which are treated of in the next section. They sometimes communicate with the spinal canal, and, unfortunately, the existence of that communication cannot always lie foretold. In cases, therefore, where the mass is well limited as to its origin, where the pelvis is quite free, and where no communication with the spinal canal is expected, the tumor may be excised, provided that the general condi- tion of the patient afford no counter-indications. Molk notes eight examples of removal of these masses, and of this number seven were successful. The statistics given by Holmes show a like good result. If the tumor be left, it will probably in time bring about a fatal result, the patient dying of maras- mus, or of the effects of inflammation, suppuration, or sloughing of the mass. A great number of the subjects of these growths are born dead. Congenital Cystic Tumors.—These constitute the greater number of the congenital tumors that are met with in this region. They present considerable differences, both in their external appearance and in their internal structure. Some few are single cysts, but the bulk are multilocular growths. The single cysts comprise spina bifida of the sacral region, and false spina bifida of the same locality. It is well known that spina bifida in the sacral region alone is rare, and it has, I think, been tolerably well shown that coccygeal spina bifida does not, and cannot, exist. Into the features of spina bifida of the sacral region it is unnecessary to enter, after what has been already said. With regard to false spina bifida, it is probable that it constitutes the sole form of simple cyst in this region, or, perhaps, to be more precise, the sole form of deep-seated simple cyst. In a number of instances, these simple cysts in the sacro-coccy- geal region have been shown to have been at one time directly connected with the spinal membranes, and the accounts given of other cases of simple cyst in this part do not appear to oppose the idea that they also are to be regarded as examples of false spina bifida. The multilocular cystic growths form the most important series of tumors encountered in this region. They arise usually from the anterior surface of the sacrum or coccyx, and less frequently from the posterior surface of one or both of those bones. The size of the tumor varies greatly. It may be no larger than a walnut, or it may exceed the dimensions of the child’s head. Some, indeed, have been enormous; and the bulk of these tumors tends to rapidly attain considerable dimensions. In outline they are roundish or oval, generally very irregular and bossy, and forming pendulous masses. There is usually a distinct pedicle in all those growths that have no extensive ramifi- cations in the pelvis. The skin covering them is thin and transparent, and