756 INJURIES OF TUE BACK. actually emerged, following the subdivision of the first dorsal nerve, so as to spread among the exterior parts. These burrowings of matter were cut into before the [spi- nal] canal was opened. . . . The outer surface of the [spinal] dura mater was roughened by inflammatory deposits ; but none were found within it; nor was there any^ softening, or microscopical change in the spinal cord. No other disease was discov-i ered.” The fracture of the seventh cervical vertebra was called latent, or concealed, in this case, because it was not attended by deformity, nor by any other symptom of special import, for a considerable number of days. Meanwhile, the connective tissue lying between the theca vertebral is and the bone became inflamed, commencing at the fracture, and purulent matter in great quantity was formed and collected in this tissue, whereby the spinal cord was com- pressed through the medium of the theca; but life was not destroyed until the intra-vertebral abscess had burrowed upward far enough to compress and paralyze the respiratory centres, thus arresting completely the respiratory movements and causing death by asphyxia. The abscess external to the spi- nal column was not large in this case. In other instances, however, the exte- rior abscess is found to be quite large, and to burrow extensively in the soft parts around the spinal column, as was noted in the following instance :— Sir B. C. Brodie1 mentions the case of a man, aged 45, who fell from a scaffold and injured his back. There was paralysis, followed by convulsions. Death ensued nine weeks after the accident. Dissection showed fracture of the fourth dorsal vertebra; the spinal cord was compressed and softened ; an abscess arising from the seat of the fracture extended into the posterior mediastinum. (Ashhurst.) It is not the fracture itself which destroys life in these cases of latent ver- tebral injury, but the consecutive inflammation and abscess; and, if these untoward consequences of such injuries be averted, complete recovery will ensue. The symptoms directly after the injury, in cases of latent fracture of the spinal column, closely resemble those which are met with in sprains or wrenches of the vertebral joints, caused by blows on the back, falling, etc. Mr. Bryant2 mentions, in point, the case of a woman admitted into Guy’s Hospital, under Mr. Cock’s care, for some injury of the back caused by falling out of a window. “ Beyond the contusion, no injury could be made out.” She died, however, of cerebral disease sixteen days after the accident. Dissection showed that the last dorsal and three upper lumbar vertebras were fractured through their bodies, but not displaced ; one or two spinous processes were also fractured. The spinal marrow was uninjured. The fact of there being no displacement of the broken bones, and no injury of the spinal cord, had prevented the making of a correct diagnosis in this case. But examples, such as this, of vertebral fracture wherein the diagnosis is not made until the post-mortem examination, are not uncommon. It is, therefore, rather important for the surgeon to bear the latter fact in mind while treating cases of supposed sprains, wrenches, and twists of the vertebral joints, and to enforce, in all doubtful cases, that absolute quietude of body—that freedom from all movement, particularly in the injured portion of the spinal column—which is necessary in order to secure consolidation of the fracture without accident, should this lesion perchance be present. In cases of vertebral fracture occurring in the dorsal region, it should be stated that displacement of the fragments is measurably prevented by the ribs acting as splints placed on each side of the spinal column. In the lumbar region, likewise, the great lumbar muscles may act powerfully in the way of preventing and removing displacement, in cases of vertebral fracture unat- tended by dislocation, as the following example will show:— 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx. 2 Op. cit., p. 202.