202 INJURIES OF BONES. the subject of apparently spontaneous fracture of the femur ; the bone on the right, side giving way in May, 1855, and that on the left in March, 1857. On both occasions the affected part had previously been the seat, of sharp pains. Union had taken place favorably. But reference has already been made at sufficient, length to this subject, in the general part of this article. The femur has been the seat of many of the so-called “ spontaneous” frac- tures in cases of cancer. A remarkable instance of this kind has lately been reported by Mr. Hamilton.1 It was that of a woman aged fifty-six, who had “ a well-marked case of scirrhus,” for which the right breast was removed, the wound healing well; about three months afterward, she felt the right femur give way, and fell to the ground. The curious fact in the case is that she ultimately had union, although with four inches of shortening—the latter having been due to her placing herself for a time under the care of an igno- rant bone-setter. Generally, a fracture produced under such circumstances fails to unite. Fracture seldom occurs, except as the result of direct violence, at any point near the middle of the femur. The reason of this would seem to be the fact that the mechanism in other cases is leverage, and that this can scarcely ever be applied so that just the same force shall be exerted on the two halves of the bone. Generally, there is a very great preponderance of force at one end, so that one arm of the lever is virtually much longer than the other. The immense strain put upon the femur hy this leverage is shown by the occasional instances in which even perfectly strong and well-developed bones are snapped under it. I have seen a case in which a man of remarkably robust frame, in running, caught his foot in a hole in the ground, and broke his femur in the middle third.2 But besides the mere leverage, irregularly exerted as before said, there is another force, a twisting, which cannot be left out of the account, although it, is extremely difficult to estimate it, with any accuracy. Thus, in the last-mentioned case, the foot being arrested while the momentum of the body carried the upper part of the femur forward, the shaft of the bone was acted upon above through the cervix, while below, at the knee, the condyles were held more or less exactly transverse. Under ordinary stress, such a twist would make no difference; but as the force applied is in- creased, the effect of the twist is to augment in a still greater ratio the actual resistance demanded of the bone. It can hardly be maintained that the large and powerful muscles surround- ing the femur, and acting upon it either directly or indirectly, are without influence in the production of its ordinary fractures, as they certainly have an effect in keeping up its displacements when broken. But in the former case their action is accessory only, and its degree is not easy to estimate. It probably varies in different cases. Fracture having once occurred, the fragments may act upon one another to produce still further damage; as in a case reported by Bennett,3 in which the femur gave way in its upper third, and it seemed clear that the lower fragment was driven into the upper, splitting and Assuring it. Another in- stance was communicated by Bryant to the Pathological Society of London;4 1 Lancet, June 2, 1883. 2 In illustration of the force exerted in such actions, I am tempted to quote from Dr. 0. W. Holmes, the following passage : “ Walking, then, is a perpetual falling with a perpetual self- recovery. It is a most complex, violent, and perilous operation, which we divest of its extreme danger only by continual practice from a very early period of life. ... We learn how vio- lent it is, when we walk against a post, or a door, in the dark. We discover how dangerous it is, when we slip or trip, and come down, perhaps breaking or dislocating our limbs, or over- look the last step of a flight of stairs, and discover with what headlong violence we have been hurling ourselves forward.”—(Atlantic Monthly, May, 1863.) 2 British Med. Journal, June 26, 1880. 4 Transactions, vol. xxix. 1878.