INJURIES OF BONES. 194 bone is such that the motions of the joint are very largely recovered. Thus Gant1 records a case of impacted fracture of the neck of the femur, with slight shortening, in which recovery took place with firm union and a freely movable joint, I exhibited to the Philadelphia Academy of Surgery, a few years since, a man who had, when seventy-two years of age, sustained such a fracture by falling backward upon a pile of timbers; be recovered so com- pletely that it was not apparent from his gait that any injury had ever been received. This man could lift either knee to his chin, could go up and down stairs, and in fact had no disability whatever. A very similar case was re- ported to Sir A. Cooper,2 in 1840, by Mr. Sheppard. The fracture, in a man in his sixty-fourth year, was thought to be within the joint; yet at the end of eighteen months he was able to resume his occupation as a mail-coach guard, climbing up and down from his box “with facility, and even dexter- ously.” Although bony union may be obtained, and be perfectly firm, yet the mo- tions of the joint may be impaired by either one of two circumstances: the broken surfaces may be so displaced, either by impaction or by sliding past one another, that the extent of motion is limited in one or another direction; or there may be irregular deposits of new bone about the seat of fracture, and these may come in contact with the edges of the acetabulum, or even with the surrounding portions of the os innominatum. On the other hand, there may be absorption of some portion of the fragments, leading to a shortening, perhaps extreme, of the neck of the bone, so that the head rests down against the upper end of the shaft, between the trochanters. A case was recently mentioned to me by Dr. Townsend, of Bridesburg, Pa., in which the neck of the femur was broken, and the shaft was strongly drawn upward. Union occurred between the pelvic fragment and the shaft below the trochanter, so that when the patient recovered he had not only great shortening of the limb, but its abduction was singularly hindered by the contact of the trochanter with the ilium. The question has been often discussed, whether or not bony union could take place in cases of intra-capsular, or to speak more correctly intra-articular, fracture. A number of instances have been recorded as of this character, and from time to time others are likely to be brought forward. In 1867,1 published a paper3 in which I suggested what still seems to me to be the true explanation of the majority of these cases, namely, that they are originally either wholly or in part outside of the joint, and become solidly united by bone ; after which a gradual absorption of the pelvic fragment takes place, allowing the head of the bone to settle down between the trochanters. (Fig. 619.) Since the publication of these views, Professor R. W. Smith has reported4 to the Patholo- gical Society of Dublin a case of bony union of a fracture, believed to have been within the capsule; shortening of cervix femoris con- and another case was reported by Dr. Senn, of Chi- secutive to fracture. cago, to the American Surgical Association, in 1882.5 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1866, from Med. Times and Gazette, April 14. 2 Op. cit., p. 566. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Oct. 1867. Three cases claimed to have been seen by Fabri (Ibid. Jan. 1863), had escaped my notice, but they are too meagrely described to be of any value. 4 Dublin Journal of Med. Science, Jan. 1873. 6 Medical News, June 17, 1882.