INJURIES OF BONES. 106 formed.” It seemed probable, from the pain, that some cords of the axillary plexus had also been injured. Boone1 reports a case in which a fragment from a comminuted fracture of the clavicle produced somewhat serious symptoms by pressure upon the sub- clavian vein and adjacent nerves. Erichsen2 gives a similar case, in which, however, death ensued from gangrene of the arm. Maunoury3 records an instance of fracture of the clavicle with rupture of the subclavian vein ; great swelling having occurred, an incision was made, and death immediately resulted from hemorrhage and entrance of air into the vein. Of injuries of the nerves a good many instances are recorded, only a few of which need be quoted here. Gibson4 saw a young man, who had sustained a comminuted fracture of the clavicle by direct violence ; “ the fragments had been driven behind and beneath the level of the first rib, and so compressed the plexus of nerves as to wedge them into each other, and by the subsequent inflam- mation to blend them inseparably together. Complete paralysis and atrophy of the whole arm ensued.” The patient desired to obtain relief by operation, but Gibson deemed the chance of success too small, and declined to attempt it. Surgeons of the present day would probably have taken a more hopeful view, and cases will be hereafter mentioned in which operative interference has been attended with good results. Chalot5 reports that “ in the case of a man of 35, disturbances of innervation showed themselves in the right arm as a result of fracture of the clavicle. Beginning with a sensation of deadness, formication, and pricking, particularly in the palm of the hand, the affection went on to extreme anesthesia. Very slight irritation of the finger-tips, or the hollow of the hand, or somewhat greater movements of the flexor surface of the forearm, brought on nausea, gagging, and vomiting, with occasional severe diaphrag- matic cramp and thoracic oppression (Beklemmung). The patient became first pale, then red ; a cold sweat covered the forehead on the affected side. Irrigation with cold water caused the symptoms to appear to a more marked degree, while warm water made them milder. The extremity became smaller, colder than the healthy side, the skin everywhere dry except in the hollow of the hand, there wet with perspiration. The mus- cles reacted weakly. Pressure upon the branches of the nerves brought on swimming in the head and faintness. Pressure upon the callus at the point of fracture of the clavicle, which had united with considerable deformity, was quite painful, and gave rise to dia- phragmatic cramp. Pressure upon the nerves of the face, throat, and nape of the neck, on the affected side, caused similar symptoms.” 'The further history of the case is not given. Gross6 mentions a case of partial paralysis of the upper extremity, with atrophy and permanent contraction of some of the muscles, in a boy of fif- teen, the clavicle having been broken by the recoil of a shot-gun four months and a half previously. Delens7 records a case in which the superabundant callus of a fractured clavicle (two ribs also having been broken) exerted such pressure on the sub- clavian vessels and nerves as to impair the nutrition and muscular power of the limb. Relief was aflorded by a subperiosteal resection. Two other instances, in which resection of the fragments was practised, one observed by Gosselin and the other by Perier, are referred to in this article. Perhaps it may be remarked here that care is to be taken not to confound 1 Medical Record, November 15, 1873. 2 British Medical Journal, June 7, 1873. 3 Progres Medical, 1882, tome x. p. 302. Reference is here made also to a monograph by Cham- pomier, “ Contribution a l’etude des lesions des troncs veineux de la base du cou dans les fractures de la clavicule.” Paris, 1882. 4 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 254. 6 Philadelphia Medical Times, March 27, 1880, from Centralbl. fiir Chirurgie. 6 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 946. 7 Arch. Gen. de Med., Aout, 1881.