FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 199 Hamilton1 quotes from Clarke a ease of supposed comminuted fracture of the great trochanter, with the comment that it was probably “an example of fracture of the neck without the capsule, accompanied with impaction and extensive comminution.” He also candidly expresses a doubt as to an instance of the kind which he had himself recorded, and upon which he is now inclined to put a similar construction. F. W. Warren is reported2 to have shown, at a meeting of the Dublin Pathological Society, a specimen of fracture of the trochanter major, taken from the body of a male subject almost fifty years of age. “ It was without history ; but from the entire absence of signs of recent injury, and from the fact that the line of separation followed that of the epiphysary junction, the inference seems justified that it was really a case of epiphyseal detachment, dating back perhaps thirty years.” The cause of fracture of the great trochanter would seem to be invariably direct violence; and the majority of the subjects are distinctly stated to have been below the age at which this epiphysis becomes united to the shaft. In such cases it may reasonably be supposed that the separation takes place through the cartilaginoid uniting substance, but that, as in separations of other epiphyses, it may in part run through the true bone, detaching a layer of it of very irregular size, shape, and thickness. The symptoms of this lesion can scarcely be confidently detailed from the scanty experience recorded. Some of the symptoms, however, of the usual fractures of the cervix must be wanting; there cannot be shortening of the limb, and in rotating the thigh the trochanter cannot describe a smaller arc than normal, but will either fail to follow the movements of the limb, or if the fibrous coverings are untorn, will behave as under normal conditions. Pain and disability of the limb must exist, the former being aggravated by pressure on the part; but these symptoms, as well as swell’ng and ecchy- mosis, would be equally likely to attend a mere contusion. When the tro- chanter is broken completely away from the shaft, it will probably be drawn upward, inward, and backward, by the action of the muscular fibres inserted into it; and in such a case it will be transferred from its normal place to that occupied by the head of the femur in backward and upward luxation. Stanley, speaking of the danger of confusion between these two lesions, urges “ the positive resemblance of the fractured portion of the trochanter to the head of the femur, the former occupying the same place which the latter would in dislocation; and if with these circumstances there should happen to be an inversion of the injured limb, the difficulty of the diagnosis must be considerably increased.” Crepitus would of course be wanting in such a condition of things, and could only be elicited by bringing the fragment again into contact with the surface from which it bad been separated. The diagnosis has, perhaps, been sufficiently discussed. As to the treatment of this injury, it need scarcely be said that the attempt should be made to bring back and to hold in place the fragment; but as to the best means of so doing very little is known. Sir Astley Cooper’s belt and pad, although theoretically very good, would be difficult to apply in practice, and, unless accurately adjusted, might increase the displacement it was intended to correct. I think that the object could be quite as well accom- plished with an ordinary compress, so arranged as to confine the trochanter in its proper position, and kept in place by bands of adhesive plaster. And it the diagnosis were clearly made out, a device, such as that suggested3 for keeping the fragment of the olecranon in place, might be employed ; a double 1 Treatise on Fractures, etc., 6th ed., p. 429. 2 Dublin Journal of Med. Science, July, 1876. 8 See page 152.