GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. 57 Gariel,1 Rabiot,2 and Pouillien.3 By reference to the work of Richter,4 it will be seen that the ingenuity of German surgeons had been early exercised in the same direction, and with very analogous results. Two objections hold against every form of perforated mattress. One is the tendency to flattening down of the stuffing toward the central hole, so that the hips of the patient come at length to rest in a hollow; this being, of course, especially likely to happen where the same mattress is used over and over again, as in hospitals. The other is the difficulty of avoiding the soil- ing of the edges of the opening, which requires careful attention whenever there is an evacuation either from the bowels or from the bladder. Yet these objections are not fatal, as they can be set aside by care in making and using the mattresses, as well as in their proper renovation from time to time. Patients who are obliged to lie in bed, are often greatly relieved by even a very slight change of posture, from the shifting of the bearing-points of the body. A very old contrivance, mentioned by Turner,5 may be used with advantage to facilitate this ; it consists in a strong cord attached to any con- venient point above (a frame connected with the bed, or one of the joists of the room), and having its lower end hanging free, with a stick fastened trans- versely across it so as to serve as a handle by which the patient can raise, turn, and shift his body. Many other forms of apparatus are employed in the treatment of fractures —such as fracture-boxes, inclined planes, means of making extension and counter-extension, and appliances for suspension—which may be more con- veniently described in connection with the special cases for which they are designed. The general rule may be laid down, that in fracture near a joint the dress- ing should be arranged so as to immobilize that joint; and that in fractures of the shaft of a bone the joints above and below the seat of injury must be secured. And for the first week at least—in many cases for a much longer period—the whole limb should be kept at entire rest. Large, long, and heavy limbs, in which there is a good deal of leverage on the fragments, require more protracted confinement than small and light ones. Sometimes, as in fractures about the wrist, and in those of the lesser bones generally, the patient can be safely allowed, after the first few days, any degree of freedom of motion which does not involve pain. Passive motion may, in my opinion, be resorted to much earlier than is the usual practice, and with great advantage; as soon, indeed, as all inflammatory symptoms have altogether subsided. In the case of the upper extremity, no assistant is needed; the surgeon may, at each removal of the apparatus, grasp the fractured portion very firmly and gently with one hand, while with the other he very cautiously flexes and extends each joint in turn. When the fracture is in the lower limb, the surgeon may use both hands to control the broken bone, while a trustworthy assistant impresses motion on the joints. Gradually, as time goes on, this process may be more and more freely carried out. Properly managed, it is productive of no pain, and goes far toward preventing the stiffening which is sometimes a very troublesome sequence of these injuries. Yo force should be used at any time. There are cases in which the fact of difficulty in manoeuvres of this kind is important as an indication that the fragments are not in proper position. During the later stages of the treatment, after consolidation has begun to be perceptible, it is well to add to this passive motion sponging of the limb 1 Jamain, op. cit., p. 319. 2 Ibid., p. 320. 3 Ibid., p. 322. 4 Theoretisch-praktisches Handbucli der Lelire von dor Briichen und Verrenkungon dor Knochen. (Text und Atlas). Berlin, 1828. G The Art of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 161. London, 1725.