FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 137 the thickness of the hone, and this gives rise to a lateral tilting, by a me- chanism too obvious to need more than mention. Hamilton1 has detailed a number of instances in which the ultimate effect of this displacement was clearly shown; and it has occurred to me to see it repeatedly. When union takes place without the correction of this angle forward, the articulating surface of the humerus is directed downward and backward, and the result is that flexion of the forearm is limited, while its extension may be abnormally increased. The reason why extension is not always thus increased, is sometimes the tension of the anterior muscles, the biceps and brachialis anticus, and sometimes the irregularity of the fracture at the posterior part of the bone, just above the joint. Another effect of the abnormal mobility in question, which has been already hinted at, is the bringing up of the transverse line of the elbow-joint to a horizontal direction instead of the obliquity natural to it. This change is often favored by the treatment resorted to—as was long ago pointed out by Dorsey,2 and more recently by Allis3—the result being to do away with the obtuse angle, salient inward, which the limb should present at the elbow, and to substitute for it a bending in the opposite direction. Such a condition, when existing in a marked degree, produces a very noticeable awkwardness at all times, and interferes with the strength and usefulness of the member in lifting and carrying, as well as in some other of its functions. So far, I have been speaking only of fractures traversing the humerus just above its lower articulating extremity, whether accompanied or not by fis- sures running down into the joint. With regard to separations of the outer or inner angles of this extremity, of the epieondyle or epitrochlea, or of the epiphysis, it is impossible to lay down any distinct and definite statements, partly because of the small number of recorded cases, and partly because of the obscurity of the conditions attending these lesions. As regards the epitrochlea, there can be no doubt of its occasional separa- tion from the rest of the bone, the elbow-joint remaining intact. First described by Granger,4 this lesion has been recognized by Sir A. Cooper, Malgaigne, Gurlt, and others. But, as Gurlt remarks, the line cannot be sharply drawn between cases of this kind and those in which the fracture involves also the trochlea, wholly or in part. Cooper5 represents a specimen of the latter form of injury; he does not refer to any other, and the only case he records is that of a girl “ who, by a fall upon her elbow, had fractured the olecranon, and also broken the internal condyle of the os humeri, the point of the broken bone having almost penetrated the skin.” Hamilton6 gives an account of eleven cases, examined by him at various periods after the occurrence of the injuries. In one only does he state positively that the fracture did not pass into the joint. Six of these cases of Hamilton’s have a special interest in reference to the permanent displacement of the fragment. 1. Case 45. Examined seven years after the accident. “ The apophysis is carried backward about two lines, and upward toward the shoulder about three lines.” 2. Case 49. Examined after sixteen years. “ The internal condyle was displaced forward.” , 3. Case 51. Examined after three months. “ I find a fragment—the apophysis of the internal condyle—broken off, and removed downward toward the wrist one inch and a quarter, where it is immovably lixed.” ' Report on Deformities after Fractures. Trans, of Amer. Med. Association, vol. ix. 1856, p. 106. 2 Elements of Surgery, vol. i. p. 145 ; also Plate V. 3 Annals of the Brooklyn Anatomical and Surgical Society, August, 1880. 4 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, April, 1818. 6 Op. cit., p. 466. 6 Report, etc., before quoted, pp. 110 et seq.