661 SPECIAL VARIETIES OF CYSTS. however urgent the desire may he for their removal. The operation should always be deferred until the inflammation has subsided. Dermoid Cysts.—These are almost always, if not always, congenital. The simplest varieties are situated beneath the outer corner of the eyebrow. The tumor is generally noticed during infancy or childhood as a small, round, or oval body, no larger than a pea or horse-bean. It lies beneath the fascia, and is tolerably freely movable, while the skin over it is normal. The contents are almost invariably fine hairs embedded in a thick, sebaceous-looking mass, composed of epithelial cells and fatty matter. Removal is effected through a simple incision in the line of the eyebrow. The cyst, in spite of its appa- rent mobility, is generally closely adherent to the surrounding textures, and, on account of the thinness of its wall, can only be dissected out unbroken by observing the greatest delicacy in the performance of the operation. The edges of the wound are brought together with fine horsehair or thread sutures, and a scarcely perceptible scar remains. The dermoid cysts which are met with beneath the tongue, in the neck, and in the anterior mediastinum, are apparently formed in connection with imperfectly closed branchial fissures. They are generally of much larger size than those last described, and their contents are much more complex. From such a cyst I have seen removed large masses of irregular shape, cov- ered with skin and hairs. When sections were made of them, they were found to be composed of fibrous and adipose tissues, in which were numerous sebaceous and a few sudoriparous glands. The masses were embedded in a large quantity of pultaceous material, composed chiefly of epithelial scales, which had been cast off by the skin covering the masses and lining the cavity. These cysts may be mistaken for chronic abscesses, all the signs of which they may present, and may, therefore, be opened in the expectation of evacuating a quantity of pus. They are much more difficult to treat than the smaller cysts on account of the depth at which they are situated, and the important structures by which they are surrounded. When they cannot be removed, the better plan of treating them is to incise the tumor, completely clear out its contents, and cauterize or thoroughly scrape the surface of the sac, which may then be left to heal up from the bottom like an abscess-cavity. Dermoid cysts are also found in the testicle and scrotum, the ovary, the brain, and the lung. Their contents are sometimes very complex: in addi- tion to hairs, skin, and glands, they contain bone, cartilage, teeth, and other structures. Saxouineous Cysts.—Of late years much light has been thrown on the pathology of sanguineous cysts by the discovery that many of them are sar- comas, into which hemorrhage has taken place. The knowledge of this fact has, perhaps, led surgeons to take too gloomy a view of the future of almost every blood-cyst which they are called upon to treat. Sarcomas of this kind have been alluded to in the section on sarcoma, under the heading “ hemor- rhagic sarcoma.” They may be found in various tissues and organs, and are almost invariably of the round-celled or spindle-celled variety. They are re- cognized generally by their rapid growth, and, when cut into, by the irregu- larity and roughness of their walls, and by the presence here and there of tiny fragments of a soft solid mingled with the blood. Microscopic examination of fragments taken from the roughened walls betrays the real character of the disease; and the sarcoma-tissue,as Mr. Godlce has shown,1 may even be traced as a kind of meshwork through the substance of the hardened blood-clot. Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxvii. page 270. London, 1876.