726 INJURIES OF THE BACK. or lower part of the cervical region by a dislocated or a fractured vertebra, there will be paralysis embracing the whole of the body excepting the head and neck, priapism, retention of urine and feces, flushed face, calor mordicans, diaphragmatic breathing, dyspnoea, and in a short time death from asphyxia. Several cases in point have already been presented. For diagnosticating the lesion itself, however, the paralysis in these cases is of no practical value, inasmuch as it may result from concussion of the spinal cord, and from the effusion of blood, or of the products of inflammatory action upon the cord, as well as from the displacements of bone which attend vertebral dislocations. But, for prognostic purposes the paralysis in such cases is of great value. The signs, then, by which a bilateral dislocation of a cervical vertebra in the middle or lower part of the neck may be recognized, consist of the physical evidences of the displacement itself, the absence of the symptoms which characterize fractures, such as crepitus and unnatural mobility of the vertebra in question, or of some part thereof. But, inasmuch as vertebral fracture may occur without being attended by crepitus or suspicious mobility, especially if the fracture be but slight, we never can positively assert of any case of cervical dislocation, during life, that it is entirely uncomplicated by fracture. Thus, it appears, that while the diagnosis of vertebral dislocation (bilateral) at the middle or lower part of the neck is, in general, not very diffi- cult, the diagnosis of slight fracture simultaneously involving the same bones, is often impossible during life. This, however, is not a matter of much practical importance, since the perils of the case depend upon the injury of the spinal cord, which results mainly from the displacement of bone that is due to the dislocation ; and to this point the attention should first be directed in treating the case. Prognosis.—Luxations of the vertebra are more dangerous to life than the luxations of other bones, on account of the great risk there is that the spinal cord and spinal nerves will be directly or indirectly injured thereby, and that spinal paralysis will ensue. Luxations of the cervical vertebra are more dangerous than luxations of the dorsal and lumbar vertebra, on account of the great risk there is that the chief respiratory muscles, the serratus posticus superior and inferior, the serratus magnus anticus, the diaphragm, etc., will be paralyzed thereby, and that death from asphyxia will immediately ensue. When the spinal cord is crushed or strongly compressed above the third cervical vertebra, in cases of spinal dislocation or fracture, life is instantly destroyed, because the chief respiratory nerves, to wit, the two phrenic, the four thoracic, and the respiratory branches of the intercostal nerves, from having their several origins in the cord below that point, instantly cease to act (as do all the spinal nerves that originate in or pass off from the cord below the same point), and therefore the muscles to which they are distri- buted instantly cease to perform the respiratory movements. When the spinal cord is crushed or strongly compressed below the origin of the phrenic and long thoracic nerves, in cases of cervical dislocation or frac- ture, death will generally be deferred for some little time, although the whole body, excepting the head and neck, will be paralyzed in respect to sensation and voluntary motion. In such cases, the respiratory function is maintained by the action of the serratus magnus anticus and the diaphragm alone. In cases of dislocation or fracture of the spinal column above the third cervical vertebra, experience has shown that life is often instantaneously de- stroyed. In cases of dislocation or fracture below the third cervical vertebra and above the first dorsal, where the cord is so much injured that there is motor and sensory paralysis of nearly the whole body excepting the head and neck, and the respiratory process is maintained solely by the diaphragm and serratus magnus, life is seldom prolonged more than 72 hours, and, as a rule,