833 SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. The patient was a woman, aged 21, who was stabbed with a knife in the back, at the fourth dorsal vertebra; the weapon, as the autopsy afterwards demonstrated, divided the left lateral half of the spinal cord, two millimetres above the third pair of dorsal nerves. On the first day, complete paralysis of motion and hyperasthesia were observed in the left lower extremity ; the opposite limb was anaesthetic, but not paralyzed. On the second day it was found that the muscles of the paralyzed member, and of the lower part of the abdomen, gave no reaction under faradic stimulation, whilst, in the corre- sponding parts of the opposite side, the electrical contractility continued normal. On the eleventh day, a neuropathic or spinal eschar was formed, which occupied the right sacro-gluteal region, and extended to the right gluteal eminence. It was also remarked, on this day, that the paralyzed limb had notably wasted away, and measured about two inches less in circumference than the anaesthetic member. On the thirteenth day, death occurred. At the autopsy, the borders of the spinal wound appeared tumefied, and of a reddish-brown color; a thin purulent layer covered it. Below the wound, the left lateral column presented the anatomical characteristics of descending myelitis, through- out its whole length. Thus, we find that when the neuropathic or spinal bed-sore appears on but one side of the sacrum, or on one buttock only, in consecpience of injury or division of the lateral column belonging to the opposite side of the spinal cord, the eschar is liable to be accompanied by a peculiar joint-disease of spi- nal origin, or by an acute muscular atrophy, also of spinal origin, which affec- tions, however, both occur on the side opposite the neuropathic eschar—that is, in the lower extremity belonging to the same side as the spinal lesion. These clinical facts, and the intimate clinical connection which exists among these disorders when they are developed under the circumstances just men- tioned, should be known to all surgeons.1 Continuing our inquiry into the clinical relations of neurotrophic or neu- ropathic eschars, we shall next find that they may arise from those forms of traumatic myelitis which are not attended by wounds of the spinal cord, nor by fractures, nor by dislocations of the spinal column. We shall likewise find that they may arise from this cause quite as rapidly as they would if the spinal column were also fractured. A case reported by Sir W. Gull, which I have already presented on page 820 (supra), clinically illustrates in a useful manner this mode of causation:— The patient was a laborer, aged 25, who felt a sudden pain in his back, after lifting a heavy weight. On the morning of the second day afterward, his lower extremities were completely paralyzed. Two days later he entered hospital. A bed-sore had already began to form near the sacrum, and ammoniacal urine dribbled from the blad- der.” Death occurred forty-one days after the strain. Autopsy.—A large bed-sore had bared the sacrum in its whole length. The bones and ligaments of the spine exhibited no trace of injury. The spinal cord was disorganized by myelitis opposite the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebra. In this example of acute myelitis resulting from a strain of the back, the bed-sore began to appear within four clays after the injury, and two days after the symptoms of myelitis had declared themselves. I have also pre- sented on page 826, as will be remembered, the case of a woman, aged 22, reported by Professor Hammond, in which myelitis arising from concussion of the spinal cord, the result of a fall, was attended with the formation of a large sacral eschar. 1 There are, however, unilateral bed-sores also of cerebral origin—that is, bed-sores which arise from diseases of the brain, such as cerebral hemorrhage, cerebral embolism, cerebral soft- ening, etc.—which appear on one cheek only of the nates, but they do not come within the scope of this article. I will merely remark here : (1) that the acute bed-sore which arises from cerebral diseases does not essentially differ from that which arises from spinal lesions (Charcot); (2) that the cerebral bed-sore can usually be distinguished with ease from that which is of spi- nal origin ; and (3) that a full account of the genesis of cerebral bed-sores, illustrated with a wood-cut, is to be found in Charcot’s Lectures on the Diseases of the Nervous System, p. 63. VOL. IV.—5-3