340 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. (2.) By metamorphosis of some part of the peri-synovial tissue through inflammatory or hyperplastic changes. Under the influence of some slight injury, or of a strongly marked dyscrasia, an inflammatory thickening or a clot of blood is deposited in the tine tissue just outside the synovial intima. , Instead of being absorbed, this forms the nucleus of fresh growth ; then a few cartilage-cells are deposited, and they, gathering hyaline material around them, cause further increase, until a little meniscus or plate is formed,1 which by the unyielding quality of the capsule and ligaments, and by the action of contracting muscles, is pressed inward, and bulges a little into the joint cavity, pushing before it the synovial membrane. Increase in size exposes the body to still more pressure from without; it, therefore, intrudes, still with the synovial covering, more and more into the cavity, until it lies quite within it, but still attached by a fold of synovial structure, which also, until worn away, surrounds it after the manner of a mesentery. When thus far intruded, it comes also within the influence of the joint movements, which, moving it from place to place, drag upon the fold, elongate, and attenuate it until it at last breaks away. Bodies thus formed are meniscuses, either of cartilage or of bone; more rarely a lipoma, formed in the subsynovial tissue, becomes intruded into the joint in a similar manner; such intra-articular lipomata are solitary or in pairs. I removed a few years ago a pair of such fatty bodies; they had arisen one on each side of the ligamentum pate life. (3.) Another mode of formation is mechanically similar, but occurs under widely different circumstances. We have seen how in fully developed, rheumatic, but subacute, joint-inflammations, osteophytes are formed, and especially at the line where the synovial membrane is attached to the bone; wg shall hereafter find that a similar but a more redundant hyperplasia takes place also in arthritis deformans. Sometimes the formative action extends from this locality to the periarticular tissues, certain spots of which become cartilaginous and bony; when that takes place, the same mechanical influ- ences which are above described as forcing meniscuses of cartilage into the joint, thrust not unfrequently the osteophytic productions into the joint- cavity. Such is usually the genesis of irregular and conglobate bodies; they are sometimes pure cartilage, sometimes bone, more often mixed. (4.) John Hunter ascribed the origin of loose bodies to blood-clots or fibriri- clots formed in the joint at some antecedent period. This method of formation is, however, uncommon ; it is evident that it can only take place after injury, or after an attack of acute synovitis. Probably, after such events, only those clots which remain or become adherent can undergo metamorphosis into another tissue. Especially must it be remarked here that occasionally, years after the removal of one false body, several others form. These probably originate in bleeding from the operation wound into the cavity, but they may also be produced by an irritation of the wound, setting up local fringe-hyper- trophy, or cartilage-formation primarily extra-articular. (5.) Ecchondrosis, that is, direct growth of a cartilaginous pedunculated tumor from an articular cartilage, is a very rare event;2 its etiology is entirely unknown. (6.) Certain loose bodies have been proved to be portions of normal cartilage broken loose from their attachment. They may come from an interarticular 1 A case by Mr. Shaw (Pathol. Trans., vol. vi. p. 328) illustrates in a most instructive man- ner this mode of formation. The body producing the primary irritation around which a carti- laginous mass gathered, was not, in this instance, a blood-clot, hut a needle which had at some former epoch been thrust into the limb, and which lay for a time close to the joint. 2 Unless, as I am disinclined to do, we take the early cartilaginous stage of an osteophyte for an ecchondrosis.