INJURIES OF THE BACK. 740 disturbance and displacement of the bones which form the compound articu- lation ; and, generally, by ecchymosis. Inasmuch as the vertebral joints are more superficial in the dorsal and lumbar regions than they are in the cer- vical, the displacement of bone is more easily recognized by sight and touch in the former regions than it is in the latter. The symptoms by which luxa- tions of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae may be known, are the deformity and the disturbances of function which arise from the displacement of the luxated bones, and the ecchymosis. The displacement is often denoted by a projec- tion backward of the lower vertebra. Sometimes a distinct gap can be felt between the dislocated vertebra and the bone next below it. * Frequently their spinous processes are found to be separated by a considerable interval. Occasionally they are so widely separated that three fingers can be laid be- tween them. Oftentimes the patient has severe pain in the injured part of the back. Hot unfrequently the patient has also severe pain in parts far removed from the hack, that is, in the parts where the spinal nerves that pass through the inter-vertebral notches at the place of injury, are distributed or have their terminal extremities. Should the spinal cord be much injured, there will he paralysis both sensory and motor (paraplegia) of all the parts supplied by spinal nerves that issue from the segment of the cord which lies below the lesion. Paralysis of the bladder will he denoted by retention or by incontinence of urine; paralysis of the intestines by retention or by in- continence of feces, and by tympanites. The area of lost sensibility usually corresponds very closely to that of the motor paralysis, because the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves emerge from the cord on the same level. The following example will serve to show how profound and durable the sensory paralysis, as well as the motor, may be:— Dr. W. D. Purple1 reports the case of a man, aged 22, injured from being struck by the limb of a tree. There was dislocation of the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebrae with permanent as well as complete paralysis, both sensory and motor, of the lower part of the body, or paraplegia. Six years afterward he had both thighs amputated high up, because the paralyzed limbs were useless appendages. He felt nothing whatever dur- ing the operation, although no anaesthetic was employed. Seven years after the injury he died from other causes ; no autopsy. But, in many cases of vertebral dislocation or fracture with injury of the cord, marked hypercesthesia with intense pain is noted Just above the paralyzed region.2 The last-named symptoms, however, will be discussed in connection with the subject of Traumatic Myelitis, as it is the disorder from which they arise. Should the ganglionic nerves which lie along the spinal column, on each side thereof, and in close relation thereto, be much injured, especially in the cervical region, there may arise therefrom, as well as from injuries of the spinal cord, vaso-motor disturbances, denoted by alterations of the pulse, by Hushing of the face, and by a considerable increase or diminution of the body-heat. Paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, thus induced, lessens the blood- I pressure in the arteries, and modifies the character of the pulse accordingly. With each blood-wave, the condition of feeble pressure passes suddenly into a condition of forcible pressure at the moment of the ventricular systole, and suddenly reverts to the former condition, for the blood flows too readily through the paralyzed capillaries from the ai'terial into the venous system. MM. Pousson and Lalesque found this forcible impulse or peculiar sensation of a strong pulse to be most marked in large arteries, e. g., the femoral and the abdominal aorta. The sphygmographic tracing presents, with pulse- 1 New York Journal of Med., 1853. 2 Med. News and Abstract, March, 1881, pp. 179, 180.