690 INJURIES OF THE BACK. i Ibid., pp. 61, 62. support to the nape of the neck, each side of the head to be supported by sand-bags, so as to prevent any lateral or rotary movement in the neck. It was plain that, if the life of the child was to be prolonged or saved, it could only be accomplished by a long-con- tinued rest to the spine; and, for the purpose of securing easy rest to the little patient, a water-bed was sent from London, and the child was safely placed upon it, with the sand-bags extending from the shoulders to beyond the head. In about a fortnight the nurse specially appointed to attend the child, finding that her rest at night was now so calm and quiet, that she was so free from pain and fever, that her appetite and power of swallowing were so much improved, as well as her temper, and thinking she was alto- gether so much better, and willing, no doubt, to mark her own penetration, as well as to please the mother by telling her in the morning what had been done by her little charge—this meddlesome and officious woman, instead of giving the child her breakfast, as usual, without disturbing her head or neck in the least degree, desired the child to sit up to breakfast. The child did so ; the head fell forward, and she was dead. The post-mortem examination proved that disease existed in the articulations between the first and second cervical vertebrae, that the bones were loose, and that, when the head with the atlas fell forward, pressure had been made upon the spinal marrow, close to and below the medulla oblongata, at the point of decussation, so that the child was killed almost instantly, as in pithing animals. This was a case in which both the sur- geon and nature were completely thwarted. The local disease was considered at the time to be dependent upon a constitutional or a scrofulous cause ; but I have since under- stood that it was the result of a blow given to the little girl by her brother, who struck her with something he had picked up in the room. It was not constitutional; there was no visceral disease of any kind.”1 In this case, then, there was a destructive inflammation of the joints between the atlas and the axis, arising from a blow upon, or a wrench of, these joints, and the real character of the lesion was, for a long time, over- looked ; but, in all probability, it would have been cured, as the preceding case was cured, by proper and long-continued rest, had nature and the sur- geon not been thwarted by the misadventure. Moreover, the morbid con- dition of the atlo-axoid articulations, which was revealed by the autopsy, in this case, sheds a flood of light upon the pathogenesis of the preceding case, and frees it from all obscurity or doubt. Thus, the history of this case is the complement of that of the preceding case, and fully elucidates it. Mr. Hilton also relates the case of a lady, aged about 30, who had a disease of the spine affecting the occipitalis major and minor nerves, the third cervical nerves, and the nerves forming the left axillary plexus, that was caused by a blow on the left side of the head with a bolster, or cushion, which forcibly displaced it laterally, and thus strained or w'renched the joints of the first, second, and third cervical vertebrae. She fell upon the carpet, and was unconscious for some little time. She had, as reported to herself, a sort of struggling fit. On recovery, she was put to bed; and, in a day or two, nothing remained of the accident, excepting some tenderness in the upper part of the neck; but, soon afterward, the symptoms about to be described came on. When Mr. Hilton first saw her, some nine or ten months after the injury, “ she had pains on the left side, at the back of the head, and at the posterior part of the external ear ; pain over the clavicle and shoulder (all on the left side) ; pain, with loss of power, in the left arm ; pain deep in the neck, on pressing the head directly downward upon the spine, and on rotating the head; some fulness and tenderness on pressure about the first, second, and third cervical vertebrae, especially on the left side. She could not take walking exer. cise in consequence of the increasing severity of all the symptoms. She had almost sleepless nights, and her appetite was very poor. It was obvious that there existed some disease or injury of the spine affecting the occipital nerves, the third cervical nerves, and the nerves forming the left axillary plexus. As far as I [Mr. Hilton] could interpret the case, rest appeared to be the proper remedy. The patient maintained, almost uninterruptedly, the recumbent position, during nearly three months, two sand.