INJURIES OF BONES. 112 s British Med. Journal, Jan. 6, 1883. as to the results obtained with it by him, I think that its complexity, and the fact that it can only be made by a skilled mechanic, will preclude its adoption, and, to a very great extent, its trial by other surgeons. Professor Byrd, of Baltimore, has published1 an account of an apparatus successfully used by him, consisting of two padded plates which are applied over the scapulse; these are connected by a flat steel bar, carrying a lever which arches over the shoulder, and which has at its anterior end another padded plate, to press the shoulder backward. The apparatus is adjustable by screws, and kept in place by straps and buckles. O’Connor2 has recently proposed the use of plaster of Paris, somewhat as in the Bavarian splint (see p. 55), so as to make a sort of mould of the shoul- der, the fracture being first reduced. By some surgeons, compresses are applied to the prominence of the outer end of the sternal fragment, with a view of forcing it back into place. And this may be done with advantage, provided the reduction has first been com- pletely effected, if the projection still persists. If, however, the cause of the deformity is the pushing in of the inner end of the distal fragment behind the outer end of the sternal—as I believe it to be in the majority of cases— the pressure of a compress can only force back both fragments, and serious harm may result. I have certainly seen it productive of severe pain. With the view of rendering the fragments immovable, it was proposed by Guerin (de Yannes) to fix the sound arm against the side by means of a body- bandage, and to apply a dextrinated bandage to the head and affected shoul- der, the face being averted from the latter. He recommended along with this the use of Desault’s apparatus, starched or dextrinated. It is not stated by Malgaigne that this plan was ever put into practice ; but probably few patients would be willing to submit to such an encasement, which would in- volve extreme discomfort. Malgaigne suggested “ surrounding and confining the two fragments by two steel hooks, like the forceps of Museux; just as in the serrated fracture with an angle upward, I thought,” he says, “ of passing in at the summit of the angle a double hook, which by means of a strap and band could be drawn toward the elbow, thus exerting all the necessary pressure.” But he very justly remarks that the idea needs maturing; and I do not know that he ever followed it out any further. Modern surgery has more than equalled the hardihood of Malgaigne. Langenbuch is reported3 to have treated a fracture of the clavicle by cutting down upon it, and suturing the fragments together with silver wire, the periosteum being also sewed with catgut. A very just criticism of this procedure has been published4 by Dawson, who maintains that the results obtained by ordinary means are sufficiently satisfactory to forbid running the risk involved in making the fracture compound, especially in the neighborhood of such important and vulnerable structures. There are instances, however, in which an operation is entirely proper. Whitson6 reports the case of a boy, aged fifteen, who was knocked down and run over by a reaping-machine, sustaining a compound fracture of the right clavicle, and a compound fracture of the right humerus. On the sixth day, a thick wire suture was passed through the fragments of the former bone, and good union was obtained. When, as in the last mentioned case, fracture of the clavicle is complicated by fractures of the neighboring hones, the treatment may be variously modi- 1 Medical News, October 21, 1882. 2 British Med. Journal, March 3, 1883. 3 Medical News, Feh. 25, 1882. 4 Medical Record, May 20, 1882.