FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 177 patient cannot be seen again for some time. Passive motion need only be made in exceptional instances, where there is a strong tendency to stiffen- ing, such as sometimes occurs in old people, or where the violence producing the injury has been very great. I have recently had under my care a woman who, by a fall on the back of the hand, had a fracture of the radius just above the wrist, with displace- ment of the lower fragment forward. Her attendant had simply applied a Levis’s splint, which of course, in such a case, merely kept up the deformity. (I presume no effort to correct it had been made.) When she came to me, about two months afterward, the wrist was greatly deformed, the hand and fingers flexed, and their nutrition impaired, as shown by the wrinkled, glossy, and shrunken skin. She had constant and severe pain, and the hand was useless. By breaking up the adhesions (under ether), and prolonged treat- ment in the way of frictions and gentle passive motion, I succeeded in im- proving the condition of things, but she lias not yet regained anything like free use of the hand. Non-union must certainly be very rare in fractures of the lower portion of the radius. Muhlenberg1 gives five cases in which this condition obtained in the “lower third” of the bone; but it is not stated that either was one of fracture close to the wrist. When union has taken place with deformity, if too much time has not elapsed, an attempt may be made to separate the fragments by force, and to bring them into proper relation. Little2 adopted such a course with success after a period of six weeks. More risk would attend a procedure of this kind, in proportion to the nearness of the fracture to the joint; and in very many cases it would be better to trust to the chance of improvement by the model- ling processes of nature. Fractures of both bones of the forearm are of very frequent occurrence, in children especially. In this respect they differ markedly from the other fractures in this region, which are more commonly met with in adult life. Thus, in the tables given by Flower and Hulke,3 derived from the records of the Middlesex Hospital for sixteen years, out of a total of 2705 fractures, there were 1142 affecting the forearm, viz., the radius and ulna 191, or about 16 per cent., the ulna alone (including the olecranon) 183, or about 16 per cent,., and the radius alone 768, or about 67 per cent. Of these 1142 cases, 401, or 35 per cent., were in subjects below the age of 15 ; and here the proportions were: for the radius and ulna 119, or over 29 per cent.; for the ulna alone (including the olecranon) 45, or over 11 per cent.; and for the radius alone 237, or over 59 per cent. With regard to the total of fractures affecting patients under the age of fifteen years, 1154, there were for the radius and ulna over 10 per cent.; for the ulna alone nearly 4 per cent.; and for the radius alone over 20 per cent. As compared with the grand total of 2705 fractures, the cases under the age of fifteen were: in the radius and idna over 4 per cent.; in the ulna alone 1 per cent.; and in the radius alone nearly 9 per cent. Agnew’s general table4 includes 8667 cases of fracture treated at the Penn- sylvania Hospital in forty-four years; of these, 1802, or nearly 21 per cent., concerned the bones of the forearm, and were distributed as follows: In the radius and ulna 599, or over 33 per cent.; in the ulna alone 218, or something over 12 per cent.; and in the radius alone 985, or over 54 per cent. The reader will note a discrepancy of result between these figures and those pre- 1 Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. p. 768. 2 Medical Record, March 4, 1882. * Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 946. 4 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 824. VOL. IV.—12