EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. 459 entirely removed while the operation is completed, and the hot iron used if necessary. If it be required, a few whiffs may be again administered before closing the external wound with sutures. Excision of Both Upper Jaws.— Removal of the greater part of both upper jaws was first accomplished by Rogers, of New York, in 1824, but the first complete operation of the kind was done by the elder Heyfelder, twenty years subse- quently. The incision for this operation, which is one of the gravest character, consists in a median division of the upper lip, with separation of both nostrils and transverse prolongations below the borders of the orbits—a duplication, in fact, of the operation advised for the excision of either jaw separately. When portions only of the maxillre are to be removed, a plan suggested and successfully employed by Dr. Porter, of Boston, may be resorted to. This consists in making a Y*shaPed incision, the leg of the Y dividing the upper lip and its arms entering the nostrils, which can then be pushed upwards so as to afford a considerable amount of room. The recorded statistics of this severe operation represent a mortality so moderate as to excite the suspicion that some fatal cases may not have been recorded, twenty-three cases tabu- lated by H. Braun giving but five deaths (21.7 per cent.). The figures are as follows: Nature of operation. Whole number of cases. Recovered. Died. Complete extirpation for tumor n 7 4 Partial or consecutive extirpation for tumor . 5 5 Excision for necrosis ..... 7 6 I Temporary or osteo-plastic resection of the upper jaw, an operation designed to facilitate the excision of retro-maxillary growths without removing the bone, was suggested by Huguier in 1852 and 1854, hut was not practised until about seven years subsequently, when Langenbeck and himself both operated at about the same time. Langenbeck, after making the necessary external incisions, divided the upper from the lower portion of the jaw, sawed through the connections of the former except at its nasal side, where it was left attached ; and then turned it forcibly inwards, replacing it after the growth behind it had been removed. Huguier severed the loieer from the upper portion of the jaw, and then forced the former, which retained its palatal attachments, downwards and inwards. Roux, of Toulon, suggested a procedure for the tem- porary displacement of the whole upper jaw, apparently in an upward direction; but he did not apply his operation on the living subject. Cooper Forster, finally, has practised osteo-plastic resection by displacing the maxilla outwardly. One or other of these operations, usually Langenbeck’s, has been occasionally employed by other surgeons, including Esmarch, Wagner, Simon, Hill, and Verneuil, and in the majority of cases, apparently, with favorable results. In a case recently recorded by my colleague, Professor Agnew, the displaced jaw became spontaneously separated nine days after the operation, and was removed through the mouth as a sequestrum. Professor Cheever, of Boston, has twice operated successfully on the same patient; and this surgeon was the first to extend the method of osteo-plastic resection to both upper jaws. This case terminated fatally on the fifth day, but a similar operation, in the hands of Professor Tiffany, of Baltimore, has since proved completely successful. Excision of the Lower Jaw.—As in the case of the upper jaw, when the operation is required for necrosis, the diseased bone may often be removed through the mouth without external incision, and Dr. perry and Dr. Boker