35 REPAIR OF FRACTURES. ception must be made in the ease of epiphyseal disjunctions and fractures near the elbow-joint. In adults, the chance of permanent deformity and of stiffen- ing of the joints is greater, and in old persons it is very apt to occur. Some of the fractures to which old people are liable, and especially those of the cervix femoris, are almost sure to end in non-union and lameness, if not total dis- ability, for the remainder of life. Of fractures of certain bones—the patella, and the olecranon and coronoid processes of the ulna—the result is, as a rule, union by fibrous tissue only, and the necessity of advising the patient of this fact beforehand must be quite obvious. In all cases the surgeon should insist most positively upon obe- dience to his directions, and should remember that if he is lax in this respect, any damage resulting from the waywardness of the patient will be laid at his door. It is better always to give a guarded prognosis even in simple cases, as may be inferred from what has been said in previous pages as to the occasional occurrence of unexpectedly serious symptoms. And even in the matter of time, a prudent surgeon will be slow to make promises which he may not be able to fulfil. For example, if a man with a broken leg is assured that he will be able to walk in six weeks, he will be very much dissatisfied if a cure is not effected in less than two months. And if a man with a fractured femur is told that he will be able to walk as well as ever, he will naturally be dis- appointed if he finds himself with a shortening which involves a permanent limp in his gait. Repair of Fractures. Although the process of repair of broken bones has been the subject of study and discussion by many of the ablest surgical observers and writers, it is not as yet thorougldy understood, many points remaining unsettled. I shall try to give such a practical summary of what is known in regal’d to it as may accord with the limits of the present article, referring the reader who desires further information to the admirable description given by Paget,1 and to the more recent works of Cornil and Ranvier,2 and of Billroth.3 In Todd and Bowman’s Cycloptedia of Anatomy and Physiology,4 there is an excellent exposition of the opinions advanced up to the date of its publication (1836), by Dr. W. II. Porter; and Virchow5 has presented a very interesting account of the result of his own researches. This subject may be studied in various ways. By careful observation of clinical cases, the general phenomena are learned, and further explained by the opportunities afforded of dissecting the parts in patients dying at differ- ent periods after the receipt of these injuries. Experimental fractures pro- duced on animals may be examined with advantage, allowance being made for known differences between them and human beings. Microscopical in- vestigations have thrown much light upon the modes of development of the reparative material. When a bone is broken, some injury is always inflicted on the periosteum. Its fibres may be merely stretched, but more frequently they are torn across at 1 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, Lecture XI. 2 A Manual of Pathological Histology. By V. Cornil and L. Ranvier. Translated from the French by Drs. Shakespeare and Simes. Philadelphia, 1880. 3 General Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics. By Theodor Billroth. Translated from the German by Dr. Charles E. Hackley. New York, 1871. 4 Art. “ Bone, Pathological Conditions of.” Op. cit., vol. i. 6 Cellular Pathology. Chance’s translation, 1860.