481 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Figs. 705, 706. Paris removed in excision of tLe elbow. Fig. 707. Result of excision of elbow-joint. (From a patient iu the Children’s Hospital.) Excision of the Right Elbow-Joint for Destructive Disease, the Result of Hereditary Syphilis ; Recovery ; Death from Syphilitic Disease of the Brain, nearly a year and a half afterwards.—The patient in this case was one ot' those unfortunate children of whom we see so many in surgical practice among the poor of large cities, who enter upon life bearing about them the seeds of death, and who after a few years of suffering perish miserably, the victims of their parents’ misconduct. ,J. S., a boy six years of age, entered the Children’s Hospital on September 4. 1872, suffering from hereditary syphilis in an aggravated form. The record at the time of his admission shows that he had then necrosis of the left radius, and of the lower jaw, with severe osteitis of the right humerus, extending to the lower epiphysis of the bone and threatening the in- tegrity of the elbow-joint. A day or two after admission, a superficial exfoliation was removed from the radius, and on September 9, the patient being etherized, a large sequestrum was taken from the jaw, the portion removed extending to the articulation of the left side, and constituting about one-third of the lower maxilla. Under careful nursing and constitutional treatment, the patient’s general condition now improved, and the jaw and left arm healed ; the state of the right arm, however, became steadily worse, and in January, 1873, it became evident that the elbow-joint, was hopelessly diseased. Excision was accordingly resorted to on January 13, the operation being performed in the usual way, the wound dressed with oiled lint, and the limb laid upon a splint, which, however, was dispensed with as soon as the parts had become sufficiently consolidated. The progress of the case, as far as the operation was concerned, was satisfactory, the wound healing well and the patient regaining considerable use of the limb ; but fresh evidences of constitutional syphilis were not slow to manifest them- selves. Gummatous tumoft, which rapidly ulcerated, formed on the arm, on the shoulder, and on the side of the chest; the upper jaw became necrosed, and in October about one-third of its alveolar border was removed; finally, in June, 1874, symptoms of cerebral disease were developed, the patient lying in a stupor unless roused, when he was delirious, but without excitement; and in spite of the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium, death preceded by coma took place on June 7. No post- mortem examination was permitted, but there can be little doubt that intra-cranial syphilis was the cause of the fatal issue. The next, case is illustrative of a condition perhaps more often met with in the knee than in the elbow, but which, when occurring in either situation, may, in children at. least, be treated by excision with the most gratifying results. Excision of the Left Elbow Joint for Partial Anchylosis with Recurrent Arthritis; Recovery—This case occurred in a German boy, C. K., six years old, who was admit- VOL. IV.—31