ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. 373 volved, and even may come to form a part of an abnormally exaggerated cavity—for instance, the coracoid and acromion processes may become a part of the morbid shoulder-joint—we can hardly believe in the synovial origin of such wide alterations situated a long way from that membrane.1 Symptoms.—Early detection of this disease is very important, since in its later phases it is peculiarly intractable. Although chiefly a disease of old age, it may, nevertheless, attack young persons. More especially should the sort of pains described below be regarded with suspicion when they affect young women whose catamenia are scanty and irregular. The malady may also follow acute rheumatism at a long interval. It may, when uniarticular, be due to traumatism, afterwards spreading to several joints. Exposure to cold, insufficient food, long-continued overwork or mental depression, resi- dence in a damp atmosphere or in an ill-protected building, may be causes of the disease, and may lead to the interpretation of symptoms. But, on the other hand, we find persons well fed and housed, with no possible anxiety, who have never had an illness and never committed an imprudence, wrho are rosy, cheerful, and digesting and sleeping well, and yet who are crippled by arthritis deformans. When the disease arises from some definite cause, such as a chill, or a distinct attack of rheumatism, the symptoms are clearly marked and rather abrupt, viz., pain and stiffness in one or more joints, with periarticular—and, in the joints, intra-articular—effusion. The case looks like a mild attack of rheumatism. The urine, too, is generally loaded with lithates, but there is no diaphoresis; the skin, indeed, is dry and without acid smell. If there be any pyrexia, it lasts but a day or two. When no distinct causation can be traced—sometimes, even, when this can be done— the commencement is much more obscure; perhaps there is only in one or more joints a slight, hardly noticeable, morning stiffness, which goes off after an hour or two, but slowly becomes more persistent, and affects other parts.2 I have known this form to be described as “ creeping rheumatism.” One case, which arose after sudden cessation of suckling, was described to me as “ milk rheumatism.” During rest, the early phases of the malady are painless ; but at a later period, if some of the larger joints are involved, starting pains are troublesome, though never severe. Any movements are more painful after prolonged rest, than when motion has been persevered in for some time. The affected joints may occasionally be the seat of effusion, which in the smaller articulations is slight and transient, but in the larger ones, especially in the knee, is often considerable and persistent. Some alteration in shape is never- theless perceptible, but less in the joint itself than in the bone immediately adjacent, which becomes irregularly nodose and gnarled.3 For a long while no further changes in the joints themselves are perceptible, but the progress of the disease may be traced in a remarkable flaccidity of the muscles, very different from their state in other joint-affections. When the malady attacks the hip, the buttock hangs peculiarly loose, and almost pendulous; when the 1 In the above account I have given the result of much independent study of a large number of specimens, availing myself also freely of the works of earlier investigators, namely, R. Adams, (( Treatise on Rheumatic GoutR. W. Smith, on “ Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis and Canton, Surgical and Pathological Observations,” a little work from which much information may be gleaned. I 2 A gentleman of my acquaintance, aged 67, began with a little stiffness in the morning about the joints of the fingers, afterwards the ankles, and then the knees ; subsequently, almost all the joints were involved, and the painful stiffness became continual. My experience is, that although the period of synovial effusion is uncertain, it does not begin until the stiffness has lasted some time, often till after nodosities have appeared. In this sequence the knee is sometimes an exception, considerable synovial effusion being much earlier in it than in any other joint.