247 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. wire frame like Smith’s splint, using only the portion corresponding to the foot and leg. (Fig. 626.) In this frame the leg may be cradled by double strips of bandage, tied or pinned. (Fig. 627.) To attach the suspension apparatus, I use a support consisting of a wooden upright about six feet high, having at its top an arm at right angles, into the under surface of which is screwed a pulley; its lower end is set in a tripod, one long foot extending out parallel with the upper arm, and the other two at right angles to it. The long foot goes under the bed. A cord run through the pulley, with a tent-block, serves to attach the cords connected with the sus- pension-frame. From this descrip- tion, I think the working of the whole apparatus may be readily understood. By having the gallows-frame unconnected with the bed, it may be moved to another part of the room, and the patient may be dressed and sit up, with his leg securely swung. I may here mention that I have sometimes had occasion to move patients with fractures of the leg, and have found that they can bear the motion of a carriage or railroad train with perfect ease, by having the injured limb, pro- perly splinted, laid on strips of rubber bandage nailed across a wooden frame supported on sides like those of a box.1 Other devices for suspension have been employed. Salter’s swing is well known in England. The late Dr. Hodgen2 published a description of a swing- ing fracture box, which was only open to the objection that, in order to let down the sides, the whole box had to be lowered and placed upon the bed. Dr. ISTathan R. Smith’s apparatus for fracture- of the leg, consisting of a thigh piece, with a frame for the leg, and a foot-piece, is well known, and hadT a somewhat extensive popularity at one time. I do not think that it is largely used at present—perhaps, because it has been superseded by simpler and apparently more secure contrivances. By some of the older surgeons it was advised that the limb should be laid on its outer side, secured by slips of wood bandaged so as to steady the bones, and with the muscles relaxed by bending the knee. Such a position would no doubt be comfortable, but it may be doubted whether the proper coaptation of the fragments would be effectively maintained. Yet it is spoken of with approval by Hulke,3 as adapted to some cases in which “ there is a tendency to displacement of the fragments when the leg is straightened.” I cannot but think that suspension of the leg would answer the same pur- pose, with less risk of displacement. _ Cases sometimes present themselves in which extension and counter-exten- sion are required to counteract the tendency to shortening. Swinburne,4 in- deed, advocates the treatment of all fractures of the leg by this means alone, without splints or other means of lateral support; but I do not think that he has had many converts to this peculiar, and in my opinion dangerous, doctrine. Reference has been already made to the fact that Sands, St. John, and some 1 An arrangement of this kind is figured by Benjamin Bell (System of Surgery, Edinburgh, 1788. Plate lxxiii. Fig. 3), but with straps and buckles, and without any elastic support; it is described as an apparatus for compound fractures, to admit of the dressing of a wound with- out disturbing the limb. 2 St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal, March 10, 1871. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1046. « Op. cit., p. 25. Fig. 627. Mode of supporting leg with strips of bandage.