GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. 777 had entered at the inferior border of the left scapula, passed inward and backward, struck the spinal column, and lodged, having instantaneously caused complete paraplegia below the wound, with inability to micturate. On the I2th, the urine began to dribble away spontaneously, and defecation occurred involuntarily. He made no complaint of pain. Bed-sores over the sacrum, etc., depending upon the mal-nutrition of the parts which resulted from the injury of the spinal cord, soon followed. Nevertheless, he survived until October 13, and then died of pleuro-pneumonia. Necroscopy showed that the missile had passed through the left intervertebral foramen between the ninth and tenth dorsal vertebrae, pro- ducing only a very slight fracture ; and, turning upward in the spinal canal, had lodged in it opposite the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra. The upper end of the spinal cord was much softened. The lodgment of the missile is well shown in the adjoining wood-cut (Fig. 783).1 A soldier, aged 26, was wounded at Cold Harbor, Va., June 3, 1864, by a conoidal musket-ball, which penetrated the right side of his back, shattered the right transverse and articular processes of the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae, and entered the spinal canal. He immediately lost all sen- sation and voluntary motion below the wound. On the 11th, he was admitted to general hospital. There was then psy- chical depression, with slow pulse, labored respiration, cold, clammy, and cyanosed skin, and involuntary passage of the excretions. Gastric irritability supervened, with rejection of all kinds of nourishment, and he died on July 2. Necros- copy revealed the missile imbedded in the spinal canal, as shown in Fig. 784. The spinal cord was severed and disorganized above and below the missile.2 Corporal G. W. M., aged 19, was wounded at Cold Harbor, Va., June 3, 1864, and admitted to general hospital on the 7th. He was suffering from paraplegia with reten- Showing the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth dorsal ver- tebra, with the body, etc., of the fifth horizontally divided, and a conoidal musket-ball (also divided) lodged in the spi- nal canal. (Spec. 3984, Sect. I, A. M. M.) Fig. 784. Showing a conoidal musket-ball lodged in the spinal canal between the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebra;. (Spec. 2939, Sect. I, A. M. M.) Fig. 785. Showing gunshot fracture of the left transverse pro- cess and body of the seventh dorsal vertebra, with the missile in situ. (Spec. 3030, Sect. I, A. M. M.) tion of urine and traumatic pneumonia. A conoidal musket-ball had entered his back near the inferior angle of the left scapula, and passing downward, inward, and forward through the left lung, had fractured the transverse process of the seventh dorsal verte- bra, and lodged in the body of the same. Owing to his extreme prostration, no anti- 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Vol., p. 440. 2 Ibid., p. 439.