INJURIES OF BONES. 188 bones at earlier periods of life. On the other hand, as shown by Gulliver,1 such changes may occasionally occur as the result of injury in young persons and adults. Another point to be noted, which also varies in different individuals, is the constriction of the neck close to the head. Sometimes very marked, this constriction is in some bones scarcely present at all. When it exists, it must obviously influence the probability of fracture taking place at this point, especially if the nutrition of the skeleton becomes impaired by age or any other cause. The relation of the head of the bone to its neck also varies. Sometimes the neck extends more upward at the lower surface, so as to give the outline of its junction with the head, as seen either from before or from behind, an S -shape, and so as to lessen the relative length of the upper surface of the neck. Variations exist also in the actual length of the neck. It is in general proportionate to that of the shaft, but not always so; as, for instance, in dwarfs, or short persons, it is longer, and in very tall persons shorter, than it would be according to such a rule. The antero-posterior is usually less than the transverse diameter of the cervix. A careful examination of vertical sections in the length of the head and neck of the femur shows, as pointed out by Ward, Wyman, and others, that a num- ber of the lamellae, beginning at the upper end of the inner wall of the shaft of the bone, close to the lesser trochanter, diverge upward to the concavity of the thin layer of compact substance covering the head, so as to receive the weight of the body upon their extremities. Another series of columns may be seen running outward from the same point, and meeting other columns running up inward from the outer wall of the shaft; these two sets of columns forming a series of groined arches culminating at the upper wall of the neck of the bone, a little to the inner side of the greater trochanter. By this arrangement, the shifting of the weight toward the outer or upper portion of the head is provided for, the pressure coming in greater degree on the outer wall of the shaft, the inner, however, receiving its share through the inner columns of the arches. The remainder of the lamellae run in various directions, not capriciously nor at random, but so as to afford in the aggre- gate a very strong support to the solid but thin wall of the bone. The capsular ligament, properly so called, extends from the edge of the cotyloid ligament to the base of the neck of the bone; that is, to the root of each trochanter, and to the ridges which connect them before and behind. When laid open, this is found to be lined by the synovial membrane, which is reflected from it to the neck of the bone, the line of reflection not corre- sponding, however, with that of the attachment of the capsule. A portion of the cervix is, therefore, surrounded only by fibrous tissue, the outer layer of which belongs to the capsular ligament, while the deeper is the perios- teum, the two being inseparable by dissection. I think that generally the distance between the reflection of the synovial membrane and the inter-trochanteric lines is about half an inch; one or two pockets, however, existing, where the joint cavity is somewhat prolonged outward. One of these pockets is usually just within the gemelli muscles in the digital fossa, behind the greater trochanter. Differences exist between different individuals in regard to the precise relative extent of the synovial membrane and the neck of the bone. An arrangement of the immediate investment of the neck of the femur (called by Amesbury “ the close coverings”) which seems to have escaped the 1 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, July and October, 1836.