INJURIES OF TIIE BACK. 878 great pain” was felt “when the body or limbs were roughly handled.” This sort of pain, especially when it is associated with general anaesthesia or sensory paralysis of the parts in which it is perceived, is a not uncommon form of hypcnesthcsia, and it arose in the case under consideration either from the in- flammatory changes that were occurring in the gray substance of the cord, or from the excitation of the sensory filaments in the adjacent spinal nerves that was caused by inflammation of the cord-substance itself, but probably from the former. The general atrophy of the muscles of the extremities, observed in the pro- gress of this case before the more distinct symptoms of paralysis appeared, is deserving of special note, as bearing upon the theory of progressive mus- cular atrophy, many examples of which have no doubt had, contrary to the opinion of those who have recorded them, a spinal rather than a muscular origin. The atrophy of the muscles of the right shoulder, whilst those of the forearm still retained some power, elucidates the seat of the paralyzing lesion in some cases of infantile paralysis of the shoulder occurring during dentition. It has been doubted whether the lesions alluded to have a cerebral or a spinal origin ; but their occurrence without any cerebral symptoms, the occasional implication of both arms, or of all the extremities, and the actual observation of a limited spot of oehrey discoloration in the cord, as in one case examined by Cruveilhicr, concur with the collateral evidence here afforded in proving a spinal origin for this form of paralysis. (Gull.) Again, the limitation of the paralysis at its commencement to the right arm, and the preponderating affection of the muscles of the shoulder-joint, are points in the clinical history of this case of great interest in another par- ticular. For, taken together with the injury of his right hand, to which the patient attributed his symptoms, they led to an opinion that the case was one of peripheral paralysis. But such an inference was not supported by the history of the case, nor by the post-mortem appearances of the cord. The slight affection of the muscles of deglutition (paralysis), the sense of choking, and the occasional loss of power over the bladder, which appeared early in the case, established a causal relation between the blow on the cervical part of the 8]line and the inflammatory lesion of the spinal cord-substance, whilst the peripheral-origin theory of the malady was completely refuted by the normal microscopic structure of the nerve-trunks. There is'nothing more fallacious in practical medicine than hastily inferring a negative from negative evidence, as was clearly shown in this case. The absence of pain on percussing the spine, and the very positive statement made by the patient, that his paralytic symptoms had resulted from an injury of his hand, led to the belief that no morbid process of an active kind was at work in the spinal cord; yet it cannot be doubted that the reverse was the fact. Moreover, the least consideration will serve to show that if the vertebral ligaments, and bones, and joints be healthy, no amount of pres- sure or percussion, made in the usual way during a clinical examination, can much affect the substance of the cord itself, and that we should base no inference upon the negative evidence thus afforded. Oftentimes myelitis, whether acute or chronic, runs its whole course without the development of any pain whatever, excepting cutaneous liyperaisthesia, discernible, it may be, only by a very careful examination. The impairment of vision, which was observed in this case, although a minor symptom, is deserving ot particular notice. It may be associated, from different causes, with spinal lesions. Here it is probably referable to anatomical changes in the cervical portion of the cord itself, inasmuch as experiments on animals have clearly shown that the condition of the eye is at once affected by injuries to the roots of the cervical nerves.