107 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. nerve-lesions due to the original injury with those which may be brought on by the pressure of apparatus, as pointed out especially by Hamilton, and to be further discussed in connection with treatment. Wound of the lung is said to have been several times noticed in connection with fracture of the clavicle, but I am not aware that it has ever been veri- fied by an autopsy except once. Hammick1 speaks of a man who had had a fracture of the clavicle three days before he came under observation ; he died of pneumonia, and on dissection it was found that the fractured portion was so depressed as to have wounded the pleura and torn the lung. Gibier2 reports a case in which the acromial fragment wounded the lung, and produced em- physema ; the patient recovered, but with non-union of the fracture. Mer- cier3 gives a similar case, and refers to several others. The uncertainty in all these cases in which recovery takes place, is not with regard to the wound of the lung, which is sufficiently established by the oc- currence of emphysema, and occasionally by htemoptysis, but as to the mode of its production—whether there is not a fracture of a rib as well as of the clavicle. It is not, however, a matter of serious importance; the relation of the apex of the lung to the clavicle is, in most persons, such that a wound of the former might readily occur by a fragment of the broken bone. The complication of fracture of the clavicle with that of other bones some- times presents itself. It is chiefly of interest in connection with treatment, and will be considered under that head. Prognosis.—As a general rule, the prognosis in fracture of the clavicle is favorable. Union takes place, in children especially, with great rapidity. Berry4 states that in six cases, the ages ranging between five months and five years, the clavicle was found united firmly in from nine to fourteen days ; the longest time being noted in the youngest child. Bouchut5 says that Clocpiet saw, at the Hospice de l’Humanite at Rouen, a broken clavicle in a girl aged six, consolidated on the ninth day. In adults, consolidation takes place more slowly, averaging perhaps twenty-five or twenty-eight days. Non-union is sometimes met with, as has already appeared in the preceding pages; but it is not by any means as common as in some of the other bones. A case is mentioned6 of “a girl aged nine, who had broken her clavicle a month before, and had had no treatment; the sternal fragment projected upward at an angle of 45°, its sharp extremity forming a visible prominence in the side of the neck. The other fragment was fully an inch below this, and connected with it by what appeared to be a band of fibrous tissue, pass- ing nearly vertically between them.” Even when the fragments fail to become solidly united, the usefulness of the arm seems to be but little im- paired, according to the testimony of Hamilton and others. As to the avoidance of deformity after fractures of the clavicle, it must be confessed that perfect success is very rarely obtained. In almost every instance there remains a perceptible projection of the inner fragment, even after time enough has elapsed for the disappearance of all swelling due to callus ; and in some cases the deformity thus produced is very marked. But as a general thing the complete restoration of the usefulness of the limb is not interfered with, although Hurel7 assigns the shortening of the bone as the cause of the loss of power sometimes noted. Every experienced surgeon, 1 Op. cit., p. 159. 2 Bull, de la Soc. Clinique de Paris, 1881. Th6se de Paris, “Des complications des fractures de la clavicule, et en particulier de la blessure du poumon,” 1881. 1 New England Medical Monthly, March 15, 1883. 6 Op. cit., p. 757. 6 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 766 ; Am. ed., vol. i. p. 846. 7 Considerations sur les Fractures de la Clavicule. Paris, 1867.