99 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. the tendon of origin of the muscle ; while most of the remainder of its length is simply interposed between the trapezius and deltoid. The connection of the pectoralis major with it is only accessory. The only muscle which acts directly upon the clavicle itself is the subclavius, and the function of this is rather to limit the mobility of the clavicle, than to impress motion upon it. Fractures of the clavicle are among those of most frequent occurrence. They are met with at all ages, even in intra-uterine life. In children they are very common; out of 316 cases of fracture treated at the Children’s Hospital in Philadelphia, in seven years, the clavicle was affected in 94, or nearly 30 per cent. Between the ages of 15 and 65, according to Malgaigne, the frac- tures of this bone form about one-quarter of the whole number; and only one-fourth of the patients are females. At a more advanced age, however, he noted that eleven out of eighteen cases were those of women. By most authors, fractures of the clavicle are divided into those of the inner, middle, and outer thirds of the bone. This, although a convenient arrangement, is not strictly accurate, as some oblique fractures, which occupy the outer portion of the inner third, in part, traverse both this and the mid- dle third. I prefer to speak of fractures of the body of the bone, of those near the sternal end, and of those near the acromial extremity. Fractures of the body of the bone, which may concern the middle third only, or may encroach also upon the inner or more rarely upon the outer third, are by far the most numerous. They are very generally oblique, although occasionally nearly or even quite transverse. Coynpound fractures of the clavicle are almost never met with, unless they become so secondarily by a sharp fragment penetrating the skin, which hap- pens extremely seldom; and they are not often comminuted, at least to such a degree as to influence the result. Incomplete fractures of this bone have, however, been repeatedly observed, and not a few instances in which, the periosteum being untorn, the fragments have remained in place. Several such, occurring in young subjects, have been recorded by Blandin1 and Robert,2 and a number are quoted by Malgaigne from different authors. Hamilton mentions several seen by himself in adults; one of his patients, a woman, was eighty years old. A number of such cases are on record, in which the fact of fracture has been unrecognized until after the occurrence of union. Fractures of the clavicle may be caused by direct force, as by a blow, by the recoil of a gun, by the fall of a heavy body upon the shoulder; by indirect force, as by a fall on the point of the shoulder, or upon the hand ; or by mus- cular action, as by the effort to pull down the brace of a carriage-top,3 or in striking a blow with a whip.4 In inquiring into the mechanism of the production of fracture under either of these conditions, it must not be forgotten that the inner or sternal end of the bone is firmly fixed, and that, as before stated, the range of motion of the acromial end is but limited. There is another anatomical fact, pointed out by me many years since,6 which I believe to be of much importance in con- nection with this subject. It is the close relation which often subsists between the clavicle and the first rib; by reason of which, when the outer end of the former bone is forced downward, the bone itself becomes a lever of the first order, the rib being the fulcrum. In some persons the upper part of the thorax comes much more nearly to a point than in others, the arch of the 1 Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences, April, 1843 ; from Journal de Med. et de Cliir. Pratiques, Juillet, 1842. 2 Ibid., Jan. 1859 ; from L’Union Mddicale. 3 Hamilton, op. cit., p. 193. 4 Parker, New York Journal of Medicine, July, 1852. 6 New York Medical Journal, Oct. 1866.