53 GENERAL TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. Dressing the Fracture.—Reduction having been effected, with the aid of an anaesthetic if necessary, the next thing is to secure the fracture, so that the healing process shall go on undisturbed, with the broken ends in their restored relation. Countless contrivances have been brought forward for this purpose, some costly and complicated, some cheap and simple. I have no hesitation in advising against the use of the former. The best results can be obtained with the simplest means, applied with such dextei’ity as every sur- geon ought to have, with a clear idea of the object in view, and watched with conscientious care. Without such intelligent skill and care, the most elabo- rate and expensive apparatus may fail to answer the purpose. Splints and bandages are very extensively used in the treatment of frac- tures. Various materials are used for the former: wood, binders’board, leather, felt, tin, sheet-zinc, wire-netting, and wire frames. Of these, wood has been most extensively employed, generally thin strips of white pine or deal, which should be shaped to fit the limb in every case. Scarcely any of the carved splints sold in the shops are suitable for use, as they are not made with a proper knowledge of anatomy, and must be altered by the surgeon. Dr. Jacob, of Dublin,1 recommended strips of the bark of trees, cut when the sap was rising, for splints for fractures (in children especially); and Dr. Grant,2 of Ottawa, Can., speaks highly of spruce shavings as a material for the same purpose. Binders’ board, cut in the requisite shape, and softened in hot water, may be moulded so as to fit well, and becomes very hard on drying; and the same may be said of gutta percha, of thick leather, and of felt. Tin is much less manageable, but can be adapted to some cases, if the surgeon can succeed in giving the proper measurements to the tin-smith. Sheet-zinc has no special advantage over tin, although M. Raoul Deslong- champs has extolled its virtues in a volume of several hundred pages. Wire netting is sold in sheets, and can be cut with suitable pliers; but it is gene- rally prepared for use by the addition of a thick wire frame around the edges. Wire splints can be better described in connection with the special fractures for which they have been most extensively employed. Splints, of whatever material, should always be of exactly the proper size and shape. If too small, the edges may cut into the skin; if too wide, and especially if loosely put on, they will not give due support to the limb, nor prevent the displacement of the fragments. When wood, binders’ board, or gutta percha is used, it is a good plan to bevel the edges all around, at the expense of the inner face, lest they should come in contact with the skin and irritate it, in spite of the most careful padding. Bandages are best made of unbleached muslin, of medium weight, not too closely woven. They may be from two to three inches wide, and about six yards in length. They are rolled up for use, as described in the article on Minor Surgery.3 In former times, a custom prevailed of applying what was known as an “ immediate” bandage to a fractured limb, in order, as was supposed, to pre- vent muscular contraction. This custom has now been generally abandoned, although it is still followed by some practitioners; it never can do any good, and may do much harm. For the purpose of protecting the skin, and better adapting the pressure of the splints to the irregularities of the surface, padding is always employed. Raw cotton is the material generally chosen ; it should be clean, fresh, evenly torn, and in sufficient quantity. Carded wool answers quite as well, and even better if it cannot be frequently changed, as it does not become lumpy and sodden 1 Am. Journ. of Med. Sciences, Jan. 1847 ; from Dublin Med. Press. 2 British Med. Journal, Jan. 14, 1882. 3 See Vol. I. p. 483.