TUMORS. 588 appearance. In some instances the middle lobe becomes enlarged out of pro- portion to the general hypertrophy, and projects at the orifice of the urethra so as to obstruct or even completely prevent the passage of urine. Dis- tinct spherical or spheroidal tumors may, however, occur in the prostate, and many of the conditions which look like general hypertrophies or con- tinuous outgrowths prove on examination to contain circumscribed tumors. The entire uterus may he enlarged in like manner with the prostate, but the rule is inverse for the two organs, for discontinuous or distinct tumors are proportionally much more numerous than general enlargements of the uterus. Many of the tumors of the uterus project into the interior of the organ in the form of polypi, large, fleshy, and with thick stalks. Others lie in the substance of the uterine wall, as circumscribed, spherical, or spheroidal tumors, encap- suled, and perfectly separate from the tissues of the womb. A third set project on the outer surface of the uterus beneath the peritoneum, where they some- times form tumors of considerable bulk; these, too, may assume the form of polypi. The uterus may be the seat of multiple tumors, and even where only one tumor exists, there is often great hypertrophy of the uterine wall, not only in the immediate vicinity of the tumor, but throughout. The muscular tumors of the oesophagus and stomach, and those of the intestines, project on the outer, or more frequently the inner, aspect of the wall of the tube, and sometimes, in the oesophagus especially, form large polypoid growths. Appearance after Removal.—The consistence of myomas varies from an almost scirrhous hardness to that of the softer fibrous (fibro-cellular) tumors. Those of the prostate are generally firm, and sometimes hard; but those of the uterus may be either firm or soft. On section, the general aspect of the typical muscular tumors so closely resembles that of the most typical fibrous tumors, that the difference cannot be distinguished. Glistening bands of fibres, interlacing and anastomosing, comprise the greater portion of the growth in either case. The vascularity of the firmer sorts is not great; from a study of injected specimens it would appear almost null, for, while the wall of the uterus around the tumor is deeply reddened, the tumors are scarcely stained with the injection. Microscopic Appearances.—The muscle-cells of muscular tumors resemble those of the organs in which they grow, but are often larger. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 6.) They are arranged in bands or trabeculae, which usually present a wavy aspect; but the appearance is widely different from that of wavy fibrous tissue. Even if it were impossible to distinguish the muscle-cells and elongated nuclei, the general aspect of the trabeculae is so coarse, and the waves are so angular, that the two tissues could not be confounded. Mingled with the muscle-fibres are round and oval cells, and even the purest myomas contain a small proportion of fibrous tissue. Most myomas, indeed, contain a large alloy of fibrous tissue. Metamorphoses and Combinations.—Whether as the result of the admix- ture with fibrous tissue, or owing to the special liability of muscular tissue under certain conditions to calcify, these tumors occasionally undergo partial or complete calcareous metamorphosis. The change seems almost limited to the tumors of the uterus. That it is connected with the age and certain conditions of the growth, is probable, far more probable than that it depends on the patient’s age, for tumors of the prostate, even in the oldest men, rarely calcify. Ossification of a muscular tumor has been described. Cys- toid cavities are formed by a process of softening of the tissue of the tumor in some of the softer varieties of muscular tumor, and the largest specimens