EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 493 pubis, have, accordingly, been safely removed. As pointed out by Mr. Han- cock, there is no danger that the pelvic cavity may be opened in these opera- tions, since its inner wall, formed of muscles and fasciae which are thickened and infiltrated with lymph, constitutes an efficient barrier to forbid the pos- sibility of such an event. The after-treatment of hip-joint excision is a very simple affair; free drain- age must be provided for the wound, which should be closed with a few sutures and lightly dressed with oiled lint, covered with oiled silk, and the patient should be kept in bed for a few weeks, with the limb well abducted, so as to obviate any tendency to protrusion of the sawn end of the femur. Moderate extension should be made by means of a weight—from two to ten pounds, according to the age of the patient—which may be adjusted with the ordinary adhesive-plaster stirrup, employed in cases of fractured thigh, while lateral support is afforded by the apposition of sand-bags which should be covered with India-rubber cloth to prevent their becoming soiled by the discharges. The plan which I adopt is to place a bunch of oakum outside of the immediate dressing of the wound, and then put under the patient’s hips and thigh a folded sheet or “slip-sheet,” which is brought up between the patient’s side and the outer sand-bag, so as to prevent the latter from coming in immediate contact with the limb. When the dressings are to be renewed, the weight is raised Fig- 718. and the sand-bags are carefully lifted away, and while one assistant keeps up the extension, another gently rolls the patient on bis sound side, when the wound can be cleansed and the fresh dressings adjusted with a minimum of disturbance. Prof. Sayre places the patient, immediately after the operation, in a some- what formidable-looking wire “cuirass” (Fig. 718) modelled upon Bonnet’s apparatus, which is padded to prevent excoriation, and provided with screws for making extension; but the simple appliances which I have described are so satisfactory that I have never felt disposed to employ any other. As soon as the wound is sufficiently consolidated— usually in six or eight weeks—the patient should be allowed to sit up, and then to get about with crutches, or with one of the ingenious splints which have been devised for the treatment of hip-disease, and several of which have been figured in Mr. Barwell’s article on Diseases of the Joints.1 The surgeon should not hastily abandon the hope of success, even if the wound do not unite promptly, and though suppuration continue profuse. Unless there be serious visceral disease at the time of, or de- veloped subsequent to, the operation, careful dressing and judicious constitutional and hygienic treatment will almost always suffice to bring about ultimate re- covery. Re-excision has occasionally been practised with advantage in these cases, and if the patient’s powers of recuperation seem to be failing, the question of amputation may be properly entertained. As may be seen by the table on page 502, that operation lias under such circumstances resulted favorably in at least . Sa.yre’8. “ ct™s’” f°r after- seventeen out ot thirty-one cases in which it has been excision, resorted to. 1 See Figs. 665-669, pp. 395-397.