INJURIES OF THE BACK. 686 Med. and Surg. History, etc., Second Surgical Vol., p. 432. diet should generally be allowed; and, not unfrequently, wine, bitter ale, porter, or alcoholic liquors should also be prescribed. But the most impor- tant of all the points concerned in treating this group of injuries, consist in promptly removing all foreign bodies, in dressing the wounds antiseptically, and in draining them thoroughly by passing appropriate velvet-eyed India- rubber tubes of suitable size into them deeply, or completely through them, which is still better. When arterial bleeding occurs in this group of injuries, to such an extent as to constitute surgical hemorrhage, the wounds should not be stuffed with plugs soaked in ferric persulphate or perchloride solutions, neither should these liquids be injected into them, for both proceedings are worse than useless in such cases; on the contrary, the bleeding vessel should be promptly exposed to view at the place of injury, by enlarging the wound itself or by direct incisions, and then it should be tied with two ligatures, one of them being applied on each side of the aperture in its tunics; and, dually, it should be completely divided midway between the ligatures, so that both ends may retract, and thus considerably lessen the liability to return of the hemorrhage. Instructions on this point of treatment are by no means idle or unnecessary, for during the late civil war (as has already been stated) no less than thirty-three fatal cases of secondary hemorrhage from flesh- wounds of the back, inflicted by small-arm missiles, were reported by our military surgeons.1 It is advisable, however, to add that 'parenchymatous hemorrhages from flesh-wounds of the back, when due to occlusion by coagulated blood (throm- bosis) of the veins proceeding from the injured part, or to any other cause, must sometimes be treated by covering the raw or granulating surface from which the blood is exuding, with compresses of lint thoroughly wetted with a solution of persulphate or perchloride of iron; but arterial hemorrhages must not be treated in this manner. Sprains, Twists, and Wrenches op the Back. The several bones which compose the vertebral column, that is, the true vertebrae themselves, together with the sacrum and coccyx, are united to each other, and to the bones that lie in contact with them, by ninety-nine joints or articulations. All of these joints are more or less susceptible of motion. In some of them, however, the degree of mobility is but slight, as for instance, in the sacro-coccygeal articulation; in others, it is very considerable, as for example in the occipito-atloid and atlo-axoid articulations. The several bones which constitute the vertebral column are likewise strongly bound together by ligaments, a considerable proportion of which are elastic. A brief enumeration of these ligaments may aid us materially to comprehend the efl'ects of sprains, wrenches, and jars of the vertebral column: (1) The lenticular disks of intervertebral substance, interposed between the bodies of all the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, perform not only the office of liga- ments, but they also have elastic properties, which enable them to act in a manner not very unlike that of India-rubber buffers, when placed between the cars of a railway train, in obviating the injurious effects of jars and shocks upon the vertebral column itself, and upon the organs contained in the spinal canal. (2) The anterior and posterior common ligaments likewise bind together the bodies of the vertebrae. (8) The ligamenta subflava gird together the arches of each pair of vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. These liga- ments are also elastic; and by means of their elasticity, they counteract the