DISEASES OE THE JOISTS. 332 Treatment.—The treatment of gout must vary according to its stage, whether acute or chronic, and both forms of treatment must be modified according to the more sthenic or more debilitated condition of the patient. A fit of acute, sthenic gout, especially if such attacks have not frequently recurred, may be treated with a saline purgative, combined with twenty or thirty minims of the wine of colchicum, or, if the skin show any icteroid tinge, the draught may be preceded for two hours by a mercurial, such as gray powder, blue pill, or even calomel, if the discoloration be well marked and the bodily power considerable. It not unfrequently happens that just before being seen, the patient, previously suffering comparatively slight and vague pains, will have eaten a full meal, after which the attack may have culminated. In such a case, the safest and most efficacious remedy is an immediate emetic of potassio-tartrate of antimony and ipecacuanha wine, followed, when the stomach has sufficiently reposed, by a smaller dose of the purgative. At this time, at all events, opiates should be avoided, as they diminish the action of the kidneys; but if the pain be violent, a small dose of the compound ipecacuanha powder may be given, or a quarter of a grain of morphia may be injected under the skin. I have, however, often found that Potassii bromidi gr. xx. Liq. atropias salycilatis x. acts as an excellent anodyne, procures sleep, and enables us to avoid the evils of opium or its alkaloid.1 Chloral, though valuable in mere restlessness, is powerless against pain. "When the fever is high, and the local inflammation considerable, the tincture of aconite, in the dose of one minim every hour or every two hours, has often, in my hands, proved very beneficial. In less severe cases so powerful a drug may be avoided. By the patient’s side, or in charge of his attendant, should be left some doses of the effeiwescing citrate of potassium, of which, with plenty of water, he may drink freely during the night; it will not merely slake thirst, but will act on the kidneys and on the skin. For the next few days somewhat similar treatment must be continued; colchicum should as much as possible be spared, since it certainly has a ten- dency to provoke or hasten recurrence ; yet when the pain is violent and of a peculiar “ bursting” character, it may be impossible to avoid its use altogether; ten minims twice during the day, and at bedtime, unless violent pain recur, when the last dose may be doubled, should fully suffice. It may be given with the effervescing citrate of potassium, with bicarbonate of potassium, or if one have faith in them, with the preparations of lithium. The bowels should be kept freely open with salines, and plenty of fluid should be taken. In the mean time food must be limited almost entirely to bread-stuffs and milk; all wines and beer must be strictly forbidden, but if digestion will not go on comfortably without some stimulant, a little old whiskey in some effer- vescing water may be allowed. In a few days more, when the urgency of the attack and the fever are abating, or from the first if the patient be feeble, some light fish may be added to this diet. The local treatment during this time must be guided by the sthenic or asthenic condition of the patient, and by the amount of inflammation. With some very strong persons much relief is obtained by the application of from two"to four leeches over the inflamed joint. In feebler persons, a blister 1 The liquor atrophe salicylatis is thus made : Take of atropia 5 grains, and of salicylic acid 71- grains, rub the atropia to a very fine powder, and then little by little rub with it the salicylic acid. Add slowly 10 fluidounces of hot, distilled water. The whole must dissolve, and the solution must measure, or be filled up to, ten fluidounces.