82 INJURIES OF BONES. omitted the qualification. One case only has been reported1 in which reco- very is claimed to have occurred after lesion of this part of the larynx; I have seen a French translation2 of the account, which is too vague, and apparently too inaccurate, to weigh against the mass of testimony on -the other side. (Possibly this gloomy condition of affairs might be changed by the very early performance of tracheotomy). Unfavorable indications are, in any case: great interference with breathing, severe cough, marked cya- nosis, and free spitting of blood. When recovery takes place, the voice is apt to be permanently altered. As to treatment, anodyne fomentations and poultices, the latter made of light materials, may be used locally, to allay irritation. Uo compresses, or other confining apparatus, should be employed, as they would only still further embarrass respiration. Opiates may be given by the mouth if swal- lowing is not very difficult. Absolute silence and rest in bed should be enjoined, and a warm and moist atmosphere should be provided by the usual means. For a few days, at least, the patient should be fed by enemata. I think that the invariable rule should be to contemplate from the very first the probability that tracheotomy may become necessary, and to arrange for its immediate performance should the breathing become increasingly difficult. Fo case of this kind can be safely left unwatched; and unless, as in a well- ordered hospital, aid can be instantly rendered in case of need, it would be the best practice to open the trachea at once, in anticipation of trouble. Fractures of the Ribs, Costal Cartilages, and Sternum. For a reason already stated, fractures of the vertebrae are given considera- tion elsewhere; and the subject now to be taken up embraces the fractures of the lateral and anterior portions of the wall of the thorax. In order to a full understanding of these injuries, the anatomy should be carefully studied, not only of the separate bones, but of the framework as a whole, and as covered in great part by muscular and other structures. It will be seen that the seven upper ribs are attached, not rigidly, but nearly so, both posteriorly and anteriorly; the next three have in front a greater degree of motion, by reason of the length of the cartilaginous branches which run up to give them an indirect connection with the sternum; while the eleventh and twelfth are merely tipped with cartilage. Each rib has an angle, a curve, and a twist; and the mobility of the walls of the chest is the aggregate of that of all the constituent ribs. The sternum has a mobility dependent chiefly on the elasticity of the ribs and their cartilages. Fractures of the Ribs.—The ribs may be broken by direct or indirect violence, or by muscular action. They are, in children, extremely elastic, and are not often fractured in them except by very great crushing force. Holmes3 quotes the opinion of Coulon, that incomplete fractures of the ribs are very common in childhood. One case is mentioned by the latter author, in which a child, who died of rupture of the lung, was found to have sus- tained partial fracture of two or three ribs on each side. It is highly probable that in many cases in adults, supposed to be mere contusions, one or more ribs may have given way in a part only of their thickness. Mention has 1 In the Index Medicus for Aug. 1882, the reference is given as follows : “ Masucci (P.) Su di un caso di frattura della cricoide, seguito da guarigione. Arch. Ital. di Laringol., Napoli, 1881-2.” 2 In the Revue Mensuelle de Laryngologie, etc., 1 Nov. 1882. * Surgery, its Principles and Practice, p. 219, note.