123 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 3 British Med. Journal, March 17, 1883. under his care, which had been treated for fracture for twenty-six days, when it was discovered that the head of the humerus was in the axilla. No effort was made at reduction. One other case, which had occurred in the Pennsyl- vania Hospital, reported by Ilartshorne, is referred to, as well as others recorded by Houzelot, Dupuytren, Earle, Peyrani, and A. Cooper. Walton1 has reported the case of a man, aged 48, in whom a fracture of the neck of the humerus was treated, but a dislocation downward was not recognized for ten weeks. Union of the fracture had then occurred, but the displaced head of the bone gave great pain. The reduction was effected by extension con- tinued for three-quarters of an hour, the whole arm being very carefully and firmly put up in splints beforehand. “ A good deal of local and general disturbance followed, but at the end of three weeks passive motion was com- menced, and at the end of six weeks the arm could be used nearly as well as the other.” The symptoms of separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus are often somewhat obscure. There is pain and loss of power, with some swell- ing ; and a rather rough ridge is apt to be felt across the front of the joint, at which crepitus is more or less distinctly felt on rotating the arm. In the few cases which I have seen, the ridge has been less prominent than it is repre- sented by Ii. W. Smith in his work; it is due to the projection forward of the edge of the lower fragment. The degree of mobility is not great, and the crepitus conveys an idea of smoothness of the surfaces in contact as compared with those of an ordinary fracture. In making the diagnosis, the age of the patient is an important point to be considered. Fractures of the surgical neck of the bone are, as a general rule, easily recognized; besides total loss of power in the limb, free preternatural mobility, and distinct crepitus, the exact line of the fracture can often be made out by feeling. Sir A. Cooper has represented2 3 a double fracture in this region, but gives no history of the case. Such an injury, probably due to great direct violence, would not be likely to offer any special difficulty in diagnosis, unless the swelling of the soft parts were excessive. Fractures of the upper portion of the humerus for the most part unite readily, with the exception of those in which there is displacement of the head of the bone from the glenoid cavity. Even when the change of rela- tion between the fragments is most marked, as in the instances before quoted from Gross and R. W. Smith, consolidation seems to have occurred in every instance. And, as a rule, the usefulness of the limb is in great measure regained, although the mobility of the shoulder-joint is of necessity impaired, either as a result of inflammation, or by the change of the points of attach- ment of the muscles, or by the substitution of some portion of one or other fragment for the head of the bone, in contact with the glenoid cavity. Son-union is, however, occasionally met with, as in a case recently reported :a A girl, aged twenty, had the surgical neck of the right humerus fractured three times, twice by direct violence, and the third time by the stress put upon it in drawing on a tight boot; the fragments remaining ununited, “ Mr. Croly cut down on the fracture under the spray, drilled the ends of the bones, and wired them. The case was not a favorable one for the operation, inasmuch as the periosteum was separated to a considerable extent, and the ends of the bones were widely apart. Necrosis setting in, and extensive suppuration and hectic threatening the patient’s life, amputation was de- cided on.” The patient was doing well at the time of the report. 1 Lancet, Oct. 30, 1868. 2 Treatise on Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, p. 433. London, 1842.