FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. 151 raent was entirely absorbed, so that the fractured olecranon was drawn up by the tri- ceps, the power of extending the elbow was almost lost, and the limb became wasted and useless.” The time required for the union, whether fibrous or bony, of a fractured olecranon, must vary somewhat, especially in the former case. About six weeks may be stated as the average period. When the fragments are united by bone, the strength of the limb is soon regained, and less caution is needed than if they are joined by fibrous tissue only. Such cases as that of Mr. Mayo, just quoted, are extremely rare; yet the stretching of newly-formed ligament may impair greatly a result which, it the tissue had time to gain strength, would be satisfactory. Anchylosis of the elbow-joint sometimes follows fracture of the olecranon, and the chance of its occurrence, although remote, is one which ought always to be borne in mind. Some degree of stiffening is very common, but usually disappears without special treatment; it depends upon the thickening and contraction of the fibrous tissues about the joint, as well as upon loss of tone in the muscles from want of exercise. When adhesions occur within the joint, they may be the result of inflammation due to the severity of the original injury; but there can be no doubt that they may be also occasioned by injudicious treatment, and that they are very apt to end in fixation of the parts. The means of avoiding this very unpleasant issue will be presently discussed. The treatment of fracture of the olecranon consists in placing the arm in such a position as to facilitate bringing the fractured surfaces in contact, and confining it so until union shall have taken place. When there is very little separation the surgeon’s task is simplified, as it is also by the absence of high inflammatory action in the joint. Yet it must be remembered that without the further advantage of proper care, stretching of the fibrous tissues connect- ing the fragments may take place, and the ultimate result be unsatisfactory. For the first few days the arm should be laid in an easy position, with the elbow well extended, and means taken to allay any inflammation that may arise. I do not think that anything is gained by bringing the upper fragment down until all effusion into the joint has subsided ; but, after this, the earlier and the more completely it is done the better. Of course, if no inflammation is set up, and the joint does not swell, there is no reason for waiting. Modern surgeons are agreed that the best, results are obtained by placing the forearm at a very obtuse angle with the arm, and keeping it so by means of an anterior splint. The splint should extend well up towards the shoulder, and far enough down to thoroughly control the forearm ; I think it should go down into the palm of the hand, so as just to allow of flexion of the fingers. An ordinary roller, snugly applied, suffices to keep it in place. As to the material for the splint, it may be of wood, binders’ board, or felt; tin, which answers very well when properly shaped and fitted, has the great advantage of not adding much to the bulk of the limb, and thus of allowing a loose sleeve to be slipped over it. Some surgeons employ the plaster-of-Paris or starched bandage, but I can- not see that it is of any especial use in these cases. A skilfully applied roller will remain in perfect efficiency for three or four days, and the whole appar- atus should be removed at least as often as this, for the purpose of ascertaining the condition of the parts. Various devices have been employed or recommended for the purpose of preventing the retraction upward of the upper fragment in these cases. Figure-of-8 turns of a bandage, with or without the previous application of a compress, have often been used. Hervez de Chegoin1 employed with success Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1848 ; originally in the Gaz. des Hopitaux.