DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 278 The treatment of dry synovitis must be conducted on somewhat different principles ; the very painful nature of the disease indicates opium, and this drug or its derivatives, alone or in combination, may be freely administered, either by hypodermic injection, or as a remedy by the mouth. Nepenthe is, as I have on more than one occasion observed, a very valuable and efficacious preparation. According to the state of the skin and urine, dia- phoretics, diuretics, and alkalies, especially ammonia, may he exhibited, and I believe myself to have found some advantage in colchicum, com- mencing with a rather full dose, and continuing it in smaller quantities. The food should be sufficient in amount (patients have usually fair appetite), but not stimulating; farinaceous articles, fish, and eggs, are better than meat. It is in most cases desirable to allow a certain amount of alcohol, either as wine, or, better still, in the form of old whiskey, given with an effervescent water. I have twice used the portable-lamp vapor bath; in both cases the skin was very dry and irresponsive to the action of internal diaphoretics, and in both cases benefit resulted, the patients enjoying some hours’ tranquil sleep. The local treatment must be conducted on the same lines. Rest on or in a well-fitting splint must be enforced ; but also I believe it to be of great im- portance to keep the skin of the part moist and warm. For this purpose poultices, sprinkled with laudanum ; or compresses steeped in liquor opii and water, in equal parts; or, again, equal proportions of glycerine and freshly prepared extract of belladonna, are useful. Ease is obtained in some cases by applying very hot fomentations, fresh and fresh stupes of flannel wrung out of very hot water being constantly alternated, so as to keep the one on the part constantly very hot. Cold and counter-irritants, in these cases, are, in my experience, useless if not injurious. When the extreme pain which marks the early days of the attack has been somewhat subdued, care must be taken that the joint does not become anchylosed, and, with this object in view, it is well to take the limb from the splint, and very gently to move the part. If pain he produced, such efforts must be postponed to some near future; but movement is often quite or nearly painless, and it should then be continued slowly for a few minutes, when the splint must he replaced, the same manoeuvre being repeated at intervals. Rubbing may also be advantageously made use of. When the immediate, acute symptoms are subdued, they are not liable to return under such treatment cautiously applied. Suppurative Synovitis. A joint may inflame and suppurate in various ways; in some instances, and more especially with children, all the structures seem to be simultaneously involved in suppuration. The disease, in such cases, really begins, as we shall see hereafter, in the epiphyseal ends of the bones. Again, pus in the cavity of a joint may originate in pyremic blood-poisoning, following, for instance, parturition, certain fevers, or urethral irritation. All these cases are to be distinguished from the disease now under consideration, which is entirely local, and which consists in an inflammation, confined at first and for some time to the synovial and perisynovial tissues, running on rapidly to the forma- tion of pus in those parts, and not involving, until subsequently, the harder constituents of the joint. The most characteristic picture of the disease is usually presented by those examples which follow direct wounds, but equally typical forms may follow other kinds of injury. Histologically, the distinction between purulent and suppurative synovitis is the greater thickness of tissue involved. In the