SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OE THE BACK. 697 the disorder receives no treatment whatever, or at best is very inadequately treated, then the inflammatory process is quite liable to become chronic and suppurative in character, and, in the end, to destroy the vertebral articula- tions involved, just in the same way as the joints of the extremities are de- troyed by disease under similar circumstances. It is this chronic or consecu- tive disorder of the vertebral articulations, that not unfrequently results from sprains and twists, or wrenches, of the vertebral column, which we have now to consider. It is, perhaps, more often met with in cases where the symptoms of injury originally are not severe, than in cases where they are strongly marked; for, in the latter instance, the severity of the symptoms themselves will be apt to secure that thoroughness and sufliciently long continuance of treatment which is indispensable for recovery. However this may be, it nevertheless is certain that this disorder not unfrequently appears in cases where the symptoms of vertebral injury have been originally by no means severe; and sometimes, too, in cases where the symptoms of vertebral injury have been comparatively slight at the outset, so that the disastrous conse- quences have unexpectedly ensued. When the articulations of the spine that have been damaged by sprains, etc., are occupied by chronic inflammation, they are liable to exhibit at first gradually increasing tumefaction and indura- tion ; then indolent suppuration, like that which takes place in other joints that are similarly affected, and, finally, ulceration of the cartilages and caries of the vertebrae. Among the earliest symptoms in these cases, not unfrequently, are pains, located not in the spine itself, but in the parts supplied by the terminal branches of the sensory nerves which issue from the vertebral column at the seat of the Fig. 771. lesion, and give rise to the pains, because their filaments arc irritated by the inflamma- tory process going on in the intervertebral foramina through which they pass. Several examples have already been presented where disease of this sort, situated between the first and second cervical vertebrae, was attended by pains located* on the back part of the head, behind the ears, etc., because the occipitalis major and minor nerves with the auricularis magnus were irritated in this manner within the spinal column (see Fig. 770). In such cases, the pains due to the spinal disease are apt to be mistaken tor rheumatic pains, and to be maltreated accordingly. In like man- ner, pains at the pit of the stomach may be caused by diseases of the dorsal vertebrae, which irritate the sixth and seventh dorsal nerves (see Fig. 771). Mr. Hilton presents two examples which well illustrate this point. Both patients, however, made good recove- ries, by adopting rest as the chief remedial agent, and without applying anything to the dorsal region.1 Mr. Hilton also points out that these pains are almost always symmetrical, that is, alike on both sides of the median plane, when they arise from disorders in the lower cervical, dorsal, or lumbar vertebrae, whilst they often are uni- Side view of the chest and abdomen, showing the course of the sixth and seventh dorsal nerves. (Hilton.) Op. cit., pp. 48-50.