405 ANCHYLOSIS. Treatment of Anchylosis.—In order to advise whether joint-stiffness should be subjected to any treatment, many points have to be considered: (1) The inconvenience which the immobility produces. (2) The amount of advantage which any interference is likely to confer. (3) The severity of any operation necessary to produce adequate results. The decision of the first question must depend in part upon the importance, in part upon the position of the joint; for instance, stiffness of the hip is a matter of more importance than that of the knee, and more important than that of the ankle, while stiffness is of less importance at the shoulder than at the elbow, because mobility of the scapula so greatly compensates for fixity at the seapulo-humeral joint; but the locality of the stiff joint is of less moment than the posture in which it has been anchylosed.1 Thus, a shoulder fixed very close to the side, a straight elbow, a flexed wrist, a flexed hip or knee, are all very inconvenient; while the ankle fixed in any posture but such as allows the foot to lie at right angles to the leg is, according to the amount of its deviation, very awkward; therefore, to overcome joint-stiffness in any of these inconvenient postures, an operation may be advised of much greater severity than would be desirable for any of the joints in a less inconvenient position. Especially, too, must we take into consideration the worldly position and surroundings of the patient, whose usual occupations, whether for pleasure or livelihood, may be entirely prevented by fixity of a joint in some awkward and embarrassing posture. The problems with which the surgeon has to deal are these. In case of fixity in an inconvenient posture, can a better position be secured ? And whatever be the posture of fixity, can we give to the joint motion through certain limits without at the same time producing abnormal mobility? The answers to these queries depend, in part, on the joint affected, in part on the cause of stiffness. The relative ease with which these causes are overcome lie in this order: Most easy, other things being equal, is muscular shortening;2 next, perisynovial thickening and bands of adhesion; third, false anchylosis with long fibrous bonds; fourth, false anchylosis with short bonds; fifth, true anchylosis; and in the same order stands the possibility or probability of securing some mobility. Those joints in which the socket of the one bone does not much embrace or surround the head or condyle of the other, are more readily changed in position than others, and mobility is more easily con- ferred upon them; but such joints, the area of contact being small in pro- portion to the size of the articulating surface, are apt to be thrown by ill- directed force into subluxation, or to receive mobility in abnormal directions. We will, for the present, leave the methods of dealing with true anchylosis, and study the treatment indifferent articulations of other forms of joint-stiff- ness ; we shall then be in a better position to consider the sort of cases which may be subjected to those methods, and the cases which should be let alone. The general method of treatment, and the precautions to be observed, may be given thus: In mere contracture, section of tendons, muscles, or fascine, will be sufficient to allow replacement and mobility; but since some of the other causes of fixity are usually also present, it will be better to be always prepared for further interference. The patient should be completely under the influence of ether. If scars are situated on the side towards which the deformity inclines, they will have to be separated with a tenotome from underlying parts; if they are flat, and have a pretty even surface, this can be 1 In the preceding pages I have very frequently insisted on treating joint-diseases in a good position, bat the subject may here again be reverted to as being so extremely important, since the best posture for treating articular inflammation is also the most suitable should anchylosis occur. 2 Save in certain cases wheu the shortening muscle cannot safely be reached with the knife.