ANTERO-POSTERIOR CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. 909 the vertebra are somewhat wedge-shaped, being thin in front and thick behind. This latter change is due not to hypertrophy of the posterior segments of the bodies, but to absorption of their anterior parts, and involves a diminution in the proper height of the column. In cases of limited cyphosis, those vertebra alone are altered in shape that form the summit of the curve, but in the more extensive examples of the deformity a number of the vertebral segments may be involved. It is commonly asserted that, in extensive and long-standing forms of the disease, the spine may become fixed in its false position by anchylosis. I believe that all such cases of cyphosis, attended with bony outgrowths and anchylosis, are dependent upon chronic rheumatic arthritis, and are more properly to be considered under the head of spondylitis deformans. In confirmed and well-marked cyphosis, from whatever cause, there is usually some corresponding deformity in the thorax. The ribs, while some- what separated behind, tend to come more and more in contact in front, and the whole thorax tends to increase in its antero-posterior diameter at the expense of its transverse dimensions. If the curve be in the dorsal or dorso- lumbar region, the thorax may incline towards the pelvis, and the ribs be- come more vertical in direction. The sternum, being compressed in its vertical axis, becomes bent, and usually this bend is of such a nature as to present a concavity forwards. The pelvis may follow the spine, and become so vertical as to almost efface the sacro-vertebral angle, but more commonly it tends to assume rather the horizontal direction for compensatory purposes, and thus to increase rather than diminish the angle at its junction with the spine. Diagnosis.—The recognition of this deformity is attended with no diffi- culty. In the common, dorsal cyphosis the back is arched, the head poked forwards, and the chin turned towards the sternum. The shoulders are com- monly raised and unduly prominentia prominence that depends mainly upon the removal from the chest wall of the inferior angles and posterior borders of the scapulae. In severer cases, the entire back may be Rrched, and pro- gression and even standing may be impossible without some kind of arti- ficial support. In any case, backache is frequently complained of, and the constant false position may lead to or at least augment certain visceral troubles. Mr. Adams1 remarks that, in many instances, he has observed the cyphosis of young children to end in vertebral caries with angular projection of the spine. The diagnosis of this deformity from that due to Pott’s disease is, as a rule, a matter of simplicity. In cyphosis the curve is truly a curve, and not an angular prominence of one part of the spine. The curvature, more- over, is extensive and uniform. There is no muscular rigidity of the spine, but rather all the vertebral muscles are flabby, wasted, and relaxed. There is no tenderness about the part, no sign of abscess, no evidence of cord impli- cation. Cyphosis, moreover, is most common among the aged, at a period of life when Pott’s disease is comparatively unknown.2 Treatment.—Cyphosis in the young is, for the most part, readily cured, but in the old it depends, in nearly every instance, upon causes that are scarcely to be influenced by any treatment. In dealing with the spontaneous cyphosis of the young, it is necessary to remove, in the first place, the cause of the malady. Prolonged sitting or standing, or prolonged poring over books or work, must be forbidden. The general health should be, if possible, improved, and especial attention paid to the development of the muscular system. Out- door exercise should be enforced under certain restrictions, and gymnastic 1 Lectures on Curvature of tlie Spine. London, 1865, page 83. 2 See under Pott’s disease, infra.