INJURIES OF THE BACK. 866 In the following instance a trephine was applied for the same purpose :— Private H. F. Norcross, aged 20, was wounded in the right gluteal region, at Drury’s Bluff, May 16, 1864. The track of the ball was traced to the second segment of the sacrum, and the missile was apparently embedded deeply in the bone. On March 9, 1865, Dr. E. B. Lyon reported that u there was an open sinus on the right buttock communicating with the lodgment of the ball in the sacrum, and discharging freely. The constitutional condition was comparatively good. Ether was administered, and an oblique incision, six inches in length, was made, exposing the orifice in the sacrum. A trephine was then used to enlarge the orifice in the bone. The ball was divided and removed in seventeen parts. Simple dressings were applied.” The wound healed kindly. On July 10, he was discharged from the service and pensioned. In Septem- ber, 1873, he w'as still on the pension list, his disability being rated at one-half.1 For the removal of injured or diseased bone, or for the extraction of im- pacted projectiles, there were in all twenty-five operations performed during our civil war, in cases of shot fracture of the sacrum. In one instance, where the missile was discovered “ firmly embedded in the body of the sacrum, beyond the reach of forceps, it was extracted by means of a common ramrod, a piece of which remains in the bullet as when taken out.” The spe- cimen is represented by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 809). It is pre- served in the Army Medical Museum.2 Fig. 809. Showing a conoidal ball which was extracted from the saernm with a ramrod. (Spec. 1123, A. 51. M.) The most important points in the treatment of shot fractures of the sacrum are the following: (1) The removal of all foreign bodies, under which term all loose fragments of bone, all pieces of clothing and accoutrements, etc., as well as the missiles themselves, are included ; (2) the application of antisep- tic dressings to the wounds; and (3), the early and thorough use of Chassaig- nac’s drainage-tubes. By antisepsis and prompt drainage of the wounds the risk of pytemia and septicaemia will be greatly lessened. Any tendency to peritonitis or to inflammation of the spinal membranes, which may be evinced, must be combated by administering opium or morphia in full doses at short intervals. Should spinal meningitis supervene, it will require the exhibition of ergot and potassium iodide in full doses, as already pointed out. Simple Fractures of the Coccyx.—In the years 1859 and 1860,1 made the surgical examination of an old pensioner from the war with Great Britain, of 1812-15, whose disability had resulted from simple fracture of the os coccygis caused by the kick of a horse, and found that bone bent strongly forward and to one side, and rigid in that position. He stated that his injury was still the source of almost constant discomfort, that it always interfered with the act of defecation, and sometimes made it painful, and that it still made it impossible, most of the time, for him to sit while working at his trade of saddler and harness-maker. Professor Ashhurst3 mentions a case taken from the records of the Pennsylvania Hospital, in which there was fracture of the coccyx, as well as comminuted fracture of 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Vol., p. 251. * Ibid. 8 Op. cit., pp. 116, 117.