806 INJURIES OF THE BACK. liable to suffer injury during their passage through the intervertebral fora- mina. Such lesions were undoubtedly present in many examples of these fractures and dislocations which have been mentioned in the foregoing pages; but there is special ground for believing that such lesions were present in those cases of spinal fracture or dislocation where great pain was experienced by patients in the regions of body supplied by the spinal nerves which leave the spinal column at the seat of the displacement (e.y., in the walls of the abdomen at the pit of the stomach, when the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra is broken or displaced, etc.); for when the peripheral nerves in general are mechanically irritated in any part of their course, painful sensations or in- creased sensibility (hyperaesthesia) are usually produced in the parts where they terminate, and, when they are divided, these parts immediately become paralyzed, and their paralysis lasts until the severed nerves have grown to- gether again. The traumatic lesions which the spinal nerves most frequently sustain at the intervertebral foramina, are such prickings and scratchings of their com- ponent threads as cause pains (often severe), or increased sensibility, in the integuments and muscles of the back, where the posterior branches of the injured nerves are distributed, as well as in the integuments and muscles which are supplied by the anterior branches of the injured nerves. Some- times cramp and other signs of convulsive action are experienced in the parts supplied by the injured nerves. Occasionally the spinal nerves are severed by the displaced bones in cases of vertebral fracture or luxation, and then the parts supplied by them are at once deprived of all sensation, as well as of all power of both voluntary and reflex motion. Stromeyer mentions an interesting case in which the phrenic nerve must have been contused by a bullet, for during eight days great dyspnoea was present, and the patient was obliged to remain in a sitting posture; it was at first supposed that the lung had been injured, but there were no physical changes on the corresponding side of the chest.1 This matter of severe pain being felt in the peripheral extremities of the spinal nerves, when they are injured by fractures or dislocations of the spinal column, is beautifully illustrated by the case of a colored soldier of our army, who received from the conoidal ball of a Colt’s navy revolver, January 28, 1866, fractures of the spinous processes of the sixth and seventh dorsal ver- tebrae, laying open the spinal canal between these processes, and lacerating the cord; for he had great pain in the epigastric region, as well as complete paralysis below the seventh dorsal vertebra.2 Traumatic Inflammation of the Membranes and Substance of the Spinal Cord. There are at least two considerable errors which have been long and widely taught by surgeons in English-speaking countries, as well as in others, namely: (1) that when the vertebrae are displaced in luxations and fractures of the spinal column, no effort should be made to restore them to a normal position, that is, that a dislocated or broken spine should not be “ set(2) that when the spinal membranes and spinal cord, whether separately or collectively, are injured, they are by no means liable to take on inflammatory action, that is, that traumatic inflammation of the spinal cord-substance, and traumatic 1 Stromeyer, Gunshot Fractures etc. ; translated by S. F. Statham, p. 37. Am. ed. 2 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., August 17, 1871, p. 38.