ADENOMA OR GLANDULAR TUMOR. 029 with the normal glandular apparatus, and therefore with the gland-ducts. But the connection after a time was severed, although traces of it may be discovered in the slender cord which attaches some of these tumors to the gland from which they grow, and which contains an obliterated duct. All the glandular structures of which the tumor consists, are bound together by a small quantity of fibrous connective tissue, in which run the vessels, which are not very large or numerous. The tubular glandular tumors, of which ex- cellent specimens may be found in polypi of the rectum, consist of long tubes, each having a membrana propria and a single layer of regularly arranged columnar epithelium, inclosing a narrow central lumen. The tubes are often branched, and their disposition is not as regular as in the normal mucous membrane. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 4.) Whether they all open on the surface of the tumor, I am not sure, but 1 think it probable that many of them are exceed- ingly long, and strangely bent and twisted, and that their communication with the surface is by a very devious and indirect route. These tumors usually contain a larger quantity of fibrous connective tissue than the most typical racemose adenomas. Me tamorpiioses and Combinations.—In all, or almost all, these glandular tumors, even when the structure conforms most closely to the structure of the normal glands, there is noticeable one great defect: no preparation is made for the reception or bestowal of secretion which may be produced by the glandular apparatus. Fortunately, in the majority of the adenomas, how- evei perfect may be the existing apparatus, the glandular function is not called into play, and the amount of secretion is not large enough to produce any inconvenience. But in some of the glandular tumors of the breast, the salivary glands, and other parts, under some stimulus of uncertain character, fluid is secreted, not necessarily of the same nature as that which the gland normally secretes, but sometimes very abundantly. The inevitable result of this effusion into cavities from which no outlet, or only an inefficient outlet, exists, is to dilate the cavities; and in this manner are formed the cysts which are found in glandular tumors, especially in the racemose tumors, and more especially in those tumors in which the glandular tissue is largely com- bined with fibrous and other connective tissues. In these latter growths, the most singular appearances are produced by the tendency to the formation of cysts on the one hand, and the tendency to increase of the solid structures on the other hand. The two events occur simultaneously, or nearly so. The fibrous or mucous tissues immediately around the newly formed or primary cysts, growing, project into the interior of the cysts, sometimes as large spheroidal masses, often as polypoid excrescences. The cysts, therefore, are no sooner formed than they are partly filled by ingrowths of the surrounding solid struc- tures, covered, since they thrust the lining of the cyst before them, with epithelium in one or several layers. The largest cysts are often by this means subdivided into several cavities, which communicate more or less freely around and between the intracystic growths. If the effusion which led to cystic dilatation be arrested, and the solid tissues still continue growing, the cyst may be completely filled by intracystic growth. Xay, more, the intracystic growth may destroy and perforate the wall of the cyst, and, if the latter lie immediately underneath the skin, this gives way, and the intracystic growth protrudes as a fungous mass. Thus are produced some of the most charac- teristic of the cystic tumors of the breast—adenomas only in so far that they contain often a large quantity of glandular structure, and that the glandular structure exercises a marked influence on the general appearance of the tumors—but connective-tissue tumors in reality, since the capabilities of the tumors depend on the character of the connective tissue which they contain.