INJURIES OF BONES. 8 and about five fluidounces of liquid fat flowed out. Both of these patients suffered from pain referred to the convex side of the distorted bone. He thought that there was hypertrophy of the medulla at the expense of the bone proper. J. Cloquet1 says: “M. Esquirol possesses, in his anatomical collection, the skeleton of a rachitic female, in whom nearly all the bones of the limbs and trunk are covered with the traces of fractures more or less well united; seve- ral of them are broken in two, three, or four points of their length. These fractures, more than two hundred in number, appear to have occurred at different times, judging from the varying states of the callus.” It is not easy to say what was the real nature of this remarkable case, but it is scarcely likely that it was one of ordinary rachitis; more probably it belonged among the now recognized tropho-neuroses. As a general rule, when rachitic children survive the period of the second dentition, the skeleton acquires firmness, and even becomes remarkably dense and strong. Hence it might be questioned whether the adult cases just quoted should fairly be regarded as belonging under this head. But the condition known as mollities ossium, rnalacosteon, or osteo-rnalacia—“softening of the bones,” in plain English—would seem really to differ very little from that which in children goes by the name of rickets ; and Jacquemille’s patient may have simply passed from one into the other. Rickets, then, would be the mol- lities ossium of children, mollities ossium the rickets of adults ; an idea long ago suggested. But this view must not be too implicitly accepted, since in rickets, although the pathological changes noted in the bones are more those of sub- acute inflammation, there is little or no pain ; while in the mollities ossium of adults, a disorder in which fatty degeneration seems to be a very important element, the pains are excessive. The tendency of the former, under anything like favorable circumstances, is toward spontaneous cure; recovery from the latter has never yet been recorded. Of the published cases of mollities, the subjects have been for the most part females. In some, large amounts of phos- phates and of “animal matters” are said to have been excreted with the urine.2 Further reference need hardly be made to mollities ossium, especially as it is highly probable that the cases hitherto ranged under this head may he found to belong properly among the tropho-neuroses before spoken of, the changes connected with the bony skeleton being altogether subordinate to those affecting the central nervous system. Such would seem to be the ex- planation, in the light of the science of our day, of the classical cases recorded by Curling, Solly,3 Saviard,4 * and others. I ought, however, to remark that in some instances the softening is limited in extent; thus in a case reported by the late I)r. Neill,6 one femur only seemed to be affected. The theory of the neurotic origin of the disease is not here set aside, but we have simply to suppose that a portion only of the central nervous system has undergone pathological change, and that as a re- sult there is degeneration of that part of the skeleton which is dependent upon the tract so involved. Fragilitas ossium, or brittleness of the bones, differs from the already men- tioned predisposing causes of fracture in being not as much a disease as a 1 Article “Fractures,” Diet, de Medecine. Paris, 1824. 2 Solly, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. p.443 ; MacIntyre, ibid., vol. xxxiii. ; Chambers, ibid., vol. xxxvii. 3 Curling, Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xx. ; Solly, ibid., vol. xxvii. 4 Malgaigne, op. cit., tome i. p. 21 ; Translation, p. 33. 6 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1874.