REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. 869 Dr. James E. Garretson1 has proposed and successfully performed the operation of removing the coccyx without disturbing the perineal anatomy, by the employment of a dental engine. This operation was done at Penn Manor, on the person ot a lady who had suffered from coccygodynia for thirteen years. Exposure of the coccyx revealed it as fractured and stand- ing at right angles with the sacrum. Dr. Garretson’s proposition was to remove the bone by simple enucleation ; in other words, to remove the osseous tissue from its envelope of periosteum without disturbing the under layer thereof which is the surface of attachment for the soft parts constituting the posterior perineum, and, of course, without disturbing the relations of the structures which constitute the perineum itself. The operation was performed in the following manner:— The patient being etherized and placed partially upon her abdomen, an arm being under the body at the region of the diaphragm, to secure freedom in respiration, an incision was marie through the skin and superlicial fascia, the length of the coccyx. These tissues being carried to either side by means of retractors, a second incision was made through the periosteum, and by means of a chisel-shaped knife this structure was raised and everted. In this last is the peculiarity of the operation : it is as though one might cut down the centre of the upper surface of an envelope, exposing, in the turn- ing aside of the paper, a letter lying on the lower face of the envelope, the turned- aside upper part being of continuity with the bottom of the paper. A succeeding step employs the engine. A circular burr, the face side alone of which is cut, is placed in the grasp of the handpiece, and while in revolution to the extent of ten thousand times to the minute, is applied, with delicacy of manipulative touch, to the surface of the bone. In the case here recorded, five minutes sufficed for the disappearance of the coccyx in the shape of bone dust, the under face of the periosteum remaining as undis- turbed as though it had never been in relation with the coccyx. The wound, a super- ficial one, was put up to heal by first intention. I believe this operation to be a very good one, and therefore I have taken the space requisite to describe it. Remote Effects of Spinal Injuries, Railway Spine, etc. When fractures or dislocations of the spinal column eventuate in recovery, there occurs, as a rule, anchylosis, with immobility or inflexibility of the injured part of the column. Any vertebral displacement which may have been allowed to remain will constitute a deformity. Among the remote effects of spinal fractures and dislocations, anchylosis, stiffness or inflexi- bility, and deformity must therefore be enumerated. In cases where the cer- vical portion of the column has been thus injured, the inflexibility and defor- mity may cause much inconvenience in many ways, and may also interfere, seriously and persistently, with the act of swallowing. These points are well illustrated by the following case:— George Reid, aged 29, a tailor, was admitted into Bellevue Hospital (Dr. Stephen Smith’s Ward) on August 5, 1858, for cephalalgia, the result of an injury. He was short in stature, but well made and well nourished, and free from constitutional taint and tendency. Upon external examination, the fifth cervical vertebra, its spinous process, etc., were found displaced forward ; upon examination through the mouth, the body of this ver- tebra was felt projecting forward, and forming a large prominence in the pharynx. He was unable to swallow solid food to any considerable extent. This dysphagia and the necessarily awkward position in which he was forced to carry his head were the only 1 Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, March, 1882.