DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 384 Fig. 658. iliac crest lies in adduction further from the trochan- ter, the apparently shortened limb will measure longer that its fellow. We have still to show how a thigh can be flexed, while, nevertheless, in standing it is vertical, and in recumbency, horizontal. We take as our lines for estimating angles, one drawn from the anterior iliac spine to the tuber ischii, and the axis of the femur. In flexion, the anterior angle between these lines, a b c, is more acute than when the leg is extended; now to get the thigh vertical, and yet to maintain that angle, the pelvis follows the movement of the femur as the knee is brought back so as to lie close to the other, and the line a b becomes more horizontal; that is to say, Helatoirsline becomes horizontal as the axis of the femur becomes vertical. If the page be turned sideways, so that these figures are in the position of lying supine, and if the words horizontal and vertical be interchanged, the condition during recumbency will also be understood. shortening. Fig. 659. Fig. 660. Flexion of thigh on pelvis. Arching of lumbar spine to permit parallelism of limbs. It is important to observe that until these positions have lasted long enough to enable the muscles to become contractured, they can be entirely corrected under anaesthesia. These postures are produced by neuro-muscular phenomena, which have also certain other effects. Although the contraction of the flexors is greater than that of the extensors of the hip,1 while the abductors and adductors alternate in their predominance,yet the muscles which pass between the pelvis and thigh are, speaking generally, in a state of contraction. The various rotators press the head of the bone inwards, while the longer adductors, the rectus, and probably also the surals, force that part upward. The result thus produced is a mutual excessive pressure between the upper back part of the caput 1 Probably these latter are not contracted ; certainly the chief extensor, the great gluteal, is flaccid.