ANCHYLOSIS. 411 sometimes lies so low that, after very slight artificial straightening, the ante- rior edge of the tibia impinges against it. Such a mishap causes either cessa- tion of further extension, or subluxation. In cases of considerable flexion, especially if combined with a certain amount of posterior malposition of the tibia, the great danger of efforts at straightening is the production of posterior subluxation. This danger is due partly to tension of the tissues behind the joint, but, chiefly, I believe, to shortening of the anterior crucial ligament, which does not allow the upper end of the tibia to glide forward on the con- dyles during the act of rectification. When the slightest signs of this tendency appear, or, in other words, when the parts below the patella appear, while the leg is straightening, to become hollow instead of fuller, the movement must at once cease. Perhaps a little may still be gained by forcible downward traction from near the malleoli, or something further may be effected by placing a firm block behind the calf, and making pressure backward on the lower third of the thigh. Then the limb should be put up in plaster of Paris, and after a week or ten days another effort may be more successful. In cases which have been preceded by long disease, it is necessary to be cautious lest so much of the anchylosing tissue be torn that not merely antero- posterior, but also lateral mobility may be produced. When tenotomy is prac- tised, the punctures must not, as I have said, be in the popliteal space ; this is to obviate a rent of the skin across the back of the joint, but it must be remem- bered that, if flexion be considerable, this may occur, even if there be no wound, especially if there be several cicatrices in the neighborhood. Deeper parts, such as the artery, have also been torn by too energetic surgery. Ankle.—Method.—The ankle is often stiffened by tendinous or perisyno- vial adhesions, which may, as a rule, be overcome with little difficulty; but when fixity results from firm bands, or false anchylosis in the joint itself, the condition is very refractory, because the astragalus is so short, and because the tarsal articulations lie so near the ankle-joint, that it is not possible to get an advantageous hold on the bone. If the joint be so fixed that the foot lies at a right angle to the leg, it is better not to use much force to break down the bands; the other joints become, after a little time, so flexible that immo- bility between the tibia and astragalus produces but little inconvenience.1 But if the foot be considerably extended, more potent efforts are not merely justifiable, but desirable. In order to obtain a firmer hold, I am accus- tomed, in bad cases, to mould upon the sole a stout piece of poro-plastic felt, and to encase the foot in plaster of Paris and gum, taking care to leave space below and in front of the malleoli for flexion. A day or two after, the tendo Achillis is divided, and then with one hand at the heel, the other at the ante- rior part of the foot, flexion is carried out; but it must be remembered that, even with this contrivance, much of the force must fall on the calcaneo-sca- phoid joint. Considerable power may be used, but I am bound to say that, it the false anchylosis be close and firm, even great force may fail. Cautions.—Xo other tendon than the tendo Achillis should be divided ; none other is attached behind the ankle-joint, and nothing is gained by cutting others. It is imprudent to exercise much force without some such means as that above indicated, lest injury be done to some of the other joints, especially to the medio-tarsal. In case the deformity be distressing, and all justifiable 1 The mobility of the tarsus is so considerable that fixity of the ankle-joint itself is not always easily diagnosed ; if, however, the finger be pressed deeply in between the tip of the internal malleolus and the tibialis anticus, while an assistant alternately flexes and extends the foot, the head and neck of the astragalus will be found to move or to remain at rest according as the ankle- joint is free or anchylosed.