DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 368 such signs of tension as would induce most surgeons to perform paracentesis,1 and some few cases, in spite of the operation, still progress badly; this occurs chiefly when delay lias been prolonged until the soft parts of the joint have become diseased, or else when the osteitis has been unfortunately situ- ated close to the articular facet. When such' continued disease, from what- ever cause, occurs, the treatment resolves itself for a time into the main- tenance of rest and of good position, while, unless the limb be too painful, exercise in the open air is enforced. An abscess near the joint should be treated as soon as it is plainly detected, and best by free incision ; a probe or a finger may then be passed into the cavity, and an examination made. A circumscribed caries, if accessible, may be dealt with by the gouge; a sequestrum of similar character may be removed, even although not yet loose, if it be within reach of the instrument. If a part of it constitute some large portion of the joint-surface, I would the more insist on this practice, as affording freer exit to intraosseous pus and allow- ing earlier anchylosis, which, for a joint thus involved, is the best means of cure. In all other points, save that of ascertaining and thus actively treating the condition of the bone, the management of the latter stages of articular osteitis and of strumous synovitis are alike, and I would refer for details to page 314 et seq.; but it must be noted that the prognosis of articular disease com- mencing in the bone is, even in these late stages, worse than that of disease primarily synovial. If the osteitis have attacked one or more small bones, such as those of the carpus or tarsus, a device for removing the debris of caries necrotica may be employed, and sometimes with excellent results. In such cases, abscesses will have resulted in leaving either on one or both sides of the part, one or more sinuses, into which a probe being passed, impinges on carious or necrotic bone. The gouge is not as efficacious here as with joint-bones of larger size; but a mesh of prepared tow, oakum, or tenax, may be drawn through the diseased parts, only taking care to wound no important vessel or nerve, and to secure, where the fabric passes through the skin, openings wide enough to let the mesh lie quite loose and free. Every few days the big tenax seton is drawn a little through ; in a short time it entangles and brings away larger or smaller pieces of bone detritus, and after a time, when all have been removed,- healthy granulations arise from the sound bone left behind. In carrying out this method, it is very important to pass a seton along each and every diseased track, and to leave it in place until all the carious bone is removed, as otherwise the morbid condition will recur. During this treatment, one of the splints already described—and, to my mind, Dumbrowski’s is the best—is to be applied, and the patient is to be allowed to go about. If suppuration, with caries or necrosis, still persist, the surgeon has several very difficult problems wherewith to deal, depending upon the condition of general health and of the internal organs; he must frequently examine the lungs, and ascertain the presence or absence of cough, hectic, night-sweating, etc.; the size and condition of the liver and spleen must be constantly inquired into; and the urine must be from time to time examined for albumen and hyaline casts.2 If this examination afford no ground for anxiety, a careful estimate must be made of the tendency to get well, or of the possibility of inducing such a tendency, as also of the probable condition of the limb which 1 I resort to the operation whenever epiphyseal swelling is marked and starting pains com- mence early. 2 See pp. 361 and 365.