SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. 825 1 American Medical Times, June 1, 1861, pp. 359, 360. chiefly in exciting a persistent contraction of the bloodvessels in the parts where nutrition or secretion is morbidly altered, that the pressure on the cord acts. As it often happens that death, after a fracture or a luxation of the spine, is due to the slough formed on the nates, I think I must remark that a very good means of dilating the bloodvessels consists in exhausting their irritability by applications of powerful galvanic currents.”1 “ To complete the demonstration of the proposition that death after frac- ture of the spine is usually due to the effects of the excitation of the spinal cord by pieces of broken bone [by ecchymosis from contusion of its sub- stance, and by inflammation of its substance], and not to the results [merely] of a partial or complete section of this nervous centre, we will only say that there are many cases on record showing that a section or even a crushing of the spinal cord has not proved fatal [in man], and that in animals death is rarely caused by a partial or complete section of the cord in the dorsal region, while they die as quickly and as often as men after a fracture of the spine, if the broken pieces be not removed [and if myelitis, etc., be not prevented].”2 There is no doubt, then, that the eschars in question result not from mere division of the cord-substance, whether partial or complete, but from morbid excitation of that substance arising either from the irritation that is caused by the contact of foreign bodies, e. <7., splinters of bone and extravasations of blood, or from the inflammatory process acting upon its histological ele- ments, when it is aroused by the injury. This remarkable affection of the parts situated at the peripheral extremi- ties of the spinal nerves, which results mainly from central causes, Samuel has proposed to characterize by naming it Decubitus Acutus, and Charcot has accepted the appellation.3 Nevertheless, this term is far from being satis- factory,^^, because the term “decubitus” is commonly applied to the pos- ture of the patient in bed, which has generally but a small share in the production of the disease; and, secondly, because in some strongly marked examples on record, the “ decubitus” has had nothing whatever to do in causing the peripheral gangrene, as, for instance, in the following highly instructive case, which has already been several times referred to:— The late Dr. D. S. Conant4 presented to the New York Pathological Society, together with the osteological specimen, an account of an interesting case, in which the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebras were fractured, and the spinal cord severed by an osseous splinter from the laminae of the first lumbar. Within six days after the casu- alty, an immense, gangrenous blister formed on the inner side of each thigh without any apparent cause. A stout man, aged 55, was blown off from the rigging of a ship on which he was at work, by a high wind, on a certain Monday. He hit something in his descent and turned over, but finally struck heavily upon his shoulders. When taken up by his comrades, he was completely paralyzed in both lower extremities. Three days after- ward, Dr. Conant saw him in consultation, and found that there was complete loss of sensibility and motion below a certain well-defined line extending around his body. There was also noticed a posterior angular deformity of the spine at the dorso-lumbar junction, and Dr. Conant diagnosticated fracture with crushing of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, and with fx-agments of bone impinging upon the spinal cord. The patient went on very well until the Saturday following the injury, his mind remaining perfectly clear. On Sunday morning his physician noticed a large blister on the inner side of each thigh, and extending nearly the whole length thereof, uncon- nected with any previous local irritation. At four o’clock he had a chill, his mind till then having remained clear. But soon after be became delirious, and quietly died 1 Ibid. 2 Ibid., p. 250. 5 Lectures on the Diseases of the Nervous System, translated by Dr. Gr. Sigerson, p. 57. Philadelphia, 1879.