SPONDYLITIS DEFORMANS. 913 will appear in the place of a cyphosis in the middle segment. Thus, as Mr. Haward expresses it, cyphosis is the curvature of a rachitic infant, lordosis the curvature of the older child.1 It must also be borne in mind that spinal curvatures may develop in rickets as the consequence of a deformed thorax, a deformed pelvis, or deformed extremities. In the matter of treatment, it is only necessary to observe that the general measures recommended in the article on Rachitis must be carried out. With regard to any local treatment, the recumbent position should be ad- vised, to be maintained every day for a period that must vary according to the age of the patient, the degree of the curvature, and the general circum- stances of the case. As the child’s general health improves, the vertebral muscles must be encouraged in their development by moderate and careful exercise ; and this end may possibly be aided by friction of the parts, by baths, and, in some cases, possibly by galvanism. In no instance should any apparatus be applied. If the curve be rapidly on the increase, that tendency must be met by insisting on the patient maintaining as far as possible the recumbent posture. To encase the spine in any rigid apparatus would but foster still further inactivity in the muscles, and favor a still further degree of feebleness in their action. If the disease have ceased all active progress, and the curvature alone remain, a return to the normal condition of the spine can be more readily and more surely brought about by improving the muscular condition of the back than by applying an apparatus. The apparatus, while it might remove the appearance of the curvature, would still tend to per- petuate its potential existence, and possibly leave the column as deformed at the conclusion of the treatment as it was at the commencement. The subject of scoliosis, or lateral curvature of the spine, is treated of in the article on Orthopaedic Surgery. Spondylitis Deformans. The term “ spondylitis,” from the Greek <57t6vhv\o<, means simply inflam- mation of a vertebra, and is therefore equivalent to the term “ vertebral osteitis.” In this sense the word was first used, and it is still so employed by many, although the term has been by no means generally accepted in English surgi- cal literature. The inflammatory process, when it involves the bones of the spinal column, is apt to assume many aspects and to lead to several very dis- tinct clinical conditions. Although it might be well, from a pathological point of view, to consider all inflammatory changes of the vertebral bones under one common heading, such a course would be extremely inconvenient when the clinical aspects of the disease came to be considered. It might be, perhaps, more scientific to consider such conditions as Pott’s disease, osteo-arthritis of the occipito-atloid joint, or necrosis of the odontoid process, under the general heading, “ spondylitis,” but upon clinical and descriptive grounds the arrange- ment would not be advisable. The use of the term therefore—in at least its proper sense—would appear to present few and doubtful advantages. With regard to the term “ spondylitis deformans,” it would be assumed, from what has just been said, that it referred to an inflammation of the ver- tebral bones leading to deformity. It would be a synonym therefore for such an affection as Pott’s disease. Put by the aid of that mysterious power that appears to influence the selection of scientific terms, the title spondylitis deformans has been applied to one definite disease, viz., chronic rheumatic 1 Treatise on Orthopaedic Surgery, page 100. London, 1881. VOL. IV.—58