INJURIES OF THE BACK. 766 Five cases of vertebral fracture in the lower dorsal and lumbar regions, with para- lysis, are recorded in the London Hospital Reports.1 Recovery in every instance was obtained, in from four to six months. Dr. Lente2 relates the case of a man, aged 20, injured by falling from a roof upon bis buttocks and loins. There was fracture of the third or fourth lumbar vertebra, with paralysis. Bed-sores and exfoliation trom the fifth lumbar vertebra followed. After- ward he improved. At the end of four years he could not quite stand alone ; but he went about the country as a peddler. Dr. Lente likewise reports another case of the same sort, in whicli recovery took place, and the man was able to work again. Professor Agnew3 mentions a case seen by himself two years before, in which the twelfth dorsal vertebra was fractured, with complete, paralysis of the lower extremities. The patient recovered sufficiently to make a sea-voyage, and was still living. Professor Ashhurst4 has collected from the Pennsylvania Hospital Record the follow- ing instances of fracture of the dorsal or lumbar vertebra, in each of which a more or less complete recovery occurred : (1) A harness-maker, aged 37, injured his back by fall- ing from a roof. The twelfth dorsal vertebra was fractured, and its spinous process projected backward. He recovered in ninety-four days, though slight deformity and paralysis of the right limb still remained. (2) A sailor, aged 40, was injured by fall- ing upon his back. A dorsal vertebra was fractured, with backward projection. In seventy-seven days he recovered, excepting slight deformity. (3) A seaman, aged 25, was injured by falling from a third story. He was found to have a contusion, a scalp- wound, and pain in the back. After some days, projection of the twelf th dorsal vertebra backward was observed, but no paralysis. In sixty-eight days he recovered, and slight deformity only remained. (4) A laborer, aged 55, fell against a fence. He had con- tusion of the brain, fractures of the first and second lumbar vertebra, with backward projection, retention of urine followed by incontinence thereof, and paralysis. At the end of three hundred and thirty-three days the power of motion had become, in some degree, restored, but the deformity remained. (5) A laborer, aged 69, fell from a third siory window, and fractured the vertebra at the dorso-lumbar junction. He recovered in one hundred and twelve days, notwithstanding that the prognosis of his case was complicated by an attack of mania a potu. (6) A laborer, aged 20, fell from a tree, and fractured a vertebra. In seventy-seven days he recovered. Mr. Syme5 reports the case of a man, aged 32, who fell, striking on his buttocks, and thus injured his spine. The vertebrae projected at the dorso-lumbar junction ; there were also pain and spinal paralysis. On the second day he began to improve ; and in forty days he recovered, so as to walk with a cane. Mr. Stanley6 had the case of a sawyer, aged 23, who fell twenty-four feet. There were pain and eechymosis in the back, and a fractured calcaneum. After a week, pro- jection of the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae was observed. He recovered in two months. There were no spinal symptoms. (Ashhurst.) Mr. T. Wakley7 reported two cases of lumbar fracture, with recovery. The first was that of a man, aged 34, crushed in driving through an archway. There were projection of the second lumbar vertebra and spinal paralysis. In thirteen weeks he was able to walk with a cane. In four and a half months he recovered, and resumed his occupation. The second was that of a carriage-maker, aged 31, who received a blow on the back from a ton-weight. There was projection of the second and third lumbar vertebra, with pain, and spinal paralysis. He recovered in five and a half months. He walked, but not very well. Sir Charles Bell8 relates a case of recovery from fracture of the spine, treated by Mr. Joberns. The patient was a young woman, aged 18, thrown from a second story window on her back. There was great tumefaction over the lower dorsal vertebra ; the spinous 1 Yol. iii. pp. 326, 346. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1857, p. 361. 3 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 828. 4 Op. cit., pp. 108—119. 5 Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. xxxvii. 6 Ormerod, Clinical Collections. ’ Lancet, 1849. 8 Op. cit.