DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 380 Hip-disease. The very prevalent affection known as morbus coxse, or hip-disease, gene- rally attacks children between the ages of two and thirteen years, being most common between the fourth and eighth years. Although children without any traceable cachexia are occasionally affected, the disease has decided pref- erence for those of strumous habit. Doubtless, in a certain proportion of cases, the malady is first set up by some slight traumatism; but in a very large proportion the attack is spontaneous. The very deep position of the joint produces great difficulties in the thorough investigation of the disease, and these are increased by the oblique position of the femoral neck, which causes the arc of movement to be not in a straight line with the axis of the limb. The former of these two impedi- ments renders the early detection of swelling or of fluctuation extremely diffi- cult, or impossible; hence the particular locality in which the malady com- mences can only be determined, in any particular case, by contrasting or com- paring the symptoms during life with the results of anatomical examinations of other carefully and fully recorded cases. In the following account I shall epitomize the collective results of many such studies, in endeavoring to bring the pathological phenomena into a connected picture of the disease. Disease of the hip is not in its pathology so peculiar that its inflammatory affections can commence in structures which are never the starting-points of disease in other joints. Nevertheless, a great many writers have believed that this malady arose in theligamentum teres. The cause of this error depends upon a physiological function of that ligament, and upon the fact that pathological investigation, as carried out by certain investigators, does not go the length of making sections of the bone. The head of the femur, except its lower part, is entirely epiphyseal, and, until after the eighteenth year, derives its nutriment solely from a vessel carried to the digital fossa by the round ligament. When this epiphysis is inflamed, as it very often is, the artery becomes enlarged; hypersemia, and then inflammatory softening, shortly destroy the ligament itself, which, therefore, is found in the state so often reported—inflamed, swollen, softened, shreddy, or detached. The disease has not, however, begun in that ligament any more than disease of the knee or of the shoulder, when we find the crucial ligaments or the tendon of the biceps altered, can be said to have commenced in either of those structures. Synovitis does, no doubt, occur at the hip; but I believe not very com- monly, and, when it does so, it is, in my experience, a comparatively slight affection due to traumatism or excessive fatigue,1 and rarely passes on to the stage of disease with exuberant, sluggish granulations, described already as strumous synovitis. The position of the synovial membrane of the hip, so well covered, and therefore so little exposed to changes of temperature or to direct injury, helps to shield it from some of the causes of that disease. On the other hand, the bones are so circumstanced as to render them very liable to inflammatory attacks, which are very easily transferred to other con- stituents of the joint, because the Y-shaped cartilage joining the three por- tions of the innominate bone, and the whole epiphysis whence the head and neck of the femur are formed, are inclosed in the synovial area. At the former place a large part of the pelvic growth occurs ; at the latter, an inch and a half or two inches of a large bone is formed.2 Hence, the nutritive 1 I here except the absorptive diseases described at p. 289 et seq. * At birth, the neck of the thigh-bone is represented by a mere groove between the dispropor- tionately large head and the trochanters.