FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 189 notice of writers on anatomy, is, I think, of importance. Under this portion of the synovial membrane are often to be noticed, raising it into longitudinal folds, several strong ligamentous bands.1 (Fig. 617.) Once, in a fresh sub- ject, a vessel of some size was seen by me running along one of these folds. Another subject, a woman, had in each hip-joint three such folds, directed obliquely (spirally) from left to right in that of the left side, and from right to left in that of the right; these were in addition to the longitudinal hands above described. When these folds exist, they must obviously exert an influence in diminish- ing the chance of fracture of the cervix, and in the event of such fracture, such of them as are unbroken must tend to prevent displacement. Possibly, vessels borne by them may be of importance in the nutrition of the pelvic fragment. The principal lines of fracture in the upper part of the femur are shown in the diagram. (Fig. 618.) The neck may he broken across just below the head; or the fracture may begin below, just at or near the lesser trochanter, and run up obliquely across the neck, with more or less serration; or the greater trochanter may be broken off. In not a few instances the latter lesion has been produced by the wedge-like action of the pelvic fragment, the main breakage being of the preceding form; and sometimes the lesser trochanter also has been detached. Of course, hi such a case, the fracture would he properly called a comminuted one. In the many and voluminous discussions bestowed upon this subject of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, it seems to me that certain facts, anatomical, mechanical, and pathological, have been too much disregarded. The anatomical facts have been set forth above, and the others will presently be mentioned. Authors have been generally agreed in dividing these fractures into intracap- sular, extracapsular, and mixed. Under the first head are those which separate 1 Called by Weitbrecht “Retinacula.” They are spoken of by Harrison, in the Dublin Dis- sector, and by Todd, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, Art. Hip-Joint. Fig. 617. Fig. 618. Ligamentous bands beneath pynovi'al capsule of hip-joint. (After Amesbury.) Diagram showing lines of fracture in upper part of femur.