INJURIES OF BONES. 218 by a separation of the two condyles from each other by a line of fracture up at right angles into the one first named. The condyles have united by porous bone situated between their opposed surfaces, while the fracture of the shaft has not united at all, owing, as was found on dissection, to the interposition of a portion of muscle between the fragments.” In the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital, there is a specimen1 showing a transverse fracture an inch and a half above the joint, and a longitudinal fracture completely separating the condyles from each other. In this case the patient, a man, aged nineteen, was caught between two railroad cars; there was great contusion about the knee, and the popliteal artery was ruptured, necessitating amputation. Again, in the Warren Museum, there is a specimen2 with the following description: “ An oblique fracture just above the condyles; and a second between these two into the knee-joint. The upper fragment is drawn down- ward in front of, and two inches below, the knee-joint; its pointed ex- tremity being far advanced in the process of separation, and showing finely the contrast between the living and dead bone. A considerable quantity of new and soft bone connects this upper fragment with the shaft above the inner condyle. From an intemperate man, aged thirty-seven years, who slipped and fell with the whole weight of his body upon this limb. On entrance into the hospital (December 20, 1844), there was a shortening of two or three inches. Considerable swelling and emphysema about the knee, and a protrusion of the upper fragment nearly an inch, with great pain and considerable bleeding. The fracture was reduced, but the bones could hardly be kept in place ; and on the third day, the extension being discontinued on account of the pain and swelling, the limb was simply laid in a fracture-box. Suppuration and sloughing followed. February 5, the limb was much shortened, and the upper fragment seemed to have penetrated the knee-joint beneath the patella. On the 11th of March it protruded below this bone, and on the 11th of April the man died.” Occasionally there is scarcely a distinct transverse separation, but rather a double oblique one, the upper fragment being obtusely pointed in front, and seeming as if it might have acted as a wedge in bursting apart the condyloid portion of the bone ; and I think that this may sometimes be accepted as the true explanation of the mechanism of the lesion. Or, possibly, first one con- dyle and then the other may have been detached, the end of the shaft being thus, as it were, denuded ; such it seems to me was the rationale of Bichat’s case, quoted by Malgaigne, in which a man broke the condyles by lighting on his feet. It will readily be seen that whether the force producing the fracture be direct or indirect, it is scarcely possible for it to act alike on both sides of the bone. Hence, as in some of the instances above cited, one or the other con- dyle must suffer more severely ; and hence there must result a change in the position of the limb, so that an angle will be presented between the shaft of the femur above, and the leg below. Sometimes this angle will be open out- wardly, sometimes at the inner side of the limb ; and, slight as it may be, it will be so far indicative of the character of the lesion. In two cases recorded by Callender,3 the patella had sunk into the space between the fractured condyles, and was so wedged there that its extrication was impossible; the patients recovered slowly, and in each case the knee was rendered permanently stiff'. The symptoms are pain, loss of power, deformity, often rendered very ob- 1 Catalogue, p. 33, No. 113810. 2 Catalogue, p. 197, No. 1118. 3 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. 1870.