784 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Again, in order to prevent the occurrence of inflammatory lesions in the spinal membranes and spinal cord, absolute quietude should be enjoined on the patient. Catheterization, and laxatives, or enemata, as well as the pre- cautions against bed-sores and vesical and renal inflammation which have already been mentioned, should be promptly employed whenever their use is indicated. Whatever complications may arise, e. y., osteo-myelitis of the fractured vertebrae, spinal meningitis, spinal myelitis, septicaemia, bed-sores, nephritis, cystitis, etc., should be promptly met by appropriate treatment. On Trephining (so called), or Resection of the Spinal Column. The operation of excising parts of the vertebrae with a trephine, a saw, a bone-forceps, or a chisel and mallet, and removing the same, when they are fractured and displaced so as to cause paralysis by compressing the spinal cord, has been suggested by many surgical writers, the earliest of whom was Paulus yEgineta. It was first performed, however, by Henry Cline, at St. Thomas’s Hospital, June 16,1814, in the case of a man, aged 26, who, by falling from a second-story window, on the previous day, had received an injury of the dorsal vertebrce, with considerable displacement, and had become paraplegic. The man having been put upon the operating table with his face downward, an incision was made through the skin over the projecting spinous processes, of sufficient length to expose them completely. The muscles were then divided on each side, and, being drawn outward, two spinous processes, which were broken at their roots, were removed. It was attempted (but ineffectually) to remove the eleventh vertebral arch by sawing it through with Machell’s circular saw ; a chisel and mallet were then em- ployed, and also a trephine, by means of which the separation was effected, and the arch lifted out with an elevator. The operation was considerably embarrassed by the unfitness of the instruments, and occupied considerable time, but afforded no relief. In the evening he complained of pain in the wound; pulse 114. June 17, 2 P. M. Had not slept since the operation ; pulse 130. At 6 P. M. he had a fit, and was thought to be dying. June 18, 1 P. M. Had another fit; had great difficulty of breathing, with much restlessness ; pulse 140 ; upper part of body in a cold sweat, lower part warm, but not perspiring. At 4 P. M. the spasms had abated. June 19. He was more tranquil, but gradually sank, and died at 5 P. M. without convulsions, and sen- sible to the last. Autopsy The fore and upper part of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra was fractured obliquely from above and behind, downward and forward. The upper fragment remained attached by the intervertebral substance to the body of the eleventh dorsal, which had moved forward and a little downward, tearing off the pos- terior half of the intervertebral cartilage from the top of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. The theca vertebralis was lacerated, opposite the seat of injury, in four places, two of which would admit the little finger. The spinal cord was three-fourths torn through, and the remaining portion was bruised.1 Mr. Cline himself candidly stated that he thought the operation had hast- ened the death of his patient. The lesions for which he operated consisted of fracture of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra with displacement (partial dislocation) of the body of the eleventh (to which the fragment of the twelfth still adhered), forward and slightly downward, and extensive laceration of the spinal cord. He removed two spinous processes, and the laminae of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. The foregoing abstract shows the true character of this operation, the difficulties which attend jts performance, and its positive harmfulness as well as its inutility, more clearly and in fewer 1 South’s Notes to Chelius’s Surgery, vol. i. pp. 590, 591, Am. ed.