828 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Op. cit., p. 58, foot-note. 5 Ibid., p. 58. cases, the number of which is probably not very great, wherein it seems to be produced without the intervention even of the least degree of pressure, or of any other cause of a similar kind. I Fig. 795. have just presented two very instruc- tive examples belonging to this cate- gory. This disorder is quite distinct from the various cutaneous eruptions which are seen not unfrequently in the sacral region of patients condemned by dif- ferent affections to long maintain a recumbent posture in bed. These eruptions, which sometimes are ery- thematous and lichenoid, sometimes pustular and ulcerous, sometimes pap- ular, and having a deceptive resem- blance to syphilitic sores (plaques mu- queuses), are generally caused by re- peated and prolonged contact with irritating substances, such as decom- posing urine and fecal matter. They, as well as the neuropathic erythema and blebs, may become the starting points of genuine eschars, as already stated above. But the neuropathic eschar is often distinguishable, clinic- ally,[from that of the former, by certain important characteristics, namely : (1) By appearing shortly after the pri- mary disorder of the nerve-tissue, or by following upon a sudden exacerbation of that disorder ; and (2) By exhibiting a very rapid evolution. (Charcot.) Some days, or, it may be, only some hours, after the causative affection of the spinal cord has manifested itself in such cases, there appear on certain portions of the skin, already mentioned, one or several erythematous patches, variable in extent and irregular in shape. The skin here has a rosy hue ; sometimes, however, it is dark-red, and even violet, but still the color disappears mo- mentarily on making pressure with a finger. M. Charcot has ascertained that in such cases the derma is, anatomically, infiltrated with leucocytes, as happens in erysipelas.1 Occasionally, hut, for the most part, in examples of myelitis, there-appears besides an apparently phlegmonous tumefaction, involv- ing the derma and subjacent tissues, which may be attended by acute pain, if the affected part have not been previously stricken with anaesthesia. In a day or two, but sometimes sooner, vesicles or bullae make their ap- pearance about the middle of the erythematous patch ; they contain a liquid substance or serosity, which is sometimes colorless and perfectly transparent, and sometimes more or less opaque, reddish, or of a brownish hue. If the causative affections of the spinal cord or spinal nerves now abate, the vesicles and blebs soon wither, dry up, and disappear. Sometimes, how- ever, the blistered epidermis becomes torn, drops off in pieces, and lays bare a bright-red surface strewn with violet points or patches, corresponding with a sanguinolent infiltration of the cutis vera. In such cases, the subcutaneous connective tissue, and sometimes even the subjacent muscles, are likewise invaded by the sanguinolent infiltration. This fact M. Charcot has repeat- edly verified by post-mortem examination.2 Showing asacro-glnteal eschar of neuropathic origin, which was formed in a case of myelitis involving the dorsal portion of the spinal cord: 1. The mortified part. 2. The erythematous zone. (Charcot.)