907 ANTERO-POSTERIOR CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. Etiology.—In dealing with the etiology of cyphosis, it will be most con- venient to classify the causes of the affection according to the period of life at which it has commenced. The cyphosis of infants and of quite young children depends for the most part upon rickets, and consists of a very general and equable curving back- wards of the whole column. This rachitic curvature will be treated of here- after. Quite independent of rickets, however, cyphosis may be developed at this period of life, and under such circumstances will depend upon a normal muscular weakness, if such a term can be allowed. It is well known that the spine at birth is straight, and that the curves that normally mark the adult spine are the result of a subsequent development, and are dependent upon the establishing of a proper equilibrium in the erect posture. For a consider- able time after birth the erect position is not required. The normal posture of an infant, indeed, is the posture of lying flat upon its back. Thus it happens that the spinal muscles long remain but imperfectly developed, and it will be seen that the spinal column in infancy may readily be induced to assume almost any species of curvature. In cases of general muscular debility, some cyphosis naturally develops when the erect posture is attempted, and that cyphosis is, indeed, but the outward sign of an inability on the part of the muscles to properly support the spinal column. A cyphosis from a like cause, will commonly develop in the backs of in- fants who are continually being nursed in the sitting posture. Such a position is unnatural, and the spinal muscles are usually unable to retain the column erect; the child’s spine yields to the pressure of the superincumbent weight, and a more or less extensive posterior curvature is the result. Besides the pernicious habit of nursing infants in the sitting posture, some mothers take particular pleasure in making their children sit upright at as early a period as possible. They appear to consider that an ability to assume this position is an evidence of precocity and rapid development, and is an accomplishment to be fostered as tending to strengthen the back. The result, however, is often a very definite cyphosis, that may become more or less permanent. It must be allowed, however, that the posterior curvature that may develop in the spines of infants and young children shows some tendency to more or less correct itself when the child begins to walk, and begins in consequence to de- velop those curvatures that are normal to the adult spine. A cyphosis may develop aboutgniberty—especially in weakly girls—either, it would appear, from debility of the spinal muscles in common with the other muscles of the body, or from an undue or disproportionate use of those struc- tures. The causes of cyphosis at this period are, probably, very nearly iden- tical with those that tend to produce a lateral curvature of the spine. The child, perhaps, is engaged for a long time in a sitting posture without proper support to the back. In learning the pianoforte, or in the ordinary routine of school life, this position is often assumed for hours at a time. The muscles, either from inherent weakness or from undue use, become wearied, the back aches, and the child throws the burden of supporting the column upon the ligaments that are not susceptible to a sense of weariness. To effect this the back is arched backwards, and a temporary cyphosis produced ; but in time the over-stretched ligaments yield, the elements of the column undergo slight structural changes, and the curve becomes permanent. Cyphosis is the posi- tion often assumed by the tired child who is compelled to still retain the upright posture, and it requires merely a frequent repetition of the malposition to render it definite and permanent. As active causes therefore in producing this form of cyphosis, one must recognize any debilitating influences,prolonged sitting or standing without support to the back, too early study, lack of proper muscular exercise, and, as some would urge, the early and continued