114 INJURIES OF BONES. 2 British Med. Journal, Sept. 16, 1876. dren’s Hospital in Philadelphia in seven years, the scapula was affected in only three. In by far the greater number of cases, fractures of the scapula are due to direct violence. There was a man in my wards at the Episcopal Hospital in 1882, who, while working in a dye-house, had been jammed in a narrow space under a roller weighing 500 pounds, by which the body of the right shoulder blade was broken across. Many years ago I saw a railroad laborer who had had the bone comminuted by a blow from the rapidly revolving crank of a hand-car. A not unfrequent cause is a fall from a height, the patient striking on the back and shoulders. Muscular action has been assigned as the cause of fracture of the scapula in two cases. One of these, quoted by Callaway,1 as observed by Dr. Ileylen, is given in detail, and admits of no doubt; the patient, a man of 49, hung by one hand to a cart while the horse ran a distance of about one hundred yards; the diagnosis of fracture was clear, and there was no bruise or other indication of a blow on the part. The other case is very briefly reported by Mr. M. Morris;2 it was that of a locomotive engineer, who was making some exertion, and fell forward, striking his chest against the lever; he felt at the same time a crack in his shoulder, and the scapula was found to have been broken. The fracture is said to have been through the spine, about an inch from the triangular surface over which the trapezius plays. Union took place, but a ridge was left at the seat of injury. Fracture may occur at different portions of this bone. Fig. 605 shows a not unfrequent form, the spine and the body of the bone being affected. As in the case of other flat bones, fissures are often seen in connection with complete fractures. No instance is on record of a fracture involv- ing the spine alone, although the acromion pro- cess has occasionally been broken off, either by a blow from above, or by the humerus being forcibly driven upward. The lower angle of the bone is sometimes separated. When the line of breakage is higher up, it is apt to be more irregular, and the bone may be comminuted. Callaway gives a representation of a fracture produced by the fall of a mass of slate on the patient; one line runs across the bone just below the base of the spine, terminating at the root of the coracoid process, which is broken off; another runs off' from near the mid-point of this line, downward and outward to a point perhaps an inch from the lower margin of the glenoid cavity. The bone is thus broken into four pieces: one comprising the upper angle, the spine, and a strip of the body ; a second, the lower angle with part of the body; a third, the glenoid cavity, neck, and part of the body; and, lastly, the coraco'id process. A few instances are upon record in which the coracoid process has itself been broken off. One such occurred under my own observation many years since, in the person of an elderly woman, who fell backward in a narrow passage, striking on her elbow, and thus forcing the head of the humerus upward and forward. 1 A Dissertation upon Dislocations and Fractures of the Clavicle and Shoulder Joint. London, 1849. Fig. 605.