705 SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. day, together with gallic acid, in ten-grain doses, at the same intervals. In some sthenic eases, however, it may be advisable to give, instead of these remedies, the acetate of lead, in styptic doses of two grains, every hour or two, until relief is obtained. But, generally, the employment of ergot and gallic acid should be preferred. Pain in the injured kidney and ureter, etc., is to he combated with opium or morphia; but, at the same time, these narcotics must be exhibited with caution. Rest in bed should be enjoined, together with a milk diet. When coagula form in the bladder, and cannot be spontaneously passed by the urethra, causing retention of urine, they should be broken down by injecting warm water through a large-sized catheter. The medico-legal relations of heematuria from contusions and sprains of the back still remain to he considered. Mr. Shaw relates the case of a gentleman who claimed in a law court compensation from a railway company, for Bright’s disease resulting from injuries received in a railway collision. The injuries consisted of a bruise over the right ilium and side of the loins. On the following day he observed blood mixed with his urine; and, for four days, he continued to pass blood. At this time his urine was found to con- tain albumen, and it continued to be albuminous from the date of the acci- dent to that of the trial, a period of eleven months. The medical witnesses for the plaintiff held that the albuminuria, that is, the parenchymatous nephritis, had been caused by the injury of the right kidney that was inflicted in the collision. The medical witnesses for the defence (Mr. Shaw was one of them) “ expressed a strong opinion that the plaintiff was suffering from the disease when lie met with the accident, and that the injury could not have brought it on.”1 But, to say “ that the injury could not have brought the disease on,” in this case, is tantamount to asserting that a traumatic lesion of the kidney, which manifests itself by heematuria appearing on the day fol- lowing the accident and continuing for four days, cannot give rise to a struc- tural disease of the kidney of an inflammatory character. Such an assertion cannot reasonably be maintained; for Professor Fayrer, in the case of the Hindoo, related above, who had hsematuria beginning on the day follow- ing the accident, and lasting only two days, and who died in consequence of tetanus sixteen days after the injury, found at the autopsy that there was a rupture of the left kidney extending into the hilus, and that a great part of this kidney was softened, that is, had become the seat of a structural disease, and had undergone a structural change, such as is not unfrequently produced by the inflammatory process; or, in other words, that the rupture of the kidney had been attended by traumatic nephritis. There is, therefore, no reason for doubting that, in at least occasional instances, the injury of the kid- ney which causes haematuria, gives rise also to Bright’s disease. In the case just mentioned, the jury, notwithstanding the medical testimony adduced by the defence, “ awarded heavy damages to the sufferer,” and it may well be that the verdict was a righteous one. A legitimate inference from the foregoing, which has value for medico- legal uses, is, that although some surgeons of large experience have never seen a case in which lnematuria from contusions and sprains of the back was fol- lowed by nephritis or by organic disease of the kidney, nevertheless, such eases do sometimes occur; and that, whenever they do occur, their existence ought to be recognized. It is also pretty certain that Bright’s disease does not often arise from renal traumatism; but, precisely how often, future expe- rience alone can determine. 1 Loc. cit., p. 363. VOL. [V.—45