268 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Elbow.—The elbow is a joint of complicated construction. The points at which the swelling of acute synovitis makes its appearance, are chiefly at the back. Thus the depression which lies on each side of the triceps tendon, and one which marks the place where the radius joins the humerus, become first obliterated and afterwards form rounded prominences; the line of the triceps tendon becomes a broad depression. Especially characteristic is the soft fluid swelling at the junction of the radius and humerus. A wave of fluctuation may be easily made to run from any one to any other of the above- named places. It is at the interval between the radius and the humerus that pain is chiefly felt. Wrist.—At the wrist also, the swelling is chiefly manifested behind, namely on each side of the extensor tendons of the fingers, and between those of the thumb. This tumefaction gives to the lower part of the arm, behind, a bracelet-like enlargement very easily distinguishable from dropsy of the ten- dinous sheaths, for (1), its long axis is transverse to that of the limb ; (2), it does not encroach on the carpus and metacarpus; and (3), it is neither fusi- form nor bifurcated towards its lower end. Hip.—The hip is rarely affected with pure, simple synovitis, which, when it does occur, is either traumatic or the result of over-exertion. The swelling in such cases hardly makes any appearance on the surface, but the condition is chiefly manifested by certain abnormal positions of the limb, which produce an appearance of either abnormal lengthening or shortening.1 When disten- sion of the synovial membrane is sufficient to cause perceptible swelling, it is found behind the great trochanter and in the lower part of the groin, that is to say, at a place below the middle of the line separating the thigh from the abdo- men. If the patient be thin, fluctuation from one to the other of these spots may be detected. Another place where tumefaction can lie felt, is in the angle between the thigh and the perineum, a little behind the tendon of the adductor longus muscle. This disease gives rise to a good deal of pain, which runs down the thigh and is often referred to the knee. Two adjacent bursse may, when inflamed, produce symptoms which on inadequate examination simulate hip- disease. One of these lies beneath the tendon of the ilio-psoas, and upon the head and neck of the femur, as low as the lesser trochanter; it frequently com- municates with the synovial membrane of the hip-joint. When it is a separate sac, and becomes inflamed, it gives rise to a considerable swelling in the lower groin, while the post-trochanteric fossa is unaltered. Elexion of the thigh on the abdomen is painless, while extension, especially when combined with inward rotation, is intolerable. The other bursa, a very large one, is placed under the gluteus maximus; when distended, this bursa produces a broad, rounded swelling, which occupies more than the parts behind the great trochanter ; indeed, the soft parts directly over that bone are increased in mass, so as more effectually to conceal it. Knee.—The knee, being both large and superficial, is more often affected with the various forms of synovitis than any other joint of the body, and the disease is owing to these two peculiarities very easily detected, formally, the tendon of the rectus, the patella, and its ligament, form along the middle of the joint, in front, a varied and undulating projection, on each side of which are depressions. When the synovial sac becomes filled, these latter are obliterated. When very tense, they become prominent, so that what in health are pro- jecting parts, are transformed by a severe acute synovitis into hollows. More- 1 These postures will be fully explained when I come to speak of hip-disease.