133 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. things, I long ago devised the splint shown in Fig. 608, which is intended to be cut out of the exact size required (ascertained by taking an outline of the sound limb). The material I generally use is binder’s board, but sole-leather or patent felt would answer the same purpose, except in the case of unusually large limbs. The part marked a is bent so as to come in front of the arm; b is bent up behind the elbow, while c, c, are bent so as to give the forearm support and steadiness on the ulnar side. Properly proportioned and care- fully applied, I think that this splint gives me more perfect control of a broken humerus, especially at the lower part of the bone, than I have succeeded in getting by any other. As consolidation progresses, it is my practice to cut away more and more of the splint at each dressing, so that the patient gains the use of the hand before the arm can be left to itself. Another plan which would seem to promise well, in fractures of the lower part of the humerus, is to place the elbow at an acute angle, and keep it so for perhaps two weeks, when union may be supposed to have begun, and when the forearm may at each dressing be very slightly brought down, until at last the bones are found firm enough for complete passive motion to be attempted. By this method, entire relaxation of the flexors and pronators would be attained, and forward angular displacement could scarcely occur. Should it be found that the lower fragment projected backward, the angle of the elbow might readily be made more obtuse, and a short splint be applied along the posterior surface of the arm. The subject of pseudarthrosis has already been discussed at such length in the general part of this article, that the treatment of such cases in this region need not be again spoken of here. Fractures of the lower end of the humerus, as has been already stated, and as may be seen from Gurlt’s table quoted' on page 118, are much more frequently met with than those of either the shaft or the upper end. In children this predominance is especially marked, since up to the tenth year the lower portion of the bone is broken considerably more than twice as often as both the other divisions put together. Between the tenth and the twentieth year the numbers become, in the set of cases upon which this table is based, exactly equal. Later in life there is a very great diminution in the liability of the lower part of the bone to fracture ; but the fact must not be lost sight of that the shaft also shares in this decrease, so that the difference of propor- tion is not as great in reality as it would at first sight appear to be. The boundary between the shaft of the humerus and what we call the lower end is not exactly defined ; even less so, perhaps, than that between the neck and the shaft. It is a surgical and not an anatomical division ; and a doubt may sometimes arise in regard to certain fractures, as to whether they should more properly be classed among those of the shaft, or with those of the lower end. But in general the cases which belong to the latter category present features which render them plainly distinguishable. One of these is the effect of muscular action, and another is due to the neighborhood of the elbow-joint; they will be further referred to directly. Under the present head are included a variety of fractures, the principal lines of which are shown in the annexed diagrams (Figs. 609 and 610). Thus, there are cases in which the bone is separated more or less transversely, just above the condyles, the line of division sometimes running up along the outer or inner side of the bone so as to involve in the lower fragment nearly or quite a third of its length. Often, along with this, one or more lines of breakage pass downward into the joint. Occasionally the outer portion of the lower end ouly is involved, the condyle only, or with it the epicondyle, being broken off. Or the inner part of the lower end may be separated—the