HIP-DISEASE. 393 in certain eases that, unless an operation be undertaken, the patient can hardly escape with life. But in many cases, after a certain amount of suppuration, perhaps after losing small fragments of bone, the patients begin to get better; the abscesses dimin- ish, the discharge becomes less, the sipuses heal, and the patient gets well, but with a shortened and lame limb. Occasionally, this method of healing leaves behind an abscess which has not fully discharged itself, and the pus of which has become dry by absorption of its liquid part—the residual abscess of Paget; this may again suppurate, perhaps after many years,1 and may cause the symptoms of active joint-disease to recur. Treatment of Hip-disease.—At the very first symptom of morbus cox;e, the patient should be placed at complete rest, and, as a very general rule, extension also should be used, either by weights, or by my elastic-extension splint, interrupted by a bracket.2 At the same time counter-irritants, such as blisters or other revulsives, may be employed. If the symptoms be somewhat severe, or if the constitutional dyscrasia be strongly marked, such antistru- mous remedies as have been already mentioned are to be administered. But the patient is not to be left long in bed. When the symptoms of the first stage are slight, a fortnight—if rather more marked, a month—will suffice. After- wards, one of the splints which permit exercise of other parts of the body, while enforcing complete quietude of the affected joint (described hereafter), should be employed. A large number of cases seen in the early part of the first stage will, if thus treated, get well without suppuration, and with no, or little, deformation or shortening. But if the surgeon be called in at a later period, during the second or third stage, the good results of his treatment will be proportionately endangered. In the former event, the same management, but longer continued, will suffice, unless there be much distortion. In the latter, it is likely that the posture will require correction, for extreme flexion or adduction will not only thwart treatment, but will add to pain and subsequent distortion. If the malposture of the second or of the third stage be strongly marked, the most prudent course, especially if there be much pain, is to let an anaesthetic be admin- istered, gently bring the limb into a proper position, and at once apply the apparatus for extension. Weight-extension, if used alone, has the defect that, although the limb itself may be motionless, the trunk, together with the pelvis, may be flexed to one side or the other, so that the same peccant angle may be produced at the hip—abduction or adduction being, under such cir- cumstances, caused not by movement of the limb on the trunk, but by motion of the pelvis on the thigh. To obviate this, there should be laid on the sheet which covers the patient three sufficiently heavy sand-bags ;3 one, on the outer side of the affected limb, extends from axilla to foot; one, on the inner side, from the perineum to the same point; while on the unaffected side of the body, another bag is to reach from the axilla to the hip, thus leaving the sound lower limb and both arms at liberty, but preventing improper movement both of the trunk and of the diseased limb. For unquiet, restless children, it is sometimes better to secure the sound limb and that side of the trunk to a long Desault’s splint, as in simple fracture of the thigh, without, however, making extension from the foot, which on that limb is unnecessary; but weight-extension must be of course adapted to the other leg. The extending 1 I have several times been consulted in the case of a gentleman in whom such an abscess recurred nineteen years after its apparent cure. 2 See Fig. 664, p. 394. 3 The sand must be thoroughly dried and warmed.