FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 95 fractures, separating at one side of the pelvis a middle fragment comprising the hip-joint; according as this fragment is carried upward or inward, the femur follows its movements, and hence result changes in the length and direction of the limb which have often misled practitioners.” An injury of this kind might readily be mistaken, at first sight, for fracture of the neck of the femur, as there would be crepitus, some degree of shortening—although in one case, according to Larrey, there was lengthening—of the limb, and very probably impairment of motion; certainly inability to walk or stand. Careful examination, however, into the precise scat of the crepitus and difli- culty of movement would, in most cases, be apt to reveal the true nature of the lesion. Besides the fractures of the various portions of the pelvis which have boon enumerated, there are certain cases of more extensive injury in this region, the whole framework being broken up, as in some mining accidents. I have seen the os innominatum on either side broken through nearly or quite verti- cally, both anteriorly and posteriorly, making four principal fragments. Such injuries are in themselves extremely grave, from the amount of shock which they involve. One of the three cases before referred to as treated in my wards at the Episcopal Hospital, in 1882, was that of a laborer, aged 50, upon whom a bank of earth had caved in. The os innominatum on either side had been broken, as above described, close to the sacro-iliac junction, as well as through the os pubis ; there were profound shock, retention of urine for several days, and subsequent peritonitis. The man complained of severe pain in the right leg from the hip to the toe ; but this gradually subsided along with his other symptoms. As he recovered, the diagnosis above given could not of course be verified beyond question by an autopsy; but the mobility of the fragments, the crepitus, and the long-continued tenderness upon pressure at the points indicated, seemed to warrant my statement of the case. Another was that of a young man, aged 16, who had fallen about sixteen feet. Pressure on his pelvis from side to side, or over the pubis, caused him great pain, as did also a slight blow on the knee if the thigh was flexed. He suffered less from shock than the patient first mentioned, but had retention of urine for four days. He also recovered. The symptoms of fracture of the pelvis need scarcely be dwelt upon at length. There is always more or less pain, sometimes very severe ; it is apt to be greatly aggravated by any attempt at moving in bed. When the sacrum is fractured, the act of defecation is productive of great pain ; and urination is similarly interfered with when the pubis has given way. In either case the patient’s suffering is increased by coughing or sneezing. Crepitus can usually be felt if pressure be so applied as to cause grating of the fragments upon one another, but it. is often by no means distinct. Ecchymosis may or may not be present, as sometimes the fracture affects portions of the bone very deeply situated, and the vessels torn may be at the inner surface. Often the fragments are scarcely at all displaced, and hence no deformity is caused. It may readily be perceived, therefore, that the diaynosis of injuries of this kind may present a good deal of obscurity; and even when the fact of fracture is clearly to be made out, it may be a matter of much difficulty to determine the exact line of separation, especially in stout or fat persons. Examination by the rectum, and in females by the vagina, may enable the surgeon to arrive at greater certainty in this respect. But even the most