78 INJURIES OF BONES. done, this gives the surgeon as absolute control of the fragments as it is pos- sible to obtain. By some, splints of this kind have been attached to steel arms or branches coming out at the corners of the mouth, and connected with an outside framework, a padded plate fitting underneath the chin; when such an apparatus is employed, there is no need of the upper teeth being taken into the account at all, as the fragments are securely held between the mould above and the padded plate below. The arms connecting the two are arranged with screws and nuts, so that they can be tightened to the requisite degree. Rutenick, Lonsdale, Gunning, Bean, Kingsley, and many others, have exer- cised much ingenuity in devising modifications of apparatus based upon this idea. The appliances known by their names may be found described in detail in so many systematic works, that it seems hardly worth while to devote more space to them here. During the confinement of the jaw by any of the means now mentioned, it is obvious that the patient is debarred from the use of ordinary food ; and by some of the older writers it was advised that a front tooth should be drawn in order to allow of the introduction of milk, soups, etc. This, however, is unnecessary ; scarcely any one has the teeth so closely set together as to pre- vent liquids from finding their way to the back of the mouth. If from swel- ling or other cause deglutition be very much hindered, nourishment may be administered either by means of a tube passed along the floor of the nose, and so down into the stomach, or by enema. The difficulty of swallowing rarely persists more than a few days. Suturing of the fragments has been practised with advantage in a few instances of very oblique fracture, where retention by ordinary means was found impossible. Kinloch’s case,1 the first of which I have any knowledge, was one of compound fracture, and the result was excellent. Thomas2 has reported two cases attended with like success. Fastening the fragments together, by means of silver pins, as recommended by Wheelhouse,3 appears to offer no advantage over the ligature, while it multiplies the chance of irritation of the soft parts. Fractures of the lower jaw are sometimes, but very rarely, complicated with luxation of one condyle. Probably the dislocation occurs first, as other- wise there would scarcely be purchase enough to force the condyle out of its socket. Details of the reported cases are given by Heath.4 In one case only were both condyles displaced, and the necks fractured; and in one, in which only one condyle was luxated, it was also broken off at the neck.6 Replacement of the condyle would, under such circumstances, be obviously impossible; but when the fracture is far enough from the condyle to give sufficient purchase, the luxation may be reduced in the ordinary manner, and the treatment of the fracture then proceeded with. Non-union.—While, as a general rule, fractures of the lower jaw unite readily, there are not a few cases on record in which they have failed to do so. Malgaigne quotes from Berard a curious case of “ a child whose fracture made no progress toward recovery until the apparatus, an ordinary bandage, was removed.” On a previous page a specimen of false joint formed at the angle was depicted ; and Physick’s case, in which union was brought about by the employment of a seton, is among the most widely-known instances of success by that mode of treatment. But little need be said as to the course to be adopted when union takes 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1859. 2 Lancet, August 17, 1867. 3 ibid. 4 Op. cit., p. 22. 6 Both these cases are quoted from Bonn by Coote, in Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed. vol. ii. p« 429; Am. ed. vol. i. p. 680.