FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, COSTAL CARTILAGES, AND STERNUM. 85 Hammick1 mentions a case in which a man was struck on the side by the end of a flying rope, and died immediately The post-mortem showed that “ one rib only had been broken, both ends of which had been driven inward, piercing the very apex of the heart, penetrated botli ventricles, and then had returned to their situation by their own elasticity ; the pericardium was full of blood, but none had escaped into the chest.” Hammick suggests that death was due here to the shock to the diaphragm or to the heart; but it seems as if the escape of blood into the pericardium might amply account for it. Still another case may he cited, reported by West:2— A young man fell into a coal-pit, and was taken out dead. There was no wound on the surface; but the sternum was broken into two fragments, and the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs on the left side were fractured also. The pericardium and pleura were full of black fluid blood, and both right and left ventricles of the heart extensively lacerated. Fractures of the ribs generally unite without difficulty, in the simpler cases; but from the unavoidable mobility of the parts there is apt to be some excess of callus. When several ribs are involved this condition is more marked, and sometimes—as in a specimen in the Wistar and Horner Museum of the University of Pennsylvania—there are curious stalactitic prolongations from each bone at the fractured part, as if the plasma had been pulled upon and drawn out when soft. Non-union is sometimes met with :— Boardman3 found in a colored girl, aged 22, a fracture of the eighth right rib, of three or four months’ standing, ununited, and the fragments carious; a fistulous opening led into the pleura, which was coated with lymph and contained about two pints of pus. On the left side, the eighth rib was also broken, and there was an abscess between the in- tercostal muscle and the pleura, pointing within, and apparently ready to burst. This latter lesion was only discovered after death ; the other was attributed to a kick. The treatment of fractured ribs, when uncomplicated with lesions of the internal structures, consists simply in immobilizing the parts; and this is best done by means of adhesive strips, as first recommended by Hannay.4 It had been previously effected by the application of bandages, either ordinary wide rollers, or broad strips of flannel or muslin pinned about the chest. At the present day, the adhesive plaster is in very general use; it is cut into strips from eight to sixteen inches long, according to the size of the chest, and about an inch and a half in width. These are put on very firmly, parallel with the ribs, and overlapping one another from above downward, each one covering about one-third or one-quarter of the width of the preceding one. By Erichsen and others it is advised that the strips should surround the whole body; but this will be found to impede respiration and give trouble. It is better to let the strips extend no further than the median line in front and at the back. Before applying the plaster, any marked displacement of the fragments should be corrected by suitable pressure and manipulation, the patient being directed to fill the chest as much as possible during these attempts. My own practice is to apply the strips during expiration ; and the pain caused by the act ot breathing ought to be markedly relieved. When the fragments project outward, a compress of lint, not too thick, may be placed over the angle before the plaster is put on. When they are driven 1 Op. cit., p. 165. * St. Thomas’s? Hospital Reports, N. S., vol. i. 1870. 3 Proceedings of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, vol. ii. p. 130. x London Medical Gazette, November, 1845.