227 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 6 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1028. ally be followed by a like misfortune to the other. The patient will natu- rally spare the limb which has already suffered, and in ease of a slip, or an}' demand for effort, will be likely to put a severe stress upon the better one, which yields as its fellow did. The interval between the fractures is some- times a long one. I have now under treatment at the Episcopal Hospital a robust and healthy man with fracture of the right patella, in whom the bone of the left side was broken about two years ago, and is united by a short fibrous bond. He was not aware of any lameness or weakness of either limb. When refracture occurs, the damage done is sometimes far more serious than that of the original accident. Thus King1 met with a case in which, five months after a fracture of the patella, union having taken place with the fragments about half an inch apart, the whole knee was burst open, a wound seven inches long being produced, and the fragments separated an inch and a quarter. Suppuration ensued, but the patient made a good recovery; the amount of motion in the knee, if any, is not stated. Charles Bell2 mentions a very similar instance. “ The bone had united by ligament, and this ligament bad incorporated with the skin in such a manner that it lost much of its pliancy. The poor man was carrying a burden and fell backward, the knee sank under him, and the whole forepart of the joint was laid open by laceration. The case terminated in amputation of the limb.” Malgaigne, after referring to this case, says: “ I have seen a nearly similar instance; the rupture of the fibrous band was attended with enormous eccliy- mosis, gangrene ensued at about the fifth day, and death closed the scene. M. Seutin quite recently sought in vain to save a limb thus affected; after four months of suffering, amputation of the thigh became the only resource.” Thomson3 reported to the surgical section of the British Medical Associa- tion, a case of old fracture of the patella, in which suture of the fragments had been practised; a year later, the knee being stiff, the patient tripped, and burst open the whole joint. Resection was performed, with a good result. He refers to other like cases seen by Bell, Poland, and Pelletan, in all of which amputation was deemed necessary. A very similar instance lias been placed on record by Mason,4 * and another, but with a far more fortunate issue, by Roberts.6 Necrosis of a portion of the fractured bone has been observed in a very few instances. One of these is given by Erichsen,6 as follows: “ The patient, a middle-aged man, had met with an ordinary transverse fracture of the patella, which united by ligament two years after the accident; and without any fresh injury he came to the hospital, with necrosis of the outer half of the upper fragment, which was completely detached, and lying in a cavity bounded and shut oft* from the joint by plastic matter. I cut down upon and removed the necrosed fragment, which appeared to constitute about one- quarter of the patella. No cause could be assigned for the necrosis, except defective vascular supply to this part of the bone.” Another instance is briefly referred to by Lawson,7 “ in which a portion of the patella was chipped off, necrosed, and fell into the joint, there setting up inflammation, which caused death.” Iiulke8 says that a partially detached portion of one of the fragments may die and be gradually exfoliated, as in Liston’s patient, a sailor, aged twenty-four, who died seven weeks after the injury from hectic fever following extensive suppuration in and around the knee-joint. 1 Dublin Med. Press, Dec. 8, 1847. * A System of Operative Surgery, 2d Am. ed., vol. ii. p. 361. 1816. 3 British Med. Journal, Aug. 26, 1882. ‘ Med. Record, March 20, 1875. 6 Bryant’s Surgery, 3d Am. ed. 0 Science and Art of Surgery, Am. ed., vol. i. p. 381. 1873. 7 British Med. Journal, June 9, 1877.