455 EXCISION OF THE UPPEK JAW. trephining or resection of the vertebrce, is almost exclusively of interest in con- nection with traumatic lesions of the spine—though the operation has occa- sionally been attempted in cases of disease, as by ileine, IIoux, Holscher, Dupuytren, and Jacobi, and more recently, for the evacuation of spinal ab- scesses, by Israel and A. Jackson—and I shall therefore refer the reader for its consideration to the article on Injuries of the Back, where the history and statistics of the procedure are fully set forth, merely adding here that, if the operation is to be done at all, it can be best accomplished, as recommended by lir. McDonnell,1 by making a free and deep incision, and then dividing with strong-cutting pliers the bony laminae on either side of the spinous pro- cess of the injured vertebra, and, after taking away a single arch, removing any additional portions of bone with the ordinary gouge-forceps. In certain cases of severe injury of the face, chiefly as the result of gunshot wound, it may be necessary to remove shattered portions of bone, and smooth off projecting fragments ; but for such exceptional and irregular resections as these, no definite rules can be given. Again, in certain cases of nasal tumor, the bony orifice of the nostril may be enlarged by clipping away its outer wall with gouge-forceps. But the only excisions of bones of the face, which I shall describe in this article, are those of the superior and inferior maxillae. Excision of the Upper Jaw.—Trephining of the antrum, and even partial excision of the superior maxilla, appear to have been practised occasionally during the last century2 and the early part of this; but the first proposal to excise the whole upper jaw for tumor appears to have been made by Lizars, of Edinburgh, while the first surgeon who is known to have actually accomplished the operation wras Gensoul, of Lyons, in 1827.3 Lizars and the elder Textor repeated the operation in 1828, and Lizars again, and Leo in 1830. Gensoul, alone, had removed the jaw seven times up to 1833. The operation is chiefly required in cases of tumor, either involving the jaw itself or situated behind it (naso-pharyngeal polypus), temporary or osteoplastic resection being by some surgeons preferred to complete excision under the latter circumstances. Several varieties of incision have been practised for the removal of the upper jaw. Gensoul began with an incision extending from the inner angle of the orbit, downwards, through the upper lip, which was divided opposite the canine tooth ; a second incision extended transversely outwards from the first, at the level of the nostril, to within a short distance of the lobe of the ear; and a third passed upwards from the end of the second to the external angle of the orbit. Lizars employed an incision from the angle of the mouth across the cheek to the malar bone, supplementing this cut, if more room was needed by one through the lip into the nostril, and by a short longitudinal incision at the outer extremity of that first made. Liston’s method consisted in making one incision from the external angular process of the frontal hone through the cheek to the corner of the mouth ; a second along the zygoma, joining the first; and a third from the nasal process of the maxilla, detach- ing the ala of the nose, and cutting through the lip in the mesial line. Velpeau’s operation possessed an advantage over all of these, in its greater simplicity; a single curved incision, convex downwards, was carried from the angle of the mouth, upwards and outwards, to the malar bone, or if neces- sary to the external angle of the orbit; but this incision does not, it seoms to 1 Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, August, 18G6. * One of the most important operations of this kind was performed in 1820, by Dr. Jameson, of Baltimore. The first partial excision of the upper jaw is attributed to Acolut'hus, in 1093. 3 Priority has been claimed for the late Dr. Alexander Stevens, of New York, but no account of his operation appears to have been published until many years afterwards.