INJURIES OF THE BACK. 750 1 Circular No. 3, S. Gr. 0., August 17, 1871, pp. 129-131. three or four days. He had not perspired since the injury. On the morning of the 18th, the urine became turbid, the stomach was irritable, and he complained of his lungs feeling like stone. By the morning of the 20th, the pulse had become so feeble that it could not be counted, the bowels were loose, the urine was ammoniacal and Fig. 774. Thermopraph of a fatal case of fracture, without displacement, of the fifth cervical vertebra. thick with mucus, and vomiting occurred. Increased respiration and a very high temperature (105°) followed. On the 21st, catheterization had again to be employed, but the instrument was used with difficulty, owing to the formation of coagula in the bladder. He also suffered from bed-sores. By the 24th, his stomach became so irritable as to retain scarcely anything. On the 25th, there was complete anorexia. On the 26th, the temperature was 91.8°. He died at noon on the 28th. Autopsy— Brain normal. The body of the fifth cervical vertebra was found fractured (Fig. 773). There was no displacement of the vertebra. It was ascertained that hemorrhage had compressed the spinal cord at and around the seat of fracture. In the dorsal region, the spinal canal showed no abnormity, excepting the spinal fluid which escaped. It was filled with transparent, floating globules, and resembled volatile-oil water. Lungs healthy, excepting the posterior portions, which were hypostatically congested ; liver slightly enlarged. Splenic extremity of stomach congested. The kidneys were enlarged and engorged with blood ; the pelvis of the left was filled with pus; but no other abscess could be found. The ureters were very dark in color, and one of them contained a clot at the entrance to the bladder. The walls of the bladder were dark-purple in color, inflamed, and thickened ; its mucous membrane was absent in patches. The pathological specimens were sent to the Army Medical Museum.1 Viewing the clinical history of this case in the light thrown upon it from the autopsy, the paralysis which instantly followed the injury appears to have been due to concussion of the spinal corcl, and it may well he that injuries of a similar character, involving the upper part of the spinal column, are often attended by spinal concussion. However, the paralytic symptoms that were