943 pott’s disease of the spine. with which the spinous processes stood out backwardly against the skin; for it is a never-failing observation in regard to lateral distortion, that, owing to the rotation of the column on its long axis, which always accompanies incur- vation, the spinous processes are pointed laterally, towards the concavity; and that to such a degree that they are nearly hidden from view by the over- lapping of the edge of the longissimus dorsi.”1 Aneurisms of the abdominal and thoracic aorta may cause such an erosion of the spine as to lead to the angular deformity of Pott’s disease. If the de- struction of bone be still more extensive, nerve-symptoms are produced from pressure, that may have the characters of those met with in caries, and that, may go on even to paraplegia.2 In such cases the distinctive symptoms of aneurism would be present, and the diagnosis patent. At the same time, it must be noted that these aneurisms occur usually at a time of life when spinal caries is very rarely met with. Michel refers to a case recorded by Mazet, where during life there was an “ angular curvature” of the column, and near it a large fluctuating tumor like a chronic abscess. It, however, proved to be a hydatid cyst growing from the vertebral canal. (2) The Cord and Nerve Symptoms.—In cases where the characteristic de- formity exists, there can be no difficulty in diagnosing these symptoms; or in any case at least where such symptoms coexisted with “ angular curve,” it would be safe to ascribe the former to the same disease that had caused the latter. The most difficult cases of Pott’s malady to recognize are those associated with no deformity. In some such cases, a psoas or lumbar abscess may exist and assist the diagnosis, but when that symptom is absent, an opinion has to be based to a great extent upon such nervous disturbances as may be present. In these cases, without deformity, the spine will be found to be more or less rigid in one part; there may be local pain, increased on exercise and relieved by extension; and there may be some peculiarity in the patient’s gait and movements. If any symptoms of nerve or cord disturbance exist, they may be of great value, and it is now necessary to point out with what other conditions those symptoms may be confused. In “ hysteria of the spine," the patient may complain of severe pain about some part of the column, of inability to move the back or to maintain the erect posture without great suffering, and possibly of radiating pains along certain nerves, such as the intercostal. The pain may be localized about the vertebra prominens, and the normal projection of this vertebra may lay the foundation for the assertion that the “ spine is growing out.” If the patient has taken to her bed—as is not in- frequently the case—under the impression that she has severe spinal mischief, the spinous processes of many vertebrae may in time appear unduly promi- nent, from atrophy of the muscles from disuse. If the case be associated with “ hysterical paraplegia,” a fresh complication is introduced. In these examples of simulated disease, however, there will generally be distinct evi- dences of hysteria, an absence of any real angular deformity, and no rigidity of the affected part. The pain, moreover, will be of that limited and ago- nizing character common in hysterical neuralgia. Lastly, when the spine is being examined, the patient will probably wince and jerk the back away every time that the column is touched, a manoeuvre that would certainly not be executed if the tenderness depended upon caries. In cases of muscular rheumatism of the back, there may be much local pain and a good deal of rigidity of the part. Such cases, however, may be distin- 1 Loc. cit., page 111. 2 Quincke, Diseases of Arteries ; Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Medicine, vol. vi. p. 434.