TUMORS. 544 Etiology or Tumors. While hypertrophies, unless they be congenital, are by general consent admitted to be due in the large majority of instances to increased use of the part which is hypertrophied, this cannot be maintained of tumors, which are attributed to many causes; indeed, to almost every cause save this. Thus, age, sex, injuries, inheritance, inflammation, anxiety, irritation, hypersemia, the inclusion of embryonic tissues, parasitism, are all and severally claimed as causes of the origin of tumors. Of some of these, there can be no question that they predispose to tumors, and especially to certain varieties of tumor. Youth, for example, is a protection from almost every form of carcinoma. Age, on the other hand, with the accompanying decay or altered life of tissue, renders almost every epithelial structure, but some much more than others, liable to carcinoma. Sex, less perhaps than its associated conditions, increases the liability to tumors of certain tissues or organs—the breast, in woman, to tumors of every kind ; the tongue and the oesophagus, in man, to carcinoma. Anxiety is thought by many surgeons to predispose especially to carcinoma. The effect of chrome inflammation and long-continued irritation in producing tumors may be illustrated by numerous examples. The gradual transition of so-called psoriasis and ichthyosis of the tongue to epithelioma, of chimney- sweeps’ warts to cancer, of simple sores and warty conditions of the lips to epithelioma, are familiar to every surgeon. Of late years the predisposing power of inflammation has been rated much more highly, for it has been shown that long-continued inflammation of the nipple and areola tends un- doubtedly to carcinoma of the breast; and it is thought that carcinoma is more liable to attack breasts which have been the seat of previous inflammation than those which have never been inflamed.1 The evidence in favor of this doctrine is not as yet conclusive. Dr. Formad2 carries the view of the inflam- matory origin of tumors so far as to express the opinion that nearly all tumors are direct effects of inflammation. He supports this statement by showing that some tumors are directly traceable to inflammation, and that certain results of inflammation resemble in their structure certain tumors. But a perusal of his paper leaves the impression that he confuses the causes of in- flammation with the inflammation which is caused, and that he forgets that mere resemblances of structure are not absolute evidence of identity of origin. Tumors are, with good reason in some instances, thought to be inherited, for the children of persons who are the subjects of tumor sometimes not only suffer from tumor, but even from the same variety of tumor, in precisely the same organ or tissue. Thus, osseous tumors, symmetrically placed on certain of the long bones, may occur on the same bones in father and child. A mother and her daughter may both suffer from carcinoma of the breast. But the laws of the inheritance of tumors, if such laws be admitted to exist, are singularly limited in their extent, and appear almost eccentric in their inci- dence. Only a few varieties of tumor appear capable of being inherited, or at least of being frequently inherited ; chiefly the osseous amongst the innocent tumors, and both sarcoma and carcinoma among the malignant growths. The inheritance of osseous tumors is generally very regular when it occurs, for the tumors are of the same kind in parent and offspring, and affect cor- responding bones and parts of bones. But the inheritance of malignant tumors is far less regular, although apparently far more frequent. The 1 Billroth, Deutsche Chirui'gie, Lf. 41 ; Fischer, Deut. Zeitsclirift f. Chirurgie, 1881 ; Oldekop, Langenbeck’s Archiv, 1879. 2 Transactions of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, vol. x. pp. 248-294. Philadelphia, 1882.