INJURIES OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. 867 the lumbar vertebras and tractures of both legs, caused by falling from the sixth story. Death ensued in one day. The autopsy showed that the cause of death was internal (post-peritoneal) hemorrhage and exhaustion. Professor Agnew1 states that he has known a case in which this accident resulted from a rider’s coming down upon the back of the saddle in an attempt to mount a res- tive horse. Mr. South2 says he has known two cases where this accident was not recovered from for nearly two years: “ The one followed sitting down suddenly on the edge of a snuff- box, which was jammed in between the side of the coccyx and the spine of the haunch bone; and the other by the patient having been thrown from a horse upon a heap of stones. In these cases the pain was not so great as usually said to be in walking, because the patients learned to walk without disturbing the bone; but the pain was agonizing when they incautiously sat down on a soft seat. Leeching afforded only temporary relief; and the.cure was at last effected, after months, by protecting the coccyx from all possibility of pressure, by constantly wearing a pair of very thick oblong pads on the ischial tuberosities, so that in sitting the point of the coccyx was in a deep pit.” Simple fractures of the coccyx are said sometimes to occur during parturi- tion, in consequence of the pressure exerted by the foetal head while passing through the inferior strait of the pelvis; but it is probable that such cases often consist of luxation, or rupture of the coccygeal ligaments, instead of fracture. This accident is of infrequent occurrence. It may be caused by kicks, by blows, by falls, and by injuries sustained during parturition. Though seem- ingly a very trivial accident, it is often exceedingly painful and annoying for many months or years, or even for a lifetime. The displacement in fracture of the coccyx is forward, and it is produced by the same agencies as those which cause the deformity in simple fracture of the sacrum, namely, the contractions of the muscles which are inserted into the coccyx, as well as the general direction of the fracturing force. Treatment.—Although the injury at first sight may appear inconsiderable, the victims of this accident, for reasons presented above, should always be confined to bed, in that posture which is least painful, and which causes least disturbance of the injured bone. Any forward displacement should be cor- rected by inserting a finger, well oiled, into the rectum, and pressing the bone back into its normal position. If the deformity returns, it may become advisable to employ such tampons as have been described while discussing fractures of the sacrum. Should much inflammation supervene in the in- jured part, the application of leeches, followed by a lotion composed of lead- water and laudanum, will prove useful in subduing the inflammatory action, and in diminishing the liability to the occurrence of neuralgia, necrosis, abscess, and fistula. Should, however, the ligamentous tissue surrounding the bone continue inflamed and painful, notwithstanding the treatment, and especially should the apex of the injured bone be incessantly dragged forward by spasmodic action of the sphincter ani and other muscles which are inserted into the os coccygis, it may be proper to forcibly stretch the sphincter, under ether, as in cases of anal fissure, so that the fibres of that muscle may be paralyzed for a time, and that defecation may take place without spasm and without restraint. After such patients leave their beds, it will often be use- ful for them to protect the coccyx from injury by constantly wearing a pair of thick oblong pads on the tuberosities of the ischium, as recommended by Mr. South. 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 923. 2 Notes to Chelius’s Surgery, vol. i. pp. 595, 596, Am. ed.