pott’s disease of the spine. 951 Many objections have, as already mentioned, been made to Sayre’s treat- ment, both as a whole and in its details. The objections to the main princi- ples of the method may now be briefly discussed. It has been urged that suspension pulls asunder the diseased parts, and that, the jacket maintaining them in that position, a cure by anchylosis of the anterior segments of the column is positively prevented. This objection is answered by asserting that the treatment should never be so carried out as to cause an extensive anti per- manent gap in the column, but that the surfaces should be just prevented from exercising injurious pressure and injurious friction the one upon the other. This exposes the real weakness of the scientific aspect of Sayre’s method, for who can tell when the extension is sufficient just to prevent injurious pressure, but not to cause an injurious gap ? This question is an important one, and urgently demands an answer. It has been urged, moreover, that the jacket is not capable of supporting the column as maintained by Sayre and others. This objection has especial reference to children, and it is declared that so com- paratively slight is a child’s pelvis that it affords no proper basis for the support of the column. It is asserted also that the hold which the jacket obtains upon the thorax is not sufficient to support the weight of the body above the seat of disease. In these objections it is assumed that the Sayre’s jacket, tak- ing its fixed point from the pelvis, holds up the column in the same manner as would the crutch bar of the steel apparatus for Pott’s disease. This is not the case, and the manner in which the rigid jacket supports the spine is more correctly to be compared to the manner in which the four splints around an arm support and maintain position in a fractured humerus. Some of the details of this treatment may now be considered. In suspend- ing a child, the collar alone is usually sufficient, and by its use very direct traction upon the spine can be obtained. In the cases of elder children and adults, the axillary bands are needed in addition. A collar containing an air pad has been introduced, that renders the extending process less irksome to the patient. As to the amount of the suspension, the rules laid down by Mr. Fisher in his “ Essay” are I think the best and the most carefully considered.1 He details three degrees of suspension. In the first degree, the patient is suspended until the toes just touch the ground. He maintains that this should be the extreme degree of extension, and urges that the patient should never be drawn entirely oft' the floor. He advises this amount of extension for children under 12, with limited destruction of the vertebrae, and for children under 5 in whom more extensive disease exists. In the second degree of ex- tension, the patient is drawn up until the heels are raised about two inches from the ground, the “forepads” of the feet being left for the patient’s support. This is advisable in more advanced cases of disease, in children under 12, and in severe cases in those under 5. In the third degree, the body is raised until the heels are just on the point of being lifted from the ground. This amount of suspension is advised for all cases in adults, or in children over 12, and in severe examples of the disease, between the ages of 12 and 5. Sayre simply advises that the patient be drawn up “ until comfortable,” and is an advocate for complete suspension. It is certain that patients often experience much relief on suspension, but that fact can hardly afford a proper basis for esti- mating the amount of force to be used. When the jacket has been applied, the patient must be carefully placed in the recumbent posture while the plaster is still wet, and this practice should meet the objection of those who assert that the jacket may maintain too wide a gap between the diseased parts. In the place of suspension, the jacket may be applied in the recumbent Op. eit., p. 31.