FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 139 my notice have been in children, and the mechanism of their production was not known. On passive motion of the elbow, distinct crepitus was elicited, and no other sign of fracture existed except loss of power in the limb, and pain, aggravated by handling; there was no perceptible deformity. The limb was" in each case kept at perfect rest by means of an angular splint, and in the two cases of which I have kept notes, complete recovery ensued in about six weeks. I When the epiphysis is separated as a whole, the epitrochlea and epicondyle are of course included in the lower fragment, and the line of division curves downward above each of them, to run almost transversely above the edge of the articular surface. In the cases of this kind which I have seen, the lower fragment has always been carried backward, the radius and ulna following it, and the lower end of the upper fragment projecting somewhat strongly in front of the elbow. I think that the anterior edge of this fragment corre- sponds pretty nearly with the fold of skin at this point. All motion of the part is painful, and there is especial difficulty in flexion ; crepitus is easily detected. The antero-posterior diameter of the joint is increased, and swell- ing comes on with great rapidity, augmenting the deformity and in great measure obscuring the condition of the parts. The course and ultimate result of fractures of the lower part of the humerus is apt to be very unsatisfactory. Inflammation of the elbow-joint is commonly set up, and although it may be actively combated, and may not run high, a certain amount of stiffening is almost always induced ; this, as a general rule, is in time overcome, but there is often left a tendency to occasional attacks of pain and tenderness. A curious point may here be noted, namely, that in some cases the stiffen- ing of the elbow may be limited to the ulnar portion of the joint. Thus Lallemand1 had a patient aged thirty-two years, who, in consequence of a crush of the elbow, opening the joint extensively, had the humero-cubital articulation anchylosed, but the radius was still capable of motion on the ulna, and with some supplemental aid from the shoulder-joint all the motions of pronation and supination were accomplished. In one of Hamilton’s cases,2 a fracture of the inner condyle, he found that “ the arm was nearly anchy- losed in a rectangular position ; pronation and supi- nation were perfect.” The inflammation of the elbow occasionally leads to more serious results. In one case recorded by Wright,3 a strumous boy, aged twelve, had a frac- turedetaching the capitellum of the humerus, which gave rise to pulpy degeneration, for which excision of the elbow was performed. Perhaps it may be regarded as strange that the vessels so seldom suffer in these fractures, but in fact they are not only separated from the bone by a thick layer of soft parts, but are by their flexure in a position to yield readily, and thus to escape tearing. When the fracture is a compound one, however, the course of things may be different. Fig. 611 represents a fracture of the humerus in a boy, aged about twelve, who fell from a low fence; the upper fragment was forced out through a Fig. 611. 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1841; from Laneette Franqaise, Mai, 1840. 2 Keport, etc., p. Ill ; Case 48. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d ser., vol. xxiv., 1879.