487 EXCISION OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. Table Showing Results of Excisions in Shafts of Radius and Ulna for Gunshot Injury. Period of operation. Total. Recovered. Died. Un deter- mined. Mortality per cent. Primary ...... 665 589 71 5 10.7 Intermediate ..... 149 120 29 19.4 Secondary ..... 40 3(i 4 10.0 Unknown ..... 132 in 5 16 4.3 Aggregates 986 856 109 21 11.3 Excision of the Wrist-joint.—Judging from my own experience, I should say that wrist-joint excision was an operation the indications for which were seldom met with ; at least, I have never seen a case in my own practice in which I have felt it right to resort to this operation, those cases, whether of injury or of disease of the wrist, which have been bad enough to require any operation, having been so bad as to make me think amputation a safer remedy. The fact is, that there is no joint in the body in which more can be done by careful and long-continued, expectant treatment than in the wrist; the part can be kept quite at rest on a splint, while the patient goes about and pursues his ordinary avocations, and unless some complication, such as grave visceral disease, intervenes to prejudice the prospects of recovery, an ultimate cure can almost certainly be prognosticated. I have more than once seen wrists in which the carpal bones seemed to be completely separated from each other, rattling about like beans in a bag, and in which, nevertheless, recovery with a useful hand was eventually obtained. At the same time, I doubt not that cases do occur in which operative interference is imperative, and in which excision should be preferred to amputation. The lower end of the radius was successfully excised by Cooper, of Bungay, in 1758, but the first operation which deserves to be termed an excision of the wrist-joint appears to have been performed by the elder Moreau, in 1794. Various forms of operation have been adopted for wrist-joint excision, those which afford the most complete exposure of the articulation being probably the H-shaped incision, and the dorsal flap method of Velpeau, shown in Fig. 712. No large vessels are cut by this incision, but even if the extensor ten- Fig. 712. Excision of wrist by flap method. dons of the fingers are not divided, as they usually must be, they will neces- sarily be more or less bruised and lacerated, and will lie so matted together by the subsequent inflammation that the utility of the hand will be consider- ably impaired. Hence, by the general consent of surgeons, the modification of Dubled’s operation introduced by Prof. Lister, is now preferred to any other.