622 TUMORS. clearly as is necessary, and neither time nor space will permit of more copious illustration. In the articles which treat of the affections of each organ and tissue, other examples will be found. Every example of the disease shows that it is absolutely essential, in addition to a general survey of sarcoma, to study the sarcomas of each organ and tissue separately, and that only thus can a complete knowledge of the whole subject be arrived at. Endothelioma or Endothelial Tumor. This is a cellular tumor derived from endothelium. The materials which are within our reach for a complete account of this disease are scanty and insufficient. Our knowledge of the anatomy even of undoubted endothe- liomas is very imperfect, and the information which we possess of the disease, in all other situations than the endothelial surfaces, is so small that it is im- possible to do justice to the subject. It is not improbable that constantly increasing knowledge of tumors will discover that many growths, which are now classed otherwise, must be placed among the endotheliomas. Varieties of the disease will he discovered ; metamorphoses and combinations will be described; and endothelioma may be found to be as important and easily recognizable as carcinoma or sarcoma. It has already been mentioned that some authors derive the sarcomas, if not of all parts, yet certainly of some parts, from endothelium. If this be so, these tumors are endotheliomas, not sarcomas. I have given reasons for not accepting this view for all sarcomas, and for believing that these growths are more often derived from the fixed connective-tissue corpuscles. But I can quite believe that many of the atypi- cal specimens of sarcoma of various parts will prove to he endotheliomas. Until this has been proved, however, it will be safer to regard as endothe- liomas only those tumors which grow from endothelial surfaces, and which appear to be derived from the endothelium of these surfaces rather than from the membrane or tissue which underlies the cells. Such tumors have been observed on the serous membranes, especially the pleura; and I think many of the tumors of the inner surface of the dura mater and of the other membranes of the brain and spinal cord—such, for instance, as the vest-celled sarcomas, and some, if not all, of the psammomas—may be fairly included in this class. Gowers has described1 three cases, in each of which the tumor sprang from the inner surface of the dura mater. Each was globular in form, and about the size of a small orange, with a nodular surface. Their consistence varied; the older portions, near the origin at the dura mater, were very firm, but the more recent parts were much softer. In one specimen the whole tumor was soft, not firmer than brain-tissue. Each specimen was grayish in color. Each was composed chiefly of spindle-cells, in the midst of which were nests of concentric cells, resembling those found in squamous-celled carcinoma; one of these nests had become calcified in the centre. Each of the tumors had pressed the brain-substance on one side, but had not invaded it. No fur- ther particulars are given of the cases, for the paper deals chiefly with the development of the spindle-cells, which appeared to be by vacuolation or endogenous cell-formation in the interior of round, nucleated cells. I do not think that all the psammomas can at present be reckoned to be of endothelial origin, for some of them are composed almost wholly of fibrous tissue, and therefore more probably originate in the connective-tissue con- stituents of the membranes. But some of the psammomas are composed 1 Medico-Cliirurgioal Transactions, vol. lix. p. 217. 1876.