655 CYSTS OR CYSTIC TUMORS. CYSTS OR CYSTIC TUMORS. Nature and Pathology of Cysts. A cyst may be defined as a sac with liquid or solid contents. The term may be restricted by applying it only to those sacs which are lined with epi- thelium or endothelium, or it may be much more widely extended by includ- ing among the cysts all collections of liquid lying in the midst of solid tissues, whether they are inclosed in a distinct sac or not. The word is employed here in its more restricted sense, while to those liquid collections which are not inclosed in sacs, and which commonly owe their origin to softening or liquefaction of solid tissues, the tissues of a tumor for example, the term cys- toid is applied. All cysts, in regard to their pathology, may be gathered into three groups : I. Those formed by the distension of previously existing sacs or tubes; II. Those of new formation ; III. Those of uncertain origin. I. Cysts formed by Distension of previously existing Sacs or Tubes. Retention-Cysts.—The first class includes the retention-cysts, of which ex- cellent examples are found in the sebaceous, the mucous, and the milk cysts. All these are formed by the distension of the glandular sacs or ducts of the sebaceous, mucous, and mammary glands. They owe their origin always to the occlusion of the ducts of the various glands, while the secreting structures still continue to perform their functions. The ducts may be partially or wholly closed by many different causes, among which may be mentioned, as the most frequently observed, the pressure of tumors or inflammatory swellings, cicatrization, the formation of tumors within the ducts, and the inspissation and concretion of certain discharges at the mouths of ducts. Although the contents of these cysts usually resemble the secretion of the gland in which they have been formed, this is by no means invariably the case. The quality of the secretion may be altered, and, especially in the case of cysts which par- tially discharge their contents, either constantly or at frequent intervals, the character of the contents may undergo great modification. For milk or mucus, may, in this manner, be substituted a thin serous fluid. Blood, too, may be extravasated into the interior of a cyst of whatever kind. The walls of the retention-cysts are composed of fibrous tissue—close-textured and tough around the larger and older cysts, hardly amounting to more than a homoge- neous membrane in the smallest and most recent cysts—lined with one or more layers of epithelial cells. Between the fibrous tissue and the epithelium can sometimes he detected an endothelial layer, particularly in those cases in which proliferation of the endothelium has taken place,and in which a tolerably thick intervening membrane has been formed. The epithelium may closely resemble that which previously lined the cavity, or may be modified in shape, and may form several layers in place of a single layer. A retention-cyst may be formed by the distension of a single duct, whether large or small. It may also be formed by the distension of a single acinus, but is much more commonly developed by the distension of a group of acini. Each acinus of the group, at or about the same period, becomes dilated ; as the •dilatation advances, a sacculated cavity is formed, the interior of which is