33 CONSEQUENCES OE FRACTURE. upon the joints as well as upon the bone at the time of the accident, and ar- thritis is set up, with effusion into the periarticular tissues. Or the circula- tion in the limb or its innervation, may be disturbed, so that the nutrition of all the tissues is impaired, and the movement of the joints is thus inter- fered with. By some authors, the long-continued immobilization of the joints required by treatment is thought to render them stiff; but this idea is rendered untenable by the fact that experience in other cases gives no such result; and it is more likely that ill-advised pressure by apparatus, or the inflammatory condition above alluded to, is at fault. As a general rule, this stiffening is only transient, and either gradually disappears with use, or yields to proper local medication. Atrophy of a broken limb sometimes takes place, and may affect all its tissues, or the bone only. A very curious instance of the latter kind is re- corded by Drs. Jackson and Dwight,1 in which a humerus, broken for the second time, was almost wholly absorbed; and another by Gross,2 in which the fracture was originally double. In both these cases the arm retained very considerable muscular power. When all the tissues of the limb are atrophied, the bone also may shrink, but this is not apt to be the case. The muscles become small, stiff, and weak, and the foot or hand, as the case may be, contracted and twisted, much as in cases of paralysis from lesions of the central nervous system. “ Pointed foot” is not unusually due to atrophic contraction of the muscles of the calf. Prevention, it need hardly be said, is in these cases far better, and certainly far easier, than cure. Often, indeed, the latter proves to be impossible. The measures to be adopted are very simple, and their efficiency depends much upon the regularity and perseverance with which they are applied. Frictions, with or without medicated liniments, bathing, shampooing, or massage, and sometimes faradization, may occasionally restore the tone of mus- cles which seemed at first hopelessly damaged. But no discreet surgeon will venture in a case of this kind to hold out hopes which may utterly fail to be realized. Necrosis, after simple fracture, is extremely rare, if it ever occur at all. Possibly in some of the cases in which blows or other injuries are followed by the death of a portion of the bone, there has really been a separation of the part thus mortified; but I have never seen an instance in which this could be proved. After compound fractures, however, it is very common to find one or more splinters loosened and dead ; their presence may interfere with the process of union, which is apt to take place promptly upon their removal. Development of Morbid Growths.—Among the remoter local conse- quences of fracture may be mentioned the development of tumors at the seat of the old injury. Virchow,3 after stating that enchondroma, more frequently than any other tumor, is clearly to be ascribed to traumatic causes, says :—- “ Among these, fractures seem to be of great interest. Nelaton (Gaz. des Hop., 1855) mentions a man who, having broken his leg, was completely cured in twomonths ; but six months afterward had severe attacks of pain in the part. Re-fracture occurred from slight violence, and union again took place in two months, but the part remained painful. A tumor began to develop itself, increased more and more, and at length ' 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, July, 1838, and Oct. 10, 1872. 2 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 929. 3 Die krankhaften Gescliwiilste, Band i. S. 482. VOL. IV.—3