522 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 1 See page 470. parison could be fairly made the result would be found in favor of amputa- tion), for excision is habitually performed in selected cases, while all the rest are reserved for amputation. And this is, indeed, the true point of view from which to look upon the question. The surgeon's first thought should undoubtedly be of excision— for when successful the result is immeasurably superior to the best result of amputation—but before deciding upon this operation he should weigh well all the circumstances of the case, the age and constitutional condition of the patient, the extent to which the bones entering into the articulation are afi'ected, and the facilities which will be afforded by the patient’s surround- ings for conducting the after-treatment (often prolonged and wearisome) to a successful issue. .If then the patient be neither too young nor too old, if there be no evidence of visceral complication, if the disease be sufficiently limited to allow of .its entire removal without taking away so much bone as would materially impair the usefulness of the limb, and if the patient be so situated that the question of the time required for recovery is of secondary importance, the surgeon should choose excision, and by doing so will probably succeed in preserving for his patient a limb better than any artificial substi- tute, and in most cases better than could be obtained by the unaided powers of nature; under opposite circumstances, provided that the case is bad enough to require any operation, amputation should be resorted to, and the surgeon who employs it under such, and only under such, circumstances, will not have occasion to regret his decision. Comparatively a successful operation when performed for chronic joint- disease, excision of the knee is a very grave procedure in cases of wound of the articulation, and is so fatal in cases of gunshot injury that it may fairly be questioned whether it should not be banished from military surgery. The figures bearing upon this point may be seen in the following table, com- piled from the statistics of Guilt and Culbertson Table showing Results op Excision of the Knee for Injury and for Disease. Nature of case. Total. Recovered. Died. Result not determined. Mortality per cent, of terminated cases. Gunshot wound .... 146 33 in 2 77.1 Other injury . . . . 28 17 ii 39.3 Disease ...... 603 419 178 6 29.8 Aggregates 777 469 300 8 39.0 The result as to the ultimate usefidness of the preserved limb, in cases of knee-excision, is, in most cases, very satisfactory. Of the 9 cases of excision for gunshot wound, in Gurlt’s table,1 the “end-result” was “very good” in 5, and “ good” in 3 ; while the 17 recoveries after excision for other forms of injury, tabulated by Culbertson, gave 3 “perfect,” and 11 “useful” limbs. My own list of 22 recoveries has given one amputation, one re-excision, and one doubtful case, leaving 19 in which the utility of the limb was assured, the permanence of the benefit derived having, in many of these cases, been verified years after the operation. The following summary shows the ulti- mate result in Culbertson’s 603 cases of excision for disease:—