959 DISEASE OF THE ATLO-AXOID REGION. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. i. p. 133. Op. cit., page 135. possibly have adopted a carriage more or less typical of lesion in the region of the column now under notice. The head may be kept bent forwards, or backwards, or to one side, or in the position of rotation ; the first mentioned position is the most common. Sometimes the patient may appear to be un- able to support the head by means of the usual muscles; he prefers the re- cumbent posture, with his head sunken in a pillow, and, if required to get up, will support his head with his hands. The actual deformity as a rule de- pends upon the sliding forwards of the atlas upon the bone beneath. When this occurs, the chin and face are advanced, and are stilly poked forwards. The roundness of the upper part of the back of the neck is lost. The spine of the axis becomes prominent, and may be readily felt or seen. This deformity when present is very characteristic, and is well represented by Mr. Shaw in a drawing in his monograph already referred to. The displacement, when in any way well marked, may be sometimes felt by examination of the part through the upper and posterior part of the pharynx. (5) The disease may run its entire course, and end in cure, without any abscess appearing externally. As a rule, however, abscess does appear, although that appearance may be long delayed. The purulent collection may present itself at the back or side of the neck. In the latter position it will be deep- seated, and may cause severe symptoms and great difficulty in diagnosis. Such an abscess will, however, have—apart from the spinal disease—no especial cha- racters that separate it from other deeply-seated cervical abscesses. In some cases (and in those particularly that depend upon necrosis of the anterior parts of either of the two upper vertebrae) the purulent collection may appear as a “ post-pharyngeal abscess.” An abscess in this situation may cause very obscure and very severe symptoms. In a case already associated with evi- dences of disease in the upper cervical region, a swelling appears behind the pharynx, that may in time increase so as to push forward the soft palate, or may extend so low down as to be obvious from the mouth. This swelling is associated with much pain and distress, with considerable difficulty in deglu- tition, and often with alarming dyspnoea. The cause of this dyspnoea has in more than one recorded case been overlooked, and tracheotomy proposed or practised for its relief. Very often the abscess presents itself at the same time at the side of the neck. Thus, Mr. Hilton1 records a case of a child, aged twelve months, who in addition to the post-pharyngeal swelling had an abscess that extended to the angle of the jaw, pushing forwards the trachea and carotid vessels, and lifting up the sterno-mastoid muscle. The collection was opened in the neck, and the pharyngeal tumor at once subsided. Sir James Paget2 gives an instance where the post-pharyngeal abscess was complicated by an extension of suppuration to the parotid region, associated with rigidity of the jaw. The collection opened spontaneously through the pharynx, and a severe hemorrhage followed. The hemorrhage recurred and proved fatal. The autopsy showed caries of the anterior arch of the atlas, and an abscess-cavity about the carotids, and between the tonsil and the parotid gland. The source of the bleeding was not discovered. The post-pharyngeal abscess may open into the pharynx, or may discharge itself through the integuments of the neck, but an opening in the former situation is the more common. The bursting ol the abscess into the pharynx may cause death by asphyxia, the matter finding its way into the larynx. Or, independent of its bursting, the collec- tion may cause death by asphyxia, that end being brought about by pressure. Several cases are recorded where the mischief in the bones has been second- ary to an ulcer of the pharynx, and in all these instances the disease would appear to have been due to tertiary syphilis. The following was a case of