TUMORS. 638 of the disease is similar to that of other carcinomas of the same part, hut somewhat more prolonged. True combinations of carcinoma with other tumors are not common. Oc- casionally a combination with adenoma or tibro-adenoma is observed in the breast, and the supposition is that an adenoma or tibro-adenoma of the breast has been transformed into a carcinoma. Combinations with papilloma also are met with. An epithelioma may commence as a simple warty growth, and the warty condition may remain long after the epithelial transformation has occurred. Again, it is probable that combinations of sarcoma and carcinoma do occur. I have once or twice seen tumors of which there was great difficulty in deciding whether the disease was sarcoma or carcinoma. The elements of both kinds of tumor appeared to be mingled in such a manner that a com- bination-tumor was suggested. It must be remembered, however, in relation to such tumors, that the connective tissue of a carcinoma may consist of spindle-cells or fibre-cells, as in the recurrent carcinoma of which mention has been made. What has been already said of the microscopic characters of carcinoma need only be supplemented here by one or two remarks on its alveolar structure. This is not nearly so universal as might be supposed from the importance which has often been attached to it. It scarcely exists in squamous-celled carcinoma (epithelioma), and is almost always absent in columnar-celled carci- noma. In the young spheroidal-celled tumors, the alveoli are for the most part the full sacs or tubelets of the gland. In the older tumors, the connec- tive tissue forms spaces or alveoli of various shapes, in which epithelial cells are closely packed. In the soft tumors the alveoli are large and numerous, and the stroma is scanty ; in the hard tumors the stroma is abundant, and the alveoli are small; while in the withered, scirrhous tumors the stroma is very coarse and plentiful, the alveoli are reduced to mere fissures, and the cells are shrunken or degenerated to a mass of molecules. Carcinoma, like sarcoma, is liable to inflame and even suppurate, but the liability is not great. Occasionally the formation of a carcinoma is preceded by the signs of inflammation, or is ushered in by an inflammation, a circum- stance doubly interesting, since it complicates the early diagnosis and opens the important question of the relations of carcinoma to inflammation. The ulce- ration of carcinomas is much more frequently observed than the ulceration of sarcomas. The tumors of the skin and mucous membrane almost invariably ulcerate, and the tumors of the breast, if they be left long enough without ope- ration, very frequently ulcerate. Not so the carcinomas of the testis, where the tumor may attain a large size and produce numerous secondary tumors without breaking. The character of the ulcer is usually significant of the disease. The edges are often raised and nodular, and the surface sometimes glazed and tuberous, sometimes ragged and sloughing, sometimes deeply ex- cavated and irregular, generally foul, and scarcely ever healing, while in every case the ulcer is a loss of substance of the tumor which forms its immediate base and edges. Thus, in the breast, the tumor becomes adherent to the skin, which is red or livid when the adherence is complete, and becomes actually a part of the tumor. When the ulcer forms, it is as if a hollow were scooped out of the substance of the mass. Symptoms and Course of Carcinomata.—The clinical characters of carci- noma naturally vary with the form of the disease and with the part attacked, and there are very few characters which are common to the carcinomas of all parts. Among these, the character of infiltration is one of the most promi- nent. In the skin, the tongue, the oesophagus, the breast, the testis—in truth