INCISED AND PUNCTURED FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. 669 ensued in all but four. In many, the successful issue of the efforts at reduc- tion was indicated by an audible sound or a “ snap.” In several the paralysis was instantly relieved. I. INJURIES OF TIIE SOFT PARTS. Incised and Punctured Flesh-wounds of the Back. Wounds are inflicted with cutting and puncturing instruments in the back part of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, by accidents, by criminal de- sign, and in war, with so much frequency as to require at least some mention of them in this place. For instance, “ punctured and incised flesh-wounds of the back were exemplified by fifty-six instances [during our late civil war], of which twenty-one were cases of bayonet-stabs, thirteen of sabre-cuts, and twenty-two of punctures and incisions by sundry weapons. None of these cases arc recorded as terminating fatally, though in six the result has not been ascertained; forty-five were sent to duty, and five were discharged. Several of these cases were examples of severe though not dangerous sword- wounds.”1 Of the thirteen examples of sabre-cuts, twelve were received in action. The bayonet-stabs, however, appear to have been inflicted almost entirely by sentries, or by provost-guards, or in brawls, or through accidents. But one example is specified as a wound received in action, and this wound may not have been inflicted by the enemy. Sabre-wounds of the back are seldom mentioned in the literature of surgery. No instance is related by either Guthrie or Ilennen. Bilguer, however, gives an instance that occurred in the Seven Years War (1756-63): A cavalry soldier, J. R., while retreating and leaning over his horse’s neck, received two cuts in the lumbar region.2 He appears to have recovered. But Morgagni records an autopsy in a case of sabre-thrust in the back.3 Incised wounds which sever to a considerable extent the fasciculi of the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, or rhomboid muscles, are apt to gape widely open. In treating such wounds, it is necessary, after stanching the bleeding and removing the coagula and all other foreign bodies, to introduce at the outset sutures of carbolized silk, which are antiseptic, or of silver or iron wire, which are also antiseptic per se, in sufficient number and at sufficiently short intervals, and at a sufficient depth, to bring the divided parts into complete apposition, where they should be allowed to remain until the union is com- plete. Under this plan of treatment, with quietude, the results of flesh- wounds of the back (incised) are almost always very favorable. But if no sutures be introduced, and the gaping wound be allowed to fill up and heal by granulation, some considerable time may be required before recovery takes place. Incised or Punctured Flesh-wounds of the Back of the Neck.—If these penetrate deeply, they may open the vertebral or the occipital artery, and thus cause a hemorrhage which, if not restrained, will speedily prove fatal, on the one hand ; or, unless promptly treated in a radical manner, will give rise to a traumatic aneurism of an almost equally fatal character, on the 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Vol. p. 429. 1 Chirurg. Wahrnehinungen, S. 493. Berlin, 17U3. * De Sed. et Causis Morb., Ep. liii. p. 270. 1701b