940 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. This “ nerve-pain” is very different from the dull, deep-seated, and well- localized pain already spoken of in a previous paragraph. The latter is a “ bone-pain,” is worse at night, is perhaps modified by the weather, and, if increased on movement, is increased to no severe extent. The one depends upon the irritation of a nerve-trunk, the other upon actual disease in the bone, augmented by the mutual pressure of the parts. In some instances, the patient may complain of a painful sensation about the body, as of a cord tied around it, about the level of the epigastrium or umbilicus. This sensation may be an extremely painful one, and may, according to some French authors, be very like the pain of a linear burn. The symptom, although common in many affections of the cord, is certainly extremely rare in Pott’s disease, as Mr. Marsh has recently pointed out. The same writer has also drawn attention to the fact that the pain when located about the abdomen, may be readily the cause of a faulty diagnosis. He records the case of a child, aged five, who suffered from a pain in the stomach supposed to be due to indigestion, for which, indeed, she was treated for some weeks. The pain was in reality due to disease in the mid-dorsal vertebne, and could have been distinguished from the pain of indigestion by the fact that it was not worse after meals, that it was increased by vigorous move- ment, and relieved by recumbency. The “lightning” pains that are so com- mon in certain diseases of the cord are not met with in Pott’s malady, although tingling sensations may be felt in parts, or a discomfort described as “ prick- ing pains.” Lastly, there may be a loss of sensation in parts below the seat of the ver- tebral disease. This anresthesia is quite uncommon, and never occurs alone, but when present is always associated with loss of motion, which, in nearly every instance, will be found to have preceded it, and to be of a more exten- sive character. It is rare for the loss of sensation to be absolute. Usually there is only a sense of numbness, or an anaesthesia of a comparatively limited district. The instances of complete loss of all sensation below the seat of disease are very few, and have in all examples been associated with absolute paraplegia. Disturbances of the Motor Nervous System.—These disturbances may be classed under two heads: (a) Those marked by nerve-irritation, convulsions, spasms, etc.; (b) those marked by loss of nerve-function, or palsies. (a) These disturbances may assume a variety of aspects. In the least marked instances, there may be simply undue reflex irritability. In such cases, on touching or gently tickling the sole of the foot, the limb is violently drawn up, or movements may be induced in it by equally trifling irritation. In other cases this morbid condition of the nerve-centre may express itself in an involuntary jactitation of the limbs, that may be brought about by very slight peripheral disturbances. In severe grades of this condition, the limbs below the seat of the vertebral disease may exhibit spasmodic or convulsive movements. These spasms may sometimes be very violent, and associated with considerable pain. They may occur spontaneously, but can be induced or rendered more vigorous by irritat- ing the periphery, as by tickling the feet or pinching the skin, etc. These symptoms are practically limited to the muscles of the lower limbs, and to the abdominal and sacro-lumbar muscles. Only one limb may be affected, or only one muscle or set of muscles in that limb, and when both sides of the body exhibit these spasmodic attacks, the symptoms are usually more marked on one side than on the other. In other instances the spasm may be continuous, and the legs may remain rigidly drawn up. This form of contraction may be associated with much pain, may be of limited or unequal extent, and may alternate or be associated