INJURIES OP BONES. 200 recurved hook, to be driven into the upper part of the separated portion, and attached by means of adhesive plaster to the skin of the limb below. From the slight data available, it would seem that some advantage might be gained by abducting and everting the limb, as suggested by Malgaigne, so as to make the shaft follow the fragment into the position into which the muscles are likely to pull it. It is very probable that the lameness which might be induced by the injury would not, after all, be so serious as to make it worth while to subject the patient to long and rigorous confinement. Fracture of the lesser trochanter is not described by authors as a separate lesion, although sometimes, as in a case quoted from Guthrie1 by Sir A. Cooper,2 it is incidentally mentioned as an attendant upon other and more important injuries. In 1874 I saw, with Dr. Cohen, an old gentleman, who had slipped on an icy pavement, and in attempting to avoid falling, had met with a hurt about the hip. He could stand, hut was unable to walk, and especially to draw the knee up toward the belly, although this position, with the hip-joint flexed, was the most comfortable to him. There was no shortening of the limb, no crepitus, and no eversion of the foot; hut there was pain in the groin, and tenderness at the inner and upper part of the thigh. After a time, he got about on crutches, and could even walk a few steps without them ; but he never fully recovered the use of the limb. He died five or six years after- ward, hut no autopsy could be obtained. I thought at the time, and still think, that in this case there was a tear- ing oft' of the trochanter minor; he was very thin, and I could feel the bone on the other side, but possibly the swelling and tenderness prevented my doing so at the seat of injury. I regret very much that the true state of the parts could not he determined by dissection, hut feel that even without such completion the case is of sufficient interest to be presented for what it is worth. Fractures of the shaft of the femur are in adults very common acci- dents. By some authors, those which aftect the bone just below the trochan- ters are placed in a separate class ; but although, like those of the surgical neck of the humerus, they present some special features, these are not so marked that they cannot be pointed out in the course of the discussion of the general subject. The shaft is much more frequently broken in its middle portion than near either end ; and this statement holds good in regard to both sexes and all ages. Adult males are more liable to the accidents producing this injury than females or children, and hence afford a majority of the cases. Hofmokl has reported3 the case of a child, not rachitic, born with a united fracture of the femur, and I have known of more than one instance in which this bone has given way during the process of artificial delivery. When the accident is due to the use of the blunt hook, in breech presentations, the upper por- tion of the hone is for obvious reasons most likely to suffer. Looked at from without, the shaft of the femur always presents a more or less marked curve, convex anteriorly, and a slighter curve convex exte- riorly. Very rarely it is found to be almost straight. On examination in section, the anterior wall is seen to he thinner than the posterior, where the bony substance is massed into a very thick and strong ridge, the linea aspera. Partly on account of this arrangement, and partly by reason of the bone’s 1 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xiii. 2 Op. cit., p. 172. 5 Archiv fur Kinderkrankheiten, Bd. iii. S. 370. Stuttgart, 1881.