728 INJURIES OF THE BACK. morbid process consists of an ascending spinal meningitis. In still others, it consists of an ascending traumatic myelitis, and this class is probably a numerous one. People who are fatally injured in the cervical part of the spine, as a rule, do not live long enough to get sacral and gluteal eschars, or bed-sores, nor for vesical and renal disease to occur in consequence of the rachidian lesions. Treatment of Cervical Dislocations.—Here, it may be well to state again, that in all pure dislocations of the cervical vertebrae, certainly in all that are bilateral or symmetrical, the intervertebral substance is torn through, and the upper vertebra is displaced forward from the lower; that in dislocations and fractures combined, of the last five or six cervical vertebrae, the interver- tebral substance is also torn through, and the upper vertebra displaced for- ward from the lower; and that, in such cases, the fracture is generally found in the spinous process, the laminae, or the pedicles of the dislocated vertebra, but not in its body. Thus, it is seen that the displacement is strictly analo- gous, in cases of dislocation combined with fracture, to what it is in pure dislocation, and that the treatment of the former should be substantially the same as the treatment of the latter. Moreover, in dislocations and fractures of the spinal column, it is not the lesions of the vertebrae, per se, which disable and kill, as much as it is the displacement of bone, and the extravasation of blood between the theca and the cord, or into the cord itself, and the consecutive inflammation of cord and membranes, that may attend these lesions; for, by the above-named conse- quences of spinal injury, the substance of the spinal cord is directly torn, or bruised, or compressed, or disorganized, so that the spinal nervous functions in the segment of the cord below the place of injury may cease entirely to be performed, and the parts dependent thereon for innervation become com- pletely paralyzed. It is, then, the displacements of bone, the intra-spinal extravasations of blood, and the inflammations of the cord and its membranes that attend these lesions, which the surgeon must chiefly consider in conduct- ing the treatment of these cases. AVhen a person receives, in any way, a dislocation or a fracture of the neck, or of any other part of the spinal column, the first thing of importance to do is to effect the person’s removal to hospital or home without producing additional injury. To this end, the patient should be placed in an extended position, on the flat of the back, upon a board, settee, or stretcher, and in that way carried in as nearly a fixed or immovable position as possible. If the lesion be situated above the third cervical vertebra, a small, firmly rolled wad of clothing should generally be placed under the neck in order to keep it raised up, and thus prevent the head from falling forward and dragging with it the spinal cord against the odontoid process of the axis. In such cases, too, the head should be kept steady, and prevented from rolling from side to side. At the first examination, the surgeon should make the diagnosis as com- plete and accurate as possible, particularly in regard to the distortion or deformity of the injured parts and the displacement of the injured bones, so that future examinations on these points may be avoided. Should the lesion prove to be a dislocation, whether it be pure or attended by fracture, the question will immediately arise whether it ought to be reduced or not; that is, whether the principal indication in the treatment of dislocations in general ought to be fulfilled in treating vertebral dislocations, or not. On this point, which is nearly the main point in the treatment of such cases, the opinions of surgeons have been unhappily divided. Mr. Erichsen says, “ Reduction has been effected [with success] in a sufficient number of cases