EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 464 excisions, any more than the extractions of separated fragments which may he required in cases of compound fracture from gunshot or other injury. Resection of the pubic symphysis, as a means of facilitating parturition, was suggested by Christophoris, some twenty-five years ago, and temporary resec- tion of the same part was recommended by Pitois ; two cases, however, in which the operation was practised by Galbiati, terminated fatally. Re- section of the descending ramus of the pubis is recommended by 0. Heyfelder in eases of fracture with compression of the urethra by a displaced fragment. The operation can he performed by placing the patient in the lithotomy position, and making a single incision in the line of the bone which is then divided with a chain-saw. Care must be taken not to wound the internal pudic artery, nor, if it can be avoided, the root of the corpus cavernosum. Trephining the ilium, for the evacuation of psoas and pelvic abscesses has been practised by Fischer and Riedel. Partial resections of the sacrum have been performed by several surgeons, including Prof. Volkmann, the late Dr. G. C. Blackman, and Prof. S. D. Gross. The operation has been practised in cases of fracture, of necrosis, and i! of tumor, malignant or otherwise. The bone may be exposed by means of a T-shaped or crucial incision, and the diseased part separated with a chisel or cutting forceps; great care should be taken not to injure the sacral nerves. Several instances of trephining or gouging the sacrum for the removal of balls in cases of gunshot fracture, are referred to in the article on Injuries of the Back. Excision of the Coccyx.—Occasionally employed in cases of fracture or dis- location of the part, and at least twice for osteitis or caries (Von Onsenoort’s and Ollier’s cases), this operation is most frequently practised for the relief of a neuralgic condition described by Sir J. Y. Simpson, and known as coccyo- dynia or coccygodynia. The first excision of the coccyx for this cause appears to have been performed by the late Dr. Yott, formerly of Mobile, and afterwards of Yew York, and the operation is of so simple a nature, and usually gives such satisfactory results, that it has been frequently repeated by other surgeons. I have twice excised the coccyx for coccygodynia, and in both instances with the effect of giving entire relief from the pain which had been long continued, and, at times, agonizing. As after other operations for neu- ralgia, the benefit derived is some- times only temporary ; but as the operation is quite free from risk and involves no mutilation—con- sisting, indeed, in the removal of a mere useless appendage—it may be properly resorted to in any case in which it seems to be indicated. The bone is exposed by a single longitudinal incision, and after it has been freed from its muscular attachments, which can be conve- liently done with the blunt- pointed resection knife, is cut away with strong forceps, as shown in Fig. 694. This plan is much easier than attempting to effect disarticulation, and is perfectly satisfactory. Dr. Garretson has removed the coccyx piece-meal, by drilling with the “dental engine.” | Excision of the coccyx has been recommended and practised by Verneuil as a means of obtaining more room in operations upon the lower part of the rectum.