855 PRIAPISM IN CONSEQUENCE OF SPINAL INJURIES. up to the clavicles, the respiration was entirely diaphragmatic, and no reflex action could be excited in the lower extremities or elsewhere; still there was partial priapism. Death occurred in thirty hours; and the autopsy showed a clot of blood in the substance of the cord opposite the fourth cervical vertebra. Furthermore, priapism may be caused by inflammation of the spinal cord. There was a marked degree of priapism observed in a case of acute and very extensive myelitis, terminating fatally in ten or twelve days, that was re- corded by Dr. C. B. Radclitte.1 Motor and sensory paralysis extended up to a line drawn around the body four inches below the ensiform cartilage. Reflex movements were also absent, but there was retention of urine.2 Priapism may be an important indication that myelitis is present. Dr. Hammond enumerates among the symptoms of acute myelitis frequent and almost constant erections.3 Dr. B ram well in describing the symptoms of acute myelitis states that priapism is often present among them.4 In Mr. Hilton’s case, mentioned above, the priapism which supervened on the second day after the accident probably arose from inflammation of the cord-substance. Thus, we have shown that priapism not unfrequently occurs in cases of con- cussion, contusion, and inflammation of the spinal cord, as well as in cases of fracture and dislocation of the spinal column ; the conclusion to be drawn therefrom is irresistible that the essential lesion, or the peculiar pathological condition upon which the occurrence of priapism depends, is seated in the spinal cord, and not in the spinal column nor in the exterior parts. What is the essential lesion? what the physiological apparatus from the disorder of which priapism arises? The fact that the location or site of the essential lesion must be sought for in the spinal cord itself, at once disposes of the theory which ascribes the causation of priapism to lesions of the cervical or dorsal ganglia of the nervi sympathici which lie along the spinal column. It, however, does not dispose of another theory which ascribes the cause of priapism to lesions of those filaments of the nervi sym- pathici which exist in the spinal cord, and to vaso-motor paralysis of the bloodvessels arising therefrom. Professor Agnew seems inclined to adopt this theory, for he says: “ These erections of the penis are not due to action of the muscles, as the latter partake of the general paresis, but are the result of inetficiency of the vaso-motor nerves allowing the blood to flow into the spongy structure of the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, through the want of resistance in the muscular walls of the vessels.”5 But this theory of erections arising from passive congestion of the penis is untenable, because it utterly fails to account for the rather numerous examples of priapism in which there are strong or even moderate erections observed, and in which the distension of the organ is produced obviously by an active process. More- over, vaso-motor paralysis is always attended with a notable rise of tempera- ture in the part of the body where it exists, especially if such paralysis be suddenly effected. How, then, can the occurrence of priapism be explained by the theory of vaso-motor paralysis in such instances as the following, which was reported by Mr. Hutchinson,6 in which “there was marked pria- pism,” but attended with a remarkable depression of the body-heat, both general and local, below the normal standard The patient was a man, aged 24, who fractured his fifth cervical vertebra and severely injured his spinal cord by falling from a ladder with a load of bricks qn his 1 Lancet, December 3, 1864. 2 New Sydenham Soc. Year-Book, 1864, p. 83. 8 Diseases of the Nervous System, p. 457. New York, 1881. 4 Diseases of the Spinal Cord, p. 243. New York, 1882. 6 Op. cit., p. 829. 6 New Sydenham Soc. Biennial Retrospect, 1873-74, pp. 351, 352.