SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 693 flexibility or capacity for movement upon each other of the several bones that compose it, at the articulations by which they are linked together. The injuries caused by sprains and twists, or wrenches, in this region are, there- fore, somewhat analogous to those produced by enormously powerful blows, and their deleterious effects are apt to be restricted to the articulations which connect two contiguous vertebras, instead of being dispersed or dif- fused so as to affect the articulations of many adjoining bones, as is usually the case with similar injuries in the more flexible parts of the vertebral col- umn, the cervical and lumbar regions. There is a traumatic, as well as a rheumatic, “ crick” in the back, which is not unfrequently caused by lifting, or attempting to lift, a heavy weight while in a stooping position, and is located in the dorsal region. The victim, while exerting his strength to the uttermost in this position, suddenly feels “ something give way” in his back, and is soon seized by cramping pains in the affected part, which are aggravated by all attempts to produce motion therein ; so that he carefully abstains from making such attempts himself, and is only too glad if the injured part be allowed, by the exigencies of life, to remain in a state of absolute quietude. In such cases, the muscular fibres belonging to the strained part are sometimes lacerated to a considerable ex- tent, and the effusions of blood and of inflammatory products into the injured muscular and connective tissue may cause tumefactions, possibly with sub- cutaneous ecchymoses also, which can readily be felt and seen externally. For such cases, the best plan of treatment consists in the enforcement of abso- lute quietude as long as the soreness continues, with the external use of a mildly stimulating liniment, and the internal administration of opiates, whenever necessary to allay the pains. Sprains and wrenches of the dorsal part of the vertebral column are some- times caused by alighting on the dorsal region in falls, or when thrown from the saddle while on horseback. They are also produced, occasionally, in military life, by the trampling of horses upon the backs of men who have suddenly been dismounted, or have been thrown down to earth by other means, in battles or in sham-fights. The vertebral ligaments and joints may likewise he sprained or wrenched by the impact of powerful blows on the dorsal region, no matter what the instrument maybe that inflicts them. In respect to treatment, no additional directions are required. The natural curvature of the dorsal part of the vertebral column, the convexity of which looks backward, undoubtedly exerts considerable in- fluence in the way of lessening the injurious effects upon the vertebral ligaments and articulations, of violent blows on the dorsal region. This cir- cumstance probably explains why it is that heavy blows on this part of the back are so seldom attended with strains or wrenches of the vertebral column, that prove troublesome to manage, or even require a surgeon’s care. The principal effect of strong blows, etc., when received on the convexity of the vertebral arch in the dorsal region, is to compress the intervertebral substances, and the articulations in general, which enter into the formation of the arch; and, therefore, they usually do comparatively little harm to the spine. But a much more powerful blow—one, for instance, that falls but little short of dislocating or fracturing a dorsal vertebra, and so comes very near to breaking down the dorsal arch—may readily detach the correspond- ing intervertebral substance, to greater or less extent, from the bone, and thus cause an inflammation which may prove destructive to the injured bone and cartilage, especially if the lesion chance to pass unrecognized, or happen to be inadequately treated. It is not, improbable that caries of the dorsal vertebrae sometimes begins in this way.