564 TUMORS. calcifying sarcomas. “Osteoid-chondroma” is usually employed to denote the- presence of a tissue, neither perfect cartilage nor perfect bone, but resembling bone which has been deprived of its earthy salts. The mere fact that these terms may bear several different significations, shows that they are undesir- able. And they are as unnecessary as they are undesirable, for the trans- formations which some of them express can be far better expressed in simpler terms. A sarcoma which has been transformed in large part into bone, is an ossifying or ossified sarcoma, and had far better be termed ossifying or ossified than osteo- or osteoid-sarcoma. A sarcoma which is largely calcified is more appropriately termed a calcifying sarcoma than an osteoid-cancer or sarcoma. The tumors which are named osteoid-chondromas are almost invariably chondrifying sarcomas. For these and similar terms, then, others far more appropriate and more intelligible may advantageously he substituted, and a great obstacle to an easy comprehension of tumor nomenclature be thus removed. SPECIAL VARIETIES OF TUMOR. Lipoma or Fatty Tumor. A tumor composed of adipose tissue, resembling histologically and chemi- cally normal adipose tissue, may originate in the fatty and areolar tissues of almost every region of the body, but in the large majority of cases grows from the subcutaneous tissues of the extremities. The lower part of the neck, the shoulders, and the arms are especially liable to lipoma. The scalp, the legs, the hands, and the feet are seldom affected. And still more seldom the hones, the periosteum of the vertebrae, the spinal canal, or the tongue; but fatty tumors have been observed in all these situations. The disease is rare in the abdomen, but I once removed a large fatty mass from the interior of the sac of a hernia, where it lay, not adherent to the sac, but attached by a long pedicle, probably to the omentum. It had descended suddenly, and had given rise to symptoms resembling those of strangulation of the intestine, but somewhat less acute. Lipoma may occur at any age, but is much more common in adults than in children. A few examples of congenital lipoma have been described, notably a huge lipoma of the tongue which proved fatal a few days after birth.1 The comparative rarity of lipoma during childhood and the unusual situa- tions it affects in children, together with certain peculiarities of structure, particularly the presence of a fibrous pedicle in many of the tumors, encourage the belief that these growths are really rather fibrous tumors which have been transformed in whole or part into fat. Characters and Course of Lipomata.—The characters of a subcutaneous fatty tumor are usually sufficiently decided to permit of ready recognition. The outline lobed and circumscribed, the surface slightly dimpled, the con- sistence so soft as almost to exhibit fluctuation, the natural condition of the skin, the absence of all signs of inflammation, and the free mobility of the tumor on the subjacent parts, render the diagnosis sure and rapid. In fact, the 1 Arnold, Virchow’s Arcliiv, Bd. 50, S. 482.