58 r MYOMA OR MUSCULAR TUMOR. neck, which never healed, for the patient—a young man, and previously apparently rather robust than delicate—died within a few weeks of this un- fortunate occurrence. Glands may be removed with advantage when they are very indolent, not very large, and not matted together, and when the enlargement has existed for' many months or years. In such cases, although simple hypertrophy may be suspected, tubercle will almost invariably be discovered. Again, the question of removal of lymphatic tumors may be raised in the case of disease, appar- ently sarcomatous, which has resisted treatment by internal remedies. Large masses of glands have been removed, more particularly from the cervical region, in cases of this description; but the result has not been happy, for in most, if not all, instances the disease has recurred with great rapidity, and no material benefit has been attributable to the operation. The removal of glands which are undoubtedly sarcomatous cannot therefore be recommended. The extension from gland to gland is so rapid, and the disease so speedily affects a wide-spread group of glands, that the operation appears useless. Myoma or Muscular Tumor. The myoma is a tumor consisting either of striped or unstriped muscle. The former variety is the rhabdomyoma, the latter is the leiomyoma. The myomas which are composed of striped muscular tissue are exceedingly rare. They occur in the heart, the tongue, the kidney, the testis, and the muscles, especially of the lumbar region. Pure rhabdomyomas probably are always of congenital origin; and even tumors which contain striated- muscle fibres, unless the fibres have been entangled in the growth of the fatty, fibrous, or sarcomatous tissues, in the midst of which they lie, are much more often congenital than the product of extra-uterine life. Indeed, the possibility of the new formation of striated fibres in the human subject after birth has been questioned. The undoubtedly congenital tumors which contain striated muscle are, for the most part, large mixed tumors, composed of various formed and embryonic connective tissues—fibrous, cartilaginous, sarcomatous, etc. Myomas composed of unstriped muscle (leiomyomas) are not uncommon in certain situations—the uterus and prostate ; they occur also in the appendages of the uterus, in the walls of the oesophagus, the stomach, and intestines, and in the cutis vei’a of the skin, but only rarely in the last-named situation. They constitute many, probably most, of the “fibroids” of the uterus and of the chronic enlargements of the prostate. Characters and Course of Myomata.—Unstriped myoma appears to be ex- clusively a disease of adult age, and occurs so much more frequently in per- sons beyond the middle period of life, that old age may be regarded as an important predisposing cause of its occurrence. For example, chronic enlarge- ments of the prostate are almost limited to persons over 55 years old; and fibroid tumors of the uterus, although they occur in women at a much younger age than this, are very rare before the middle period of life. The chronic catarrh of the mucous membrane covering the affected parts, to which Virchow is disposed to attribute the formation of myoma, is not so frequently observed in connection with the enlargement of the prostate as to lend color to the theory. Myomas grow either as continuous or as discontinuous tumors. Most of the enlargements of the prostate consist in a general hypertrophy of the organ, and the two lateral lobes are for the most part symmetrical in size and