788 INJURIES OF THE BACK. by every sudden shock, as well as by every sudden pressure and the impact of every vulneratiug body, which might be brought to bear upon it. The traumatic lesions to which the spinal marrow is exposed are (1) con- cussion, (2) contusion, (8) compression, and (4) wounds (incised, punctured, and lacerated), which partially or completely sever it. Concussion of the Spinal Cord.—As the symptoms of concussion of the brain result directly from cerebral “ shock,” so the symptoms of concussion of the spinal marrow result directly from sudden “ shock” Flg- "90- of that organ; as concussion of the brain is nearly always attended by minute extravasations of blood, or ecchymoses, so probably concussion of the spinal marrow is usually accompanied by minute effusions of blood into its substance ;* and as the symptoms of concussion of the brain consist of a more or less complete suspension of the cerebral functions, so the symptoms of concussion of the spinal marrow consist of a more or less complete spinal paralysis,'which, however, is usually ephemeral in character. But concussion of the spinal cord, when extremely se- vere, may instantaneously destroy life. Bor instance :— Major Mills, an officer serving on the staff of Major-General H umphreys, then commanding the Second Army Corps, was killed, March 31, 1865, during a reconnoisance, by a cannon- ball (round) which grazed his left lumbar region in such a way as to open the abdominal cavity and let out some intestine. General Humphreys says “ he rolled up his eyes and fell from his horse dead.” Surgeon Charles Page, U. S. Army (Medical Director, 2d Corps), to whom I am indebted for the case, thinks he must have died from “shock,” for there was no solution in the continuity of any organ found on post-mortem inspection which would cause immediate death per se. While this view is doubtless correct, it is not improbable that the “shock” itself caused death by producing concussion of the spinal cord of so severe a kind, that all the respiratory muscles, including the diaphragm, were at once completely paralyzed thereby. Again, death from this cause may ensue in a few hours. For example:— Morgagni1 2 relates the case of a man injured by falling from a vine. lie was speechless and paralyzed, and bled from the nose and mouth. The urine and feces escaped involuntarily. Death ensued in four hours. Necroscopy revealed fractures of the six upper dorsal vertebrae, ribs, and skull. (Ashhurst.) Ordinarily, in cases of vertebral fracture or disloca- tion attended with spinal paralysis, there is at first retention of urine and feces, because the sphincter muscles still remain active, while the muscular coats of the bladder and intestines are paralyzed. Not so in Showing the spinal cord and the roots of the 31 pairs of spinal nerves, with the cervical, axillary, lumbar, and sacral plexuses. Also one of the two chains of ver tebral ganglia (nervi sym- pathies, and the commu- nicating threads. 1 There is, however, a case of concussion of the spinal cord on record in which there was para- plegia that persisted (for three weeks) until death was produced by other causes, and, on autopsy, no lesion of the cord could he discerned. “ No fracture of the vertebrae existed, nor were any appearances found in the spinal column sufficient to account for the persistent para- plegia.” Medical and Surgical History of the British Army in the Crimean War, vol. ii. pp. 337, 338. 2 De Sedibus et Caesis Morborum, t. iii.