733 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL head with both hands, and turned it gently in the same direction as that to which it was already inclined, namely, toward the left shoulder, in order if possible to disengage the process ; then lifting or extending the head, he carefully rotated it in the opposite direction, that is, toward the right side, and the reduction was accomplished. Her recovery was speedy and complete.1 Etiology.—In 23 of the 29 examples of this lesion that are mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables, the mode of injury was as follows: Turning the head quickly round, 6 instances; falling on to the head, 9; a fall striking on the neck, 2; a bundle slipped on the shoulder, 2; a fall in running, 1; direct violence, 1; being thrown against a wall, 1; tumbling heels over head on a bed, by a boy 8 or 9 years old, 1. In 6 cases the mode of injury is not stated. Thus, it appears that unilateral luxation of the cervical vertebra is often caused, directly, by voluntary action of the muscles in turning the head suddenly to one side, as well as by blows and falls upon the neck itself; and that it also is often caused, indirectly, by falling upon the head, and by other forms of external violence, especially if they produce both rotation of the head and inclination of it to one side, as well as flexion. Symptoms and Course.—The phenomena and consequences of this lesion may be best described by briefly presenting another example:— M. Parisot2 was called to a woman, aged 59, who had fallen from a load of hay, and found her condition as follows, thirty-six hours after the accident: The face was inclined to the right, and her chin rested a little external to the sterno-clavicular articulation of that side. The cervical region was concave on the right side, the heads of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle being relaxed; on the left side it was convex, and the lateral muscles were tense. The spinous processes could he felt, but without any projection. The head and neck were fixed immovably, and any attempt at motion caused great pain. The patient could not raise her head at all. Her face was congested, and the jugular veins were turgid; there was slight exophthalmos, and her respiration was becoming difficult. The right arm was paralyzed as to motion, and its sensibility was obtuse; there were also “pins and needles,” and cold sensations at the ends of the fingers. The left arm was freely moved, but “ pins and needles” were likewise felt therein. All the symptoms were aggravated by any attempt to raise the head. The position of the head had been unchanged since the accident; but the subjective symp- toms had come on gradually, and were increasing. There was no loss of innervation in the lower part of the body. The diagnosis was unilateral dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra, on the right side. The patient was placed sitting on the floor ; the shoulders and legs fixed; the ope- rator, standing behind, seized the lower jaw with both hands, the thumbs abutting on the mastoid processes, and raised the head gradually, then turned it briskly inward. A crack was heard; the patient immediately experienced great relief,and tried to turn her head around, but the paralysis had not disappeared. She was placed in bed, with her head extended by means of a weight of two kilogrammes [about \\ lbs.] suspended from a band fastened around the jaw; leeches and cold lotions were also applied. Next day, the paralysis of the arm had disappeared; in seventeen days, the pricking sensa- tions were gone, and the patient recovered. This case, take it all in all, is a not unfair representative of a rather nume- rous class of cases, in which unilateral dislocations of the cervical vertebra have occurred. The stiffness, soreness, pain, and immobility of the neck, with the face turned away from the dislocated side, the peculiar distortion exhibited by the neck itself, the paralysis of one upper extremity, attended with other symptoms of nervous disorder, more dangerous in character and constantly increasing in severity, all of which were promptly relieved by restoring the luxated vertebra to its normal position, are phenomena that have 1 Hamilton, op. cit., p. 315. 2 Gaz. Hebd., 24 Nov. 1865 ; New Syd. Soc. Bienn. Retrospect, 1865-66, p. 283.