582 TUMORS. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—It is difficult to offer an account, which may be useful, of the clinical characters of myxoma. They depend, in great measure, on the situation of the tumor, but, in still greater measure, on the variety of the mucous tissue. The characters of some of the tumors are so well known that they are recognized by every student. It is only necessary to mention, as an example, the mucous polypi of the nose. But the myxomas of the sub- cutaneous tissue, fasciae, nerves, vulva, breast, and salivary glands, present no distinctive characters. They may be taken for tatty, fibrous, or sarcomatous tumors, and there are no certain means by which the diagnosis can be made. Happily, an error is not of extreme importance, for the more closely the tumor resembles one or other of these, the more likely it is to be closely allied with the disease it most resembles, not only in its structure, but in its capa- bilities. The prognosis, therefore, which befits the one disease, is likely to prove equally true for that with which it has been confounded. Prognosis.—As a general rule, it may be said that mucous tumors are inno- cent. Those which are developing into fatty and fibrous tissue, and which may be regarded rather as ill-formed, fatty and fibrous tumors, than as myx- omas, are as innocent as simple fatty and fibrous tumors. But the purest forms of myxoma, in which little or no development takes place, and which, therefore, correspond closely with sarcomas in the fact that they are embry- onic-tissue tumors, are as malignant as sai'comas of the same tissue or organ. Thus, several cases have fallen within my experience in which myxomas of the breast and nerves have pursued a malignant course—a course precisely similar to that pursued by sarcoma of the breast and nerves, respectively. Treatment.—The appropriate treatment of myxoma is, in most instances, removal of the tumor; and, since the tumor is usually of small or moderate size, and is not deeply or dangerously situated, the operation may be prac- tised without much danger. The method of treating mucous tumors in the uterus and the nose, will be described in the Articles devoted to the diseases of those organs. Lymphoma or Lymphatic Tumor. The lymphoma is a tumor composed of tissue resembling that of which lymphatic glands are formed. Great as are the difficulties by which the study of certain classes of tumors is encompassed, in no class are they more prominent than in that of the lymphomas; indeed, they are for the present insuperable, nor do I yet see how in the future they are satisfactorily to be overcome. The difficulty—nay, impossibility—of distinguishing between several different lymphatic glandular affections, either macroscopically or microscopically, and the close resemblance of the clinical characters of two or more diseases, which are probably widely different in nature, are causes of confusion from which there appears no sure escape. Even simple hyper- trophies and chronic inflammatory conditions of lymphatic glands are often indistinguishable from true tumors, and surgeons are frequently confronted with the difficulty of deciding between a tubercular affection and lympha- denoma or simple hypertrophy. It may, perhaps, facilitate the treatment of the subject, if one tolerably lame group of lymphatic-tissue tumors is at once disposed of by considering all the primary heterologous formations of lymphatic tissue as round-celled sarcomas. The lymphatic-tissue tumors, for example, which occur primarily in bone, or in the breast, or in the testis, will be considered with the round-