TUMORS. CIO comas of the bones, with the exception of the tumors of the tarsus, and, I perhaps, of one or two other bones, do not affect the glands ; yet sometimes it happens that a sarcoma, especially a subperiosteal tumor of the femur, or of the clavicle, is the cause of extensive glandular affection. I have endea-1 vored to explain this by supposing that the primary disease in these cases has gradually grown intc? neighboring lymphatic glands, and thus has gained an entrance info the lymphatic system.1 And this appears the most reason- able explanation. It does not suffice to assume that the disease spreads from parts which are not provided with lymphatic vessels, into parts in which these vessels are numerous; for, if this were so, affection of the glands ought to occur in every case in which the disease extends into the soft parts around the bones. But such is not the fact. The malignancy of sarcoma may he still further expressed by the affec- tion of distant tissues and organs. It is especially prone to affect the lungs and pleurae, and it also attacks the heart, liver, kidneys, spleen, distant 1 and disconnected lymphatic glands, brain, hones, muscles, and subcu- taneous tissue. Indeed, most of the tissues and organs which are subject to primary sarcoma are also subject to secondary growths. As exceptions to this rule, the eye, the breast, and the upper jaw, may be mentioned. The seat, frequency, and period of formation of secondary tumors are liable to im- mense variation. Primary tumors of the same tissue or organ, apparently identical in structure, form, and manner of growth, occurring in two persons < of equal age and equal strength, may yet be followed by secondary tumors of > dissimilar parts, after very different intervals of time. Whether the differ- ence lies in some unnoticed, and at present undiscoverable, difference of con- stitution of the subjects, or in an indistinguishable but essential difference in the primary tumors, it is impossible to say. The disease in most instances is conveyed through the medium of the blood, probably, in the form of germs which are capable, on reaching a suitable soil, of developing into sarcoma- cells, or which, perhaps, excite, as by spermatic influence, a formative action in the cells of certain parts, with the result that the excited cells bring forth new cells of the sarcoma type. How the germs, which are probably very minute, are arrested when a part suitable for their development or action has been reached, is not easy to understand. Nor is it easy to understand why certain tissues and organs should be selected, while other tissues and organs, of equal or greater importance and vitality, are rejected. Mere vascularity does not attract, for the most vascular tissues of the eye are never the seat of secondary tumors. Nor are very cellular regions especially liable to secondary tumors; the spleen, for example,and the salivary glands. Nor does resemb- lance of structure to the tissue primarily attacked render tissues much more liable to secondary growths: thus the secreting glands are very rarely the seat of secondary tumors, even when the primary disease is seated in one of them. But several of these conditions, with small size of capillaries and a very important additional condition—opportunity—probably have much to do with the occurrence of secondary growths. The small size and great number of the pulmonary capillaries, and the splendid opportunity afforded them of obtaining sarcomatous material by reason of the relation of the pulmonary circulation to that of every portion of the body, are conditions which may easily account for the great liability of the lungs to secondary growths. But this same factor, opportunity, cannot be charged as the only or chief cause of the formation of all secondary tumors For parts which, in all physio- logical probability, enjoy an equal opportunity of obtaining sarcomatous material, are very unequally affected. The liability of a tissue to be affected, Sarcoma and Carcinoma, pp. 46 and 112.