DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL 743 appearance, or is even divided completely, at a point corresponding to the displacement of the vertebrae. The victim of this accident should be taken up from the place where he has fallen, and removed to hospital or home with great care to avoid in- creasing the displacement of the luxated bone and the injury of the spinal cord, as already described for cases of cervical dislocation. The patient should be placed in bed; and then, for reasons already stated under the head of treatment of cervical dislocations, which, however, are ecpially applicable in cases of dorsal or lumbar dislocation, the replacement of the luxated bone into its normal position should be attempted. But before proceeding further with the discussion, I will briefly describe the various methods which have been successfully employed, in practice, for accomplishing this result in the dorsal and lumbar regions; and, probably, I cannot do it in a better way than by presenting abstracts of the cases themselves. Malgaigne1 mentions a case of Melchiori’s, in which a carter was injured in the dor- sal region by a wheel running against him. There was backward dislocation of the eighth dorsal vertebra, and paralysis. Reduction was effected by position in bed. Recovery ensued in six months. Slight deformity, however, remained. (Ashhurst.) When it is found that, by placing the patient upon his back in bed, the displaced vertebra is restored to its normal position, with the aid, perhaps, of moderate exten- sion and some pressure laterally applied, a good hair mattress or a water-bed (the latter is much preferable) should be arranged for his reception, and he must be kept lying upon it, as nearly immovable as possible, until firm union has taken place. Rudiger* is credited with the case of a musketeer, who was struck on the back by a falling wall, and sustained dislocation backward and to the right side of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. Reduction was effected by position (on the belly) in bed; extension and pressure were continued for fifteen days. In six weeks recovery ensued. (Ash- hurst.) This case shows that the surgeon, by consulting his ingenuity, may some- times, perhaps not unfrequently, make the patient’s posture in bed materially assist in reducing a vertebral dislocation of the back or loins, when the dorsal decubitus utterly fails to do it. Moreover, while the patient lies with the back uppermost, a free oppor- tunity is afforded for the efficient application of local treatment, to prevent the develop- ment of consecutive spinal meningitis and myelitis. Parker3 mentions the case of a man who was struck on the back by a falling door, and sustained dislocation of the last dorsal on the first lumbar vertebra, with slight fracture. There were paralysis, priapism, etc. Reduction was accomplished, with an audible sound, by making extension and counter-extension, under chloroform. After several months the patient recovered, and, when discharged, could walk with a cane. (Ashhurst.) It is important to note that, notwithstanding there was priapism in this case, recovery ensued. The dislocation was reduced by making extension and counter-extension, under chloroform. I think the best plan for the surgeon to pursue, on failing to reduce such a dislocation by the patient’s position in bed, would generally be to relax the muscles completely by anaesthesia, and, then, to effect the reduction by means of extension and counter-extension steadily made by his assistants, with lateral pressure locally applied by himself. Brodie4 refers to the case of a man, injured by a mass of chalk falling upon him. The first lumbar vertebra projected backward over the last dorsal. The dislocation was reduced with some difficulty by Mr. Hardwicke. The reduction was attended by a “jerk or snap.” The patient was relieved ; but, after two or three years, partial paral- ysis still remained. (Ashhurst.) No doubt, in this case likewise, the reduction was accomplished by making extension and counter-extension. Smith5 mentions a case of Schmucker’s, in which a soldier was injured by a wall falling on his back. He was stunned; there was displacement backward of the last 1 Traite des Fract. et des Luxat., t. ii. 2 Desault, Journ. de Chir., t. iii. 3 New York Journal of Med., 1852. 4 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xx. p. 157. 5 New York Journal of Med., 1852.