DEFECTS IN THE PROCESS OF REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 45 it is apt to be only slight, and its development by the surgeon’s hands is attended with pain, which may be quite severe. The bone remains useless as a lever or as a means of support. A certain degree of oedema of the limb is often present; the skin is apt to be harsh, and the muscles of the part are flabby. It is probable that the callus is in all these cases formed as far as the fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous stage, and that the delay is simply in its ossification ; but I know of no instance on record in which an opportunity has been afforded of determining the state of the parts by dissection. Under appropriate treatment, to be hereafter detailed, the full development of the uniting medium is generally brought about, and a good result at length obtained. Dissolved union is much more rare than the foregoing condition. Under this head are embraced cases in which, callus having formed, and the frag- ments having become solidly united, the reparative material softens again and disappears, and the mobility recurs. While there are not many such instances on record, there are enough to establish the possibility of the phe- nomenon. The most frequent cause of this breaking down of formed callus is the occurrence of some systemic disorder. Thus, in Chaplain Walter’s account of Lord Anson’s voyages,1 the case of a sailor is mentioned who was attacked with scurvy, and “ the callus of a broken bone, which had been completely formed for a long time, was found to be hereby dissolved, and the fracture seemed as if it had never been consolidated.” hTorris,2 speaking of the influence of erysipelas, says that he has “ seen a rapid absorption of a large callus, which had produced firm union of a frac- ture of the lower third of the leg, occur, without any apparent cause, to such an extent as to render the fragments very movable, and necessitate a renewal of the treatment.” Fevers have been known to have a like effect, as in a case reported by Schilling.3 An artilleryman had a fracture of the left femur, September 1, which, by the middle of November, was so firmly united that he could bear some weight on the foot. He was then attacked with typhus abdominalis (typhoid fever), and ten days afterward callus could no longer be felt, the bones moving as freely upon one another as just after the injury. In six days more the patient died. The examination exhibited no trace of callus; the broken surfaces were bloody, like those in a recent fracture, and were sur- rounded by a sac-like membrane, which contained some bloody fluid. Similar cases have been recorded by Mantell4 * and others.8 A very curious case is reported by Clarke,6 of a fast-growing boy, who had a fracture of the arm, which united; he returned to school, overworked himself in trying to obtain a prize, and broke down in health, when the fragments were found to have become disjoined. Occasionally the retrogression does not stop here, but the fragments them- selves become absorbed, as in the very remarkable case recorded by Jackson and Dwight.,7 in which almost the entire humerus disappeared after the oc- currence of a second fracture. A case in many respects analogous to this is 1 A Voyage Round the World, etc., vol. i. p. 120. 2 Op. cit. p. 52. 3 Med. Zeitung, Sept. 16, 1840; Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1841. 1 Lancet, Oct. 9, 1841. 6 Morgagni, De Sedibus et Causis Morborum, Alexander’s translation, vol. iii. p. 308 ; Gage, Trans, of New Hampshire Med. Society, 1875, p. 93 ; Ilammick, op. cit., p. 176. 6 Med. Times and Gazette, Nov. 16, 1867. 7 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, July, 1838, and Oct. 10, 1872.