DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTURE. 29 broken near the middle, was found firmly united on the forty-fourth day; Meachem1 one, in which, in a woman of ninety, a fracture of the lower third of the leg was united in twenty-eight days ; and Lee2 one of union of a frac- tured femur in a man of ninety-eight. These cases are exceptional, and do not set aside the fact that old age makes every injury more formidable. Diagnosis of Fracture. This matter has, of course, been to a certain degree dealt with in speaking of the symptoms of these injuries, and it must be considered again in refer- ence to each special fracture ; but there are some general points which may be made here, and some rules laid down, in order to save repetition. The earlier an examination can be made to determine whether or not frac- ture exist, and its seat, if present, the better; since swelling often comes on very rapidly, and the muscles become rigid, so as to mask the condition of the bone. Hence, if the surgeon be called to a patient who must be moved a long distance to his home, or to a hospital, he should, if possible, ascertain at once the character of the injury, by as careful an examination as the circum- stances will allow. In cases of injury in the neighborhood of joints, this rule is especially im- perative ; since here the question is apt to be between fracture and luxation, and, if the latter be overlooked, the delay involved may add seriously to the difficulty of reduction. Of mistakes of this kind, instances will be given hereafter. As a general rule, in the comparison of fractures and luxations, it will be found that, in the former class of injuries, the degree of possible passive motion is increased beyond the normal, while in the latter it is, in certain directions at least, materially diminished. On the other hand, in luxation, the power of moving the limb to some extent is apt to be retained, the lever affected not being broken, but having merely changed its bearing point; while in frac- tures, as before stated, the limb is usually altogether clisabled. From the study of normal anatomy certain test lines have been derived, by which the displacement consequent upon fractures, as well as luxations, may be detected. With these lines, and with the relation of the normal skeleton to them, the surgeon ought to render himself perfectly familiar, so that they may serve as landmarks in his examination of injured parts. They will be detailed in speaking of fractures in the several regions. The diagnosis of fracture has reference not merely to its existence, but also to its exact seat and direction. The latter points are, indeed, in many cases by far the most difficult to determine, and may have to be arrived at by ex- clusion only. The general symptoms already detailed may be clear enough, and the fact of fracture be absolutely established, yet the surgeon may be in doubt as to the precise line of breakage, or even, when a joint is involved, as to which of the bones entering into it has suffered. These questions can only be settled by careful exploration, with a skill acquired by experience; in other words, with the educated hand. Occasionally, the observation of the effect of certain passive motions will go far to solve the doubt; or gentle and dexterous pressure with the tips of the fingers, perhaps with the nail, may reveal the line of breakage. In the diagnosis of compound fracture, as to its extent and severity, the finger is always better than any other probe; but even this should be used 1 Am. Med. Times, 1861. 2 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. iv. 1869.