879 REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. Vomiting, in persistent, recurring attacks, appeared in this case, as an early sign that the cervical portion of the spinal cord was diseased, and was probably dependent upon the origin and connections of the phrenic nerves. In another case seen by Gull, that belonged to the same category, the symptoms set in with an irritating cough ; and “ I remember,” says the same high authority, “an obstinate case of hiccough which, having resisted other treatment, yielded at once to blisters on either side of the cervical por- tion of the spine, over the origin of the phrenic nerves.”1 The morbid appearances of the gray matter of the cord were peculiar, and probably depended in part upon degeneration of the normal structure, and in part upon a neoplastic formation of the simplest kind. In the cervical region, where the disease began, the morbid process had proceeded furthest, making an approach to the development of a tumor, but not separated by any line of demarcation from the other parts of the gray matter, which had undergone a similar, only a less advanced, change. More recently, however, the morbid anatomy of progressive muscular atrophy has been studied with great care by MM. Hayem, Charcot, and Joffroy. In M, Hayem’s case, death resulted from paralysis of the diaphragm and pneumonia. The lesions revealed b}r the post-mortem examination pointed to the existence of chronic inflammation of the gray substance of the cord. MM. Charcot and Joffroy were struck in examining the gray substance of the cervical region in their cases, by the extreme degree of atrophy which the cells of the anterior cornua had undergone; a large proportion of them had disappeared so completely as to leave no trace behind. The posterior cornua were unaffected. M. Charcot states that when the alterations are very well marked, the anterior horn of gray matter, which is the seat of the morbid process or the essential lesion, may become considerably reduced in size, and may present a shrunken appearance in transverse section. But the symptoms of progressive muscular atrophy, when it arises from concussion of the spinal cord, may come on with great rapidity, as was ob- served in the following instance, which was also reported by Sir W. Gull:—2 A lad, aged 15, received a blow with the fist, between the shoulders, from a boy at play. After a week his head drooped, and from that time the muscles of his upper ex- tremities gradually wasted; the arms dropped and hung useless, the intercostals lost their power, and the breathing was diaphragmatic; the lower two-thirds of the trape- zii and the erector spin® muscles also wasted in the same way. Fourteen months after the accident, when he tried to stand erect, his head fell for- ward, and his shoulders were thrown backward to balance it, in the absence of muscular power. He was able to walk, but his gait was vacillating, apparently more from want of muscular power to fix the trunk on the pelvis than from defective power in the legs. He could not sit on a seat without a support to his back. Sphincters unaffected. On testing the electro-contractility of the wasted muscles, by galvanism, they were found to contract in proportion to their mass. No pain attended the progress of the disease; no tenderness of the wasted muscles ; no flickering contractions of their fibres. We now proceed to mention certain joint-diseases of spinal origin which must likewise lie reckoned among the remote effects of spinal injuries. (1) M. Charcot has called attention to the arthropathy of patients having locomotor ataxy? Without any appreciable cause we may see, occurring in one night, the development of a general and often enormous tumefaction of the member, most commonly without any pain whatever, or any febrile movement. At the end of a few days, the general tumefaction disappears, but a more or less considerable swelling of the joint remains, owing to the ' Ibid., p. 185. 8 Ibid., 1858, pp. 195, 196. 8 Lectures on the Diseases of the Nervous System, pp. 79-82. Am. ed.