DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 304 of that structure is separated from the rest except at its upper and lower edges, where it is still continuous with the primordial cartilage. This ring, by a series of curious fibrillar changes, becomes afterwards the synovial mem- brane—which therefore is, and remains throughout life, in structural con- tinuity both with the bone and with the cartilage of incrustation. Articular cartilage is but an unossified portion of the primordial cartilage; synovial membrane is also a part of the same structure converted into a tubular mem- brane ; the fibrous joint-capsule is a metamorphosed ring of the original peri- chondrium. Thus a synovitis spreads by direct continuity of structure both to the cartilage and to the bone. The disease of cartilage which arises during the course of a synovitis is likewise inflammatory.1 In the section on Diseases of Cartilages, the histo- logy of chondritis will be more fully described. Here it may be briefly said that the cells, like those of other connective tissues, proliferate ; the corpus- cles, therefore, at first enlarge, and then are ruptured ; leucocytes also doubtless penetrate the mass. In consequence of this cell-action, the hyaline structure is broken up into fibres, some of which are subsequently absorbed or used up by the growing cells, while others become detached, and, falling into the joint-cavity, mingle with the tissue-detritus and the fluids. Many of the fibres, however, remain, and give a velvety texture to the floor and edges of the ulcer. "Wherever the inflammation has spread directly from the synovial membrane to the cartilage, the actions above described commence at or near the surface, and may be either very chronic or much more rapid. In the former case, the change is first marked by the appearance of a white or yellowish, opaque spot, generally protruding a little beyond the rest of the surface; this is found on section to be conical, the base at the surface, the apex at a depth varying according to the age and stage of the ulcer, until the point reaches to, or is truncated by, the bone. In and a little beyond the limit of this spot, the enlarged corpuscles, ruptured near the surface, and the fibrillated, hyaline structure, are very evident. In the quicker form of ulceration, these changes, though they probably occur, are hardly to be traced. When completed, the former kind of ulcer has a coarse, velvety appearance; the latter has a clean- cut though often very irregular edge. Every excess of action must be accom- panied by increased nutrition, and to support the superabundant cell growth there must be an augmented flow of blood. The hypersemia of chondritis may be seen by making a longitudinal section of the cancellar bone-tissue which immediately underlies the articular lamella. The red spot or blotch exactly opposite the ulcer of cartilage is a very decisive and well-marked appearance. But when this hypercemia has lasted some time, it produces certain local effects; the cancellar lining membrane assumes the same proliferating action, and the cancellar plates begin to inflame, the thin parietes rapidly softening and breaking down ; the articular lamella disintegrates, so that now the ulcer of the cartilage leads directly down into a granulating cavity in the bone; or, to put the same subject in other words, the granulations springing from an inflam- matory cavity in the bone pass through the ulcerated opening in the carti- lage, and sprout into the joint, where they mingle with those granulations that spring from the synovial membrane. Yet a different mode whereby cartilage becomes detached (not ulcerated) must be noticed: the cancellar hypersemia produced originally at one or two i It was considered, previous to 1860, that the cartilages were, during synovitis, quite inert, and that their ulceration was caused by a rodent action of the hypertrophied fringes and pannus- like prolongations from the inflamed synovial membranes.