FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 97 had sustained other injuries also, died an hour after the accident. Lucas1 records three cases, in one of which the right internal iliac vein was wounded, while in another the right external iliac artery was divided, and in the third the left external iliac vein was lacerated. Lente2 has reported a case in which the small intestine was wounded by a sharp fragment of the ilium.3 Another danger which occasionally attends these injuries, is that of exten- sive suppuration. Of this an instance has been mentioned in a preceding page, and others are upon record. With regard to the treatment of fractures of the pelvis, there is not very much to be said, although the subject is one of great practical importance. Abso- lute rest in bed is generally a necessity clearly perceived by the patient; and his comfort is often promoted by a broad bandage firmly applied around the pelvis, a thick layer of raw cotton being placed next the skin. When there is a tendency to displacement inward of a fragment, as for instance of the iliac crest, the pressure of the bandage may do harm, and it should either be more loosely fastened, or cut away at this part, or even dispensed with alto- gether. Shock, if it be present, as it is apt to be in the early stage of the case, should be combated by stimulants—alcohol, carbonate of ammonium, hypodermic injections of ether, and external heat. If there be any difficulty in urination, the bladder should be carefully emptied by means of the catheter, and, if the urine thus drawn off be bloody, we may suspect a wound of the bladder or urethra. When the instrument cannot be readily introduced, if the patient have not previously been the sub- ject of stricture, injury to the urethra is probably present, and extravasation of urine must be looked for. Upon the first evidence of this complication, free incisions should be made in the perineum. Wounds of the large vessels are apt to be fatal from internal hemorrhage before there is any clear indication of the nature of the trouble; but, if this could be made out, the obvious course would be to cut down at the usual point, and apply a ligature. In case of abscess, incisions should be made at such points as to allow of the readiest escape of pus, and the use of drainage-tubes may be of great ad- vantage. The comfort of the patient is often greatly promoted by the use of a frac- ture-bed, as the unavoidable disturbance caused by the insertion of a bed-pan is apt to produce pain. Should the treatment be prolonged, the occurrence of bed-sores must be carefully guarded against, although this may be a matter of much difficulty ; a water-bed, or air-cushions, may, however, be used with hope of success. In the cases of “ double vertical fracture,” before alluded to, it may be necessary to prevent the riding up of the acetabular fragment by applying extension to the foot; and this is to be done by the weight and pulley, to be hereafter described in connection with the treatment of fractures of the femur. Mention has been made of the influence of muscular action in the produc- tion of fractures of the pelvic bones ; and if this can be ascertained as a cause of displacement of the fragments, the necessity of obviating it by position 1 Lancet, March 9, 1878. 2 New York Journal of Medicine, January, 1851. 3 The reader will find some interesting and instructive cases recorded by Lidell, in a paper on “ Ruptures of Pelvic and Abdominal Viscera,” in the Am. Journal of the Medical Sciences for April, 1867; and may consult with advantage a monograph, published in 1851, by Dr. Stephen Smith, on “ Rupture of the Bladder.” VOL. IV.—7