90 INJURIES OF BONES. back; the second piece of the sternum was broken away from the first, and driven in behind it. The symptoms of this injury are analogous to those of fractures of the ribs and their cartilages. Pain, tenderness, swelling, and ecchymosis have been noted in all the cases not immediately fatal. Cough almost always occurs, and emphysema may exist independently of injury to the lung. Displacement and crepitus have generally been more or less distinctly marked. Suppuration has occasionally taken place in the anterior mediastinum. Riedinger1 says that repair, when it ensues, is effected by means of a layer of fibro-cartilaginous material, placed between two other layers of hyaline cartilage. Very probably this statement may apply to cases of disruption occurring between two of the pieces ; but when a true fracture takes place in this bone, it is repaired in the ordinary manner, as may be seen in many museum specimens. The treatment of these injuries does not differ in any material respect from that of fractures of the costo-sternal cartilages. When displacement exists to any marked degree, it should be corrected as far as possible. But while it is eminently proper to make this attempt, it must be remembered that the dis- placement is not of itself a source of danger. Hammick2 says that “ if the bone were allowed to remain depressed, it would extinguish lifebut there is no ground for this statement. Hence operative interference, such as the introduction of gimlet-like screws, or of elevators or blunt hooks, for the pur- pose of pulling or prying up the depressed fragment, is unjustifiable. More- over, the texture of the bone is too spongy to afford a good hold to such in- struments. The only available method of procedure is to act upon the lateral walls of the chest, by causing the patient to alternately fill and empty the lungs to the fullest extent possible to him, and by raising and lowering the arms, while the surgeon tries to push in the projecting fragment. The deformity having been thus rectified as far as may be practicable, the walls of the chest should be immobilized by means of adhesive strips, applied across their anterior portion, and covering in the whole sternal region. A flannel bandage surrounding the whole thorax may be put on in addition to the strips, and secured so that it shall not slip upward. Should inflamma- tory or other complications arise, they should be met by appropriate treat- ment. Absolute rest in bed should be enjoined, and a concentrated diet. When an abscess forms behind the sternum, if its presence can be clearly made out, there is no positive objection to penetrating the bone in the median line with the crown of a small trephine ; but it is almost certain that the pus will find its way to the surface, either at the seat of fracture or in one or more of the intercostal spaces, when vent can be given to it by a simple puncture of the skin. Fractures of the Telvis. Viewed as a whole, the pelvis constitutes a bony ring, interrupted ante- riorly by the pelvic synchondrosis, and posteriorly on either side by that between the sacrum and the ilium. These synchondroses, by the arrange- ment of the walls and cancellous structure on either side of them, are adapted to diminish the stress put upon the whole framework, either by ordinary or by extraordinary forces. It may further be said that the pelvis presents not only the bony ring just mentioned, which has no great depth below the brim of the lower or true pelvis, but also certain appendages—the iliac expansions « Gaz. M6d. de Paris, 12 Aout, 1882. 2 Op. cit., p 167.