831 SACRO-GLUTEAL ESCHARS. ensued; and, on post-mortem examination, it was found that the bodies of the seventh and eighth dorsal vertebrae were broken into several pieces, which were much displaced. In a case where neuropathic eschars appear, priapism, strong alkalinity of the urine, hsematuria, inflammation of the urinary bladder or kidneys, hyper- testhesia, vaso-motor exaltations or depressions of the body-heat, clonic con- vulsions of the paralyzed members, tonic (that is, tetanoid) spasms occurring in paroxysms, in brief, all those symptoms which usually reveal an excited state of the spinal cord and spinal membranes, often precede, accompany, or closely follow the formation of these eschars. When the injuries (traumatisms) or the secondary lesions which excite the spinal cord in cases where neuropathic eschars ensue, affect the cord symme- trically, the eschars themselves, as a rule, are symmetrically developed, as shown by Fig. 795 ; as also happened in Dr. Oonant’s case, where a large gangrenous eschar, of an equal size, presented itself on the inner side of each thigh ; and as in Dr. Stephen Smith’s case, referred to above, where sloughs of similar size and appearance simultaneously formed on each foot and ankle, in consequence of spinal injury. But, when the traumatism affects one side only of the spinal cord, then the neuropathic eschars which arise therefrom are not symmetrically developed; they are found only on the side of the body opposite the side of the cord which is injured or diseased. For ex- ample, in the case of a man admitted into Professor Xelaton’s ward at the St. Louis Hospital, for a sword-wound of the hack dividing the left half of the spinal cord (I have already presented a pretty full account of this case on page 800), “a slough formed on the right side of the sacrum, although the patient had not felt anything there.” The man, however, recovered. The same peculiarity has been observed in several analogous cases; and, accord- ing to M. Brown-Sequard’s experiments, it is a constant fact in the case of animals. The information derived from M. Brown-Sequard’s experiments in this regard, is capable of giving so much practical aid or useful help to surgeons in diagnosticating spinal lesions and spinal disorders, that I will briefly refer to them in this place. We learn first from these experiments, that after wounds dividing one lateral half of the spinal cord, there supervenes in animals motor paralysis of the lower extremity on the same side as the lesion of the cord. This limb also presents exaltation of tactile sensibility (hyperses- thesia) in a more or less marked degree, and it likewise exhibits a notable elevation of temperature correlated with vaso-motor paralysis. But the opposite limb, on the contrary, retains the normal temperature and the normal power of motion, whilst its tactile sensibility is much lessened, or may even he extinct; that is, it exhibits anaesthesia and sensory paralysis. All these phenomena or symptoms are exactly reproduced in man under analogous circumstances. In his case, as in that of animals, we may also find various trophic derangements rapidly supervening in the peripheral parts of the body, which manifestly arise from the spinal lesion. Among the conse- quences of these trophic derangements I have already mentioned bed-sores, occurring not on the injured side, where the voluntary motor and vaso-motor paralysis is to be found, together with exaltation of temperature and hyper- sesthesia, hut on the opposite side of the body, particularly on the opposite side of the sacral region, that is, on the side where the motor functions, both voluntary and vasal, are unimpaired, and where there exists only a deadening of the sensibility, or anaesthesia. This circumstance clearly shows that neuro- pathic bed-sores do not arise from vaso-motor paralysis, as some persons have vainly imagined. In man, other nutritive lesions of a similar character have been observed.