REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. 885 unconscious that he has received any serious damage. lie feels that he has been violently jolted, and shaken; he likewise feels, perhaps, somewhat giddy and confused, but he finds no bones broken, merely some superficial cuts or bruises, and possibly even no external evidence whatever of injury. He congratulates himself upon his escape from the imminent peril to which he has been exposed, and gives valuable aid to his less fortunate fellow-passengers for several hours. But, when he reaches his home, the effects of the injury which he has sustained begin to manifest themselves. He bursts perhaps into tears, and becomes unusually talkative, as well as excited. He cannot sleep, or, if he does, he suddenly wakes with a vague sense of alarm. Next day he complains of feeling shaken or bruised all over, or as if he had been beaten, or had violently strained himself by exertion of an unusual kind. This stitf, strained, and sore feeling chiefly affects the muscles of the loins and neck, but sometimes involves also those of the thighs and shoulders. After a time, which varies in different cases from a day or two to a week or more, the victim finds that he is unfit for exertion and unable to attend to business. He now lays up, and perhaps for the first time seeks surgical assistance. (Erichsen.) His countenance becomes pallid, wrinkled, and acquires a care-worn or anxious expression ; and he generally looks much older than he really is, or than he did before the accident. Some time subsequently, and possibly long afterward, the symptoms mentioned above, of spinal meningitis and myelitis, present themselves; and these grave disorders run their destructive course, unless they are fortunately arrested by timely treatment. Pathological Anatomy.—As far as I know, there is but one case on record in which, death having ensued as a remote consequence of spinal lesions arising from a railway-collision, the morbid state of the spinal cord and its membranes has been accurately determined by a thorough post-mortem exami- nation. The history of this highly important case is briefly as follows:— A man, aged 52, and of active business habits, was the subject of a railway-collision. Immediately after it he walked from the train to the station near by. He received no contusions, nor wounds, nor any external sign of injury; but he did complain of pain in his back. He strove hard to keep up, and at his business, and did so for a short time after the accident, although witli much distress. Numbness and want of power in the muscles of his lower limbs appeared, and gradually but steadily increased ; thus he soon became disabled. His gait became unsteady, and like that of a semi-intoxicated per- son. There was also extreme sensitiveness to external impressions, so that a shock against a table or chair gave him great distress. The paralytic symptoms came on in less than one year after the accident. In the latter part of his illness, some weakness of his upper extremities became apparent, so that, when he was off his guard, a cup or a glass would slip from his fingers. He could barely walk with the aid of two sticks ; and at last he was confined to bed. His voice became thick, and his articulation imperfect. There was no paralysis of the bladder until about two years after the accident, when his urine became pale and alkaline, with muco-purulent deposit. He died three and one-half years after the accident.1 Hr. J. Lockhart Clarke carefully examined the spinal cord and membranes, which were obtained at the autopsy of this case, and reported upon them as follows:— “ I found that the membranes at some parts were thickened, and adherent at others, to the surface of the white columns. In the cord itself, one of the most striking changes consisted in a diminution of the antero-posterior diameter, which, in many places, was not more than equal to half the transverse. This was particularly the case in the upper portion of the cervical enlargement, where the cord was consequently much flat- tened from behind forward. On making sections, I was surprised to find that of all the • Erichsen, On Concussion of the Spine, etc., pp. 178, 179. 1882.