FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 127 upper third; besides this, several of the minor bloodvessels were lacerated to such an extent as to threaten gangrene.” I know of no other case in which an injury of this kind resulted from such a cause. Bellamy,1 recording the case of a boy of 14, whose humerus gave way just below the insertion of the deltoid, as he was making a great exertion in throwing a cricket-ball, speaks of the twisting motion which is apt to be the finale of this act, as probably the real cause of the breakage; and this view certainly seems to he correct. The suddenness of the stress upon the hone is also to be taken into account. As to the point at which the bone yields, whether above or below the insertion of the deltoid, this would appear to be determined by slight varia- tions in the character of the movement executed. It must be borne in mind that, in the act of throwing, the humerus is steadied by its upper end against the scapula, its head rolling in the glenoid cavity, while its lower end describes a somewhat large arc, and carries the weight of the forearm and hand, the latter describing the largest arc possible to it. Under these cir- cumstances the bone is acted upon by the deltoid, pectoralis major, and latis- simus dorsi, much as the mast of a vessel is by its stays; and it yields just as the latter sometimes does when overloaded above. By Malgaigne, Lonsdale, and others, cases are recorded in which the humerus has been broken in trials of strength; the opponents “ facing one another, their elbows resting on a solid plane, their forearms touching by their ulnar margins, their fingers interlocked, and in this position each tries to turn outward the wrist and forearm of the other.” Here the twisting mechanism is so evident that it need hardly be demonstrated. In one case reported by Mr. Ilenry Smith,2 a fracture of the humerus was caused by the attempt of the patient to lift himself by grasping the top of a wall. Dr. W. B. Hopkins, in a recent article,3 has reported three instances of fracture of the humerus by muscular action. In one, the patient was throw- ing a base-ball “ over-hand ;” in a second, the man made a miss in striking a hard blow at another with whom he was fighting; and in the third, a woman was carrying a heavy tub of clothes.4 1 Lancet, May 11, 1878. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, July 25, 1857. 3 Philadelphia Medical Times, March 24, 1883. 4 In connection with these cases Dr. Hopkins says :— “ When the forearm is flexed at the elbow-joint by the contraction of the muscles of the arm, the lower end of the humerus acts as the fulcrum, the biceps and brachial muscles as the power, and the hand, with whatever it may grasp, as the weight. The forearm is, in other words, a lever of the third kind. In such the power must always be greater than the weight, technically expressed by the phrase 1 mechanical disadvantage.’ The amount of mechanical disadvantage to which the muscles of the arm are put to raise a known weight placed in the hand, is com- puted by multiplying the weight to be raised by its distance from the fulcrum, and dividing the product by the distance of the power from the fulcrum. “ The following measurements were taken from the bones of a well-developed male skeleton : From the bottom of the sigmoid cavity of the ulna to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the middle finger, fourteen inches, and from the same point to the tuberosity of the radius, two inches. (For convenience in computation, the attachment of the biceps alone will be used, as it is the more important flexor muscle, and as it presents less mechanical disadvantage than the brachial.) The power, then, in this lever, is to the weight as seven to one. If, therefore, a weight of one hundred and fifty pounds is raised in the hand by flexing the forearm, the power exerted by the muscles in executing this movement is represented thus : ^ * 1')(> = 1050 pounds—a force well calculated to part a tendon or break a bone. “The fact that the forearm cannot be extended with as much force as it can be flexed, though with greater velocity, of course depends upon the difference in distance between the power and the fulcrum in the two cases. For, in the same specimen, the distance from the point of insertion of the tendon of the triceps in the olecranon to a point opposite the bottom of the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, was found to be only half an inch. The power, then, in this lever, is to the weight