INDICATIONS FOR AND CONTRA-INDICATIONS TO EXCISION IN GENERAL. 443 of “ conservative surgery,” and it becomes those wlio have conquered to wear their laurels with modesty as well as with dignity. Indications for and Contra-indications to the Operation of Excision in General. Excisions of joints may be practised in cases of wound, whether by accidents of civil life or by gunshot injury; of compound dislocation or of compound fracture involving a joint; of destructive disease of an articulation; and of anchylosis. Excisions or resections of bones may be required in cases of compound frac- ture ; compound, or irreducible, simple dislocation (in the case of some of the short bones, such as the astragalus); ununited fracture ; deformity following fracture or other injury ; and disease, whether inflammatory or neoplastic. Wounds of Joints.—The applicability of the operation of excision to joint- wounds has been so fully considered in previous portions of this work,1 that I need not dwell upon the subject here further than to say that, in my judg- ment, when any operation at all is required, the surgeon’s first thought should be of excision, rather than of amputation. Even in the case of the knee, though excision for traumatic causes is less favorable here than in any other locality, I should be strongly tempted to give this mode of treament a trial if the patient were young and healthy, and if the injury were sufficiently limited in extent. Compound Dislocations.—I am disposed to agree with Hippocrates and Celsus that, in cases of compound dislocation, immediate excision should, as a rule, be practised, except when the part involved is the knee, when amputa- tion will ordinarily be preferable. I have, however, myself saved a case of compound dislocation of the ankle, without operation, by the use of continu- ous irrigation, and similar successes are occasionally met with by almost all surgeons. The great advantage of excision in these cases lies in its prevent- ing the destructive inflammatory tension which is almost inevitable when simple reduction has been effected. Compound fractures into joints are also, as a rule, cases for excision (pro- vided that amputation lie not required), and for the same reason, viz., the avoidance of injurious tension from the inevitable swelling, and from retention of the products of inflammation. When the knee is the part affected, ampu- tation should, I believe, be resorted to without hesitation ; but in the case of the joints of the upper extremity, and of the hip and ankle, I should prefer excision whenever a choice of operations was admissible. With regard to the period of operation, in cases of compound fracture, the same rules may be given as for amputation under similar circumstances, viz., that primary excision should be preferred, but that if the golden opportunity of operating before the onset of inflammatory fever has been lost, an effort should be made to temporize until suppuration has been fully established, when a secondary excision may be resorted to with more prospect of success than would have attended an intermediate operation. This will appear from the following table of determined cases in military surgery, compiled from the 1 By Prof. Andrews in Vol. III. pp. 720 etseq., and, as regards gunshot wounds in particular, by Prof. Conner, in Vol. II. pp. 153 et scq.