462 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. Taking all the cases together, the proportion of deaths and failures is only 19.8 per cent. Partial excision of the lower jaw is sometimes performed in cases of anchy- losis, or of closure of the jaws from contraction following a burn, etc. Esmarch’’s operation consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of bone, three-quarters of an inch wide at its upper part and an inch below, from the horizontal ramus of the jaw in front of the ascending cicatrix. According to Schulten, 40 cases of this operation gave only 2 deaths; but, on the other hand, only 15 permanent recoveries. Failure is apt to ensue from the parts coming together again and gradually closing the gap, as occurred in a case operated upon by the late Dr. Gordon Buck, of New York, although he removed no less than an inch and a half of bone. Humphry, Bottini, Little, and Abbe, have successfully excised the condyle of the lower jaw for anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Excisions of the Sternum.—Trephining of the sternum in cases of caries or necrosis, is an operation which dates back to the days of Galen. The same operation has been employed in cases of mediastinal abscess, but cannot be recommended in that affection, as the pus can be more safely evacuated by an incision alongside of the bone. Larrey removed about half of the sternum in a case of compound fracture, and Linoli, an Italian surgeon, excised the ensiform cartilage, which was bent backwards, to relieve uncontrollable vomit- ing ; though the peritoneal cavity was opened, the patient made a rapid re- covery, and is said to have been permanently cured. These partial excisions seem to have been quite successful, 18 terminated cases, tabulated by 0. Iley- felder, having given 17 recoveries and only one death. The only case with which I am acquainted in which the entire sternum has been removed, is that recently recorded by Konig. In this remarkable case, the whole sternum is said to have been excised on account of a sarcomatous tumor by which it was occupied; the pericardium and both pleural cavities were opened in the operation, the wound became gangrenous, and the heart was afterwards sur- rounded with pus; notwithstanding this, the wound slowly healed, and the patient ultimately recovered. Iviister has also resorted to resection of the sternum to facilitate the removal of a mediastinal tumor. If it be thought proper to resort to excision of the sternum, partial or com- plete, the bone may be exposed by a longitudinal, a T-shaped, or a crucial incision. If the whole bone is to be removed, the costal cartilages may be carefully divided close to the sternum with strong knife or cutting pliers, retractors or the “resection-sound” being interposed to prevent injury of the pleurae. The bone can then be drawn forwards, and cautiously disarticu- lated from the clavicles. For partial excisions, it is more convenient to begin by taking away one or more disks of bone with the trephine, and then to complete the operation with the gouge or gouge-forceps. Excisions of the Ribs.—Partial excisions of the ribs have been familiar to surgeons since the days of Celsus, and complete excisions of floating ribs are attributed to Fiori and the elder Heyfelder, the first-named surgeon’s case having terminated successfully, but the other’s patient having died from peritonitis. The operation has been usually practised in cases of caries or necrosis, compound fracture, or hemorrhage from an intercostal artery; of 37 cases referred to by 0. Heyfelder, only 8 proved fatal. Resections of the ribs for tumors have been practised by several surgeons, including Langenbeck, Warren, McClellan, Gibson, Kolaczek, and Fischer. A remarkable case has been recorded by Alsberg, in which, besides portions of several ribs, a seg- ment of the diaphragm was excised, and cases of rib-excision followed by