285 SUPPURATIVE SYNOVITIS. two hours, will be preferable ; again, in others, the citrate or acetate of ammo- nium. Some form of opiate will be necessary; it is best given hypodermically (morphia), or as a suppository, and may often be combined advantageously with belladonna or atropine. Other drugs, such as digitalis, potassio-tartrate of antimony, or ipecacuanha, may have their applicability in certain cases. Alcohol is often desirable after the first few days, and, if the disease be long- continued, becomes a necessity. In the local treatment, the first consideration is rest in a good position ; that is to say, if, on his first visit, the surgeon should find the limb in the posture which he would desire, a well-fitting splint should be at once applied ; but if a bad position should have already been assumed—and sometimes this takes place very rapidly—an anaesthetic should be given, and the right posture restored. When the disease is still moderately recent, no force will be re- quired ; indeed, if placed so that its weight acts advantageously, the limb will of itself assume the desired position. During anaesthesia, the necessary splints should be applied, and, unless the disease be either in the shoulder or hip, the limb should be swung: the upper extremity by means of pulleys and counterpoise; the lower, by the Salter cradle. A double object is gained by the restoration of the joint to a proper posi- tion : first, the patient’s sufferings are markedly diminished, while the violence of the disease is often cut short; secondly, if, in the subsequent course of events, anchylosis is to occur, the limb will be in the posture most available for use. Thus, the shoulder must be so placed that the elbow, a little sepa- rated from the side, lies slightly in front of the lateral median line; the elbow must be placed at a right angle ; the wrist straight; the knee not quite, but very nearly straight; and the foot so that its long axis is at right angles with that of the leg.1 When the symptoms show that suppuration is, or is about to be, present, the appliance to be used becomes a matter of very great moment, the simple retention of the limb in a plaster-of-Paris band- age being no longer suitable. The joint must be kept at perfect rest, and yet must be acces- sible. The shoulder may be bandaged to the side with simply the intervention of a wedge-shaped (Stromeyer) cushion, or, which I prefer, a splint in two parts, both of poro-plastic felt; one part is, for the adult, 9 inches broad at the lower part, 5 inches at the upper, and is to be moulded on the side of the thorax, reaching to the axillary folds; the other, about 4 inches broad, is moulded on the inner side of the arm. When dry, these pieces are removed, and are then joined by riveting through them two brass rods, the higher one so arranged as to keep the upper ends of the splint about one inch asunder, while the length of the lower rod is to be fixed according to the distance at which it may be desired to keep the elbow from the side. The elbow is easily fixed. I prefer a splint made of two metal gutters, the length of the upper arm and forearm respectively, each gutter having pro- jecting at one of its ends a broad tongue of the metal, in which is a hole to receive a clamp-screw for fixation. The portion for the forearm, when cut, is • Diseases of the hip being in certain points peculiar, their consideration is relegated to a sub- sequent page. Fig. 631.