SACRO-ULUTEAL ESCHARS. 839 lower extremities” was noted; after another month, “ sloughing extending” was part of the record made; and six weeks after that, death from exhaustion ensued. At the autopsy it was found, not only that the spinal cord was severed, and that the missile lay in the spinal canal, hut also that the upper section of the spinal cord was “ much softened,” that is, exhibited a change which, under the circumstances, was doubtless inflammatory. Most of these particulars are taken from the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 440, where the case is fully reported. Many similar instances have been mentioned in the foregoing pages, where acute sacral eschars or other sphacelations of an analogous character were attended with either an active mechanical irritation or a positive inflammation of the cord- substance, as was proved by post-mortem examination. On the whole, then, the dominant and ever-present fact in such cases is the active irritation of a more or less extensive region of the spinal cord, which mostly shows itself, anatomically, by the changes that characterize inflammation of the cord-sub- stance (myelitis), and, clinically, by the outward phenomena or symptoms that arise from this lesion. Moreover, this conclusion is in strict conformity with the results of experiments on animals, which show that in them the develop- ment of gangrenous ulcerations over the sacrum does not supervene on ordinary sections of the cord, but only in cases where inflammation occurs in the cord- substance or membranes around the traumatic lesion. So much concerning the pathogeny of this most troublesome and destructive disorder appears certain. But it is not probable that all the constituent parts of the spinal cord are equally liable, when excited by irritation or inflammation, to provoke the development of acute bed-sores. The great frequency of this accident in cases of hsematomyelia, and of acute central myelitis, where the lesion occu- pies chiefly the central region of the spinal cord, seems to designate the gray substance as playing a predominant part in this respect. (Charcot.) This power is doubtless shared also by the posterior white fasciculi, for M. Char- cot has shown that irritation of certain parts of these fasciculi has the effect of determining the production, not only of various cutaneous eruptions, but likewise of dermal necrosis with deep ulceration.1 Furthermore, it is perfectly established that traumatism of the cauda equina, and other irritative lesions of the peripheral nerves, may give rise to an acute bed-sore, on the one hand, or to sphacelation of the integuments in their terminal areas, on the other hand. The illustrative examples presented above make this point quite clear; and there are many other examples on record. Perhaps, irritative lesions of the spinal ganglia of the nervi sympa- thies too, may sometimes determine the rapid formation of eschars. But on this point we need more light to be thrown by clinical and pathological observations, as well as by experiments on animals. Finally, in regard to the essential lesion of the spinal cord, of the cauda equina, or of the peripheral nerves in general, which determines the develop- ment of acute bed-sores and of other analogous sphacelations of the integu- ment, we are still in the dark, at least as far as any positive knowledge of the subject is concerned. But, after all, it may in time yet be demonstrated that there really are trophic nerves, as Samuel has supposed, and that the pathological excitation of these nerve-filaments, whether it be effected in the spinal cord, or in the cauda equina, or in the trunks of other peripheral nerves, is attended by the formation of tegumentary eschars in the areas where the disordered nerve-filaments terminate, and over whose nutrition they preside. Op. cit., pp. 52, 73, 74.