751 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. due to concussion soon began to pass away, and on the following day were succeeded by the symptoms of compression of the spinal cord, caused by hemorrhage into the spinal canal, which increased in severity until sensibility as well as motor power was abolished in the lower part of the body, the res- piration becoming diaphragmatic from paralysis of the other respiratory muscles, and the patient’s temperature sinking to 95.8° on the morning of the second day. Then, the hemorrhage having ceased, the absorption of the extravasated blood was immediately commenced, and it was continued wTith so much activity that on the following day, July 6, sensation had partly returned to the left leg, and the respiration was better, for all of the chest- muscles again participated in the respiratory movements. By the 11th, lie was so much improved that his micturition was entirely voluntary. But the sensibility did not return to his right leg, and this circumstance showed that the conducting filaments of the spinal cord itself were considerably injured, probably by contusion and ecchymosis of the cord-substance. On the 13tli, or two days later, consecutive spinal meningitis and myelitis began with a chill, after which the patient’s temperature rose considerably above the nor- mal, and his countenance became dusky from vaso-motor paralysis. By the 20tb, the inflammatory lesion of the spinal cord and membranes Avas attended by trophic lesions of the urinary bladder and kidneys, and of the soft parts over the sacrum and buttocks, which will hereafter be described under the head of Acute Bed-sores, and of Disorders of the Urinary Organs from Le- sions of the Spinal Cord. The blood found in the bladder on the 21st had probably floAved into that organ through the ureters from the kidneys. The patient’s stomach soon gave out entirely, and in a feAv days more he sank ex- hausted from vesical and renal inflammation, and from acute bed-sores. The thermograph of this case (Fig. 774) sIioavs at a glance three remarkable periods of depression in the temperature, the first of which corresponded to the compression of the spinal cord by extra vasated blood (July 3 and 4) ; the second, to the invasion of the spinal cord and spinal meninges by consecutive inflammation (July 12, 13, 14); and the third, to the occurrence of exhaus- tion as the end drew near. After the first and second periods of depression, the temperature rose considerably. By what symptoms externally perceptible Avas this fracture attended ? By one only, to Avit—by tenderness under pressure over the fifth cervical A'er- tebra. In the absence, hoAvever, of distortion or deformity, or other evidence of luxation, the presence of fracture should be suspected in cases such as this. But the occurrence of spinal paralysis under such circumstances should not, per se, cause a fracture of the vertebrae to be surmised, since the paralysis might just as Avell result from concussion or contusion of the spinal cord, as it did in fact at the outset of this case. The spinal column Avas suddenly bent until it broke at the fifth cervical vertebra, but the fragments instantly sprang back into place again. At the same moment, the spinal cord was bent, stretched, and bruised; the spinal arteries were ruptured, hemorrhage there- from ensued, and thus the symptoms of compression readily succeeded the symptoms of concussion of the spinal cord. Besides these dangers, that is, contusion and compression of the spinal cord, together with spinal meningitis and myelitis, fractures of the upper cervical vertebrae are attended by others. Should the cord be crushed, or even pierced, above the roots of the phrenic nerves by a fragment of displaced bone, the respiratory movements would at once cease entirely, because the respiratory muscles would all be paralyzed, and death from asphyxia would immediately ensue. This accident not unfrequently happens, and the victims thereof but seldom, comparatively, receive the attention of surgeons. Abernethy, Iioav- ever, is credited with mentioning the case of a coal-heaver who fell from a