859 INJURIES OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. stances, no union of the fragments whatever had taken place. iSTo doubt too the remarkable success which attended the treatment of the illustrative ex- ample related above, was mainly due to the fact that the displaced bone was put back again into its normal position without delay, and that an exact appo- sition of the fragments was uninterruptedly maintained. Oftentimes, reduc- tion can easily he accomplished by pressing upon the displaced bone with a linger in the rectum. The second indication in the treatment of sacral fractures is to keep the fragments in apposition. This indication was readily fulfilled in the illustra- tive example presented above, by firmly applying a bandage around the pelvis, and by keeping the patient in bed. But the main difficulty in the treatment of these cases, where the fracture is the sole injury, is the intense degree of pain with which the act of defecation is accompanied, and the local disturb- ance which it produces. Some surgeons have, by administering opium, kept the bowels in a state of confinement; and then emptied the rectum every week or ten days by means of an enema. It is, however, still better to diet the patient very carefully with a view to restrain the production of feces to the smallest possible quantity, which may then be easily and almost painlessly removed every three or four days by means of an enema. Whenever pain is present in these cases, it must be subdued by administering opium or morphia in doses that are sufficiently large, and at intervals that are sufficiently briefi Should intra-pelvic inflammation arise, it must be combated by leeches and hot fomentations, as well as by opiates. Should retention of urine he present, catheterization must be employed every eight hours. Should the bladder he wmunded in a male patient, but especially should it he ruptured, it may he advisable to open it at once by perineal section in order to allow the urine to escape as fast as secreted, and thus avoid all chance of urinary infiltration. Cases belonging to this category‘may be saved by the timely performance of this operation, which is not dangerous per se, and which, if I remember aright, has already proved successful in one or more examples of this sort, simply because it prevented the pelvic fractures from becoming complicated with urinary infiltration. But should the broken bone manifest a disposition to slip out of place again after its reduction has been effected, notwithstanding the firm applica- tion of a bandage around the pelvis, a mechanical apparatus must be em- ployed to overcome this disposition. For this purpose, M. Indes used simply a piece of wood, cylindrical in shape, five inches in length 1>3T three inches in circumference, which was inserted into the rectum, and there retained in position by graduated compresses together with a T-bandage. On every third day this plug or splint was temporarily withdrawn, and the bowel was washed out with an enema. The patient recovered. For the same purpose, M. Bermond used a silver canula, with a bag attached, which when stuffed formed an inner and an outer tampon. The end of the tube was kept closed with a cork, in order to prevent the escape of feces. It was removed only twice during the course of treatment, namely, on the seventh and nineteenth days respectively. This patient also recovered. The patient should be rigidly confined to bed until the fragments have united. The posture therein should be that which is attended with the smallest amount of discomfort to the patient, and with the smallest liability to the recurrence of displacement. Gunshot Fractures of the Sacrum.—Hennen mentions three cases in each of which a musket-ball passed through the sacrum, about three inches above the tip of the coccyx, and penetrated obliquely upward. In two of them the rectum was also wounded. In the third, the bladder was perforated as well as