FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA. 747 Pure fractures of the vertebrae are of rather infrequent occurrence in the cervical region. Of 36 cases observed at Guy’s Hospital, and mentioned by Mr. Bryant, in which the cervical vertebrae were injured, there was no ex- ample of pure fracture, while there were 11 examples of pure dislocation, and 25 examples of fracture combined with dislocation. Still, pure frac- tures of the cervical vertebrae are sometimes met with. I have already presented one instance, and shall mention several others. But it is in the dorsal and lumbar regions that most cases of pure fracture of the vertebrae are found, the very regions in which pure dislocations of the vertebrae least frequently occur. However, pure fractures fall much short of the ma- jority in even these regions; for, of 18 cases in which the dorsal, and 2 cases in which the lumbar vertebrae were injured, that were observed at Guy’s Hospital, and are mentioned by Mr. Bryant, nearly two-thirds appear to have been examples of fracture and dislocation combined. In the 25 cases of cervical fracture combined with dislocation that were noted at Guy’s Hospital, the lesion was below the third cervical vertebra in all but three examples. In one of these, it involved the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae; in another, the arch of the atlas and the spinous processes of the second and third vertebrae; and, in the third case, the bodies and laminae of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae. In the 18 dorsal cases, of all sorts, seven were in the upper and eleven in the lower half of the dorsal region. Thus, it seems clear that the lower parts of both the cervical and the dorsal regions are much more liable to fracture and dislocation than the upper parts. The following case will serve to illustrate the most common form of frac- ture combined with dislocation, which is met with in the cervical region:— On the morning of November 10, 1852, an unknown man, but poorly clad, was found lying dead on the cellar-bottom of an unfinished house at the corner of Franklin Street and Broadway, where it seems that he had fallen from the street, some time during the previous night. Autopsy, by the writer, at the Sixth Ward Station House, at 11 A. M., for the coroner Rigor mortis strong. Head and neck bent far forward. Spinous processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras movable. On exposing them by a free incision, the muscular and connective tissue around the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae was found extensively infiltrated with blood. The spinous process of the seventh cervical (vertebra prominens) was broken short off. The laminae of the sixth cervical vertebra were fractured at a little distance from the spinous process of that vertebra, which accounts for the mobility of this spinous process also. The body of the sixth cervical vertebra was luxated forward from that of the seventh. The intervertebral substance, the anterior and posterior common ligaments, the capsular ligaments, and the ligamenta subflava were all torn through. The spinal cord was crushed by the displacement, and the theca vertebralis contained much blood. Externally, the theca was coated with blood. The fractures of the laminas of the sixth, and of the spinous process of the seventh ver- tebra, were doubtless caused by striking the back part of the neck, at its root, upon the hard cellar-bottom; the. laceration of the ligaments, and the displacement forward of the body of the sixth vertebra from that of the seventh, doubtless resulted from the extreme degree of flexion to which the spinal column was simultaneously subjected at the root of the neck. Death quickly ensued, because of the cerebral concussion which attended the fall, and because of the shock which arose from the crushing of the spinal cord; but prin- cipally because of the extravasation of blood within the theca vertebralis, wdiich speedily paralyzed the cord, by compressing it, as high as the roots of the phrenic nerves above the third vertebra, and thus completely arrested the respiratory movements. This case is offered as an illustration, because, in most cases of fracture combined with dislocation that are observed in the cervical region, tlie lam into, or the spinous or transverse processes, are fractured, the ligamenta