EXCISION OP THE KNEE-JOINT. 503 The statistics of the operation present rather a melancholy picture. Of 175 cases tabulated by Drs. Otis and Huntington,1 in which resection in the shaft of the femur for gunshot injury was performed during the American war, no less than 116 terminated fatally, a percentage of terminated cases of 69.4; the operation in Military Surgery is therefore much less successful than amputa- tion of the thigh, the death-rate of which operation is given by the same authorities as 54.2 per cent.2 Of 17 cases collected by Ileyfelder,3 in which the operation was performed for ununitecl fracture, there were 10 successful and 1 “half successful,” while 1 required subsequent amputation, and 5 ended in death (29.4 per cent.); and even the cuneiform operation of Barton (for anchylosis of the knee) has given 2 deaths out of 17 cases, a mortality of 11.8 per cent.4 Excision of the trochanter major may be required in cases of gunshot frac- ture, caries, or necrosis, and has been successfully performed by Tenon, Vel- peau, Textor, Teale, Fergusson, Parker, of New York, and other surgeons. The bone may be exposed by a straight or curved incision, and the diseased parts removed with the gouge and forceps. Excision op the Knee-joint.—This operation is chiefly employed in cases of chronic disease of the articulation, though it has also been practised for compound fracture or dislocation, and for anchylosis, whether fibrous or bony; in the latter case by the method introduced by the late Dr. Gurdon Buck, of New York, and since described as “excision in a block.” As already men- tioned, knee-joint excision was first performed (successfully) by Filkin, of Norwich, in 1762, and again successfully by Park, in 1781. So little favor, however, did the operation receive at the hands of surgeons generally, that forty years ago it had been performed in all less than twenty-five times. Revived by Textor, in Germany, and by Sir W. Fergusson, in England—the last-named surgeon having operated for the first time in 1850—the operation has since been so largely employed that its statistics, in civil practice, are now considerably more extensive than those of any other excision. The first excision of the knee-joint in this country was performed by Dr. Kinloeh, of Charleston, in 1856. The first knee-excision in Military Surgery was that of Fahle, in 1851. Various incisions have been adopted for this operation, those which have met with most approval being the H-shaped, the semilunar or U-shaped, and the simple transverse incision. Treves, of Margate, has revived a sug- gestion of Jeffray and Sedillot, and advises that lateral incisions only should be employed, without any transverse wound. The H -shaped incision was first employed by Moreau, has been adopted by Butcher, of Dublin, and is still preferred by. some surgeons, including Prof. Hamilton, of New York. It consists of two longitudinal incisions, one on either side of the joint, with a transverse cut immediately below the patella. Provided that care be taken to place the lateral incisions far back, so as to allow of free drainage, this method answers a good purpose, and is certainly easier for the beginner than either of the other forms of operation; it, however, makes an unnecessarily large wound, and is, in my judgment, far inferior to the operation by transverse incision. The U -shaped, horse-shoe, or semilunar incision (Fig. 726), was introduced by Mackenzie, and is now advocated by such high authorities as Prof. Hum- 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Third Surgical Volume, p. 875. 2 Ibid., p. 877. ‘ a op. cit., p. 82. 4 Culbertson gives 14 cases (op. cit., pp. 268-275), to which may be added three successful operations, respectively recorded by the late Dr. Blackman, of Ohio, Mr. J. E. Adams, of London, and Mr. Kilgarriff, of Dublin.