INDICATIONS FOR AND CONTRA-INDICATIONS TO EXCISION IN GENERAL. 447 of joint disease complicated with phthisis, Bright’s disease, or amyloid de- generation, amputation will offer the patient a better chance than excision. Anchylosis.—It often happens that while incomplete or fibrous anchylosis has occurred in one portion of a joint, destructive disorganization is progressing at another, and under such circumstances excision may of course be required, as in cases of destructive disease without any attempt at repair. There are, too, cases of fibrous anchylosis, with the limb in a bad position, and compli- cated by frequently recurring attacks of arthritis, in which excision will prove the best remedy. Such a case was that illustrated by Figs. 734, 735 (page 510), in which I excised the knee many years ago, at the Episcopal Hospital. Bony or complete anchylosis is usually amenable to milder reme- dies than excision—subcutaneous osteotomy, as practised by Mr. Adams and Mr. Maunder, or drilling, after the manner recommended by the late Dr. Brainard, of Chicago, commonly proving satisfactory. In some cases of bony anchylosis of the knee, however, a better result may be secured by Gurdon Buck’s method of sawing out a wedge-shaped portion embracing the whole thickness of the bone, and containing the femoral condyles, bead of the tibia, and patella—what has since been called excision in a block—and in the case of the elbow, excision will prove the best mode of treatment, as permitting recovery with a movable joint, which could hardly be obtained in any other way. Compound fractures of tiie long bones may occasionally require a resort to resection, either to facilitate reduction, when a fragment protrudes through the wound and cannot be replaced, or when, though the bone is much shat- tered and comminuted (as by gunshot injury), the destruction of parts is not so great as to necessitate amputation. Except in military practice, however, the operation is seldom required in these cases, it being usually better simply to remove loose fragments and trust the rest to nature; nor does my own ex- perience lead me to recommend resection of the long bones, even in cases of gunshot wound, except in the forearm, when only one of the two bones is injured, and, perhaps, in the fibula. I have with advantage resected the lower jaw, in a case of gunshot injury attended with great splintering and comminution. Dislocations of the bones of the foot may require exsection of the dis- placed hone, if the injury be compound, or if, though simple, the bone be irreducible and so placed as to interfere with locomotion. The astragalus is the part which most often requires removal under these circumstances, but the question of operation may also arise in the case of the bones of the anterior tarsus. Ununited fracture not unfrequently calls for the operation of resection, which indeed, when performed in the manner recommended by Prof. Ollier and Prof. Bigelow—preserving the periosteum and fastening together the freshened ends of the fragments with a wire suture—constitutes the most certain remedy for this condition, and is one that I have repeatedly resorted to with complete success. Deformity resulting from badly treated fracture or other injury of a bone may be a cause for resection. A few years ago, I had under my care, at the University Hospital, a man who as a consequence of fracture of the fibula and contusion of the tibia, followed by osteitis,