77 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. In effecting reduction, the surgeon should pass one or two fingers of one hand into the patient’s mouth, applying them to the teeth, while with the thumb and fingers of the other hand he endeavors to bring the bone itself, at its lower border, into proper shape. As a general rule, the greater the vio- lence which has caused the injury, the more will the bone he likely to be shattered, and the soft parts to be torn. Fractures at or close to the symphysis are more easily kept reduced than those of the middle of the body at either side. And fractures at the angle are hut little liable to displacement, partly because they are at the widest part of the pointed arch before spoken of, partly because the disposition of the muscles is such that neither fragment is pulled upon more than the other; they are as it were balanced. The bandage most frequently employed in Philadelphia, in the retention of fractures of the lower jaw, is that known as Barton’s.1 Hamilton describes an apparatus made with straps and buckles, on a very similar plan, which he has used witli satisfaction. Before applying either, it is better, if the patient be a male adult, to have the face shaved, or, at least, to have the beard clipped very short; the hair, if long, should also be cut. If the fracture is at either side, it will readily be seen that the pressure of the bandage may be so exerted as simply to flatten out the broken bone, as it were; an action which, carried to excess, would produce between the frag- ments an angle salient toward the mouth. Hence it is much better to use a splint made of binder’s board, felt, or gutta-percha, moulded to fit the chin, and smoothly lined with a thin sheet of raw cotton, or with Canton flannel. Greater security may be given to this apparatus, if, before applying the ban- dage, the outer splint he fastened in place by a strip of plaster about an inch and a half in width, passing well up on each cheek. What is known as “ rubber adhesive plaster” is the best, but any well-made adhesive plaster, not too fresh, will answer. If the strip be made twice as wide, and doubled on itself so as to have an adhesive surface toward the splint and another toward the bandage, the latter will be still further prevented from slipping. Such a precaution is by no means needless in the cases of some very unruly or delirious patients. When the surgeon has any doubt as to the accurate retention of the frag- ments, a very simple and easy expedient may be adopted to insure it, at least until a permanent apparatus can he made. A large vial-cork may be cut down so as to square it on two opposite sides, leaving it of sufficient thickness for spaces to be cut out on these square sides, on one side for the upper and on the other side for the lower teeth. This shaping can he easily done with a sharp knife, by any one with ordinary dexterity in such matters. When finished, this interdental splint can be fitted to the upper teeth, the lower jaw brought up to it, and the fragments properly placed in their groove, after which the outside splint and bandage may be put on. Another very ancient device is that of surrounding the adjacent teeth on the two fragments with a wire, which thus includes them in a loop, secured by twisting the ends of the wire. Such a loop need not be retained very long, and, indeed, ought not to be, lest it should injure the gums; a week or ten days will generally be a sufficient time, as the process of union will then have begun, and the fragments will be apt to keep their place. In cities, or wherever the services of a competent dentist can he had, the best plan is to have a mould taken of the patient’s jaws, the fragments being held in place by the surgeon. From this an accurate cast may be made, and upon this again a vulcanite plate, to fit above and below. When skilfully 1 See Vol. I. p. 494, Fig. 64.