270 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. with protuberances between ligaments and tendons, but has a peculiar, angu- lar, or square look. To palpation, it is not soft and fluctuating, but hard, elastic, and leathery. If the finger be passed down the limb from the healthy to the inflamed parts, it perceives, on reaching the latter, a distinct, rounded edge to the tumefied joint. The skin very soon becomes rather tightly drawn, and then often assumes a browner shade than the part above and below; that is, the parts immediately over the joint are a little browner in dark, and a little yellower in blond individuals. In severe cases palpation must be very gently employed, as it generally produces severe pain; although I have seen two cases in which pressure by the whole hand was painless, though by the finger-tip it was unbearable. But the pain which the patient complains of is not mere tenderness—it appears agonizing; and although it is described as constant, there must be intervals, since he generally gets some sound sleep, perhaps two or three times in the twenty-four hours. Even those who insist that the pain is constant, never- theless speak of paroxysms of greater severity ; but—and this a very marked peculiarity—in spite of the severity and duration of pain, the health suffers but little. The constitutional symptoms of dry synovitis, although more marked than those of the simple disease, are by no means commensurate with the amount of pain; indeed, it is chiefly upon the contrast between the intense pain which the patient complains of, and the comparatively low temperature, the absence of rigors, and the almost clean condition of the tongue, that the surgeon will rely for his diagnosis; or, at least, it will probably be this disparity that will first lead him to believe that the joint is not suppurating. Very generally, too, the appetite remains good, so that in the intervals of ease, or of com- parative ease, food is taken with relish. As the small amount of pyrexia would indicate, there is no excessive thirst; although the pain is described as incessant, yet, as already remarked, but few cases of continuous pain really occur; nearly all patients obtain, during the twenty-four hours, some quiet sleep, even without the aid of opiates. The skin Is generally dry, but occasionally profuse perspirations of acid odor occur; and in some cases these are nightly, and very excessive. The urine is high colored, but not particularly scanty ; it frequently, on cooling, becomes covered by an iridescent film. The most usual deposit is deeply stained lithate of ammonium ; pure uric sediment is rare. If, after this disease has lasted some days or weeks—and its duration in this form is very uncer- tain—the thermometer rise suddenly to over 102° Fahr., more especially if such elevation have been preceded by a sharp rigor, the probability is that the type of the disease is changing, and that the suppurative form is about to appear. This change, although in my own experience very unusual, cer- tainly does occasionally take place. Treatment of Acute Simple Synovitis.—Since, as we have seen, the con- stitutional symptoms of simple acute synovitis are very slight, so it is evident that but little general treatment is required. Three points should always be considered: the state of the bowels, the condition of the urine, and the amount of pain. With regard to the first of these, I would recommend that, unless the action of the bowels has been during the previous few days quite free, an ape- rient, or in some cases a purge, should be administered. The choice between these two somewhat different remedies should be based on the following con- siderations : aperients only should be given if the patient be moderately spare, if he have not a full abdomen, and if the affected joint be of the upper extre- mity. But if the patient be rather stout, and have a full, large abdomen, it