EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 540 tendency to trickle beneath the splint, thereby soiling the flannel bandage and giving discomfort to the patient. The drainage tubes should at each dressing be removed and cleansed ; if this be not done, drainage will not be thoroughly maintained, the tubes very soon becoming blocked up ; they may with advantage be clipped off at each dressing, and by gradually shortening them, the process of union will be favored. The wound may be syringed out, if there is anything likely to offend, which does not flow away; but, as a rule, the less the parts are disturbed the better. It is very objectionable to disturb or separate the flap from its bed by injecting forcibly an antiseptic lotion of any kind. This I have seen done, and have always regarded it as hurtful. We must believe that union is progressing; and to disturb a wound with any fluid wTill do no good, but, on the contrary, will in all like- lihood separate and tear the delicate structures, and retard the process of cure. As the discharge in many cases is very inconsiderable, it would be far better to discard the use of the syringe altogether, and simply wipe away any matter that requires to be removed with a sponge or piece of lint. The drainage tubes ought to be removed when the surgeon believes that they have done all that they are expected to do. There is as much error in maintaining the drainage tubes too long in situ, as there is in doing without them altogether. The wire sutures do not require to be removed for a considerable time, as they create very little disturbance. I have been in the habit of leaving them undisturbed until perfect union of the soft parts has been obtained. The cat- gut sutures seldom, if ever, require to be removed, as the deeper portion is absorbed, and that outside can be readily wiped away. The surgeon must be ever on the alert for the presence of pus. Should any collection form, from pus being retained in the meshes of the cellular tissue, it should be freely opened. Nothing can lead to greater disaster in surgical cases than pent-up pus, and in the after-treatment of excision of the knee-joint the greatest care and watchfulness should be exercised to guard against the occurrence of any such complication. The apparatus of Dr. Watson appears to answer the requirements better than any other that I have myself used, or have seen in use. It was to me a matter of regret, in the treatment of my earlier cases of excision of the knee- joint, that no suitable splint had been suggested, and in reading over Dr. Watson’s book on this subject, and viewing his illustrations, I must admit that I still doubted the practical utility of the apparatus suggested. It was chiefly with the hope of gaining increased steadiness between the ends of the bones that, in 1868, I designed and carried out section of the bones in the way above described.1 I had experienced the benefit of this method with the use of an iron splint, a modification of that used by Sir W. Fergusson, and the results were satisfactory in giving greater steadiness between the bones, and a subsequently straight and well-shaped leg. Having obtained such favorable results, I naturally felt some reluctance in adopting any novelty, however strongly recommended. Dr. Watson’s apparatus was first used by me in 1878, and all the cases operated on in the Montreal General Hospital since that elate have been put up in the same manner, with some slight change, according to circumstances, such as substituting paraffine for the plaster of Paris. The advantages to be claimed for this form of splint are: greater steadiness between the bones and greater comfort to the patient, permitting free motion of the body without disturbance or alteration in position of the bones at the point of section. The confinement becomes less irksome, and there is less risk of the occurrence of 1 Canada Medical Journal, vol. vii., page 318, 1871.