349 ACUTE ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. flammation from the periosteum. Another not unusual complication is a form of hydrarthrus with considerable fringe-hypertrophy which is rapidly produced. The suppurative synovitis is caused by the products of inflammation pass- ing into the joint cavity ; hut this has not the same violence as when pus is suddenly poured into a healthy joint, for the disease has progressed, however rapidly, still by degrees along the periosteum, as also through the bone and cartilage. Thus the synovial membrane is already in a morbid condition, and the cartilage rarely gives way, largely and suddenly, so as to admit a flood of inflammatory fluids into the joint, but is rather perforated in small holes, giving passage to slow transudation. Diastasis does not itself produce any diseased action in the joint, save that of position, unless the line of the epiphyseal junction lie within the synovial area, in which case there occurs a more or less sudden influx of pus into the cavity, and the most acute suppuration of the joint may follow. When, however, very acute osteitis attacks, not the end of the shaft, but the epiphysis, the joint-affection more immediately accompanies the disease. Acute epiphy- sitis is a rarer, and, as a rule, a more destructive malady. From the above account it is evident that we have to do with a more and with a less severe affection; the former is, as far as our present knowledge goes, closely related to phlebitis, and is combined with or immediately fol- lowed by septicaemia and pyaemia. The latter, though also an osteo-myelitis, is circumscribed, does not produce inflammation or thrombosis of veins out- side the bone, and is often overlooked, its symptoms being very obscure, and frequently ascribed to rheumatism. If its course be favorable, the periosteum will again adhere, and even the bone, though sclerosed, and perhaps for months the seat of obscure and intermittent pains, may eventually quite recover. Ora certain portion may die, around which new periosteal bone will form, when the case takes on the usual well-known form of osteitis and thickening around a central sequestrum, which, after a year or more, will produce abscess in the soft parts, and may be removed by operation.1 Again, in certain cases no portion of the bone will necrose; but there will remain an intraosseous abscess, which may at once give rise to severe trouble, or may become sur- rounded by sclerosed bone and slowly desiccate. Occasionally, too, in the cancellous structure, the pus, scattered in a chaplet of abscesses, will also dry up. When, as often happens, fresh disease sets up new symptoms, these case- ated deposits may be revealed, and are very likely to be mistaken for tubercle. Symptoms.—This disease usually attacks persons under seventeen years of age; sometime babies of a year old. Nine months is the youngest age at which I have seen it. In some instances an epidemic influence appears to have generated very many cases of acute osteo-myelitis in a certain area; and this, when recognized, greatly facilitates the'diagnosis. Occasionally, in either epidemic or sporadic cases, some definite injury or exposure precedes by some days the attack. The first symptom may be a severe rigor, followed by pyrexia; such cases are more likely to result in the phlebitic variety of the disease,. than when the primary sign is severe pain and aching of the limb. The pain, be it lancinating, burning, aching, or bursting in quality, is always accompanied by a powerlessness which is very characteristic, which the patient 1 While writing these pages, I have removed from the lower part of the femur a sequestrum, which was surrounded by new periosteal bone, and which was more than one-half the circum- ference of the shaft, embracing its entire thickness, and two inches long. The patient, a child aged 10, had received a blow two years previously, and after a fortnight had suffered severe pains and fever, which lasted a month ; after this, though she slowly got better, she never re- covered perfect or painless use of the limb.