79 FRACTURES OF THE LARYNGEAL APPARATUS. place slowly, or when a false joint has formed, in fractures of the lower jaw, since the general principles already laid down are of particularly easy appli- cation here. In cases of slow consolidation, the surgeon should first have made a very accurately fitting interdental splint, and, after thoroughly rubbing the frag- ments together, he should apply it, so as to keep them at absolute rest in good relative position. Failing in this, he should proceed at once to drill the fragments, and wire them together, confining the jaw subsequently with a moulded outside splint and a carefully applied bandage. When a false-joint has formed, the fragments may be at once scraped, drilled, and wired. It will, perhaps, seem as if so prompt a resort to the most heroic mea- sures, without a previous trial of milder means, were at variance with the accepted rules of surgery. But it must be remembered that this bone, though easily accessible, is very difficult of control; and that the interference with nutrition during the period required for such attempts, would be of itself a serious evil. Union with Deformity.—When a fracture of the jaw has united with the fragments in bad relative position, it is very seldom that any means of cor- rection are available; only, in fact, when the bone has been broken some- where near the symphysis, as elsewhere interference would either endanger the vessel or nerve, or both, or would be useless by reason of the want of purchase for mechanical treatment. Yet it may be that in some few cases, even as far back as the angle, subcutaneous osteotomy might afford a chance of dividing the uniting medium, as it would indeed be the best means of doing it at any point. Afterward, drilling, wiring, and a well made inter- dental splint, with a bandage externally, should be employed. Fractures of the Laryngeal Apparatus. Fractures of tiie IIyoid Bone.—From its position and connections, this bone is greatly protected, yet a number of instances are upon record in which it has been broken, either alone or along with severe injuries of neighboring parts. It is of the former class of cases only that I have now to speak, since this lesion is in the others a comparatively unimportant complication. Strange as it may seem, the hyoid bone is seldom fractured in cases of hanging, whether suicidal or judicial. Casper says1 that he has never seen it in any of the numerous bodies officially examined by him. Mackmurdo, for many years surgeon to the Newgate Prison, in London, is quoted by Gibb2 as stating that he had only once seen the body of the bone broken in a hanged man, and that in three or four only had he seen one or other cornu (never both) fractured. In suicides, the body of the bone was seen broken by Orfila, and a cornu by Dieffenbach and Cazauvieilh (two cases). In the body of Wirz, hanged at Washington, D. C., in 1865, “ the hyoid bone had received six injuries; separation of the greater and lesser processes on both sides from the body of the bone, and true fracture of the outer third of the greater process on either side.”3 This bone has been several times observed to be broken by throttling (Auberge, Dieffenbach, Murchison, Lalesque, Devergie, Helwig), and by falls in which the front of the neck is struck against some resisting body (Harley, 1 Forensic Medicine, vol. ii. p. 174. * On Diseases of the Throat and Windpipe, etc. London, 1864. * Med. andJSurg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Part I., Surg. Vol., p. 400.