154 INJURIES OF BONES. 1 Op. cit., p. 697. 2 Loc. cit., p. i08. joint could be distinctly felt, and freely moved in any direction over a small space.” Every effort at reduction failed, and the case was dismissed, prona- tion, supination, and extension being unimpaired. Gross1 mentions a case reported to him by Dr. Scott, of Missouri, in which “the coronoid process formed a distinct prominence upon the anterior and inferior surface of the liurnerus, a short distance above the joint, movable from side to side, the ole- cranon being at the same time displaced slightly backward, and the forearm somewhat Hexed. The accident was caused by a fall upon the hand while the forearm was forcibly extended.” In Sayre’s2 case the fragment was adherent to the anterior surface of the (inner?) condyle of the humerus. He refers to a specimen of Dr. Darling’s, showing this condition of things, and to another in which ligamentous union had occurred. The latter was ob- tained in the dissecting room, and was without history. Bryant mentions and figures a specimen in which the coronoid process and the anterior margin of the bead of the radius were detached in an old woman by a fall; the frac- tures were compound, and amputation was performed. From the foregoing quotations it will be at once perceived that the frac- ture in question may occur at almost any age, and has been ascribed to very various causes. I do not think it needful to discuss the correctness of the diagnosis in each case, as Hamilton has done, because the fact that the lesion occurs lias been placed beyond doubt; and for practical purposes this is suffi- cient. Equally useless is the enumeration by Lotzbeck3 of twenty-four varie- ties of the injury. There can be no difficulty in understanding how, if the ulna is forcibly driven upward against the humerus, in any position, but especially in extension of the forearm, the coronoid process as a whole, or its tip only, may be split off. In the case of muscular action, as in the boy seen by Liston, the muscles arising from the inner side of the lower part of the humerus would pull the coronoid process backward against that bone, while the brachialis anticus would tend to drag it away from the body of the ulna. And a glance at a longitudinal section of the upper part of the ulna will show at what a disadvantage the cancellous structure of the base of the coronoid process would thus be placed, and how readily its separation might be brought about. The cases of this fracture may be practically divided into two classes, according to the extent of the portion detached. If the tip only of the pro- cess is broken off, the fragment will be very small, and there will be no marked separation, except by the slipping backward of the ulna, and the consequent relative forward displacement of the humerus, limited by contact with the head of the radius. But when the whole of the coronoid process is split off from the ulna, the action of the brachialis anticus will serve to draw it upward, and the gap between the fractured surfaces will of necessity be more considerable. Perhaps yet another division might be made, of those cases which are complicated by fractures of other bones in the neighborhood, as when the olecranon also is broken, or when, as in one of Sir A. Cooper’s cases, the external condyle has been likewise separated. But here the fracture of the coronoid would as a general rule be the less important injury, and hence it would be more properly assigned the secondary place, as being itself a mere complication of the graver lesion. The symptoms of fracture of the coronoid process have already been given incidentally. The power of flexing the elbow must be more or less seriously impaired; pain in attempting this motion, and tenderness in front of the 3 Noticed in Schmidt’s Jalirbiicher, 1866.