853 PRIAPISM IN CONSEQUENCE OF SPINAL INJURIES. Should it be necessary to discharge the wind from the stomach, or from the small intestines, by an operation, it might be done with comparative safety by aspiration. Antispasmodics and carminatives, tether, ol. anisi, assafoetida, tinct. carda- momi, tinct. zingiberi, tinct. rhei, or ol. terebinthinte, will of course be administered, by the mouth or by the rectum, in these cases; and warm purga- tive medicines, and warm purgative clysters, should likewise be employed. Priapism in Consequence of Spinal Injuries. The term priapism is here used to signify a more or less complete erection of the penis (but most often it is incomplete), which is unattended by volup- tuous sensations, and which is caused by injury or disease of the spinal cord, instead of by sexual desire or normal excitation. This condition of the penis is very often observed in cases of spinal injury. It will therefore be instructive, as well as interesting, to consider briefly the clinical relations, the etiology, and the import or signification of this disorder of the male sexual organs. Phenomena of Priapism.—Priapism is usually described as a mere “turges- cence,” or bare “stiffness” of the penis, which does not amount to an erection in the true sense of the term. For it is commonly observed in priapism, that while the “ turgescence,” or “stiffness,” does not attain the rigidity of a true erection, it likewise does not cause the head of the penis to rise upward beyond a line drawn perpendicularly to the long axis of the body. Moreover, the penis does not of necessity become increased in length and breadth, or diameter, in priapism, as it does in normal erection, or in that state of the organ which renders it capable of intromission ; for I have observed at least one case of vertebral injury in which the penis, although in a state of undoubted priapism that lasted as long as life continued, measured only one inch and a half in length ; while after death, when complete relaxation had taken place, it measured two and one-half inches in length. But the foregoing description does not embrace the phenomena that are witnessed in all the cases of priapism arising from spinal injury ; for while this description holds good in most cases, there are at least occasional instances of spinal injury in which the priapism amounts to a “strong erection,” as was observed in an example already pre- sented for another purpose on page 829. The case, in brief, was that of a stable- man, aged 30, having transverse fracture with dislocation of the seventh cervical vertebra, caused by falling down stairs, who was admitted into Bellevue Hos- pital twenty-three hours after the accident, with complete sensory and volun- tary motor paralysis of the lower extremities and trunk up to the third or fourth ribs; also diaphragmatic breathing, retention of urine, etc., and, at the same time, “ the penis was strongly erected.” This state of vigorous erection must, in great measure, have subsided not very long after admission, for on the third day this entry was made in the clinical record of the case: “pria- pism always induced by passing the catheter.” That night the man died of asphyxia, caused by traumatic, ascending myelitis. Thus it appears that the clinical phenomena of priapism may vary in different cases, or in different periods of the same case, from those of bare turgidity or slight stiffness of the penis, on the one hand, through all the ascending grades of turgidity and stiffness up to strong erections of the organ, on the other. Another erroneous statement in regard to priapism is frequently made, namely, that it occurs only in cases where the cervical or the upper dorsal ver- tebra are fractured or dislocated. But the truth is, that it is also met with not unfrequently in cases where the middle dorsal, or the lower dorsal, or the