62 INJURIES OF BONES. Remedial measures such as those now described are suited for cases of de- layed union, and for those in which the fragments, although movable upon one another, are yet in relation by somewhat wide surfaces. But they would have failed in the instance, for example, reported by Borland,1 in which a portion of muscle was caught between the fragments. Stanley2 mentions a like case. They would be equally useless where the fragments were rounded off, walled in at the ends, and connected by well-defined ligamentous bands. Here nothing short of the exposure of the bone, the renovating of the broken ends, and the securing of their apposition, could be of any avail. Perhaps the indications for such grave interference with the parts may be stated to be, in general terms, the obstinate persistence of mobility, with pain and other evidence of some unusual obstacle to union; or the very great degree of mobility, with subsidence of all swelling, and entire absence of pain or tenderness. In one or two instances I have been able to make out the rounded and atrophied condition of the fragments. Of the old plans of refreshing the broken ends by means of the actual or ‘potential cautery, nothing need be said, except that while the probability of their doing good is very small, the possibility of their doing harm by setting up osteo-myelitis is too real to be overlooked. They should be accorded a merely historical importance. Resection for ununited fracture dates back to 1760, and the credit of it is due to White,3 of Manchester, who practised it with brilliant success in a number of instances. It involves the complete exposure of the fractured ends, which are then freshened by scraping, or by cutting them oft' on either side with a saw or with bone-nippers. The bone-director (Fig. 591) is very Fig. 591. Blandin’s bone-director. useful in turning out the ends to be sawed off. The incision should always be made where the bone is most accessible, and where there is least risk of injury to important structures. Any large vessels or nerves which are ex- posed, should be carefully held aside with blunt hooks, and the chain-saw will be found more convenient in every way than any other. Listerian precau- tions may be adopted by those who think that they diminish the danger of such procedures ; if they do no good, they will do no harm. As a rule, both fragments should be attacked, although success has sometimes been achieved by section of one only, the other having been beyond reach except by greatly increasing the magnitude and difficulty of the operation, as well as the risk to the patient. The earlier operators in this direction were content to employ, after the cutting of the bones, a carefully adapted apparatus for retaining them in place. An improvement was introduced by Horeau, in 1805, in the tying together of the obliquely divided fragments by a metallic wire carried around them; and a still further advance was made in 1838, by Dr. Rodgers, of Hew 1 Canada Med. and Snrg. Journal, 1881. 2 Dublin Med. Press, Aug. 2, 1854; Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences, Oct. 1854. 3 Cases in Surgery: London, 1770, pp. 69 et seq.