INJURIES OF BONES. 164 striking illustration is given by Malgaigne.1 He says, “the styloid process has been drawn up to the level of that of the ulna, than which it is notably lower in the normal state of things.” IIow this was done, he does not say; but it seems to me to be best explained by the action of the supinator longus. In treating these injuries, two objects are to be especially aimed at: to place and keep the fragments in their normal relation as to their axes, and to main- tain the inter-osseous space. Lonsdale, long ago, urged the importance of the former point, but I think that some later writers have in great measure lost sight of his views, and have given attention too exclusively to keeping the two bones apart. Perhaps it is not making too sweeping a statement to say, that in all frac- tures above the middle of the bone the forearm should be supinated, while in all below that point the semiprone posture is preferable. For in the former case we want, to use Lonsdale’s words, “ to place the hand and forearm in such a position, that the lower portion of the bone may be supinated to the same extent as the upperbut in the latter the condition of supination of the upper fragment does not exist. In any fracture of the radius, then, above the insertion of the pronator teres, I should advise the use of an anterior angular splint of wood, carefully padded; and on the dorsal (in this case the lower) surface of the forearm I should place a narrow slip of wood, padded so as to act as a compress to fill up and maintain the interosseous space. The angle of the splint may be about 90°, or a little less if the upper fragment of the bone tends to be strongly tilted up. If the action of the supinator longus muscle, drawing the styloid pro- cess of the radius upward, toward the elbow, be very marked, it may be well to apply slight but steady extension of the hand toward the ulnar side; means of doing this will readily suggest themselves. The best plan in my opinion would be to put on the hand a glove, with the fingers removed, and with tapes sewed to it by means of which it could be tied to the corner of the splint; or they could be brought up over a notch at that point, to be fastened on the upper surface of the board. To make this dressing effective, the lower part of the forearm, just above the wrist, must be steadied on the ulnar side; which may be done by means of a wide loop of adhesive plaster, both ends of which may be brought to the outside of the splint, on its upper or palmar surface, and there fastened. When the radius is broken below the insertion of the pronator teres, the best appliance is an internal angular splint reaching from the upper part of the arm to the ends of the fingers, and with the part corresponding to the hand so shaped as to draw the hand somewhat strongly downward, or toward the ulnar side. The forearm-part of this splint should be carefully and firmly padded along the middle, especially toward the wrist; and a similarly padded dorsal splint, but much narrower, should be laid along the back of the fore- arm. Before applying the splints in any case, the fragments should be carefully restored to their normal relation, and so held until the dressing is complete. The bandaging should be done with the utmost care, snugly, but not tightly ; and the surgeon will do well to remember that he is dealing with a part in which gangrene has repeatedly been induced by neglect or want of skill in applying apparatus. Frequent inspections should be made, and the state of the circulation in the fingers watched; upon the slightest appearance of con- gestion, or complaint of undue pressure, the limb should be stripped and the dressing reapplied, with such modification as may seem to be demanded. Within three or four days it may be expected that the swelling will sub- 1 Atlas, PI. IX. Fig. 5. Translation, Fig. 50.