EXCISIONS AND KESECTIONS. 476 dispense with one of the longitudinal branches, thus reducing the incision to the form of a . The operation originally suggested by Park, however—a single longitudinal incision over the posterior, inner surface of the joint— affords abundant room in almost all cases, and has the advantage that the wound has no tendency to gape, and is thus better adapted for rapid healing. The incision begins (in an adult) about two inches above the olecranon, and extends three inches below it, the course of the wound being parallel to that of the ulnar nerve, and a few lines to its radial side. The only point requiring special caution in this operation is to avoid injuring the ulnar nerve, which should lie carefully dissected from its position behind the internal condyle, the edge of the knife being kept close to the bone, and should then be held out of the way with a blunt hook or retractor. (Fig. 701.) In excisions for Fig. 701. Excision of elbow-joint by 9ingle longitudinal incision. chronic disease, there is no difficulty in avoiding the nerve, which is sur- rounded by thickened and infiltrated tissue, and, indeed, need not be seen during the whole operation; but in cases of primary excision for injury, the nerve is not thus protected, and then must be guarded in the way already described. The back of the articulation having been exposed, the olecranon process is to be cleared, and may then be severed with strong-cutting pliers; while not at all essential, this procedure will be found to greatly facilitate the remain- ing steps of the operation. Bruns, and more recently Trendelenberg and Vblker, recommend temporary resection of the olecranon, which they sub- sequently restore to its position, keeping it in place with a wire suture. With the object of preserving, as far as possible, the function of the triceps muscle, Prof. Spence advised that its tendon should be divided by an inverted A-shaped incision, and for the same purpose Dr. Hodges and the late Mr. Maunder directed that those fibres should be left uncut which were inserted into the fascia of the forearm. Prof. Sayre only removes the tip of the olecra- non, leaving that portion to which the tendon is attached. Whatever plan he adopted, the joint is next forcibly flexed, and the forearm thrust backwards, the lateral ligaments being then carefully divided with the probe-pointed