EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 500 page444,has been no less than 86.5 per cent. Comparing this with the death- rate of excision for disease (45.1 per cent.), we see that whereas in cases of the latter category more than half recover, in those of the former nearly nine-tenths die. Partial excision—that is, removal of the upper end of the femur only—is somewhat more successful than complete excision, but the difference is so slight that the surgeon should not hesitate to take away all that is diseased. Dr. Culbertson’s figures show that simple decapitation of the femur is less successful than excision embracing the neck and trochanters, as well as the head of the bone. Table showing Comparative Results of Complete and Partial Excision of the Hip for Hip-disease.1 Form of Excision. Total. Recovered. Died. Result unde- termined. Mortality per cent, of terminated cases. Complete excision .... 177 90 77 10 46.1 Partial excision .... 241 124 97 20 43.9 Form not stated .... 52 20 18 14 47.4 Aggregates 470 234 192 44 45.1 The ultimate result of hip-joint excision, as regards the utility of the limb,, is in most cases quite satisfactory; in three of the four cases in Prof. Gurlt’s tables, the end-result was “good,” and in the remaining one “very good;” while of the 234 cases of recovery tabulated by Dr. Culbertson, there were 72 in which the result was “ perfect” (30.8 per cent.), 106 in which the patients obtained “useful” limbs (45.3 per cent.), and only 13 absolute failures (5.6 per cent.), the utility of the preserved limb not having been noted in the remain- ing 43 (18.4 per cent.). Among my own cases—excluding that of double ex- cision—-11 instances of recovery have given 2 “ perfect” and 7 “useful” limbs, while in the other two cases the patients passed from observation before this point could be determined. Taking, however, all cases of excision for hip-disease together, the results of the operation cannot be said to be very brilliant, one out of three dying under the most favorable circumstances as to age, etc., and but a little over three-fourths of those who recover from the operation having been known to have useful limbs. Should then the operation be abandoned ? I answer, certainly not. The question should be, not, what does excision promise, but rather, does any other mode of treatment promise as much ? What, in fact, can those surgeons who oppose liip-joint excision offer in its place ? The operation is, indeed, such a grave one, under any circumstances, that I do not consider a resort to it justifiable in any case in which it is not evident that life will be imperilled by longer persistence in expectant measures. A considerable number of cases of hip-disease run a mild course from be- ginning to end, and, with, or even without, treatment, terminate in sponta- neous recovery, with more or less stiffness and deformity, it is true, hut nevertheless, with fairly useful limbs; and even if an abscess forms, it by no means follows that a cure is to be despaired of. But in the majority of cases in which suppuration has occurred, there comes, sooner or later, a time when the only alternatives are excision, amputation, or a prolonged and fatal illness terminated by death. These patients very seldom—at least in the class of 1 Culbertson, op. cit.