344 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. to say uncleanly; wounds of cavities, serous and synovial, were almost sure to suppurate. JSTow, whatever may be thougdit of the germ theory, of the spray, and of all the other minutiae of Listerian antisepticism,1 there is no doubt that cleansing the hands, the instruments, and the patient’s skin, by means of a powerful disinfectant, is a considerable safeguard against sup- puration. Thus, up to about thirty years ago, the direct extraction of loose bodies from joints was a very dangerous proceeding, and, when the subcuta- neous method of Delpech and Stromeyer became known, it was extended from the mere division of tendons to other operations, and among them to the excision of loose bodies from joints. The operation was largely practised, but very often failed, until Square, of Plymouth, introduced a somewhat modified method, dealing very freely with the synovial membrane and the periarticular tissues. It is his method which will be described. The instrument must be broader than the usual tenotome, longer also in the cutting part, and, in order to fill or plug the rather big cutaneous open- ing, thicker and stronger in the non-cutting part. When this instrument has been introduced under the skin, it is moved to and fro, partly dividing, partly breaking down the periarticular tissues, until a cavity has been prepared, suffi- cient for the body to lie in when extruded; then the synovial membrane is pretty freely opened, so that there shall be no impediment to squeezing the body out of the joint and into this new-formed cavity. Here it is left for some days, until the synovial wound has had ample time to heal, when it may be cut down upon and removed. The direct method is performed by manipulating and keeping the body in some part of the joint readily accessible from without, and then shifting the skin over it as far as it will go; the surgeon, with a very sharp knife, cuts straight into the joint, not on the cartilage, lest the pressure of his scalpel should cause it to slip away; but a little on that side to which he has learned that it most readily passes. The opening in the synovial membrane should be quite free enough to let the body pass easily, and a little pressure towards the opening should cause it either to jump quickly or move slowly, to glide out of the wound; in either case, the track should be closed by the pressure of an assistant’s hands immediately behind the body. Sometimes, in spite of all proper arrangements and skill, the cartilage will not come to the syno- vial opening, and it may be necessary to pass in a fine pair of tenaculum forceps to seize it and bring it forth. Occasionally it will be found to be still attached to a pedicle, which may either be twisted until it gives way, or simply cut. If the spray and carbolic acid have been used, the site of opera- tion should be drained. The surgeon may, if he choose, pass a probe through the operation wound into the joint, and on to some dependent part of the sac, cut down upon the probe’s point, and thus draw in a drainage-tube; or he may simply pass a drainage-tube into the operation wound, and, if he have been able to choose a dependent part, this will be the safest plan ;2 nor should the tube do more than just intrude into the synovial wound. If the simpler and less irritating dressing with boro-glyceride have been employed, no drainage-tube, or merely a tube just passed into the lips of the outer wound, is necessary. The after-treatment consists chiefly in affording complete rest to the joint, one of the many splints already so often referred to being applied. The wound should be dressed in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, according to the 1 I place the words thus, because there are other antiseptics and other modes of insuring their action than those introduced by Lister. 2 I lately saw a case, under the care of an excellent surgeon, in which all the Listerian precau- tions had been employed, including the use of a drainage-tube through the joint. I attributed the violent suppuration that ensued to the irritation of the synovial membrane by this foreign body.