INJURIES OF BONES. 9 Lameness in the lower extremity, or disability in the upper, will fix the atten- tion of the patient, and attract the notice of others. Sometimes the surgeon may have indiscreetly promised, during the treatment, perfect recovery, or may have overlooked restlessness, or even disobedience, on the part of the patient. Sometimes the latter is struck with the more favorable result of other cases as compared with his own; and sometimes, unfortunately, the idea of bringing suit is suggested to him by meddling friends or pettifogging lawyers. But whatever may be the origin of such proceedings, they are always annoying and vexatious, often expensive, and generally injurious to the surgeon, even if the verdict should be in his favor. Hence, it is highly desirable that they should be avoided, as far as possible, by the exercise of the utmost skill, care, and discretion, in the management of the injuries now in question. There are some fractures which are serious by reason of the danger of loss or impairment of the function of the hone itself, and in which, therefore, the main object of the surgeon's treatment must he the most perfect possible restoration of the normal form and relations of the bone. Such are those of the humerus, the femur, and the bones of the leg or forearm. Others derive their gravity chiefly from the risk of involvement of con- tained viscera; such are those of the skull, vertebrae,1 ribs, and pelvis. Even in fractures of the long hones, there are sometimes such injuries inflicted upon the neighboring soft parts, bloodvessels, or nerves, or both, as to produce the gravest results. Cases of this kind will be noted in connection with fractures, especially, of the clavicle, femur, and bones of the leg. Every bone in the body is liable to fracture; but, as will further appear, some bones are much more exposed, and much more frequently broken, than others. And just as the normal function of these organs is carried on in exact accordance with the laws of mechanics, so in their fractures the working of the same laws may be traced. In the general discussion of the whole subject, fractures of the long hones will be kept in view, not only because they are more frequent, but because they afford the best and most convenient illustra- tions of the phenomena presented. The points for study in regard to these injuries are: their causes; the mechanism of their production; their varieties; the phenomena and symptoms attending them; their diagnosis; their consequences ; their complications; the mode of their repair and deficiencies in this process; their prognosis; and the principles of their treatment. All these topics will be first taken up in a general way, and they will subsequently be considered in reference to the several bones. Causes of Eracture. Fractures are always caused by force, and by adequate force; although under certain circumstances it may and does seem as if the bones gave way, as it were, of themselves. Hence the term “ spontaneous” has been used; but, as will be hereafter shown, it is not strictly correct. The causes of fracture may be divided into immediate and 'predisposing. Under the former head are embraced the various forms of violence under which bones give way, while under the latter belong all conditions, whether of the body at large, of the skeleton, or of the individual bones, which expose the latter to fracturing forces, or make them more ready to yield. 1 Fractures of the skull and of the vertebrae are so generally attended with lesions of the great nerve-centres, and these lesions give rise to questions of such magnitude and such special interest, that these subjects will be hereafter dealt with in separate articles