598 TUMORS. of the nsevus, and the sittings are usually conducted at intervals of a week or longer. The foregoing directions are, for the most part, those given by Ivnott,1 lie claims to have thus treated a large number of nsevi, varying in size, in situation, and in character, and always with a good result. The action of the battery is very certain, and only a faint cicatrix remains. I cannot say that my own experience and observation have led me to a similar conclusion. Even where the effects described have been produced, they have been very transitory, and success lias not been nearly uniform. I am unwil- ling, however, to judge too hastily a method which is highly spoken of by several competent surgeons, and therefore at the present time am engaged in carrying out a fresh investigation of it.2 Another method by which thrombosis and shrinking of a nsevus may sometimes be produced, is by the injection into it of very small quantities of the tincture of the perehloride of iron. About three minims of the pure tinc- ture are injected by means of a screw syringe, and an equal quantity may be thrown into three or four different parts of a nsevus the size of a walnut. The injection should be repeated in different parts of the tumor at intervals of three or four days, until the whole mass has been rendered solid. The objections to this method are that it is very uncertain; suppuration and sloughing are apt to be produced by too free use of the syringe; and it is not free from danger to life. More than one case is on record in which, appa- rently from embolism, sudden death has taken place during or immediately after the operation. It is most suitable for the treatment of nsevi which can be completely surrounded by a ring or band, and thus separated for the time from the general circulation. The methods by which destruction of the tumor may be effected are very numerous. Among the most important of them are vaccination ; the appli- cation of nitric acid or ethylate of sodium; the introduction of nitrate of silver or caustic potassa; the passage of setons; ligature of the growth; and the use of the cautery. These methods do not all entail an absolute destruc- tion of the tumor. Vaccination, for example, sets up inflammation in the nsevus, and cures it by thrombosis and subsequent shrinking. It might, there- fore, be placed in the preceding class of remedies. But it often causes ulcer- ation and cicatrization, and, on this account, belongs more properly to this class. It is employed only for cutaneous nsevi, and is, at best, a very uncer- tain remedy. The vaccination punctures are made immediately around the nsevus, and, even when the treatment is successful, leave unsightly scars. Kitric acid is very frequently employed for the destruction of cutaneous nsevi. The strongest yellow fuming acid is used, and is applied with a glass rod, or, better still, a piece of stick, the surrounding parts having previously been protected by oiling them, and care being taken to soak up with blotting- paper any acid which runs beyond the nsevus. In a few days the nsevus sloughs out, and a sore remains which requires simple treatment. The ethy- late of sodium is applied in the same manner as nitric acid. It acts, accord- ing to Dr. Richardson, as a nascent caustic. A thick black scab forms on the surface of the nsevus, and as soon as this separates, usually within a week, a second application of the fluid is required. Several applications are usually needed. This method is said to be applicable to nsevi of almost every kind and size. I have found it exceedingly useful for cutaneous nsevi, quite use- less for the subcutaneous and larger growths. It results in the formation of rather a thinner scar than that produced by nitric acid. The introduction of nitrate of silver into nsevi is used for the mixed or 1 Lancet, 1875, vol. i. p. 402. 2 According to the directions given hy Dr. Newman, of Stamford.