109 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. Let a pad be put into the axilla, and pushed up so as to carry the shoulder upward and outward, while the elbow is brought strongly forward so as to bear across the pad, and by leverage to carry the shoulder backward ; all this can be done with a sound clavicle, and the change in the shape and position of the shoulder apparently effected. But, in fact, all that has been done is to put the soft parts on the stretch; the head of the humerus, and this only, has been forced outward and backward, the capsular ligament of the joint and the muscles yielding before it, while the folds of the axilla are pressed upward by the pad. When, however, the scapula is grasped and drawn around backward, toward the median line, it will be found that the sound clavicle must follow it; and the motion will be checked as soon as the acromial end of the latter bone has reached the limit of its range. I feel assured that the recognition of this principle and its application to the treatment of these fractures, will lead to the securing of better results than have been hitherto obtained. Indeed, as I shall presently try to show, the apparatus employed in these cases is often capable of effecting only the apparent change above referred to in the shoulder, and does not act upon the broken bone at all. When a patient with a broken clavicle is laid flat on his back on a firm and even mattress, it will often be found that the deformity disappears simply by reason of the pressure on the posterior border of the scapula; sometimes, however, this must be aided by the hand of the surgeon bearing backward (downward) against the injured shoulder, or pushing the head of the humerus inward (toward the median line). Advantage has been taken of this fact, and, in a number of cases, cures without deformity have been obtained by simply keeping the patients on their backs in bed until union has occurred. The irksomeness of this plan of treatment, and the difficulty of carrying it out, are sufficient objections to it in all but exceptional cases. Women will sometimes undergo it for the sake of avoiding an unsightly lump on the neck; but for the most part patients prefer the application of apparatus with which they can move about, and pursue some at least of the ordinary avocations of life. Much the same principle has been had in view in all the forms of back- splint, from the croix de fer of Heister (or Arnaud) to those of Keckeley1 and G-rewcock.2 It appears also, but somewhat modified, in the figure-of-8 bandages and other appliances for drawing the shoulders together at the back. In modern times the tendency has been to depend upon bandages and slings of different forms, with or without axillary pads. Of these, that of Desault, although cumbersome, difficult of application, and apt to become disarranged, long enjoyed a confidence due rather to the prestige of its author’s name than to its own merits; it has now been superseded,and its description, which may be found in many works of easy access, need hardly be repeated here. Mayor3 proposed a very simple dressing, which may answer a good purpose as a temporary resource, but is scarcely to be relied upon as a permanent mode of treatment. It consists of two triangular pieces of linen ; the elbow being carried inward and forward, one triangle is applied over it, its base upward, and corresponding to the level of the lower third of the arm, its point hanging below and in front of the elbow; the two ends are carried round the chest, and meet to be tied or pinned at the sound side. The point of the triangle is now brought up, passed between the arm and the chest, and drawn strongly up- ward toward the sound shoulder. Now, the middle of the second triangle 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Nov. 1S34. 2 British Medical Journal, Nov. 7, 1868. 8 Nouveau Syst&me de Deligation, <itc. Zurich, 1833.