pott’s disease of the spine. 937 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays. London, 1877. 2 Loc. cit., page 171. of a blacksmith. At the end of the period mentioned, an abscess appeared. Like examples have been put on record by others. It is important also to note that the deformity may commence and may increase while the hori- zontal position is being observed. Such cases show that the weight of the column above the seat of disease is by no means the only factor in producing the angular deviation, but that the abdominal muscles may also be active agents in that direction. (4) The Abscess.—The chief points in connection with this symptom have already been dealt with in considering the pathology of the disease ; and some further facts will be noted in dealing with the matter of diagnosis. So variable is the evolution of the symptoms of Pott’s disease, that the spinal ab- scess may be the very first evidence of the malady, and, on the other hand, this affection may run its entire course, and end in anchylosis and cure, with- out any trace of abscess having been observed. The absence of abscess is, however, quite the exception. As to the period of the disease at which this symptom should become evident, nothing posi- tive can be said. It may appear before any deformity is obvious ; it may be the very earliest symptom; it may not appear until the disease has existed for many years. Many cases are recorded where the abscess did not appear for ten, fifteen, twenty, or more years after the commencement of the disease, the patient having in the mean time apparently made a perfect recovery. It is probable that all such cases are examples of what Sir James Paget1 has called “residual abscess,” that is to say, an abscess taking its origin from the residues or relicts of past suppuration. The patient has caries of certain vertebrae, and an abscess is formed at the seat of disease, but does not tend to reach the surface of the body. In time a process of cure takes place, the wall of the abscess shrinks, its contents become more or less absorbed, and perhaps no trace is left but some small collection of caseous matter. As long as the patient's health remains good, and as long as no injury or unusual circumstance tends to irritate the part, so long does this residuum of a past inflammation remain inert. But when these untoward conditions are pro- vided, the ill-disposed material acts as an injurious foreign body, and an ab- scess that perhaps reaches the surface is the result. As to the influence of local and general conditions upon the formation of the abscess, something a little more defi nite can be said. As may be surmised, the more acute and rapid is the spinal mischief, the more certain and the earlier is an abscess likely to appear. Moreover, a general condition of ill-health is apt to affect the formation of the abscess in a like injurious manner. The same may be said of neglect of treatment, of persistence in movement and exercise, and of direct injury to the diseased parts. In opposition to these general statements, however, numerous exceptions have been recorded. Mr. Fisher mentions the case of a gentleman who had presented a projection of the spine for more than two years, no abscess appearing until the end of that period, although the patient had during the whole time indulged in the usual athletic pursuits of young men. Then again, an abscess may be asso- ciated with a form of Pott’s disease that has assumed a very chronic course, has given little or no trouble, and bas led to but trifling deformity. On the other hand, instances are recorded of an absence of external abscess, though the disease is accompanied with severe deformity and paraplegia. The general features of the abscesses that accompany Pott’s malady are identical with those of cold abscess in general, and require no especial descrip- tion. Lannelongue2 has shown that the surface-temperature over these col-