694 INJURIES OF THE BACK. The mechanical effects of falls, however, are widely different from those of blows on the dorsal portion of the vertebral column, especially when the victim’s hack happens to alight upon some solid body of comparatively small dimensions, whose upper surface is considerably raised above the surrounding ground—for instance the stump of a tree, or a block of wood, etc.; for, in such a case, when the further descent of the back is stopped by striking against the solid body, the downward movements of the head, neck, and upper extremities on the one hand, and those of the abdomen, pelvis, and lower extremities on the other, are not arrested at the same instant of time as that of the dorsal region; and, therefore, the weight and impetus of these parts simultaneously press downward, with great energy, upon both the upper and lower ends of the arch formed by the dorsal vertebrae, and on the concave side thereof, in such a manner that the intervertebral substances and bodies of the dorsal vertebrae are in the line of extension, and the spinous processes of these vertebrae in that of compression. It is obvious that a comparatively slight fall upon the dorsal region, occurring in this way, may badly stretch or strain the anterior and posterior common ligaments of the spine, and may also separate to a considerable extent the intervertebral substances from the bones. It is highly probable that caries of the dorsal vertebrae, in consequence of falls upon the back, not unfrequently originates in this manner; and that comparatively trifling accidents of this sort may, under favoring circum- stances, sufhce to produce this result. Sprains, Twists, and Wrenches in the Lumbar Region.—The vertebral column is sprained and twisted, or wrenched, in the lumbar region, more fre- quently than in any other part thereof. Such lesions of the 1 umbo-vertebral articulations are sometimes produced in attempting to lift great weights while in a stooping position ; and by the impact of blows and falls upon the lum- bar region itself, quite analogous to those in the dorsal region which have just been discussed. More often, however, they are caused by accidents in which the vulnerating force is indirectly applied to the lumbar region ; for instance, by alighting on the buttocks in falling from a height, or by the falling of a heavy weight upon the head or upper part of the body, while it is in an erect posture, the lower extremities being firmly planted on the ground. Many years ago, a good example of the first-mentioned kind of accident came under my observation :— A young farmer, aged about 20, accidentally slid down from a steep hay-mow, and then falling about fourteen feet, struck the ground upon his buttocks. He received thereby a violent jar in the lumbo-sacral region. His head and shoulders sank back- ward to the earth, where he lay for some time, unable to arise, barely able to move his legs a little (they also felt benumbed), and suffering terribly from pains in both lumbar regions. At first, he thought his “ back was broke.” However, after he had lain wet with cold sweat for some little time, he began to feel less faint, or a little stronger, and found himself able to move his lower extremities rather better. The pains, too, gradually abated, and then turning himself partly over, he tried to make his way to the house by crawling on his belly; but these efforts increased the lumbar pains so much that he was compelled to desist. After lying quite still, a little longer, he found that the paralysis of his lower extremities was considerably lessened, and that possibly he might arise. After many efforts he succeeded in doing so, his legs, meanwhile, having given way under him several times like those of a drunken man. He walked with the feeble and uncertain steps of an intoxicated person, from the weakness of his lower limbs; but after much effort, he succeeded in getting to the house, a distance of about two hundred yards, without any assistance. He was immediately placed in bed. There was con- siderable swelling across the loins, and much tenderness was discovered by pressing upon the lumbar spinous processes. Tenderness was also discovered in and around the bodies of the last three lumbar vertebrae, on pressing upon them through the front wall