160 INJURIES OF BONES. complications should not be lost sight of; the sltrgeon should see, for example, that the head of the radius is in its proper place. Union generally takes place readily, but a number of cases of false joint have been observed in this bone, perhaps on account of rotary motion com- municated to the lower fragment through too great liberty allowed to the hand, or it may be by the entanglement of a torn edge of the interosseous membrane between the fragments. Callender1 lias recorded a case in which the styloid process of the ulna, carrying with it the triangular ligament (?), was torn off, and in which, when the parts were examined, the ulnar nerve was found wedged between the two portions of bone. The treatment may be a very simple matter, or may present considerable difficulties. The first point is to correct any displacement that may exist; and the only direction that can be given for this is, that such manipulation is to be employed as may in each case be found most effectual. Sometimes the bone is brought into perfect line by merely pressing the soft parts into the interosseous spaces, anteriorly and posteriorly; and this should always be done, although it may also be requisite to correct an angle forward or back- ward, as well as to make some extension in order to disengage the fragments from one another, or from the torn interosseous ligament. As a general rule, the semi-prone position (with the thumb upward), is the best; and if the patient is either a child or a restless or unruly adult, a splint extending from the middle of the upper arm to the ends of the fingers, with a right angle corresponding with the elbow, will serve to secure it. My own preference is for two small slips of wood, well-padded, and applied along the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the forearm, with very careful bandaging from the tips of the fingers to the elbow; a piece of binder’s board, cut so as to form an internal, angular splint, reaching down to the ends of the lingers, and with the forearm part broad, so that its lower edge can be turned up to support the whole ulnar side of the limb, may then be softened in hot water, moulded to the arm, and secured by a roller. For the first few days the con- dition of the fingers should be carefully watched, lest the circulation be interfered with by the compression ; a number of eases are on record in which neglect in this respect has cost the patients the loss of their arms, and even of their lives. Some surgeons are content with a mere trough, in which the semi-prone forearm is laid, and confined by means of a bandage; but there can be no question that more efficient confinement is needed in many cases, and is safer in all. In compound fractures of the ulna the treatment must be essentially the same, although a gap should be left opposite the wound to allow of its being dressed. When the trough or angular splint is properly applied, the sling can hardly do any harm by pressing one or both fragments toward the radius; but it is better to have it of ample width. The hand should never be allowed to hang free, but should be well supported by the angular splint. When the appa- ratus is removed for the purpose of examining the limb, the utmost care should be taken to guard against any sudden displacement. I think it may even be better to leave the small splints in place for a week or two, and merely to ascertain by passing the fingers along the bone that the fragments are in their proper relation. Passive motion is in these cases wholly unnecessary, and would be very likely to do harm. At the end of about four weeks, the arm-part of the sup- 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870.