FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA. 761 question of crepitus, without violating any canon of his art. The following examples will illustrate in a useful manner the symptomatology of these vertebral fractures:— Dr. F. PI. Hamilton, Jr.,1 reports the case of a soldier, who fell twenty feet, striking his neck. There were crepitus over the second and sixtli cervical vertebrae, with slight pain and paralysis, and a compound fracture of the thigh, unperceived by the patient. Death ensued forty hours after the accident. Dissection showed fractures of the spinous processes of the second and the third, and a longitudinal fracture of the body of the sixth cervical vertebra; the spinal cord was compressed. (Ashhurst.) Dr. Hiram A. Prout2 mentions the case of a man, aged 30, who was injured in the neck while wrestling. There were paralysis, pain, and crepitus over the fifth cervical vertebra; and, forty-eight hours after the casualty, death occurred. Dissection revealed a fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra, the spinal cord compressed, and an effusion of blood in the spinal canal. (Ashhurst.) Professor Hamilton, in his excellent Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, refers to the case of a man, injured in the neck by being thrown back- ward from a wagon, and striking his head. There was paralysis, with crepitus in the upper part of the cervical region; and his breathing nearly ceased when he was turned over upon his face. Forty-eight hours after the accident, death ensued. There was no autopsy. Paul Belcher3 relates the case of a sawyer, aged 37, who fell from a cart while drunk. He was stunned and had a scalp-wound. There were pain, paralysis, and priapism. On the next day, crepitus over the first and second dorsal vertebrae was noted. He died fifteen days after the injury. Dissection showed fractures of the first and second dorsal vertebrae; a small clot in the spinal canal; the theca vertebralis torn ; and the spinal cord diffluent. (Ashhurst.) In this case, intra-spinal hemorrhage arose from the injury, as in Prout’s case just mentioned. It seems that a myelitis also arose from the injury, which disorganized the spinal cord and destroyed life. Simple fractures of the bodies of the vertebras have been met with most often in the parts of the spinal column which allow the greatest range of motion, to wit, between the third and seventh cervical vertebrae, between the eleventh dorsal and second lumbar, and between the fourth lumbar and the sacrum. The direction of these fractures of the bodies of the vertebrae may be trans- verse, oblique, or vertical. The oblique and vertical lines of fracture may pass through the bodies of two or three vertebrae successively. Sometimes the lines run in several different directions in the same vertebra, as, for instance, when the fracture is comminuted. The lines of fracture may simultaneously extend through the laminae or pedicles, as well as through the bodies of the vertebrae. When the direction is oblique, Malgaigne thinks that the fracture always extends from above downward and from behind forward, and constitutes a sort of inclined plane, down which the upper fragment slides, unless it is restrained by the vertebral ligaments. Malgaigne’s views on this point are supported by the observations of other surgeons. This is the chief way’ in which displacement results from fractures through the bodies of the vertebrae. It is scarcely necessary to say that the displacement arising from fractures is quite distinct from that which arises from luxations of the bodies of the vertebrae. It is likewise scarcely necessary to say that the displacement aris- ing from fractures may he attended with an overlapping of the lower fragment, caused by the sliding downward and forward of the upper fragment, and that an appreciable shortening* of the spinal column may be produced in this manner. When shortening of any part of the spinal column is caused by ver- tebral injury, it affords undoubted evidence, not only that there is. fracture, but also that the fracture involves the body of one, or more than one, vertebra at that part. The following example will usefully illustrate this point:— 1 American Med. Times, N. S., vol. viii. 3 British Med. Journal, 1862. * American Journ. Med. Sciences, 1837.