883 REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. left side of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, and over the whole of the sacrum ; the head of the coccyx is displaced forward, and crepitus can be felt in the sacro-coccygeal joint; tenderness about the lower end of sacrum and coccyx much complained of by the patient; besides pain, etc., she says she has a “stiff feeling” in the muscles of the left thigh and leg, which is worse at some times than at others; says she also feels con- stricted around her bowels, as if her clothes were too tight, or as if a belt were tightly drawn and buckled around her bowels, and has had this feeling for a long time. The festhesiometer showed that cutaneous sensibility in the left thigh was less than normal. In addition to syrup, ferri iodid., which she was now taking, fluid extract of ergot in full doses was prescribed, with strong counter-irritation over the sacrum. December 6. Upon the whole she is much better. The sacro-coccygeal pain is greatly lessened, and anchylosis of the joint appears to have occurred, with the coccyx bent forward and somewhat to the left at a right angle. Her eyesight, however, is very much impaired. The vesical hyperassthesia, too, has returned, and gives much trouble, for she has to make water every few minutes. Ordered extract of belladonna gr. ergotine, gr. liss., to be taken in pilular form three times a day; in four days the vesical reflex became normal. Also advised the belladonna and ergotine to be taken for a fortnight longer, and to be followed by potassium iodide. The internal remedies which did this patient most good were ergot, belladonna, and potassium iodide ; and the benefit derived from their administration was very evident. The spinal lesions in this case were mostly unilateral; and, as a rule, involved the left half of the column only. The spinal articulations which became inflamed were certain of the lumbar, as well as the lumbo-sacral, and the sacro-coccygeal. The pain felt in the dorsal and cervical parts of the spinal column, and in the left arm, forearm, and hand, was due entirely to spinal meningitis. The pain in the head and the impairment of vision, which came on afterwards, were probably due to extension of the inflammatory pro- cess from the spinal to the cerebral membranes. The pain in the lumbar verte- brae, sacrum, and left lower extremity, was caused in part by spinal meningitis, and in part by inflammation of the vertebral joints. The sensations of numb- ness, or as it the limb were asleep, of formication, of “ pins and needles,” of constriction around the body as if it were tightly belted, and the cutaneous anaesthesia, arose from myelitis. The vesical hypersesthesia probably arose from rachidian hyperaemia and irritation, whereby the urinary bladder’s reflex centre became unduly excited. At least, such was my diagnosis; and, on administering ergot to subdue the rachidian hyperaemia, and belladonna to allay the vesical reflex excitation, relief was promptly obtained. The nausea and vomiting which at one time were brought on by any slight muscular effort, also indicated that the cervical portion of the spinal cord-substance was inflamed. This woman, almost two years after the accident, although much improved in health, is not yet well again, for she is still suffering from inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes. Moreover, there is much doubt as to whether she ever will entirely recover. The phenomena which present themselves in cases where spinal injuries, without fracture, are caused by railway-collisions, result, as already intimated, from the severe wrenches and twists which the vertebral joints have sus- tained, or from the violent stretching and hemorrhagic infiltration to which the spinal membranes have been subjected, or from the more or less profound concussion, and perhaps contusion, of the substance of the spinal cord itself, or from the combined influence of all these lesions. We shall not be surprised to find that such grave consequences may be engendered by railway-collisions, if we reflect for a moment upon the nature of these accidents. It must, I think, be evident to all that, in no ordinary accidents can the shock, both physical and mental, be nearly as great as in those which occur in the colli- sions of railway-cars and engines. The swiftness of the movement, and the extraordinary momentum of the persons injured, as well as of the vehicle