MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF TIIE SPINE. 956 In diseases of the atlo-axoid joint, some displacement of the bones is very common, and indeed usual. This takes the form of a sliding forward of the atlas upon the axis. It may be presumed that this displacement is permitted by a softening of the ligaments around, and especially of the transverse and odontoid ligaments. The odontoid process thus encroaches upon the spinal canal, and the most serious results of this disease are apt to follow therefrom. The atlas may slide symmetrically forwards, but more usually the displace- ment is more or less unilateral, one lateral mass of the atlas being in advance of the other. The displacement is usually very slow in its occurrence, and any sudden displacement in this direction causes instantaneous death. It follows from the deformity that a very sharp bend is given to the cord opposite the seat of mischief, and it is a matter of much interest to note to what extent the spinal canal may be encroached upon without a fatal result ensuing there- from. Thus, Sir James Paget has recorded an instance of disease in this region, where the atlas, and with it the occiput, had slid so far forward on the axis that the spinal canal was more than bisected by the posterior arch of the atlas. The odontoid process had remained with the axis. The bones were greatly anchylosed in this position, so that the condition must have existed long enough for this tardy mode of cure to be effected.1 In some cases the odontoid process may become separated from the body of the axis, and, adhering to the atlas, may be carried forward with that bone when it is displaced.2 1 >islocations at the occipito-atloid joint from disease are very rare. Accord- ing to Pollin and Duplay, they may be bilateral or unilateral, and consist, as a rule, of a displacement of the occipital bone backwards. In only one recorded instance was this bone displaced forwards.3 When caries and necrosis exist in this part, they usually involve the anterior portions of the bones, the parts most commonly implicated being the anterior arch of the atlas, the body of the axis, and the odontoid process. The anterior arch of the atlas and the odontoid process have separated almost entire, as sequestra, and considerable portions of the body of the second vertebra have been lost in like manner. Or these parts may either alone or conjointly be more or less carious,4 * 6 and in one case, to be again alluded to, no trace of the odontoid process Avas to be found after death. In some cases where the joints are the parts mainly involved, the process may run its course and end in cure without any abscess appearing, although some evidences of suppuration are usual. The suppurative process set up by the disease, no matter whether primarily in joint or in bone, tends to invade the adjacent soft parts, and the abscess formed may present at the sides, or at the back of the neck. Having reached the connective-tissue layers of the neck, the abscess may extend in a dowmvard direction and appear in a distant part. Thus, Smith, of Dublin, records a case in which an abscess proceeding from occipito-atloid disease presented itself in the supraclavicular fossa, and ulti- mately opened into the lung. Bryant describes a case in which the abscess formed behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, and in Avhich from the opening in the skin that Avas formed, a piece of the lamina of a vertebra Avas discharged.8 Very commonly, the abscess presents itself in the tissue behind the pharynx (retro-pharyngeal abscess), and this is especially the case in instances of bone- disease in the anterior parts of the upper cervical vertebrae. This retro-plia- 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi. p. 286, 1848. 2 Shaw, Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iv. p. 140. 3 Traite €16mentaire de Path. Ext., tome iii. p. 73, 1868. 4 See case by Dr. Ogle, where the atlas, the axis, the occipital condyles, and the edge of the foramen magnum were all carious. Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xv. p. 19. 6 Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. i. page 278.