HYDROPS ARTICULI, HYDRARTHRUS, OR HYDRARTHROSIS. 335 •projecting from | to J inch, with about similar diameter, and placed close together. This mass was surrounded by a dense bluish-white capsule, look- ing like condensed fascia or tendon; it was thicker in some parts than in others, averaging ^ inch. There were no external ligaments save this cap- sule ; the crucial ligaments were much elongated and loose; the cartilages, nowhere ulcerated, were fibrous almost throughout. Microscopically, the pulpy mass consisted of a wide-meshed areolar tissue, composed almost entirely of yellow elements. The loculi were partially lined by endothelial cells. In one case there was no appearance of a hypertro- phied fringe; in the other there were two, not dendritic, but formed of lumps about the size of horse-beans, pedunculated and attached to the synovial membrane by thin stalks. We are thus forced to the conclusion that mere passive congestion from venous obstruction does not produce hydrarthrus—that, in other words, it is not, properly speaking, a dropsy—but that a capillary, active hypereemia is the efficient, cause; that in cases following acute sero-synovitis, this vascular condition is probably localized in one or more spots of the synovial membrane; while, when the disease is from the commencement chronic and non-inflam- matory, the hypertemia is more general, and tends, together with the effect of soakage, to a peculiar hypertrophy of endothelium, and of the immediately subjacent layer of the tissue—of the synovial intima. But a different condition obtains when the local malady, commencing or not after an acute synovitis, is mingled with the influence of a rheumatic diathesis, sufficiently strongly marked. In such cases the hypersemia exer- cises its more strongly formative power in the production of very greatly hypertrophied fringes. These organs, developed for the purpose of increasing the surface for secretion, have, in this disease, their function exaggerated, with the effect of producing excessive secretion. In the beginning, the malady is a chronic rheumatic synovitis (page 322), but it more or less rapidly as- sumes activity both of secretion and of fringe-growth, and certain cases of Fig. 645. Fig. 646. Excessive fringe-growth of hydrarthrosis. The same, under a powerful single lens. that disease become the most obstinate examples of hydrarthrus. In this variety the synovial membrane is chiefly remarkable for the shaggy con- dition ot its internal surface, which looks as though covered with lichen, or winch maybe compared to the outer surface of the foetal chorion. The villi,