541 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. bedsores. It is evident tliat bedsores are liable to form in patients held down in one position for weeks together; any change in the position of the body—any movement, however slight—is always grateful to a patient after an operation. Dr. Watson has pointed out that the various splints in use will permanently fix the leg and foot, but that the thigh-bone has a constant tendency to rotate outwards; the buttocks will sink into the heel, and the patient will, through sheer discomfort, rest on the outer side of the thigh, thereby seriously altering the axis of the bone. Before using this apparatus, the want of steadiness between the bones was a constant source of anxiety, and to prevent bedsores, I had been in the habit of having the patient raised from his hed, and, while held up, having his back carefully bathed and cleansed, and thoroughly dried, and having him replaced on a freshly-prepared bed. This was an ordeal greatly dreaded by the patient, although performed with great care, and with the help of many assistants. With Watson’s appa- ratus, however, aided by suspension of the limb, there is such firmness, with freedom of motion, that I have seen patients, before the end of the first week, able to sit up with comparative comfort; and in attending to the calls of nature they have been able to swing themselves out of bed, and get on to a close-stool or chair placed at the bedside. The advantage to the morale of the patient will also he apparent. In putting up the limb after excision, the surgeon may employ plaster of Paris, or paraffine, or a combination of both plaster and paraffine—this is a mere matter of choice. The plaster makes a firmer splint—it is heavier—but from absorbing the discharges it soon becomes foul; moreover, when the spray is used in dressing the wound, should it be necessary to repeat the dressing frequently, the plaster will soften down and be less efficient. To obviate all these disadvantages the plaster may at the outset be coated over with paraffine, or else paraffine may be employed without plaster; it is cpiite strong enough, and forms a lighter splint; it is always sweet and clean; any discharge of blood or serum, or of pus, will trickle away, and will be taken up by whatever dressing is applied to the wound. The front splint, if made of steel and if fitted beforehand to the limb, will bind and keep the parts in very accurate apposition. In its construction it should have one or two hooks; one, as shown in the engraving, Fig. 008, is all that is really necessary, and this is used for the purpose of suspending the limb in a Salter’s swinging cradle. This con- tributes greatly to the comfort of the patient. With respect to closing the wound, I have been in the habit of leaving this to the last, and I think with advantage. The bones during the application of the splint should be under the charge of the surgeon or of an assistant, whose duty should consist in preventing any displacement of the bones after their adjustment, even to a slight degree. When once the plaster or paraffine has set, there is no chance of displacement: the wound can now be closed, the edges brought accurately together, and perfect drainage secured at both angles. The gauze dressing should then he applied, and in applying it that portion of the splint which supports the popliteal space must necessarily be included. This method has heen adopted in all my recent cases, and I have had no reason to regret its employment. It is well not to disturb the wound by too frequent dressings; but, again, to leave it too long without a change, is an error in the opposite direction. I am not so pronounced a Listerite as to believe it neces- sary to change the dressing as soon as any discharge shows itself on the outside of the eight-ply wrapper. Of course if it should be abundant, sufficient to soil or soak into the draw-sheet, and should he still soaking through and draining away, I should deem it advisable, for the sake of comfort to the patient, to change and cleanse the wound; hut if, as in some cases, serum alone had come away, and had dried, and were not giving evidence of being very considerable,