INJURIES OF THE BACK. 798 seventh cervical upon the first dorsal vertebra was found, and effusion of blood. (Ash- hurst.) (10) Malgaigne1 refers to the case of a carter, injured by a wheel passing over his neck and shoulder. There were pain, paralysis, etc. In thirty-one hours death occurred. The autopsy showed subluxation of the sixth cervical vertebra, with slight fracture. The spinal cord was stretched, and blood effused. (11) Sir VV. Gull relates the following case :2 A man, aged 40, fell backward from a moderate height with a plank on top of him, and was at once brought to the hospital (4 P. M., July 7). He was collapsed, but sensible, and partially paralyzed in the upper as well as in the lower extremities. No injury of spine discoverable. As reac- tion came on, and he grew warm again, the paralysis wore off. At 10 P. M. he said he was comfortable. He passed a restless night. At 8 A. M. (July 8) he was en- tirely paraplegic in the upper as well as in the lower extremities ; sensation lost as well as motion ; priapism ; abdomen tense and tympanitic ; the breathing was wholly dia- phragmatic ; the ribs scarcely moved in inspiration; deglutition difficult; temperature of the surface increased ; during the day the skin became intensely hot, but the actual temperature was not noted ; fifty-five hours after the accident death ensued. Autopsy. —No external evidence of spinal injury. “ Extravasation of blood outside the theca vertebralis, on its anterior aspect. The effused blood compressed the cord, which other- wise was uninjured. After careful examination there were not found any signs of bruising of its tissue. The extravasation apparently arose from injury to the lower part of the body of the fourth cervical vertebra, which had been fractured, and the inter- vertebral substance torn. The calibre of the canal was slightly encroached upon by the displacement of the fourth vertebra, but not so as to press on the cord. The extrava- sation, though not abundant opposite the injury, extended downward to some distance. The membranes of the cord were uninjured.” The interspinous and capsular ligaments between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae were torn through, and the articular pro- cesses dislocated. It is worthy of remark (1) that the symptoms of paralysis which arose from the “shock” or concussion of the spinal cord, in this case, passed off in a few hours ; (2) that there supervened a paralysis, both motor and sensory, which gradually increased until it became complete and extended up to the neck, and which was shown by necro- scopy to have resulted from the effusion of blood in the spinal canal between the theca and the bone; and (3) that the substance of the cord did not exhibit any appreciable lesion, notwithstanding the compression it had sustained from the sanguinolent effusion. Were it essential to a correct exhibit, additional examples might be cited, but these eleven cases, together with some twenty others which have already been related or referred to above, are enough to prove beyond a doubt that compression of the spinal marrow arising from hemorrhage into the spi- nal canal is not a rare occurrence, as asserted by Mr. Hutchinson; and, fur- thermore, that any surgeon, however large his practice may be in this class of injuries, is liable to fall into errors of belief concerning them, when he generalizes solely from his own experience. The diagnostic symptom of cord-compression, when it arises from the extrava- sation of blood in the spinal canal, is paralysis of sensation and voluntary motion, commencing in the legs a few hours after the accident, and gradu- ally extending upward to the chest and neck, as the extravasation progresses upward in the spinal canal, and pari passu with the same. M. Brown-Sequard states, in his Dublin Lectures, that hemorrhage into the substance of the spinal cord may be distinguished from hemorrhage around it, by the sensibility gradually decreasing, and by there being no convulsions. AVhen the hemorrhage is merely around the cord, and compresses the roots of the spinal nerves, there are convulsions, as well as paralysis of voluntary motion.3 1 Traite des Fractures et des Luxations, t. ii. 3 New Sydenham Soc. Year-Book, 1859, p. 41. 8 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1858, p. 193.