120 INJURIES OF BONES. separation seldom lies wholly within the joint. Elderly persons are the most frequent subjects of these injuries, the mechanism of which it is not easy to determine with certainty. My own belief is that a blow either on the front or back of the shoulder, or perhaps the forcing of the humerus upward against the acromion, may in many cases be assigned as the cause. Very curious displacements of the fragment have been noted. Gross1 records two: one in which the head of the bone was “ turned upside down, the centre of the articulating surface corresponding with the outer border of the shaft,” and the other in which the fragment wras “ tilted over the greater tuberosity against the posterior surface of the bone.” Firm union had taken place in both. K. "W. Smith2 gives some very singular instances: one in which the head of the bone was simply sunk deep into the cancellous structure of the other fragment, and two in which it had been so completely rotated as to have its rounded articular surface applied to the same part; he quotes a third case of the same kind as having been observed by Nelaton, and a fourth as recorded by Malgaigne. Occasionally these fractures of the neck of the humerus are complicated by actual luxation of the head of the bone downward, or downward and forward. At least, two of Smith’s cases were of this character. Cock3 men- tions a case treated by Poland, which was thought to be a dislocation into the axilla; but under chloroform a fracture was detected; the head of the bone could not be replaced; and the patient finally left the hospital with the arm shortened about two inches. He is said to have “ regained considerable use of the limb.” Dr. Fraser, of Michigan,4 reports a case in which a boy aged 15, being caught in some machinery, sustained, among other severe injuries, a fracture of the anatomical neck of the left humerus, with displace- ment downward of the head. It is simply stated that the luxation was reduced under chloroform, and that “ perfect recovery” took place in forty- five days. Bennett5 reports five cases of dislocation of the humerus, com- plicated with fracture, beginning at the anatomical neck and passing obliquely into the shaft, detaching the lesser tuberosity along with the head. He sug- gests that the luxation occurs first, and that the fracture is produced by pressure against the edge of the glenoid cavity. This explanation is much more probable than that offered by Hutchinson,6 who thinks that the sup- posed cases of fracture with dislocation are really instances of fracture very high up, in which the head of the bone has gradually travelled downward to a new articular facet, by what mechanism does not appear. A case recently occurred at the Pennsylvania Hospital, in a man of about seventy-six, who fell down stairs and sustained a fracture of the neck of the humerus, with displacement of the head of the bone into the axilla, where it gave so much trouble that Dr. Morton excised it; the result was satisfactory. Fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus have been observed mainly in connection with other injuries, either fractures of the anatomical neck of the bone, the upper fragment having been forced down into the lower so as to split it, or luxations, in which stress must have been put upon the muscles attached to the process in question. In a few instances, however, the tube- rosity has been separated by itself; and in three, according to Gurlt, the lesser tuberosity has been in like manner detached. It seems to me that these lesions may be appropriately classed with “ sprain-fractures;” and I venture to refer 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 981. 2 Op. cit., pp. 187 et seq. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s,, vol. i. 4 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1869. 5 British Med. Journal, Aug. 28, 1880. 6 Med. Times and Gazette, March 10, 1866.