INJURIES OF BONES. 180 manoeuvre of this kind, the elbow should be flexed to a right angle, and the hand placed semiprone. It is much better to have the extension and coun- ter-extension made by an assistant, leaving both hands of the surgeon free to manipulate the injured part. Along with the extension, some rotary move- ments may be needful in order to the disengagement of the fragments from one another, or from the interosseous ligament. All this must be done with the utmost gentleness, the amount of force used being determined by the resistance met with ; each movement should be made with a definite purpose, and its effect carefully noted, lest the existing displacement be only increased, and further damage done to the soft parts. Some idea may be formed beforehand of the objects to be aimed at in this procedure, by a careful study of the seat of fracture, and of the condition of the parts—the degree and direction of obliquity of each fracture, the relation of the fragments to one another, the point at which each bone, but especially the ladius, has given way, and the amount of entanglement of the soft parts. But in cases presenting much complexity, there may be much that must be left to be ascertained during the manipulation. Having brought the fragments into proper apposition, the next point is to keep them so. As to the best mode of doing this, authors are not entirely in accord ; some advising supination of the forearm, others semi-pronation. I think that the rule here should be the same as that given for fractures of the radius alone, viz., that when this bone is broken above the insertion of the pronator teres, supination is best, because it allows the lower fragment to follow the upper; whereas in fractures below this point the upper fragment is not so liable to be supinated. I do not think that this latter fact is due as much to the action of the pronator teres muscle, as to the greater length of the fragment and the more superficial position of its lower end, making it more controllable. Ramonet1 thinks that the forearm should be kept in semi-pronation for two weeks, as the most comfortable position; and that passive motion should then be carefully and skilfully made. Either in supi- nation or in semi-pronation there is no difficulty in maintaining the interos- seous space, if the fragments are onoe properly placed. The practice of applying an “immediate” roller to the limb is more objec- tionable here than in any other region of the body, for the obvious reason that its tendency is to press the fragments together, and thus to destroy the interosseous space, and to permanently impair the rotation of the hand. When the supine position is to be maintained, the best splint for the pur- pose is the ordinary, anterior, right-angled one, with a small, narrow, firm pad laid along the middle of the forearm part. This pad should reach from about an inch below the elbow to about the same distance above the wrist. It is not intended to be forced in between the bones, but merely to compress the muscles and push them gently into the interosseous space. In some arms a corresponding splint may be employed on the under or dorsal side; but it must be very carefully applied, and should not extend upward far enough for the prominent ridge formed by the ulna to interfere with its usefulness. Extension may "be made, if necessary, from the end of the upper splint, either by means of a glove with the fingers cut off, or by strips of adhesive plaster." The splint should, therefore, extend two or three inches beyond the ends of the fingers. Another very good splint in principle, but I should suppose rather more difficult of effective application, is that of Dr. X. C. Scott, already mentioned in connection with the treatment of fractures affecting the radius only. 1 On the influence of retraction of the interosseous membrane on the loss of supination in frac- tures of the forearm ; Archives Generates, Aout, 1881.