CHRONIC ARTICULAR OSTEITIS. 365 evening cougli, and morning expectoration, will indicate the lung as the special seat of danger. The symptoms of nascent lardaceous disease are very much more obscure; they, of course, vary with the organ attacked. The one symptom common to all, is increased loss of health, visible cachexia, and considerable wasting. If the liver be affected, to this must be added an icteroid tinge, but not jaundice, with occasional constipation varied by colliquative diarrhoea, clay- colored and highly offensive evacuations, and a manifest increase in the size of the organ, the margin of which is evident far below the ribs. The symp- toms of splenic affection are more obscure, but a certain yellowish-brown or clayey change in the complexion, together with a dry, rough, furfuraceous skin, a peculiar pallor, and slight yellowness (a maple-yellow, not the almond-orange tint of jaundice) may lead to the suspicion that the spleen is implicated. It is not usual that any enlargement can he detected until late in the disease. Lardaceous changes in the kidneys are detected with ease and certainty; they lead rapidly to one form of albuminuria, which, however, in and by itself is not diagnostic; but by placing some of the sediment under a sufficient power of the microscope, hyaline casts are readily detected. These bodies are so peculiar that he who has once seen them can never mistake any other object for them. They have the form of the tubuli uriniferi, and gen- erally on the surface, here and there, are either epithelial scales or the mould- ings of their lines of separation; they are, and by this they will chiefly be recognized, highly refracting. Naturally, they are somewhat various as to size, according as they come from the larger tubules near the liilus, or from the smaller ones close to the cortex, and from the neighborhood of the Mal- pighian tufts. When in albuminous urine such casts are found, it may lie concluded that the albuminuria is due to lardaceous change; but I have some reason to believe that a kidney already advanced in desquamative nephritis may subsequently become lardaceous. This observation may be important in certain cases. Treatment.—In the early stage of chronic articular osteitis, the same gen- eral treatment may he used as that recommended for strumous synovitis. Tonics and judiciously-adopted alteratives have certainly their advantage. Among these, movement of the sound limbs and exercise in the open air play a large part. Even when, on physical examination, enlargement of the bone-end only can be detected, and while yet the soft tissues of the joint are free from swelling, rest of the part must be enforced ; and if the disease affect the lower extremity, a splint which fixes the diseased joint and leaves the other free, is to be applied and maintained in position both day and night,1 the pa- tient being encouraged to remain in the open air and take as much exercise as possible. In the mean time, blisters, allowed to remain on the limb a little longer than in fungating synovitis, but allowed to heal at once, and fre- quently repeated, are very valuable. In some cases benefit appears to result from the actual cautery, the iron being drawn in one thin line across the inflamed spot. The skin on each side of the intended line should be well protected with two or three layers of wet adhesive plaster. A Paqueliu's thermo-cautery, heated to whiteness, is the best instrument. After cautious removal of the plaster, the burn should be dusted with flour or oxide of zinc, and covered with cotton-wool. The burn thus made is singularly painless ; indeed, if joint-pain be pretty severe, and especially if there be starting, great relief is obtained. The disappointing part of the method is, that in many cases, after the immediate inflammation of the skin-burn has ceased, the 1 Tlie sorts of splint advised are described and depicted at page 316 et seq.