FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 93 travelling having been overturned, and the anterior part of her pelvis having been forced against the seat by the weight of several of the other passengers thrown over upon her. Fractures of the Acetabulum.—Fractures of the rim of the acetabalum are by no means uncommon ; they owe their importance chiefly to the fact that they are apt to allow the head of the femur to slip out of place, and, although it is easily reduced, it escapes again with equal readiness. A number of instances of this kind are given by Sir A. Cooper,1 one of which, observed at St. Thomas’s Hospital in 1791, is, I think, the earliest on record. McTyer2 published several cases; R. W. Smith,3 one; Lonsdale, one; Holmes,4 * one; Eve,6 two; Gurlt® gives a wood-cut, representing a fracture of the upper part of the rim of the acetabulum, which allowed of a very curious luxation— the trochanter major lying in the acetabulum, and the trochanter minor being applied to the outer edge of the tuber ischii. Favell, in an address before the British Medical Association,7 detailed a case which occurred under the care of Mr. Wheelliouse, in which a fracture of the rim of the acetabulum gave rise to subsequent dislocation of the femur upon the dorsum ilii—the symptoms of the latter lesion being manifested only some months after the accident, when the patient got up and bore his weight on the limb. The case became the subject of legal proceedings, but the result is not stated. Morris8 has reported an instance of unreduced dorsal dislocation of the femur, with fracture of the rim of the acetabulum, in a young and active man, the displacement coming on gradually during a period of about ten weeks. The mechanism ot this fracture must be sufficiently obvious. Fracture of the Sacrum.—Fracture of the sacrum by itself is not of com- mon occurrence, although the spongy character of this bone, before spoken of, renders it really the least resistant portion of the pelvis; and occasionally violence is applied to it directly. Lee9 has recorded the case of a man in whom, by a fall from a height of forty feet, the sacrum was broken across; the displacement of the lower fragment forward was corrected by means of a finger in the rectum. At the autopsy, “ the sacrum was found com- minuted, a large fragment of the left ala being broken off longitudinally and displaced to a considerable extent.” In a very remarkable case reported by Burlingham,10 the patient, a railroad conductor, was thrown into the air, fell on the top of a car, striking on his back, and then rolled down an embankment a distance of over eighty feet. He sustained a compound fracture of the sacrum, the posterior surface of the bone at least being comminuted ; and through the wound in the back, urine flowed for many months.11 I Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, 6th ed. London, 1842. 8 Glasgow Medical Journal, February, 1831. 3 Archives Gen. de Mfedecine, 1838. 4 Transactions of Pathological Society of London, vol. xi., 1860. 6 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. lxiii., 1880. 3 Op. cit. lid. i., S. 320. 7 British Medical Journal, August 5, 1876. 3 Lancet, February 18, 1882. 9 Proceedings of Pathological Society of Philadelphia, vol. ii. p. 116. 10 American Journal at' the Medical Sciences, April, 1868. II In the account of this case, it is stated that about three weeks after the accident “ a probe could he passed from about an inch above the base of the coccyx, and about three-quarters of an inch to the right of the median line, across the pelvis, forward and slightly downward, a distance of five inches, until it was obstructed by bone, denuded or fractured.” This fact, taken together with the injury to the bladder, seems to me to indicate that a fracture had occurred anteriorly also ; but, as the patient recovered, the diagnosis could not be placed beyond doubt.