SUPPURATIVE SYNOVITIS. 281 Thus it is to be noted that different phases of pathological conditions exist: 1st. Inflammatory hypertemia and exudation. 2d. Proliferation and cell infil- tration. 3d. Inflammatory induration. 4th. Inflammatory disintegration and formation of pus (tissue-pus, not mere surface secretion). At any point pre- vious to the last, there is still the possibility that retrogression may occur, or be induced, and that the joint may be cured with no or but slight impair- ment of function; even when the last of the above phases has set in, but before much tissue-destruction has occurred, cure with a certain restriction of movement may often be effected. The restriction depends upon the cica- tricial-like healing—the contraction and hardening of previously disinte- grated tissue—and its amount therefore is commensurate with the area of the destructive action. When the bones have suppurated and the cartilages have given way, the cure, if attainable at all, must be by more or less anchylosis, false or true. To explain this, we must return to the onward course of the disease from the point at which we left it—namely, with the joint-cavity full of pus, and with the periarticular tissues occupied by abscesses, or by disintegrated spots ready to break down into abscesses. If the inflammation continue, the altered syno- vial membrane becomes ruptured or perforated in several places, the pus of the joint-cavity mingles with that of the abscesses in the vicinity, or, being effused into non-suppurating surrounding parts, excites in them pus forma- tion. Both around and in the joint, therefore, destructive action is set up, and abscesses are found in the cavity, in the immediate neighborhood, and, in the worst cases, extending a considerable distance up and down the limb. I am in the habit, in my lectures, of distinguishing these as intra-articular, peri-articular, and adjacent abscesses. About this time, if not previously, the cartilages become ulcerated, chiefly and most rapidly in the locality of greatest inflammation, that is, in the neigh- borhood of fringes, which soon mingle with the cellulo-fibrous, cartilaginous debris, in a manner which suggested the erroneous idea, formerly entertained, that the fringes, as it were, eat holes in the cartilage,1 which was regarded by most authors as an entirely passive and inert material. Instead of, or in combination with, this mode of cartilage destruction, another series of events may occur; for, if the absorption of cancellous lamellae by coalescing granula- tions (see preceding page) take place on a rather wide area immediately next to the articular lamella, that plate of bone gives way, and, together with the incrusting cartilage, is pushed by the new tissue into the joint, or rather, in advanced cases, into the confused mass of proliferating fringes and granu- lation-tissue, which then occupies the joint-cavity. Frequently we find such portions lying detached, or partially detached, with the deep surface rough and gritty, like sand-paper, in consequence of adherence of the disintegrated articular lamella. In either way, the interior of the bone-ends and the area which previously was a joint, coalesce into an inflamed, granulating mass, in which are found the larger or smaller remains of ligaments, capsule, synovial membrane, and cartilage, more or less destroyed by and merged into the new elementary tissue. In the centre is still, in all probability, a cavity partially filled with pus and tissue-debris. This cavity is usually surrounded by others formed by inflammatory disintegration in the substance of the new growth, and these may communicate either with the central space or with the outer air, or with both; they may also extend a considerable distance from the original seat of disease, as just described. 1 For an account of the inflammatory nature of cartilage-ulceration, see my work on Diseases of Joints, 2d ed., p. 339 ; American ed., p. 269; also, Prof. Strieker’s article, in this Encyclopaedia, Vol. 1. p. 38.