PROCESS OF REPAIR AFTER EXCISION. 449 Process of Repair after Excision. In studying the process by which repair is effected after excision or resec- tion, we must refer for a moment to the means by which the growth of the bones is accomplished in a state of health. Bones increase in thickness by proliferation from the inner layer of their periosteal covering, and in length through the medium of the epiphyseal cartilages, or, as Ollier has called them, the cartilages of conjunction. Hence, iu resections of the shafts of the long bones, it is important to preserve the periosteum, and when this is done, as it can be in cases of acute necrosis, complete reproduction may lie effected, although immediately after the operation the limb may have appeared quite limp and boneless. So, too, in operations on the short bones, when the ope- ration can be made subperiosteal, the restoration of the part is much more complete and satisfactory than under other circumstances. Another great advantage which attends subperiosteal excision in all situa- tions, is that it permits the affected bone to lie removed without disturbing the attachments of the various muscles, a matter which is, of itself, of very considerable importance. In excisions of the joints in young persons, care should be taken not to infringe upon the line of epiphyseal junction, since, if the entire epiphysis be removed, the growth of the limb will be materially interfered with. Fig- 677. The annexed wood-cut (Fig. 677), from a patient under my care some years since at the Episcopal Hospital, shows what great de- formity may result from epiphy- seal injury in childhood. No operation had been performed in this case, but it serves to illustrate the importance of the epiphyses in maintaining the growth of the resting Deformity from injury of radial epiphysis. limb. Ollier has pointed out the inte- fact that tumors of the long bones find their favorite seats at that extremity from which the principal growth of the bone pro- ceeds, and has shown the depend- ence of both events upon the par- ticular direction of the nutritious arte^. Thus, the humerus grows mainly from its upper epiphysis, and the hones of the forearm from the epi- physes near the wrist, while in the lower extremity the growth of both leg and thigh is chiefly effected by the epiphyses in proximity to the knee. Hence the risk of hindered growth after excision is comparatively slight at the elbow, hip, and ankle, and is most to be dreaded in operations at the shoulder and wrist, and, above all, at the knee, since shortening is of much greater consequence in the lower than in the upper extremity. On the other hand, since at the knee firm, bony union is sought for, it is less important to preserve the periosteum in excisions of this joint than in those of the other articulations, where it is wished to preserve the power of motion, and where, therefore, a more or less perfect reproduction of the articulating extremities is hoped for. vol. iv.—29