GUNSHOT FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE BACK. 685 from large shot or shell fragments), and the degree of implication of the ribs or spine. Shot wounds limited to the areolar tissue and muscles mainly, are of no special interest, unless attended by exceedingly large loss of substance, or by a very long, seton-like ball-track. Cases in which bloodvessels of the larger order, and the main branches of nerves, are contused or lacerated, are more serious. The functions of the dorsal muscles are, in some cases, much impaired by shot lacerations. Many invalids of this class are unable to move freely, and complain of difficulty in breathing, stooping, turning the head, etc.; complications due, unquestionably, to cioatrices resulting from lacerated shot wounds that have either been attended by sloughing, or have required incisions to relieve deep suppuration. These observations of Dr. B. Beck confirm those of other surgeons, which have been presented above. Flesh wounds of the back from small-arm missiles, especially when much inflamed, may be attended by paraplegia, as happened in the following case, which Statt'-surgeon T. P. Matthew declares “ may be accepted as typical of many wounds of this region” “ Maurice Garvey, aged 19, was wounded, on 8th June, by what he supposed to be a spent ball, which struck him on his back about opposite the seventh dorsal vertebra. On admission to his regimental hospital, there was immense swelling of the back, and complete loss of motion of both lower extremities, but not of sensation. The swelling in great measure subsided in a few days, under the use of fomentations, when two wounds were discovered, giving the idea of entrance and exit of a ball, but no injury of the bones of the spinal column could be detected. The wound healed under simple dress- ings, but the paralysis continued, and he was transferred to the Castle Hospital, on 24th October. Here, under the impression that the persistent paralysis might be due to chronic inflammation of the theca vertebralis, he was twice put under the influence of calomel, with diuretics, and upon each occasion with, it was thought, marked bene- fit. Subsequently strychnine was given, in sufficient quantity to produce convulsive spasms of the affected limbs. This did not seem productive of any good, and, after per- sistence in its use for three weeks, it was omitted. He very slowly improved, however, and on 26th January, was invalided to England, having got comparatively fat, and able to stand upon the affected limbs, and even walk u few paces with the help of crutches.”1 w as the motor paralysis, which presented itself in this case, due to ex- tension of the inflammatory process which arose in the injured tissues of the back, and caused immense swelling inwardly until it reached the theca verte- bralis, etc., or was it due to concussion of the spinal cord? This question no one can authoritatively decide, although the fact that mercurials and diuretics proved markedly beneficial on two occasions, decidedly favors the idea that there was a secondary spinal meningitis. Treatment.—Flesh-wounds of the back made by small-arm missiles should be carefully explored at the outset, and all foreign bodies, including spent balls, fragments of clothing and of equipments, and all coagula, should be promptly extracted. If there be arterial hemorrhage—whether primary, intermediary, or secondary—it must be suppressed by exposing to view the wounded vessel at the place of injury, and ligaturing it on each side of the aperture in its walls. The occurrence of septictemia, pytemia, and gangrene, must be obviated as far as possible by applying antiseptic lotions, such as a ten- per-cent. solution of alcohol in water, to which two per cent, of carbolic acid lias been added, with a view to increase its efficacy. Drainage tubes should be inserted in all wounds where the purulent matter exhibits a tendency to stagnate, or does not readily flow away. Pain and constitutional irritation should be subdued by administering opiates and sedatives. A nourishing 1 Med. and Surg. History of the British Army in the Crimea, vol. ii. p. 337.