888 INJURIES OF THE RACK. Op. cit., p. 172. (2) Impotency.—Mr. Erichsen states that priapism does not occur in cases of spinal concussion resulting from railway-collisions, and that, as a rule, the genitals are quite flaccid, in such cases.1 This statement, however, does not hold good in those concussions of the spinal cord which are attended with contusions of the rachidian substance, or with intra-rachidian extravasations of blood ; for there was well-marked priapism in several instances of this sort which have been mentioned in the preceding pages. Mr. Erichsen likewise states that sexual desire and sexual power are usually greatly impaired, and often entirely and permanently lost, in consequence of spinal injuries arising from railway-collisions, and Mr. Humphry has seen a case of complete impotence consequent on a jar to the spine thus caused.2 This, however, is not invariably the case; for the wife of one of Mr. Ericli- sen's patients miscarried twice during the year succeeding her husband’s in- juries.3 There is, however, no doubt, 1 think, that the spinal injuries pro- duced by railway-collisions usually inhibit for a time, and often completely and permanently destroy, the sexual reflex centre in the spinal cord. In this manner, such injuries frequently give rise to impotency. (3) Sacrodynia.—The group of symptoms arising from spinal injuries received in railway-collisions, to which Mr. Erichsen with much propriety has given the name of sacrodynia, consists of the following: Soon, but not of necessity at once, after the accident, the patient feels a diffused pain over the entire sacral and sacro-lumbar regions. It is usually most intense over the sacrum, and especially over the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. It is, however, not confined to this part; for it extends upward as high as the fourth or third lumbar vertebra, and laterally, perhaps, almost to the trochanters. But the sacrum is the locus of its greatest intensity. When the sacro-iliac junction also is the seat of suffering, it is the left that is affected in a large majority of instances. Over the whole of this region there is tenderness under pressure, and the pain is greatly increased by movements of all kinds. There is no nocturnal exacerbation. There is no external sign of injury in the way of swelling, heat, or discoloration. The patient cannot stand erect without in- creasing the pain; hence, a tendency to stoop slightly forward, and perhaps to incline to one side, is exhibited. Advancing the lower extremities greatly increases the pain ; the patient, therefore, walks with difficulty, takes short steps, leans on a stick, and, when one side is more painful than the other, drags the leg on that side. As already stated, the left is much more frequently the painful side than the right, and hence it is that the left leg is so frequently “dragged” in these cases. The greater frequency and the greater severity of sacrodynia on the left side, than on the right, and the consequent dragging of the left leg, are very notable circumstances. They occur in at least three- fourths of all the cases. My patient, whose case has been related above with some particularity, suffered dreadfully in this way. The great preponderance of left-sided cases of sacrodynia, is probably to be explained by the fact that most people are right-handed, and that in consequence thereof they instinc- tively put forth their right hands for self-protection when they are pitched about the cars in railway-collisions, and at the same time correspondingly advance the right side of their bodies, which of course places their left but- tocks and the left side of their sacral bones in a position to bear the brunt of blows received from behind. At all events, I believe this to be the true ex- planation of the left-sided sacrodynia with which my patient was afflicted. In her case, too, there was so much traumatic inflammation of the sacral ligaments, that the sacro-coceygeal articulation was destroyed hy it, and anchylosis of that joint with the coccyx in an abnormal position ensued. Op. cit., p. 64. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. v. p. 161, foot note.