CHONDROMA OR CARTILAGINOUS TUMOR. 573 among them as ossifying tumors, instead of, as is the present custom, among the osteomas. The chondromas of the long hones occur usually near the extremities of the hones, and are more often of subperiosteal than of central origin; those of the phalanges usually arise in the interior of the bones, which are blown out by them until only a thin shell of compact tissue covers the tumor, or until the tumor reaches even to the periosteum. But the chondromas are not limited to the cartilages and the bones. They occur almost as frequently in certain parts which contain neither cartilage nor bone; as in the substance of certain glands—the parotid, submaxillary, sublingual, and lachrymal glands, and the testicle—and, very rarely, in the subcutaneous tissue. In the glands it is, of course, supposed that they originate in the connective tissue, not in the essential elements of the gland. Characters, Course, Etc.—Young persons are much more frequently the subjects of chondroma than are older persons. Some chondromas are indeed congenital. The large majority of them commence during childhood or young adult age. This is scarcely surprising when they arise from bone and cartilage, for the new formation of cartilage in the growth of both tissues occurs so largely at this period of life, that an overgrowth or outgrowth of cartilage in cartilage-producing situations may be regarded as a not unnatural event. The power of producing cartilage, however, is not limited to the earlier periods of life, although it becomes less strong with advancing age. Many of the cartilage tumors of the middle and later periods of life are not specimens of simple chondromas, but of sarcomas which are chondrifying. Chondromas are almost always slow-growing tumors, and the pure exam- ples do not often attain considerable size. Some of the tumors of the long bones, and of the scapula and pelvis, however, reach a large size in the course of years of growth. The manner of growth is, I believe, always by additions to the surface, except, perhaps, in the case of certain tumors of the glands, the testis especially, which enlarge, in part at least, by increase of the separate fragments of cartilage of which the tumor is composed. Appearance after Removal.—The appearance of a mass of cartilage is so well known that the naked-eye appearance of a cartilaginous tumor may seem scarcely to require description. But, although many of the tumors have the general appearance of an almost homogeneous mass of hyaline cartilage, this is not true of all. Some of them are far softer than others, and are almost gelatinous. Some are tough and less translucent. And while many, those of the hones especially, are tolerably homogeneous masses, inter- rupted only by bands of fibrous tissue, as if interwoven with the cartilage, a certain number of them, those of the testis above all others, are composed of small nodules, tubes, and cylinders of cartilage, separated and bound together into a single tumor by a thick matrix of fibrous tissue, in which the vessels lie. One tumor I have seen in a woman between twenty and thirty years of age, situated in the subcutaneous tissue of the arm a little below the axilla, which consisted of a large number of small nodulated frag- ments of cartilage, disconnected, but fitted together like the pieces of a dis- sected puzzle, and lying closely packed in the interior of a fibrous sac or capsule. Cartilaginous tumors are almost invariably circumscribed, and generally encapsuled. The capsule is in many instances formed by the com- pact layer of a bone, or by the periosteum, but when the tumor lies in an organ such as the parotid gland, is usually such a fibrous capsule as surrounds a fibrous or fatty tumor. The surface of the growth is almost always nodular or tuberous. The microscopic characters of chondroma are seldom the typical characters