303 STRUMOUS SYNOVITIS. We must now leave this digression, and continue to trace the course of dis- eased action in strumous synovitis. We left the joint at the stage of heaped- up granulation-elements, having little or no tendency to form tissue ; we have studied these only as becoming developed in the synovial and other soft parts, and have not as yet touched on the invasion of other articular constituents. The next two steps, if disease still persists, are invasion of the cartilage and bone, and degeneration with suppuration of the granulation-tissue ; but it is not an unavoidable necessity that the malady must continue—must go on to take those two steps—the progress may be arrested at the point now reached. The embryonic tissue assumes further developmental action, and gradually be- comes converted into fibrous tissue, while doubtless at the same time many of the cells and bare nuclei simply melt away and are absorbed. The process is exactly the same as the filling up and cicatrization of an ulcer or open wound, healing by granulation; the result is similar healing by means of cica- tricial tissue, which in this locality is called thickening. It commences with cessation of the ordinary process of inflammation, namely, proliferation of cells; then those cells already formed undergo the necessary fibrous transfor- mations elsewhere described. There is therefore a period, an interregnum after the cessation of inflammatory action and before the commencement of that which is reparative, during which little or nothing is going on; a period which, except in bad cases marked by decided cachexia, lasts, I believe, a considerable time. It must not, however, be supposed that this cessation of inflammation is always so early—that is, previous to the invasion of cartilage and bone— nor indeed to a certain amount of degeneration and suppuration.1 Neither must it be assumed that after the interregnum repair always sets in. On the contrary, the malady may then enter on its next stages. These, viz., degene- ration of granulation-tissue and invasion of the harder parts, have no inter- relationship either of time or causation. I have often examined joints the cavity of which has been all but obliterated, and the structures around which, even to the skin, have been occupied by unaltered granulation-tissue; and also other joints in which such tissue has greatly degenerated, while the harder structures have been sound; and yet again, in other cases, I have found that while much less disease of the soft parts could be detected, the cartilages and bones have been in great measure destroyed. Nevertheless, although the period when the harder parts participate in the morbid change is very varia- ble, I propose, because that participation is so important a factor of the whole disease, to take this event as the line of division between its first and second stages. Second Stage.—We have seen (p. 281) that the acute inflammation of a sup- purating joint easily and rapidly spreads from one structure to another, and indeed all violent inflammations have a tendency to invade neighboring parts. But it is at first a little difficult to perceive how so quiet, so slow an act as strumous synovitis should be so all-pervading, how or why that process of cell proliferation should spread from the perisynovial tissue to others so un- like it as bone and cartilage. The solution is to be found in the histology of articulations. When at a certain very early stage of foetal life, the limb buds first appear, no joints exist—the cartilage which is to form the limb bones lies undivided in its periosteum ; soon, at certain places, transverse rifts appear, which, spreading outward from the centre, divide that cartilage into segments. The fissure does not extend straight and simply across the whole thickness of the cartilage, but near the edge bifurcates or becomes double, so that a ring 1 These later acts of healing are again referred to on page 307.