DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 328 various tissues of the body, and among them those of the joints, and preferably the smaller joints. The pathology of the disease, as thus broadly stated, is attractively simple. We have, on one side, the evidence of a redundant material in the blood, which we can crystallize out upon a linen or cotton thread;1 on the other, we have a thread or fibre of the human body, on which the crystals form. But it is not to be assumed that herewith all that is worth knowing has been learned; many points remain to be elucidated, and more especially of interest to us are the causes of this great accumulation in the blood of the materies rnorbi, for the accumulation may come from excessive production, from deficient excretion, or from both. Gout is an hereditary disease,2 which only exceptionally attacks young people, but usually manifests itself in the descendant, son or grandson, at about the same age as it appeared in the progenitor. It is much more com- mon among men than among women,3 a fact which, although partly due to difference of habits, is not entirely so, since many men, quite as abstemious as women, are subject to the disease. Gout, or tendency to gout, is greatly pro- moted by a largely nitrogenous diet, and by fermented liquors—especially by such as contain, with the alcohol, a large quantity of grape-sugar. Persons who are exposed to the influence of lead are peculiarly liable to be attacked by gout; and conversely, gouty persons are extremely sensitive to the influence of lead.4 5 There are several forms in which gout may be manifested: by an acute fit, by chronic disease, and by irregular manifestations (non-articular gout), which may affect any structure of the body. All these may be either tonic or atonic. The early fits of gout attack healthy structures, through which blood con- taining abnormal quantities of uric acid is circulating. The disease com- mences nearly always in one of the small joints, and as a very general rule in the first joint of the great toe,6 by inflammation of an acute kind, during which the fluid poured into the joint, and that forming the rather consider- able oedema, are rendered milky, or rather like chalk and water, by the great admixture of lithate of sodium, whose grittiness may be felt if the liquid be rubbed between the finger and thumb. After a time, when the inflammatory effusion subsides, the lithate is left, either as a half-dry powder or as pasty masses, in the cavities and among the tissues. These masses, when they attain such a size as to be appreciable from the surface, are commonly called chalk- stones or tophi. Owing to the extreme opacity of this substance, it is very difficult to make out its precise histological position. Some of it is, evidently, merely deposited mechanically, wherever a cavity has been filled with the sur- charged fluid. Other, generally smaller, portions appear more regularly placed, grouped chiefly around the cells of such structures as cartilage, tendon, or ligament, all of which are frequently the seat of this deposit, as is less often the bone in the Fig. 643. Terminal phalanx of great toe; car- tilage thickly infiltrated with urate of sodium. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Charing-Cross Hospital.) 1 Garrod, Treatise on Gout, etc., 3d edition, p. 87. 2 About 8 cases in every 10 are hereditary. 3 About 2 of every 100 cases are in women. 4 I once saw a gentleman who was very gouty, and on whom an ointment containing a very little lead had produced poisonous effects, giving him the blue line on the gums. 5 Probably two causes for this preference exist: the distance from the circulating centre and the pressure of the long blood-column, and the considerable stress brought to bear on this joint by the weight of the body. Gouty persons are often obliged to be careful as to their amount of walking, excess beyond a certain distance bringing on an attack of the disease.