INJURIES OF BONES. 1C Varieties of Fracture. A good many terms have from time to time been suggested with a view to the designation of peculiarities presented by these injuries, but only a few are or need be retained. Confusion has arisen from the employment of some of these terms in different senses by different authors ; it is therefore especially necessary to define them as they will be used in the following pages. With regard to some of the varieties, the mere definition will suffice: but of others I shall have to speak more at length, and will do so here for the sake of con- venience. Simple and Compound Fractures.—A simple fracture is one to which the atmosphere does not find access, the soft parts remaining so far intact as to exclude it. There may be very extensive injury of all the tissues, and the skin not divided ; or there may be a gaping wound of the skin, and the mus- cles and fasciffi untorn; but in either case, the fractnre is still a simple one. When the external air is admitted to the broken portion of bone, whether by the action of the fracturing force wounding the soft parts from without, or by the thrusting of the fragments through the skin, the injury is called a compound fracture. A fracture, at first simple, may become compound by a process of slough- ing or ulceration, or by suppuration; and conversely, a fracture, compound either primarily or secondarily, may become simple by the healing of the external wound and the consequent exclusion of the air. Compound fractures, as would naturally be supposed, vary extremely in severity ; but they are always more serious than the same amount of bone- injury would be it'not exposed to the air. Sometimes the opening in the skin is but small, }’et the bone is very extensively crushed and splintered, and the other soft parts have been torn and bruised beyond repair ; sometimes the bone suffers very largely, while the soft parts are very little injured ; some- times the wounding of the tissues about the bone is greatly in excess, the bone itself being merely broken across; and in some cases a formidable lace- ration of the skin may attend upon comparatively trifling hurts to the deeper soft parts and to the bone itself. Railroad, machinery, and mining accidents, and falls from heights, are the most frequent causes of compound fractures, which may, however, be produced by much less formidable forces. I have several times seen these injuries, so grave as to require amputation, the result of slight falls. An attempt to rise and walk will sometimes convert a simple fracture of the leg into a compound one, by the ends of the fragments penetrating the skin. Occasionally the seat of fracture is laid bare secondarily by the occurrence of suppuration or by sloughing of the superjacent soft parts; but here the gravity of the condition is not dependent upon the mere exposure of the bone. Compound fractures are more serious than simple, because they involve as a general thing more severe injury to the bone itself; because in them the tearing of the periosteum, an almost invariable accompaniment of any break- ing of the bone, is apt to be greater, whence there is more risk of impair- ment of nutrition—recovery, as will presently be further shown, being thus hindered, rendered more difficult, or prevented ; because the violence done to the surrounding soft parts is greater; and because, independently of any sep- tic influence exerted by the atmosphere, subcutaneous injuries of all kinds are repaired more readily than those which are deprived of the protection of the skin. Suppuration is almost sure to follow upon compound fracture : it