CLASSIFICATION AND NOMENCLATURE OF TUMORS. 559 detriment to health which is produced by hemorrhages from a fibroid polypus of the uterus, or from a glandular polypus of the rectum, is alone sufficient to necessitate its removal And the danger to life incurred by the presence of an innocent tumor of the larynx—a papilloma, for example—calls loudly for early and effectual treatment. A tumor which produces neither of the conditions just described, may yet be radically treated on account of the certainty that ultimately it will produce one or other of them. For the means by which removal of a tumor may be effected, they are numerous—caustics, cautery, scissors, knife, ligature, ecraseur. The choice among these depends partly on the nature and situation of the growth, partly on the inclination of the operator, and partly on the condition of the patient. Superficial growths, such as capillary mevi, may be well treated with caustics or the cautery; subcutaneous nievi, and pedunculated warty and fibrous growths, with the ligature. The tongue may he removed, according to the preference of the operator, with the cautery, or with scissors, knife, or ecraseur. Small cysts and cutaneous epitheliomas, in very old or feeble persons, may be more safely removed with caustic than with the knife; and patients whose condition of health forbids the use of the knife, may often be quite safely treated by means of caustics or the cautery. For the very large majority of tumors, however, the knife is employed by almost all surgeons as the readiest, the most easily managed, and the most efficacious means of treatment. Flo other instrument can be so delicately or so roughly used as occasion seems to require. No instrument can be so rapidly employed to remove large masses of tumor, none to dissect so closely round an innocent growth which adheres to the surrounding structures, none so well to spare the skin and leave so small and narrow an opening. The special means which may be recom- mended for the treatment of different varieties of tumor, will be further dis- cussed in the sections on the several forms of growth. Tumors which are neither painful, nor inconvenient, nor disfiguring, nor threatening important structures, nor detrimental to health, nor dangerous to life, nor likely speedily to become so, may be left untreated, and simply watched from time to time, to be sure that they have not changed their charac- ters. They require no palliative treatment, for there are no discomforts which need palliation. Occasionally, however, it is deemed desirable to remove a tumor even thus innocuous, to allay the mental anxiety of which it is the source. On the other hand, a tumor, even when it is the seat of pain, or a source of grave inconvenience, may he deemed unfit for operation on account of the ill-health or age of the patient. And a tumor which is not growing larger may remain untreated, because the disfigurement or damage produced by removal would be greater than that produced by the presence of the tumor. Again, it is often deemed right not to interfere with malignant tumors when their complete removal cannot absolutely be insured, or when the neighbor- ing glands are extensively involved, or when there are symptoms pointing to implication of internal organs. Operations on the subjects of multiple, inno- cent tumors, may be undertaken for the removal of one or more of the growths, for the same reasons as those which lead to the removal of a single tumor. But it is not usual either for the patient to demand, or for the surgeon to advise, the removal of a large number of multiple tumors. Classification and Nomenclature of Tumors. The classification and nomenclature of tumors have been exercising the minds of pathologists for nearly a century, but particularly during the life of