EXCISION OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. 485 death due to the operation itself. The “end-results” of the operation in mili- tary practice, as shown by the table on page 470 from Gurlt, are upon the whole satisfactory, the proportion of good results being nearly one in three, of medium results more than one in two, and of really bad results only about one in six. In civil surgery, the results are even more gratifying, Dr. Hodges’s tables showing that 77 out of 89 patients who recovered, had useful limbs, and those of Drs. Heyfelder and Dceckel, giving the figures as 94 out of 118. Excisions of the Radius and Ulna.—Excision of the bones of the forearm, one or both, partial or complete, may be required in cases of caries or necrosis, certain forms of tumor, and compound or ununited fracture. Of the more ex- tensive operations of this kind, the earliest of which I have any knowledge was that of Dr. R. B. Butt, of Virginia, who, in 1825, resected the lower two-thirds of the ulna on account of caries, the patient recovering with a useful limb. A similar operation, involving the removal of almost the whole radius, in a case of necrosis, was performed at the Pennsylvania Hospital by Dr. J. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, in 1828. This case appears never to have been published until a few months ago, when Dr. W. Barton Hopkins, a kinsman of the distinguished operator, came across the patient in the out-door service of the Episcopal Hospital, and subsequently exhibited her at a meeting of the Phila- delphia College of Physicians.1 Dr. Hopkins had an engraving made to show the appearance of the limb, and has kindly given me an elec- trotype of the same. (Fig. 709.) In spite of the marked deformity in this case, the patient had re- gained almost perfect use of her arm. Still more extensive excisions in this locality have been done by Compton, of Hew Orleans, who, in 1853, removed the whole ulna and greater part of the ra- dius ; by Williamson, who ex- cised the entire ulna and the elbow-joint; and by Erichsen, who excised the elbow-joint with the greater part of the radius. Complete excision of the ulna has been practised by Carno- chan, of Hew York; Jones, of Jersey; Joseph Bell, of Edin- burgh; Hutchison, of Brooklyn; and W. M. Fuqua, of Hopkinsville; while complete excision of the radius has also been resorted to by Carnochan, and by C. C. Field, of Easton, Pa. The operation, in the case of the radius, requires a longitudinal incision of sufficient length, on the outer and posterior aspect of the forearm, the bone being then bisected with the chain-saw, and either portion dissected out sepa- rately (Fig. 710). In cases of necrosis, an attempt should be made to pre- serve the periosteum. For excision of the ulna, a similar operation is required, but the wound is, of course made on the inner instead of the outer side of the limb. Fig. 709. 1 Trans. Coll. Phys. Phila., 3d S. vol. vi. p. 371.