946 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. adults than it does in children, and in the cachectic and ill-nourished than in those originally robust. It must be understood that the disease is considered to end when anchylosis has ensued, and at any time, of course, the period of the disease may be terminated by death. In cases of cure, the deformity still persists, and patients may live a lifetime with all the outward signs of Pott’s malady, and yet enjoy good, or at least fair, health. The prognosis with regard to the deformity is therefore very distinct. The lost parts of the vertebral column are never restored, and the deformity never disappears. With regard to the abscess, perfect cure may be brought about without the appearance of any purulent collection; or the pus may remain stationary for an indefinite time, and then either entirely disappear or dis- charge itself from the surface. The usual course, however, is for an abscess to form that comes in time to the surface, and then discharges itself, and this particularly applies to cases of Pott’s disease in adults. When the abscess has opened, and has discharged for a considerable period, cure may still fol- low ; the sinuses may close, the discharge cease, and the spine consolidate. This fortunate result would appear to be most usual when the abscess opens close to the seat of the disease. Michel1 has collected 22 examples of cure following upon the natural or artificial evacuation of the abscess. Of these abscesses 8 were psoas, 1 appeared at the sciatic notch, 1 in the perineum, and 12 in the dorso-lumbar region. As already observed, a residual abscess may appear at almost any time, and in any case of Pott’s malady that has under- gone cure, or what is practically a cure. The paraplegia in Pott’s malady may persist, but at the same time it is not infrequently recovered from. The recovery may be complete and permanent, or it may be only partial, and a certain set or sets of muscles may remain absolutely paralyzed, or the patient may always present some feebleness in the whole series of muscles that have been affected. Cases of recovery are recorded in quite severe examples of paraplegia. Thus Dr. Sowers reports an instance in a little girl aged 8A years, whose lower limbs were entirely paralyzed, and who in addition had some loss of power in both upper extremities, and also in the bladder. She made a complete recovery. As may be supposed, the prognosis is much more favorable in children than in adults. More than one attack of paralysis may be recovered from. Thus Shaw quotes the case of a boy, aged six, who had two attacks of paraplegia in two years. lie recovered perfectly from both attacks. Nichels gives an account of a man, aged 24, who had three attacks of paraplegia in eight years. It remains now to consider the prospects of cure in any case, and the causes of death. A cure is much more common in children than in adults, and in those cases associated with deformity than in those without. The following statistics given by Michel bear upon this point. In 83 fatal cases without de- formity, 24 died of the disease itself, and 9 of some other disorder. In 68 fatal cases with deformity, 35 died of the disease itself, and 33 from some other cause. The extent of the disease has also to be considered, and the general state of the patient’s health. The presence of abscess or of paraplegia will very mate- rially lessen the prospects of cure; and paralysis in connection with cervi- cal disease is peculiarly apt to end in death. When death ensues, it is most commonly from the abscess. The patient dies of hectic, or of amyloid degeneration of the viscera, or of pyaemia, or of simple asthenia—worn out by excessive discharge—or indeed by any of those modes of death that result from long-continued suppuration. Very often a sudden change for the worse occurs in the patient’s condition when 1 Loc. cit., p. 493.