TYMPANITES ARISING FROM LESIONS OF TIIE SPINAL CORD. 851 bladder which subsequently spread to the kidneys, would be to blindly put the effect in the place of the cause, and perhaps lead to erroneous practice. Treatment.—From the foregoing account of the urinary lesions that result from certain morbid excitations of the spinal cord, it is obvious that any plan of treatment which does not fulfil the causal indications—which does not put to rest the agencies that create these sad lesions—cannot do much good in such cases. I have thus patiently and thoroughly inquired into the etiology of these disorders with no purpose to dig up and exhibit any pathological curiosities; but, rather, in doing this I have been moved by a strong desire to devise, if possible, some plan of treatment which shall prevent and per- haps even cure these deplorable lesions. And, inasmuch as they generally arise from congestion or inflammation of the spinal cord, or of its mem- branes, or are greatly augmented by these affections of the central nervous system, the first indication to be fulfilled in treating the neuropathic lesions of the urinary organs, is to subdue the central nervous affections upon which their existence depends. To this end I recommend the administration per orern of fluid extract of ergot, of potassium iodide, and of belladonna, in the doses and in the manner already laid down in describing the treatment of neuropathic bed-sores (page 840), which it is not necessary to repeat in this place. All other means of fulfilling the causal indications which are there mentioned should be employed in these cases also; and less incon- venience will be experienced in carrying out this treatment from the fact that when these neuropathic disorders of the urinary organs make their appear- ance, neuropathic bed-sores almost always present themselves at the same time. In regard to the results of this plan of treatment, I find, on a reperusal of some cases in which it was advantageously employed for bed-sores, that it proved equally useful for the accompanying urinary lesions. Belladonna plasters, applied over the kidneys, may do good in all such cases. The urine, as a rule, being strongly ammoniacal and therefore very pungent, should not be allowed to stand in the inflamed bladder, and in the case of any paralytics who cannot void it at will, or from whom it does not flow spon- taneously, it should be withdrawn by catheterization as often at least as every four or six hours; but, at the same time, every precaution must lie taken, by using only a perfectly clean instrument, etc., to prevent entirely the introduc- tion of septic matter into the bladder. Hcematuria often occurs in consequence of neuropathic inflammation of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder. When it proves dangerous or troublesome, it should be treated on the plan already prescribed for traumatic hsematuria (page 704 supra), which it is unnecessary here to repeat. It will, however, be necessary to break down and wash out the coagula by injecting warm water medicated with boracic acid through a large-sized catheter, more fre- quently in these than in the traumatic cases. The sloughs falling from the inflamed mucous membrane, with the muco- purulent and phosphatic, or mortar-like matter that may collect in the bladder in such cases, should likewise be washed out by injecting warm water impregnated with boracic acid through a double catheter. Tympanites arising from Lesions of the Spinal Cord. All lesions of the spinal column or spinal cord that cause paraplegia, may be attended by distension of the abdomen with gaseous substances which are generated and held in the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal, that is, in the stomach, and in the small, as well as in the large intestines; their most common seat, however, being the arch and sigmoid flexure of the