440 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. to retain the protruding bone would be improper, and would certainly prove fatal through the supervention of convulsions or gangrene, Hippocrates goes on to say, that not only may protruding articular extremities of the finger- bones, and protruding broken ends of the same (without dislocation), be safely cut away, in most cases, but “ complete cuttings away, also, of the bones at the joints, both in the foot, and in the hand, and in the leg (those near the ankle), and in the forearm (those by the wrist)” will in most instances be harmless, unless fainting should occur, or continued fever on the fourth day.1 In his treatise on compound fractures (in the continuity), he is still bolder in his recommendations, and declares that it is necessary to saw or file off the projecting bone if it cannot be reduced, if it irritate or lacerate the soft parts, or interfere with sensation, or if it be itself denuded.2 Celsus, while even more succinct than Hippocrates, would appear to make the rule more general; for, after quoting with approval the former author’s cautions as to reducing compound dislocations, he adds briefly: “ If the bare bone project, it will always be a hindrance; therefore what sticks out is to be cut off.”3 He directs that, in dressing compound fractures, if a little frag- ment of bone protrudes, it is, if blunt, to be replaced; if sharp and long, to be cut off, and if sharp and short, filed off; and if denuded, to be cut off. lie considers the reduction of fractured thighs particularly difficult, and says that if the fragments of the femur yield between themselves (overlap), it is almost necessary to cut them off.4 Galen declares that the teaching of Hippocrates is so plain and satisfactory as to need no comment, and merely adds that “modern physicians” call dis- locations in which the bone protrudes “fxdvpaw/mra,” and reminds the reader that the danger of the operation recommended, like that of the injury itself, increases with the magnitude of the joint affected.5 He throws no additional light upon the operation of resection as applied to compound fractures.6 Paulus HUgineta departs from the teaching of the Master in the matter of compound dislocations, which he advises should be, in every case, reduced; but approves resection in irreducible compound fractures, directing that the projecting fragments should be sawn off or cut off’ with an instrument which Hr. Adams speaks of as a “ chisel,” but which seems to me more analogous to cutting-forceps (literally, “antithetic through-cutters”).7 The Arabian writers add nothing to our knowledge of this subject; Albucasis,8 who is the only one who deals with the matter in detail, giving advice almost identical with that of Paulus vEgineta: “Cut it off,” he says, “ with one kind of the cutting instruments which we have spoken of, or saw it with one of the saws, as may be possible to you.” Haller,9 however, in his analysis of Rhazes’s “Liber Continens,” quotes from that author a state- ment that if the bone be corrupted [carious] in “spina ventosa,” a cure cannot be obtained unless the bone be extracted. I have not had the opportunity to consult Rhazes’s work, but from Haller’s brief reference this looks very much like a recommendation of excision for disease. The advice of Hippocrates, that resection should be practised in cases of 1 Hippocratis opera omnia, edit. cur. C. G. Kuhn, t. iii. p. 246. Lipsiae, 1827. Ibid., p. 121. 3 A. C. Celsi Medicinae lib. viii. cap. xxv. Edit. L. Targae, p. 471. Lugd.-Bat., 1785. 4 Ibid., pp. 452-454. This passage might also be rendered to the effect that in such a case the patient would almost necessarily perish. 5 Claudii Galeni opera omnia, edit. cur. C. G. Kuhn, t. xviii. pars i. p. 714. Lipsiae, 1829. 6 Ibid., t. xviii. pars ii. p. 603. 7 Pauli iEgiuetse Medici Optimi lib. vi. cap. cvii., cxxi. Editio princeps. Yenetiis, in aedibus Aldi, etc., fol. 100, 104. 8 De Chirurgia, lib. iii. sect. xix. Edit. cur. J. Channing, Oxon., 1778, t. ii. p. 589. 9 Bibliotheca Cliirurgica, t. i. p. 130. Basileae, 1774.