938 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. lections is higher than that of the corresponding surface on the other side of the body, lie quotes the case of a child, aged years, with a lumbar de- formity and a large psoas abscess at the upper part of the left thigh. This abscess showed an absolute absence of any of the common signs of inflamma- tion, and was indeed a typical cold abscess, yet the temperature noted wus as follows:— On one occasion. On anotlier occasion. Temperature in axilla, .... 37°.G (99°.7 F.) 37°.5 (99°.5 F.) Surface temperature of thigh on healthy side, 37°.0 (98°.G F.) 36°.5 (97°.7 F.) Surface temperature of thigh over abscess, 37°.2 (99°.OF.) 37°.1 (98°.8 F.) Lannelongue has also shown that this feature in the temperature applies to all cold abscesses. (5) The Symptoms depending upon Implication of the Spinal Cord and Spinal Nerves.—Considering, on the one hand, the position of the spinal cord and nerves, and, on the other, the great deformity in the column and the great destruction of parts often produced by Pott’s disease, it is no matter of wonder that these delicate nerve-structures sometimes sutler injury. They are, how- ever, by no means constantly involved. The frequent immunity of the cord in Pott’s malady is, to some extent, to be explained by the fact that the cord occupies the posterior portion of the vertebral column, a part not only as a rule exempt from destructive disease, but the seat actually of extensive repa- rative changes. It also must be borne in mind that the changes in the column are of such a nature as to cause the inflammatory products to take a forward direction, while the development of the deformity is usually so slow that the cord has time, as it were, to accommodate itself to the change. And it is marvellous to what changes the cord will accommodate itself, if only the morbid influences around it are slow in their action. In any case of Pott’s disease with severe deformity, the cord must not only be abruptly bent, and compelled, possibly, to occupy a much more limited space than in the normal condition, but it would appear that in some instances it must be actually shortened. Still, it is common to have examples of severe spinal deformity without nervous symptoms of any kind. Roughly speaking, the symptoms that are now to be detailed may be ascribed either to irritation of the spinal cord and nerves, or to such an injury to those parts as may cause temporary or permanent interruption of their functions. Thus, there may be, on the one hand, severe pain or hyperaesthesia, and on the other, loss of sensation. And as regards the motor tracts, there may be muscular spasms and increased reflex action in one instance, and absolute paralysis of certain parts in another. The post-mortem examination of patients with Pott’s disease, who have exhibited nerve-symptoms during life, will give very various results. In some cases, the meninges of the cord will be found much thickened at the seat of disease, or, in other instances, a considerable inflammatory exudation will exist between those membranes and the spinal wall, and intimate adhesions may be found between those parts. As regards the cord itself, it may be congested, or inflamed, or the seat of a definite sclerosis. In many cases it will show some limited softening, that, while of very varying extent, will be found most usually to involve the motor regions of the cord. Injurious pressure will be found in most instances to be the cause of these conditions, and especially of the condition of softening in the medulla spinalis. The pressure may be effected by the abrupt bending of the spine, or be caused by detached vertebrae, or displaced fragments of bone; or it may be due to the bulging of inflammatory products toward the spinal canal, or to the undue prominence in the same direction of new bone formations. As regards the