INJURIES OF BONES. 192 3 Op. cit., p. 44. carried from the upper point down along the inner side of the knee to the lower edge of the inner malleolus, on the shortened side first, and then on the normal limb. During this procedure the coverings should he all removed, and the parts concerned completely exposed ; although in women the genitals should be concealed by folding in the clothing over them. Sometimes the shortening, scarcely perceptible at first, becomes more marked within a few days, and, if uncorrected, continues to increase until it reaches its maximum. Sometimes it is suddenly produced, a week or more after the accident, by the disengagement of the fragments. Sometimes, again, it is at first very slight, but gradually augments as the injured bone undergoes atrophic change. Besides the measurement of the length of the limb, just mentioned, it is well to determine the distance between the trochanter and the anterior supe- rior spine of the ilium, and so compare it with that on the sound side. A result of the shortening, to which attention has recently been called by Allis, is the relaxation of the fascia between the trochanter and the crest of the ilium. As a diagnostic sign, it does not seem to me that this would be as valuable as an accurate measurement. To determine the position of the trochanter several methods have been sug- gested. Aelaton’s line is determined by carrying a tape from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, round the outer side “ to the most prominent part of the tuber ischii. In the natural condition, the top of the trochanter in every position is in some part of that line.”1 Bryant drops a vertical line from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the mattress on which the patient lies, and then ascertains the distance, measured horizontally, from the top of the trochanter to this line. As a general rule, the foot is everted. So constant is this symptom, that the diagnosis may sometimes be settled in the surgeon’s mind, in the case of an elderly patient, by this and the shortening exclusively. It would seem to be due partly to the fracturing force, partly to the weight of the foot and the natural shape of the limb, and partly to the action of the rotator muscles, the glutei especially. A number of cases, however, are upon record in which the toot, instead of being everted, was turned inward,2 probably by reason of impaction of the fragments. Sometimes, as in a case under Stanley’s care, recorded by Ormerod,3 the foot is neither turned outward nor inward, but remains straight, the explanation being the same. Ormerod says “the neck was broken irregularly, so that the lower portion was wedged slightly into the upper, and overlapped by it in front.” Pain is rarely absent, although it varies in .degree. Sometimes it is referred to the groin, a fact explained by the derivation of the nerves sup- plying the hip-joint from the obturator nerve. On grasping the thigh and leg, and rotating the entire limb, it will often be found that the trochanter describes a less extensive arc than normally. This, however, is a fact not always easy to verify, and in the case of impac- tion the fragments may move together, the pelvic one rolling naturally in the acetabulum, so as to be altogether deceptive. Agnew recommends that during 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1003. 2 Cooper, Dislocations and Fractures, p. 131, note, and Case lxxxvii. p. 158. See, also, cases by Guthrie and Stanley, in the Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xiii. In Stanley’s case the frac- ture “ extended obliquely through the middle of the neck of the femur, hut entirely within the capsule.” The inversion of the foot led to a suspicion of luxation, and to attempts at reduction. “ A portion of the fibrous and synovial membrane on the anterior side of the neck of the hone had escaped laceration.” R. W. Smith has recorded several cases. Bigelow mentions one in his work “ On the Hip,” and Hamilton has seen one. Another instance has recently been reported by Dr. Conklin, of Ohio, in the Columbus Medical Journal for November, 1882.