36 INJURIES OP BONES. the convexity of the angle formed by the fragments. At the same time, on the other side, where they are not ruptured, they are apt to be stripped up for a greater or less distance along the bone. Occasionally, when the frag- ments are violently forced apart, the periosteum may be completely severed; but even then, before it yields, it is probably loosened from the surface of the bone. Towards the broadened ends of the long bones, and in the thick and flat bones, this stripping up is less, and the complete severance of the perios- teum is not apt to occur. By the violence causing the fracture, the surrounding soft parts, as well as the marrow, are also lacerated, and an effusion of blood takes place at the seat of injury. This blood is derived chiefly, of course, from the more vascular of the tissues, and varies in amount in different cases. Immediately succeed- ing the infliction of the injury there is set up an inflammatory condition, which gradually subsides, and then the work of repair begins, perhaps in the majority of cases early in the second week. This process of repair does not differ in any essential respect from that of wounds of the soft parts, except that the final result is the production of new bone, and hence that the lymph or plasma must undergo ossification, instead of conversion into ordinary cicatricial tissue. Of the blood which was poured out from the vessels of the bone itself, of the marrow, and of the surrounding soft tissues, a portion, and perhaps a large part, is undoubtedly absorbed. But a part of it very probably remains and becomes organized, contributing to form the uniting medium. This uniting medium, constituted by lymph or plasma derived from the tissues around the broken bone, from the bone itself, from the periosteum, and from the marrow, is called, as it begins to assume firmness, callus. What- ever may be the abundance of the material formed around the fracture, it becomes permanent only between the fragments; although there are some cases, to be hereafter mentioned, in which masses of this callus, deposited all about the seat of fracture in an aimless and capricious manner, become ossi- fied, and are never gotten rid of. There may be a large production of lymph about both fragments ; but the superfluous portion is as a general rule wholly absorbed, and the form of the bone as nearly as possible restored. According to Paget, there may be an immediate union of a broken bone, as in the healing of wounds of the soft parts by “ primary adhesion,” without any uniting medium; the continuity of vessels and other textures being sim- ply renewed. But this must be extremely rare, and I know of no cases on record in proof of its occurrence. In some instances, which would seem to be specially likely to present this immediate union, it certainly does not occur; as, for example, in fractures of the clavicle without displacement, the peri- osteum seeming to remain intact. Here there is always, after a few days, a very marked swelling, which hardens and is gradually absorbed, just as callus does in the majority of cases. By some of the older authors it was laid down as a rule that the callus was deposited around the fragments, so as to form a wide, flat “ ring” about them—a sort of splint—and within them, so as to make what was called the “ pin.” To the former was given also the name “ provisional callus,” as it was supposed to be merely temporary. Paget, whose views have met with general acceptance, says:— “ The normal mode of repair in the fractures of the human bones is that which is accomplished by ‘ intermediate callus.’ The principal features of difference between it and that just described are : (1) that the reparative material or callus is placed chiefly or only between the fragments, not around them ; (2) that, when ossified, it is not a provisional, but a permanent, bond of union for them; (3) that the part of it which is