FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, COSTAL CARTILAGES, AND STERNUM. 89 and an oblique fracture of the sternum, such as might have been produced by the chin inclined to one side.” Michael1 records the case of a seaman who fell into a hold, sustaining a dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra on the sixth, with fracture of the sternum, the periosteum remaining unruptured in front. Spontaneous reduction of the luxation took place. There was laceration of the lung, and the mediastinum became emphysematous. Death occurred on the third day. In all the foregoing cases the fracturing force acted directly. Indirect vio- lence may be exerted in either one of several ways : by the forcible bending backward of the trunk, or by falls on the buttocks or on the feet. Malgaigne suggests that some of the fractures ascribed to muscular contraction are really due to the first of these causes—a forcible separation of the upper and lower ribs, carrying with them their respective portions of the sternum. But in all cases, I think, we may exclude the direct pull of the muscles attached to the sternum as causes of its fracture. Gross2 gives the following ac- count:— “In 1838 I attended, along with Dr. Rohrer, a case in a large, heavy, muscular man, forty-six years of age, who had received a transverse fracture of the upper part of this bone, from inordinate contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, in jump- ing, in a state of intoxication, off a shed eleven feet high. The heels striking the ground obliquely, threw the body violently backward, the head and neck coming in contact with the edge of a board. The fracture was, doubtless, occasioned by the etfort which the man made to regain his equilibrium.” Fig. 597. My own belief is that here there was sudden flexion of the body backward, and that the fracture was due to the mechanism before spoken of. A number of instances have been known in which the sternum has given way to powerful muscular contraction in child-birth. In all of them, as far as I know, the trunk is stated to have been bent strongly backward. Analo- fous to these cases would be that often quoted from 'aget, in which a mountebank, as a feat of strength, was leaning back and trying to raise a weight with his teeth. When the great extent of muscular struc- ture, connected with the ribs, which would thus lie put into forcible play, is considered, it can scarcely be doubted that to this, and not to the mere contraction of the muscles attached to the sternum alone, should the production of the fracture be ascribed. It is not always an easy matter to determine whether the lesion is an actual fracture, or merely a diastasis between the pieces of the sternum ; but the question is not one of great practical importance. Occasionally, as in the specimen3 of which Fig. 597 is a representa- tion, the line of fracture clearly runs across one portion of the bone, with a marked degree of obliquity. Sometimes the displacement is very slight, but it may be considerable ; and, in the great majority of cases, the lower fragment projects in front of the upper. Malgaigne mentions one case seen by Sabatier, in which an old man had been subjected to great violence, and thrown into a hole thirty feet deep. He fell on his 1 Maryland Med. Journal, Sept. 1, 1882. 2 Op. cit., p. 95ti. 3 In the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia ; the specimen has no known history.