TRAUMATIC SPINAL MENINGITIS. 807 inflammation of the spinal meninges, occur so very rarely in cases of verte- bral injury, that no special thought nor pains need he taken to avert them while conducting the treatment of such cases. The first-mentioned error has already been sufficiently refuted in the foregoing pages. It is now our duty to inquire into the second. In the first place, it should be said that the last-named mistake can have arisen only from the comparatively great infrequency with which the precise condition of the spinal cord and spinal membranes is exactly ascertained by a thorough examination of these struc- tures, after death, in fatal cases of spinal fracture or dislocation. Indeed, it often is no easy matter to make such an examination, or even to get per- mission to make it, especially in private practice. But, as the membranes and substance of the brain are liable to become inflamed when they are wounded in any manner, so the membranes and substance of the spinal mar- row, when similarly injured, are liable to become inflamed, (1) because the anatomical formation of these structures is identical in both; (2) because they extend continuously from one region to the other, the continuity of each structure being preserved intact throughout; and (3) because those inflamma- tions which are essentially diffusive, spread readily from one region to the other, from the spinal canal to the cranial cavity, and vice versa. Cases of traumatic spinal meningitis and traumatic myelitis have been recorded much less frequently than cases of traumatic cerebral meningitis and traumatic cerebritis, it may be because post-mortem examinations have much less fre- quently been made in traumatic lesions of the spinal column than in traumatic lesions of the head. The following account of traumatic spinal meningitis and traumatic mye- litis is largely drawn up from the examples reported by our military sur- geons during and since the late civil war, as well as from other reliable observations. In practice, it lias been found that both diseases often occur together; but even then, either the one or the other usually predominates, and, therefore, the phenomena presented by individual cases will vary not only in accordance with the severity of the attack, but also in accordance with the disease which predominates, or the anatomical seat of the inflamma- tory lesion. Traumatic Spinal Meningitis.—A considerable number of cases in which this lesion caused death have already been mentioned in the foregoing pages. Symptoms.—This disorder, when acute, is often, but not always, ushered in by rigors or chilliness; pyrexia generally ensues, and the pulse rises as well as the body heat. There are pain more or less severe in the affected part of the spinal column (rachialgia), which is increased by motion; tenderness of the same part under pressure, with increase of temperature above that of the unaffected parts of the organism; and restlessness, sometimes great, with general cutaneous hypereesthesia, the patient feeling “ sore all over.” Hot unfrequently, pain with cutaneous hypertesthesia exists in one or more of the extremities ; occasionally, when paraplegia is present, the hypenestliesia of the integuments occupies a band-like space, extending around the body just above the line of paralysis; in some rare instances, where the sensory filaments of the spinal nerves are greatly irritated by the inflammatory process in the adjacent membranes, the liypereestliesia becomes very severe, and so distress- ing that words cannot describe the suffering; at the same time, the effects of this inflammatory irritation upon the motor filaments of the spinal nerves are manifested by stiffness and contraction of the posterior cervical and dorsal muscles, whereby the patient’s head becomes drawn backward or recurved, so as to deeply indent the pillow; the patient may feel “ stiff,” as well as