INJURIES OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. 857 of civil life. It is more often found fissured and even comminuted in the severe crushes of the pelvic bones in general, which are not unfrequently met with. In simple, uncomplicated fracture, the lower half of this bone is the part most liable to be found broken, (1) because it is less strong, and (2) because it is more exposed than the upper half. Specimens illustrating this lesion are exceedingly uncommon in pathological cabinets. The museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, however, contains one example, according to the statements of both Eriehsen and South. In it the sacrum is vertically fractured ; the patient died of suppuration six weeks after the accident, and no union of the fragments whatever had taken place.1 Eriehsen has seen but one instance. The injury was caused by a blow from the buffer of a railway carriage, and proved rapidly fatal. Not long ago the following remarkable case was observed in Paris:— A woman, aged 36, was brought into the St. Lazare Hospital with the historj7 of having fallen about eight feet upon her buttocks; she fainted, and, when she became conscious, was quite unable to sit. A slight transverse depression, corresponding to the middle of the sacrum, was readily felt from behind; the injured part was very tender, and pressure gave fine crepitus. Extensive ecchymosis quickly occurred over the whole sacrum. The line of fracture was readily felt also from the rectum and vagina; the projection forward of the lower half of the sacrum was readily verified,and this part of the bone was easily moved, with crepitus. Reduction was effected without difficulty by the finger pressing backward from the front, and displacement did not recur. A bandage was firmly applied round the pelvis and the patient kept in bed. Defecation gave intense pain, and the woman was unable to lie on her back for a fortnight; but she sat up in bed on the twenty-eighth day, and got up in the ward on the forty-second day. There were no signs of pressure upon, or other injury of, the lower sacral or coccygeal nerves.2 In this case the sacrum was fractured transversely; in the specimen con- tained in the Royal College of Surgeons Museum, mentioned above, it was fractured vertically ; it is also stated that this bone may be fractured obliquely ; but, in simple, uncomplicated cases, these fractures are most commonly trans- verse. Etiology.—The most frequent causes of the simple, uncomplicated fractures are powerful blows struck directly over the sacrum, as, for example, a blow from the buffer of a railway carriage; heavy falls with direct impingement upon the sacrum, as was observed in the instance just related; and the sudden application of great weight or pressure, such as may occur, for example, in the passage of a cart-wheel over the sacrum. Great force, when indirectly applied, may also cause such fractures; but the indirect fractures of the sacrum are usually associated with similar lesions of the other pelvic bones, as already intimated. Mr. Eriehsen has seen one case of simple, uncompli- cated fracture of the sacrum which was caused by a blow from the buffer of a railway carriage, and which rapidly proved fatal. Symptoms.—The pain in the injured part is usually very acute, and aggra- vated by all muscular movements which disturb the injured part, such as flexion or extension of the body, etc. All straining efforts in defecation, urination, coughing, or sneezing, produce extreme suffering. All pressure applied externally likewise increases the distress ; and the patients themselves will generally have noticed that from the moment of receiving the injury they have been, from this cause, unable to sit upright. On examination, angular deformity may be visible posteriorly, as well as a subcutaneous ecchymosis, which quickly spreads over the whole sacral region. On applying the fingers 1 South’s Notes to Chelius’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 595, Am. ed. 2 Lancet, November 20, 1880.