FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 195 But it seems to me that the same-explanation applies in these as in the other cases. I have seen, however, one specimen which I believe to have been unques- tionably an intra-articular fracture of the cervix femoris, united by bone. It was presented to the College of Physicians of Philadelphia1 by Dr. J. M. Adler. The patient was an old lady of sixty-tive, paraplegic, who fell out of bed. Her foot was inverted, and tbe limb shortened ; there was pain in the groin and hip-joint, and crepitus. She died five months afterward, and the bone was removed and dried. On its presentation to the College, it was referred to a committee consisting of Dr. A. Hewson, Dr. John Ashhurst, Jr., and myself. We carefully examined it, and reported unanimously that it was an impacted, intra-capsular (intra-articular) fracture, united by bone. Let me say that some time since, when in Cincinnati, I had an opportunity, by the kindness of Dr. H. P. Dandridge, of inspecting one of the specimens reported and figured by Mussey,2 and that the line of fracture was readily traceable, extending down close to the lesser trochanter, according to the rule stated on a previous page; thus proving in the case of that specimen that the fracture had not been entirely within the limits of the joint.3 Various causes have been assigned for the frequent occurrence of non-union in the intra-articular fractures of the cervix. One, which has been very generally regarded as the chief, is the want of nourishment of the pelvic frag- ment, which loses all connection with the vascular system except through the ligamentum teres. Another is the excess of synovia formed under the irrita- tion induced by the injury, by which the reparative material is continually washed away from the broken surfaces. Still another, and probably not the least important, is the readiness of movement between the pelvic and distal fragments, which indeed are, in some cases, completely separated. But, how- ever it may be accounted for, the fact remains, and bony union must be re- garded as practically unattainable by any care or foresight on the part of the surgeon. The diagnosis of these injuries, although sometimes clear, may present very great difficulties. It is by no means always easy to determine whether the fracture is wholly within the joint, or wholly outside of it, or partly intra-articular and partly extra-articular. When, however, the patient is old and infirm, and the violence inflicted has been very slight, such as is caused by tripping in a fold of the carpet; when the shortening of the limb is immediate and marked ; and when there is great mobility of the fragments upon one another, as shown by the ready rotation of the limb, the trochanter describing a small arc—the presumption is that the separation has taken place near the head of the bone. When the accident has been a severe one, such as a fall upon the hip; if the patient is heavy, and especially if the age is such as to make it improbable that the bones have undergone such degenerative change as to weaken their texture; when the shortening is but slight, and the fragments show no signs of tree mobility upon one another, it may be regarded as probable that the fracture is outside ot the joint, and that more or less impaction exists. Prof. R. W. Smith’s assertion that “the extra-capsular fracture is always accompanied by a fracture ot one or both trochanters” would, if proved, a fiord a valuable diagnostic sign, as the mobility of the greater trochanter could in general be ascertained, and this, along with the other symptoms, 1 Summary of Transactions, in tlie Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1870. 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1857. 3 The reader who desires to examine further into this subject will find the references to the supposed cases of bony union in intra-capsular fractures of the cervix femoris in my paper, before mentioned ; also in Hamilton’s work on Fractures and Dislocations.