758 INJURIES OF THE BACK. second-story window, and alighted upon her buttocks, thereby fracturing her spine. There was a projection of the lower dorsal vertebrae and paralysis. The latter dimin- ished after two weeks, and partial recovery ensued. In eight and a half months, how- ever, she died of phthisis. The autopsy showed fractures of the last dorsal and of the first and second lumbar vertebrae; the spinal cord was compressed; provisional callus had formed. (Ashhurst.) It is worthy of special note, in this case, that the patient par- tially recovered, and that the disease which caused her death was not connected with the injury. Fractures combined with dislocation often occur in the dorsal region. They generally take place between the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. In such cases the body of the superior vertebra is usually dislocated forward, and the body of the inferior vertebra fractured ; the arch of the inferior ver- tebra is, as a rule, also broken. (Bryant.) A specimen showing dislocation of the first, and fracture of the second lumbar vertebra, taken from a patient who had survived the accident for three and a half years, is described and figured by Mr. W. Wagstaffe.1 Fractures of the spinous processes, unattended by dislocation or by frac- ture of any other portions of the vertebrae, that is, pure fractures of the spinous processes, not unfrequently occur. They are met with in the cervical, the dorsal, and the lumbar regions alike, and are always caused by the direct application of force. They may be simple or compound; and compound fractures of the spinous processes are often caused by the impact of small- arm missiles. Generally, pure fractures of the spinous processes. are not attended by spinal paralysis. When, however, spinal symptoms are present, in such cases, they usually arise from concussion of the spinal cord, though, in some rare instances, they have been found to be due to compression of the spinal cord by extravasated blood. Generally, pure fractures of the spinous processes, whether simple or compound, terminate in recovery without giving much trouble. I have seen a considerable number of examples belonging to the latter category,2 and cannot now call to mind any case among them that did not end favorably. In one instance, there was severe concussion of the spinal cord also, and a fragment of the broken spinous process exfoliated. The experience of other observers supports the view that pure fractures of the spinous processes generally terminate in recovery without much difficulty. Sir A. Cooper3 mentions the case of a boy injured by thrusting his head between the spokes of a wheel. There was distortion of the spine, and fracture of three or four spinous processes, but no paralysis. “ He quickly recovered without any particular attention.” The deformity, however, remained. (Ashhurst.) “ When I was a dresser,” says Mr. Bryant, “ I saw a case of fracture of the spinous processes of three cervical vertebra associated with a temporary paralysis; and, in this instance, complete recovery ensued ; I have since successfully treated a case of frac- ture and displacement of the spinous process of the fourth cervical vertebra, without paralysis. ... I have seen also a case of fracture of the spinous processes of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra with lateral displacement, the injury having been treated for some months previously as a simple contusion of the back. In this case, no paralysis existed or other spinal symptoms.”4 On the other hand, when perchance the broken-off portion of the spinous process gets impacted between the laminae, and presses upon the spinal cord, death sometimes quickly ensues. 1 Trans, of the Patholog. Soc. of London, vol. xxi. p. 327. 2 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, October, 1864, pp. 315, 327. 2 Disloc. and Fract. of Joints. * Practice of Surgery, p. 201.