TUMORS. 556 before removal of a tumor, and multiplicity of tumors is not confined to those which are malignant. The mistake is, however, liable to be made of con- founding irritative and inflammatory enlargements of the glands for malig- nant affection. The multiplicity of malignant tumors, when it occurs, is an indication of the most advanced malignancy, and of the hopelessness of surgi- cal treatment. The disease is no longer regional; it has become general. Infiltration of adjacent tissues and glandular affection are never produced by innocent tumors, if the fashion of growth of certain hypertrophic conditions which are scarcely tumors be excepted ; for occasionally a fatty or fibrous out- growth separates, by a kind of infiltration, such structures as muscular fibres. One such growth I have seen, which formed a tumor of considerable size in the calf of the leg of a young girl, and which contained fibres of inorganic muscles widely separated by the fat. General Characters and Diagnosis of Tumors. Most of the clinical features and symptoms of tumors will be considered in the sections which treat of the different varieties of tumor, but certain characters which serve to distinguish all tumors from other diseases which resemble, or are closely allied to them, may be considered here. Thus tumors are generally distinguished from inflammatory swellings by their continual tendency to enlarge, their more clearly defined outline, their mobility, the absence of the most prominent signs of inflammation, the disinclination which they exhibit to suppurate or even to inflame acutely, and the nature and situation of the part affected. The points of difference are, for the most part, more obvious when innocent tumors are compared with inflammations, for they are generally much more movable, more clearly defined, and less inclined to inflame and suppurate, than are malignant growths. The nature and situation of the part affected appear at first sight to be of little moment in the diag- nosis. ISlor are they of importance in every case'; but, in many instances, a consideration of them helps to make the diagnosis much more easy. Thus, inflammations, especially chronic inflammations, of one parotid gland are very uncommon, while tumors are by no means rare ; tumors of the epididymis are exceedingly rare, while inflammations are very frequent. Although in a vast number of cases the distinctive characters of tumor are so clear that the question of inflammation cannot arise, there are some cases, especially of carcinoma and sarcoma, where the signs of inflammation are present, and where the characters of tumor are so ill-marked that an accurate diagnosis is impossible. The nature of the case becomes evident only by close observation of its course. Tumors are usually distinguished from hypertrophies by the fact that hyper- trophy commonly affects the whole of an organ or portion of the body, or an entire reach of tissue. For instance, the whole of a finger may be hyper- trophied, but only one or two of the phalanges are usually the seat of tumors. Hypertrophied parts generally retain many of their normal characters; all the tissues are enlarged in an almost equal degree, and thus the form and general proportions of the part are relatively maintained. Certain parts of the body which are not infrequently the seat of tumors, such as the parotid and the testis, are scaroely subject to pure hypertrophy. And in parts of the body which are subject both to hypertrophy and to tumors, such as the breast, the tumors are generally more clearly defined and separable from the organ in or near which they lie. The signs by which tumors proper are distinguished from the infection- tumors, are sometimes very minute. Tuberculous and syphilitic affections