436 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. which have persisted for years and attained certain dimensions, but this is a mere extension of disease along the course of affected vessels, a very different thing from primary angeioma of bone. Aneurism of bone, that is, sacculated enlargement of a vessel within the osseous structure, gradually making its way outward, is extremely rare, and there is no doubt but that many of the older reported cases were instances of sarcoma that had undergone cystoid degeneration, a vessel enlarged by the hyperplasia having opened into one of the cysts. Nevertheless, real aneurism of bone does occur, and is a disease very difficult to be distinguished during life from some of the pulsating tumors which have been referred to. One point of difference is that in aneurism the tumor becomes more markedly smaller when pressure is made on the vessel above, and regains its former size much more rapidly. The pulsation is more distinctly expansile, not the up and down heave of a vascular sarcoma. Generally, aneurism of bone emits a very distinct, sometimes a loud, bruit, while if there be any sound connected with a pulsating sarcoma, it is a mere continuous murmur. The favorite sites of osteo-aneurism are the head of the tibia, the condyles of the femur, and the head of the humerus. This disease, unlike the neoplasms which we have been considering, and which, as a very general rule, leave the articular cartilages intact, rapidly destroys those structures. Treatment.—When there are grounds for believing that a pulsating tumor of bone is aneurismal, pressure, the use of an Esmarch’s bandage, deligation, or other means mentioned in the article on Aneurism,1 2 may be resorted to. Even if there be doubt as to diagnosis between a new growth and an aneu- rism, one of those methods may be advantageously employed before resorting to the severer means, amputation, which may still remain as a last resource, should further events negative the more hopeful diagnosis. In some cases, especially if the tumor lie deep, as in the iliac fossa, a positive diagnosis appears to be impossible. Echinococcus of Bone.—An exceedingly rare tumor of bone is the hydatid or echinococcus, which, when it does occur, usually occupies either the bones of the skull or those of the vertebral column ; but a few cases are on record of such parasites infesting the ends of long bones, and making their way into the neighboring joints, which by proliferation they have tilled. The remark- ably indolent tumor thus produced bears the strongest resemblance to true hyperostosis; indeed, the hydatid lying in the bone cannot be distinguished ; the surgeon can only perceive the hypertrophy of bone which it sets up. After a time, the osseous case inclosing the cyst becomes, in some part of its superficies, absorbed, when this soft body may be felt, extremely like a simple cyst or an abscess, bound down by a firm wall.1 As far as I know, no case of echinococcus of bone has ever been diagnosed, until by incision the cysts have been brought to light. Whether by injection with iodine, carbolic acid, or chloride of zinc, the parent cyst may be successfully killed—that is to say, whether hydatids of bone may be successfully treated as we treat hydatids of the liver—has not yet been clinically determined; but the surgeon’s duty would certainly be to make the attempt. In regard to diseases of the joints, the subject of tumors is especially of interest in respect to diagnosis and prognosis. The tumors which most fre- 1 See Vol. III. p. 412. 2 Spontaneous fracture of bone has several times followed the development of echinococcus in its shaft.