INJURIES OP BONES. 124 Compound fractures of the upper third of the humerus are extremely rare, except as the effect of gunshot injury. They are always of grave import- ance, and may demand excision, or even amputation. Skey1 met with a case in which a dislocation of the humerus was reduced; eight or ten days afterwards, a large traumatic aneurism was developed in the axilla, and the artery was tied above and below. After the patient’s death, it was found that he had had “ a fracture of the neck of the humerus,” and that the artery had been “ torn across” by the pointed end of the shaft. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital2 there is a specimen of un- united fracture of the neck of the humerus, with obliteration of the axillary artery by pressure of the lower fragment of the bone against it. The subject, a man aged 75, had received the injury ten years previous to his death. “ The fracture extends transversely through the humerus, immediately below its head and below the tuberosities ; and it communicates with the cavity of the shoulder- joint. A small detached piece of the bone is connected with the synovial membrane. The synovial membrane is thickened, and its internal surface is rough. The axillary artery is obliterated to the extent of half an inch, in the situation in which the end of the lower portion of the bone pressed against it. Immediately above the obliterated part, the infra-scapular artery arises, of its usual size, and pervious. Close to the infra-scapular is the posterior circumflex artery, obliterated in the first half inch from its origin, and then pervious by means of the collatex-al circulation. About two inches above the origin of the infra-scapular, a large branch arises from the axillary artery ; this branch, extending down inside of the arm, was continued into one of the arteries of the forearm, and formed a principal channel for transmitting blood to the lower part of the limb.” The nerves are very rarely injured. One such case is recorded by Berger,3 in which the musculo-spiral nerve was pressed upon, and paralysis of the parts supplied by it resulted, with some superficial sloughs. The patient, a man, died of malignant scarlet fever. D'eatment of Fractures of the Upper Part of the Humerus.—In fractures near the upper end of the humerus, the proximity of the shoulder-joint, and the danger of its stiffening, should always be borne in mind. When there is much swelling and inflammation, the most prompt and efficient means should be employed to allay it; the patient should be kept at rest in bed, with the arm and hand on a pillow, and hot fomentations should be con- stantly used. Where the injury has been caused by great direct violence, it may be well even to apply leeches to the part. On the subsidence of the inflammation, the condition of the fragments should be very carefully ascer- tained, and measures adopted for correcting any displacement that may exist. If this be very slight, as may happen in feeble persons, or when the perios- teum is not wholly torn through, the suspension of the arm in a sling, with a small and soft axillary pad, may suffice; or the arm may be confined to the side by a bandage applied around it and the body, the hand merely being placed in a sling. Some surgeons employ a splint along the inner side of the arm, with a leather or pasteboard cap fitted on the shoulder, the whole being kept in place by a bandage, a few turns of which are carried around the chest. But in very many instances, in which the upper fragment is tilted inward by the scapular muscles, as before explained, it affords so little purchase that the only efficient method of correcting the displacement is to carry the lower fragment upward, which is best done by putting an angular splint in the 1 Lancet, May 5, 1860. 2 Catalogue, vol i. p. 32. 3 Bulletin de la Soc. Anatomique, Juillet, 1871.