889 REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. Op. cit., pp. 21G-219. The symptoms of sacrodynia often continue for a long time. When once they have fairly set in, they will last for many months, and not unfrequently for a year or two. Moreover, the pain does not follow the anatomical course of any nerve, and, therefore, it cannot be classitied with the neuralgias. It appears to arise directly from bruising and spraining of the ligamentous structures. The sacro-vertebral, the ilio-lumbar, the sacro-iliac, and the sacro- ischiatic ligaments may all be more or less strained in the bumps, twists, and wrenches to which the pelvis and lower part of the spine are subjected in the accidents under consideration. And, according as the violence falls more or less directly on one or other of these ligaments, so the patient will suffer more or less in the part where it is situated. (Erichsen.) The long continuance of pain in cases of sacrodynia is exactly what we find in cases where the liga- ments are strained in other parts of the body. (4) Vomiting.—It will be remembered by some that about twenty-five years ago Sir W. Gull, in Guy’s Hospital Reports, called attention to vomiting as a symptom or effect of hypersemia or inflammatory irritation of the raehi- dian substance in the cervical region, and recorded an example in which the existence of myelitis in the cervical region (caused by a blow on the neck) was proved by post-mortem examination. This case I have used above to illustrate the remote effects of spinal injuries. It will likewise be remem- bered that any slight muscular effort on the part of my own patient who suffered from railway-injury of the spine, and whose case I have so often referred to, always produced nausea, and sometimes caused vomiting, and that these symptoms of cervical myelitis lasted for several months. Mr. Erich- sen,1 too, relates a very instructive case in which concussion of the spinal cord caused by a blow on the nape of the neck received in a railway-collision, and the rachidian inflammation which ensued, were attended by vomiting as a prominent and a very persistent symptom. It is obvious that medication for the relief of this symptom, in such cases, should be directed towards the removal of its cause, namely, the rachidian hypersemia and irritation in the cervical region, upon which its existence depends. Treatment.—Inasmuch as the spinal injuries arising from railway-collisions may be followed by inflammation of the vertebral articulations, inflammation of the spinal membranes—but particularly of the spinal arachnoid and pia mater—and inflammation of the rachidian substance, the first step consists in making, as far as practicable, a differential diagnosis. Almost always, in such cases, spinal meningitis and myelitis will be found creeping up the cord together into the cranium; and, not unfrequently, all three disorders will simultaneously present themselves. The principles upon which the treatment of each of these inflammatory affections of the spine, whether acute or chronic, should be conducted, have already been laid down, and the several remedial measures which experience has shown to be the most useful in such cases, have already been mentioned ; it does not seem necessary to restate them here. One thing, however, I will say, namely: The importance of rest in bed, in these cases, cannot be overestimated. Furthermore, insomnia occur- ring per se, that is, without pain, should be overcome by administering the bromides or chloral hydrate rather than opium or morphia; but pains in the spinal membranes, ligaments, or joints must be subdued by exhibiting the last-named drugs. When the morbid process in the rachidian substance has reached the stage of atrophy, the primary galvanic current passed downward through the cord may prove very useful. Rut whatever the treatment may be, no speedy benefit can, as a rule, be expected.