DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 390 eased side lies higher than the other; the rima natium slopes, and the lumbar spine curves, away from that side. The child stands with the toes on the ground, the buttock protruded on account of the flexion. In recumbency, the crista ilii of the diseased side lies highest, and the Fig. 661. xiphoid cartilage, umbilicus, and pubic junction are all on the sound side of a string passing from the episternal notch to between the malleoli. A point concerning the diagnosis of flexion in recum- bency must be considered, for it often happens that the patient may be seen lying with the two tliighs parallel, well down on the mattress, and apparently quite straight, and yet, nevertheless, there is considerable flexion, This fact may thus be verified. Study the position of the pelvis, and passing the hand beneath the lower part of the loins, observe whether it arches up, leaving a space Fig. 662. Fig. 663. Flexion in hip-disease. Obliquity of pelvis and arching of lumbar spine when limbs are parallel. between itself and the bed. Then take the thigh and bend it up till it stands at an arnde of 45°. Again examine the lumbar spine, which will now be found to Tie flat. Replace the thigh on the bed, slowly and steadily, while the hand is still kept behind the loins. If there be flexion, as is very general in this stage the pelvis will be found to become more vertical as the limb descends, and’, since the shoulders are still on the pillow, the loins of necessity assume a very considerable incurvation. The third stage of hip-disease, is more than any other the period of ab- scess 1 although many cases may get well without suppuration. Those who manifest large diffuse swelling on the outer part of the thigh, or in the iliac fossa do not often escape abscess. In the former case, the pus points gen- erally half way down the thigh, either at the front or at the outer side *, in the latter, either in the groin below Poupart’s ligament, or at the back of the trochanter, finding its way out of the pelvis by following the track of the obturator interims muscle2 through the sacro-sciatic foramen. In certain cases the abscesses are merely extra-articular; but more generally the joint is carious and, the capsule having given way, there is also mtra-articular abscess. A probe passed into the outer opening, however, near to the joint, will seldom , Abscess though it may occur, is unusual in the period of lengthening. 2 This point of opening must not lead' to an error of diagnosis ; abscess from one sacro-iliae disease opens here, and I have seen the same in one case of spinal caries. form of