INJURIES OP THE BACK. 748 3 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., Aug. 17, 1871, p. 129. subflava, the capsular ligaments, and the intervertebral disk are lacerated (more or less), and the body of the upper vertebra is thrown forward from that of the lower. In the following example death suddenly resulted from falling upon the back in such a way as to crush three dorsal vertebra:, together with the spinal cord:— Peter Riley, a laborer, fell from the walls of Trinity Chapel, then being built, on Saturday, November 27, 1852. He went down ’perpendicularly a distance of about fifty feet, and struck his back squarely across a beam. When picked up by his com- rades immediately afterward, he spoke tenderly of his mother and sisters, and said “ my back is broke.” He died in about twenty minutes. At the autopsy I found the fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae much comminuted, that is, broken into many fragments. The muscles covering them were badly bruised and torn, and contained much extravasated blood. The skin, however, was not broken. An incision through the skin having been made, the soft parts investing these vertebrae were found so much disintegrated that, after picking out some fragments of broken bone, I thrust my fingers with ease directly through the spinal column into the right pleural cavity. The theca vertebralis and the spinal cord must also have been torn asunder. The speediness with which death followed the injury in this case was due to shock, caused by the extent and severity of the spinal lesion itself, and to internal hemorrhage from the intercostal arteries that were torn, and, per- haps, from other sources. Professor Ashhurst1 mentions a case taken from the Pennsylvania Hospital Records, which is somewhat similar to the last:— A laborer fell from the sixth story, and thereby sustained a comminuted fracture of the lumbar vertebra, fracture of the coccyx, and fractures of both legs. Death ensued in one day from exhaustion and internal (post-peritoneal) hemorrhage. But comminuted fractures of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrte may be attended by rupture of the aorta, and death from internal hemorrhage may follow in the course of a few minutes. Several examples of this sort are on record:— (1) Forster2 mentions a case of Roper’s, in which a man, aged 55, was knocked down and driven against by an omnibus. He was stunned, and in five minutes he died. Fracture of the fourth lumbar vertebra and laceration of the aorta were found. (2) Curling3 mentions the case of a rigger, aged 54, who fell from masthead to deck, and died in fifteen minutes. The autopsy showed fractures at the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrse, with rupture of the aorta. (3) Curling4 also reports the case of a wagoner, aged 46, supposed to have been run over by a wagon. He died in a few minutes. The autopsy showed fractures of the eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal vertebrae; the aorta was ruptured. In such instances, however, the nature of the accident can often be correctly surmised from the seat of the fracture and the grating of the frag- ments, together with the sudden appearance of the signs of internal hemorrhage, such as a wax-like pallor of the countenance; lips bloodless, or dark-purple at their margins; cold sweats; weak, frequent, small, fluttering pulse; syncope, etc., ending quickly in death ; but without any external flow of the extravasated blood. Comminuted fractures of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrse are sometimes found to be compound, in consequence of the integuments and muscles being lacerated by the same exhibition of force which has caused the fractures them- selves. Such fractures, probably, result most frequently from being crushed in railway collisions. “ Brief mention is made in the reports of some instances of compound fracture of the spine from railway accidents.”6 Ro details, however, of these instances are published; but, such cases must 1 Op. cit., pp. 116, 117. 2 Proc. Path. Soc. London, vol. viii. 3 London Hosp. Reports, vol. i. 4 Ibid.