567 FIBROMA OR FIBROUS TUMOR. adherent to the surrounding structures, it may be quickly shelled out through a single incision. If it be more adherent, it may require to he dissected out. When the growth is pendulous, a portion of the integument covering it should he removed, and when this is ulcerated, the ulcers will naturally be included in the piece taken away. The painful subcutaneous fatty tumors, even if they are not increasing, should be removed, for the pain ceases with the removal of the tumor. The removal of a fatty tumor is attended with very little hemorrhage, unless the tumor lies beneath the scalp. Recurrence after removal is very rare, only a few cases having been recorded in which such an event took place. One case has been recorded of a fatty tumor which rapidly recurred, and pursued a most malignant course, proving fatal in the course of a few months. It is impossible to avoid the suspicion that this tumor was in truth a sarcoma or carcinoma, with which fat wTas largely mingled; but this is denied by the observer, after a thorough microscopical investigation. Multiple fatty tumors are not often removed, but one or more of them may be taken out if they be very inconvenient or painful. The fatty outgrowths, which are not infrequently multiple, and the cause of great disfigurement, are scarcely amenable to operation. They sometimes, but rarely, diminish or disappear under the long-continued administration of liquor potassae. Fibroma or Fibrous Tumor. A tumor composed of fibrous tissue may form either a very firm, almost hard, mass, or a tumor so soft as almost to fluctuate. The soft growths in- clude many of those which were formerly classed apart as “fibro-cellular” tumors. Again, fibrous tumors may be circumscribed or diffuse; in the one case forming separate masses, generally eneapsuled, in the other case produc- ing hypertrophy of tracts of tissue. Continuous outgrowths of fibrous tissue, similar to the continuous outgrowths of fatty tissue, also occur. Characters and Course or Fibromata.—Fibrous tumors may originate in the connective tissue of almost any region of the body, but they occur most frequently in connection with the skin and subcutaneous tissue ; the nerves (neuroma); the female breast, the vulva, and the uterus; the periosteum, fascia;, and intermuscular septa; the upper and lower jaw (epulis); the external ear. In the skin they are usually firm and circumscribed growths, seldom of large size. In the nerves they are for the most part circumscribed and firm, but occasionally form diffused and irregular outgrowths either of the peri- or the epi-neurium. The fibrous tumors of the breast are the most common of the innocent growths of that part, and are almost always firm, circumscribed, and impure from the mingling of other tissues with the fibrous tissue. The tumors of the vulva are among the best examples of soft fibro-cellular tumors, and are generally continuous “outgrowths” of the clitoris, or more often of the labia. Those of the uterus form either firm and separate tumors, or polypoid growths which project into the cavity of the organ. The periosteum, fascire, and intermuscular septa usually furnish the firm varieties of fibroma; the naso-pharyngeal polypi, which are attached to the base of the skull, are pro- bably of periosteal origin. The fibrous tumors of the jaws are almost invari- ably firm ; many, if not all, of the epulides are of periosteal or periodontoid origin. The tumors of the ear are for the most part firm, ill-defined growths of the lobe, often excited by the presence of an ear-ring. Every period of life is subject to fibroma, but adults are much more often attacked than children ; indeed, the only structures of children which appear