pott’s disease of the spine. 933 strong. If at this stage the specimen be macerated, the bones in the posterior segment will be found to present here and there irregular bony outgrowths, the result of periostitis, but there will be no direct or indirect bony union between any two adjacent vertebrae. As the process of repair advances, ossi- fication occurs in the fibrous material that has been formed, the periosteal new growths assume a greater magnitude, adjacent vertebrae become locked together by the contact of stalactitic processes, and in certain cases the posterior segments of several of the vertebrae about the seat of disease may be firmly blended by a true anchylosis. This process of repair in the posterior segments of the column appears early in the course of the malady, and is seldom absent in any but the most severe cases. Evidences of it may be trifling, but they are usually to be noted. The importance of this process cannot be exaggerated. By the time that the disease has so far advanced in the anterior part of the spine as to destroy, perhaps, several successive bodies, the process in the posterior segments will probably have brought about such consolidation of the column as to prevent that gross bending or breaking of the weakened spine that, without such con- solidation, would be almost inevitable. With regard to the reparative processes in the anterior portions of the column, it must be remembered that the parts lost in Pott’s disease are never replaced, and that in no case—after either slight or severe destruction—can the spine ever quite return to its normal condition. If the gap formed by the loss of tissue be considerable, the vertebrae, in falling together to produce the defor- mity, lessen the dimensions of the cavity and help to expel its contents. Bony surfaces above and below the seat of disease are thus brought together. If the process of cure at once advances, the granulations that cover the exposed bone develop into fibrous tissue, and with this material the cavity in time becomes more or less entirely filled. In certain instances, some portion of the fibrous tissue may ossify, and a more or less complete union of true bone ensue. This true anchylosis, however, is of rare occurrence. If an abscess exists, its contents become more or less absorbed, what was once pus becomes putty-like or caseous matter, the cyst shrinks, its walls become greatly thick- ened and more fibrous, and by clinging close about the seat of the disease serve to bridge over any gap that may have formed, and to still further strengthen the weakened part. In some cases the absorption of the abscess- contents would appear to be very complete; and in other instances the puru- lent matter, after becoming caseous, may finally undergo a calcareous meta- morphosis. The portion of the column that has experienced loss of substance is strengthened also by a thickening of the periosteum, and by a develop- ment of much fibrous tissue in such soft parts as are in the immediate vicinity. By the blending of these altered parts with the remnants of the abscess-wall, a very substantial support may be afforded. In addition to these means of immobilizing the spine, the gap may be bridged over by stalactitic processes of bone formed by the vertebra that im- mediately encroach upon the gap. Sometimes these bridges of bone may serve to fuse the vertebra together by a true osseous anchylosis, while in other cases they may ^ive support to the part by merely becoming locked together. These masses of new bone are seen most often about the sides of the ver- tebral bodies, and appear sometimes as if derived from the anterior common ligament. When the loss of substance is limited to a mere surface-erosion on the bone, the deficiency is supplied by a fibrous formation, although in some very rare cases, Follin and Duplay assert that the excavation may be covered in by a plate of new bone formed from the adjacent sound bone and periosteum.1 Op. cit., tome iii. p. 666.