264 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. through the slightly misty medium of a thickened basement and epithelium, which, by gentle touches of the finger, may be shifted a little from side to side over the vascular layer beneath. More especially, as from their structure might be expected, do the fringes, the parts most liberally covered with epithelial coating, increase in size and thickness; even the extra-vascular, secondary sacculi1 enlarge and multiply, so that the villous surface is more thickly set and coarser. A little later, a change takes place in the appearance of the cartilages. They lose their bluish translucency and become of a cloudy, milky-white hue. This has, by the more enthusiastic and less eclectic of Cohnheim’s followers, been attributed entirely to the immigration of leucocytes. This is certainly an error; for, though it is true, as I have seen, that here and there, just below the surface, a body having all the appearance of an amoeboid corpuscle may be found, yet a section of cartilage in this state shows clearly that the change is in the cartilage cells, which, first near the surface, and afterwards more deeply, are augmenting both in size and number, while here and there those narrow, compressed cells, which line the free edge of the section, are seen to have in part fallen away; in some spots to have become fuller and rounder. By retrogression of these changes, the inflammation may now subside; the superabundant cells, no longer nourished by an extra blood supply, either fall off while still sound and normal, or shrivel and become detached, simply as epithelial scales, or, still more commonly, undergo fatty degeneration and float away or burst. In either way they increase for a time, or at least pro- long, the turbidity of the fluid; and in any case they assist in adding to the mucin of the joint secretion ;2 soon, however, this regains its usual qualities, both of transparency and siziness. A very analogous fate befalls the cells con- tained in the lately inflamed tissue; they degenerate, liquefy, and disappear. But if the disease continue, there become added to the local changes, which we will not now further follow, certain neuro-muscular phenomena, difficult to explain, but of deep importance in the natural history of all joint diseases. The exact period of their first advent is difficult to fix with absolute certainty, but they commence very early, as witness the difficulty and pain experienced by a patient with even slight inflammation of the knee when he attempts to straighten the joint, and a sense of dull aching, like an imperfect cramp, which is so frequently felt about the lower part of the biceps femoris. As the disease goes on, these phenomena become more marked, and in advanced phases of the malady play a very important part in its ultimate termination. The condition is at first merely an increase in the tonicity of those muscles which move the joint, and chiefly of the flexors. Hence a constant tendency of the limb to become during inflammation more and’ more bent.3 Some writers suppose that both sets of muscles are contracted, and that the tendency towards flexion is due only to the preponderance of strength of the muscles which bend the limb. This is, however, not the fact, at all events in the earlier stages of a moderate inflammation. We may even question if, at that pei'iod, the exten- sors be not abnormally relaxed. Such a condition is generally very perceptible when the elbow is rather acutely inflamed: the biceps may be felt hard ; its tendon rather tight; while the triceps is perfectly flaccid. But the most com- mon instance is at the hip, where the tensor vagime femoris, with the sartorius and the flexors of that joint, may be seen as a ridge and felt as a tight cord, at the upper, outer aspect of the thigh, while abnornal flaccidity of the gluteus, 1 Rainey, Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. ii. p. 110. 2 Frerichs (Wagner, Handworterbuch der Physiologie) and I (Diseases of the Joints, 2d edition, p. 22 ; American edition, p. 15) have shown the mucin of synovia to be derived from the trituration of endothelial cells in an alkaloid fluid. 3 A very few cases are on record of the contrary disposition, namely, towards extension.