435 TUMORS OF JOINTS. vascular. The pulsation appears to depend on the increased size of the vessels which nourish the tumor; these, being confined in a non-yielding case, gain room for their pulse-throb by slightly extruding, at each beat, the tumor itself.1 ATo periosteal sarcoma, as far as my experience goes, ever gives rise to pulsation. Thus the central may be distinguished from the periosteal sarcoma, by the presence of a shell of bone around the base of the growth, and usually by pulsation. While still small, the diagnosis of sarcoma is doubtful, but the rapidity of its growth, and the development of certain appearances thereby produced, soon render its recognition easy. The tumor by this time is pyriform, with its larger end towards the joint, and usually with an even surface ;2 the skin over it is remarkably white and colorless, though late in the disease a blush is frequently perceived at those parts where the increase is greatest, and where the tumor presses on the skin. Over the white surface is spread a network of veins in close meshes, the blue coloring of the blood seen through the white skin giving a very striking and characteristic appearance. These tumors, though they run up to and even involve the neighborhood of the joint, so that its'contour is concealed, do not implicate the joint itself, the cartilages on both bones remaining perfectly healthy. Thus the movements of the articulation are smooth, and only restricted by the contour of the growth coming in contact with parts of the adjoining limb-segment or of the trunk. The tumor feels soft, doughy, and hardly elastic; it moves in flexion and extension, and also follows the bone in rotation, but not to the full extent, especially if the tumor be periosteal; for the tissues of the neoplasm yield somewhat, so that the outer parts move less than those close to the bone. Most sarcomata springing from the joint-ends of bones are malignant ;3 they may be distinguished by their rapid growth, pyriform shape, and large sur- face-veins, from the few—very few—soft, non-malignant growths. Although sarcomata and carcinomata growing from the shafts of long bones not unfre- quently undergo ossification (osteo-sarcoma and osteo-cancer), that change is rare in such as grow from the articular ends. Sundry other degenerations, however, take place, such as the cystoid, forming a sort of tumor that lias been called myelo-cystic. If such a tumor have previously been very vascular, hemorrhage into one of these cysts may occur, and, the rent in the vessel re- maining unsealed, an appearance which has probably been more than once taken for aneurism of bone, is produced. Or cystic, fatty, or mucous degene- ration may, in great part, destroy the original structure of a very vascular sarcoma, leaving behind a plexus of enlarged vessels, and giving a deceptive appearance of aneurism by anastomosis of bone. Other forms of cancer very rarely occur primarily in the long bones near joints; epithelioma probably always originates in the soft parts, and is pro- pagated secondarily to the neighboring superficial bone. Both scirrhus and colloid cancer of bone are mere pathological curiosities ;4 when they do occur, they are apt to affect many bones and to assume the diffuse form. Angeiomata of bone are excessively rare. The frontal, parietal, and occi- pital bones do indeed participate secondarily in cirsoid aneurisms of the scalp 1 The differential diagnosis between this disease and aneurism of bone will be given imme- diately. 2 The surface in carcinoma is sometimes nodulated. 3 The central sarcomata of the jaws, more especially of the lower jaw, are rarely malignant; in my experience those of the limbs generally are so. 4 Some observers have spoken of colloid of the bones ; but it is to be noted that with increased knowledge of the minute anatomy of tumors, such cases have become rarer, and in some instances a plentiful admixture of sarcomatous elements leaves room for doubting whether the growth is not in reality a mucoid degeneration of sarcoma.