624 TUMORS. Papilloma ; Papillary or Warty Tumor. The papilloma is a tumor composed of papillae (Plate XVIII., Fig. 5), whose structure comprises a basis or central stem ot connective tissue, containing usually a vessel or vessels, and a covering of epithelium. Two varieties of papillary tumor are commonly described, the hard and the soft. The former is represented by horns, and warts, and warty growths; the latter by villous tumors, such as are met with in the bladder. Both varieties are probably produced, in the majority of cases, by chronic inflam- mation, or by various forms of irritation. Thus, the work of certain occu- pations leads to the formation of warts—chimney-sweepers and workers in tar are notably subject to them. The irritation of long-continued discharges and the collection of dirt cause the formation of warts upon the penis. Chronic inflammations of the larynx are productive of warty excrescences, and some- times of warty growths of grave importance. Characters and Course.—Papillomas may occur in many different situa- tions on the skin, any part of which they may attack ; but they are very frequent on the hands and face, as warts ; about the genitals, the scrotum, and the anus, as warts and condylomata; on the lips, especially the lower, again as warts. They occur on the mucous membranes (1) of the respiratory tract, where they attack the vocal cords and, more rarely, the interior of the nose, the epiglottis, and the trachea; (2) of the digestive tract, where the tongue, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines (particularly the colon and the rectum) are affected; (3) of the genito-urinary tract, where they affect, in women, the vagina and the vulva, in men the penis, and in both sexes the bladder. They grow, also, on serous membranes, where they are covered with endothelium, not with epithelium. And they arc developed, sometimes, in the interior of ducts and tubes—in the galactophorous ducts, for example—where, by the obstruction which they produce, they occasionally play an important part in the development of cysts. They may occur at any age, but are more common in young persons than in persons even at the middle period of life. They are sometimes congenital; but the period of life at which they grow depends largely upon the part which is affected, and upon the cause of the disease. The manner of their development on surfaces which are naturally papillary, is merely by hypertrophy of the natural papillae, or by outgrowth of one or more papillae and the formation of compound papillae on the outgrowth. The development on surfaces which are not naturally papillary, is probably by the formation of small protrusions of the sub-epithelial connective tissue, into each of which a vessel is projected. The appearance of a papilloma generally clearly indicates its nature, for its papillary structure is usually very evident. Yet,papillomas differ exceedingly in shape; some of the most typical warty growths are sessile and low, and almost tubercular; others are pedunculated, prominent, and pointed; the true horns or horny growths are not papillary on the surface, but project from the skin from which they grow to the extent often of an inch or more, sometimes even of several inches, when they are usually curled or twisted; the papillomas of the bladder comprise the most admirable specimens of villous growth, and can be floated out in water, like fragments of a delicate, branching sea-weed. Most of the papillomas of the skin are dry and hard; those of the lips and penis are often moist and discharge freely. The papil- lomas seldom attain a large size ; indeed, the largest specimens are found in