717 DISLOCATIONS OF THE VERTEBRA?. 2 Op. oit., pp. 72-121. 5 Op. cit., pp. 61, 62. tion of the first vertebra upon the second. Several cases are reported where children, in turning somersaults, dislocated the first upon the second vertebra; and Marjolin states that in very young persons the odontoid process is so short that it may pass behind the transverse ligament, without rupturing the latter. (Ashhurst.) In young subjects, the odontoid process being yet incompletely developed, and the odontoid ligaments being proportionally longer and less firm, traction directly applied to the head with rotation, may stretch and break these ligaments and their accessories, so as to permit the odontoid pro- cess to pass under the transverse ligament and crush the spinal cord, without rupturing that ligament. J. L. Petit saw a child, aged 6 or 7, lifted up by a man (in order to see London, according to the vulgar saying), who took hold of the forehead and back part of the head. The child struggled, became agitated, and died. Although no anatomical examination was made, there is little doubt that the atlas was luxated upon the axis. (Boyer.) An infant, 8 days old, was instantly killed by violence from its mother; Maschka reports that the second cervical vertebra was found dislocated.1 This case probably belongs to the same category as those mentioned in the last paragraph; and in it, likewise, dislocation occurred between the atlas and the axis, because the odontoid process was so short, from want of develop- ment, that it passed under the transverse ligament, as soon as the odontoid or check ligaments had been ruptured. The etiology of luxation at the juncture of the atlas and axis can be further illustrated by referring to 12 examples of it that are mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables.2 Of these, it was caused, in four instances, by falling from a height and alighting on the head ; in two instances, by suicidal hanging ; in one instance, by the fall of a bundle of hay upon the head; in one instance, by blows on the back of the neck ; in one instance, by muscular action ; while in three cases, the form of the injury is not stated. It is worthy of remark that there is no mention, in Professor Ashhurst’s tables, of any instance where tins lesion was caused by the hanging of criminals according to law, although it is well known that this lesion is often present in such cases. The probable reason for this absence of mention is the fact that such cases are but seldom reported in the medical journals. Hospital reports, likewise, but seldom contain any examples of iuxation of the atlas upon the axis, because the victims of this accident generally do not survive long enough to get into a hospital. But, dislocation at the juncture of the first and second cervical vertebrae sometimes occurs spontaneously, in consequence of disease having destroyed the ligaments of the threefold articulation. I have already mentioned a remarkable example of this sort (page f24) which was recorded by Mr. Hilton.3 In such cases, the head and the atlas together fall forward; and thus the spinal cord may be crushed or strongly compressed by the latter against the odontoid process of the axis which remains fixed. In this way, Mr. Hilton’s patient was almost instantly killed. Duverney met with a case in which the atlas had fallen forward so far, in consequence of the destruc- tion by disease of the atlo-axoid ligaments, that the odontoid process was approximated to the posterior arch of the atlas by two-thirds of the diameter of its foramen spinale. (Boyer.) Furthermore, dislocation of the atlas upon the axis, whether caused by injury or by disease, does not prove immediately fatal unless the displacement of the former be so great that its posterior arch crushes, or strongly com- presses, the spinal cord against the odontoid process of the latter. In cases 1 New Syd. Soc. Year-Book, 1859, p. 427.