( 543 ) TUMORS. BY HENRY TRENTHAM BUTLIN, F.R.C.S, ASSISTANT SURGEON TO, AND DEMONSTRATOR OF SURGERY AT, ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL, LONDON. Introduction. Although tumors are with justice regarded as a species of the great class of hypertrophies or overgrowths, the difference between the species and the class are so great, when typical examples are compared, that the relationship between them well-nigh disappears. A tumor is a hypertrophy, but it is something more and something less than a hypertrophy. It is an over- growth of tissues, but not limited in its extent or capabilities. It tends to continuous and extravagant increase of bulk, appropriating to its own use material which ought to be applied to the nourishment of the natural struc- tures of the body. It is not adapted, nor does it affect to adapt the natural structures, to perform increased amount of work. It has no inclination to preserve the normal shapes of parts, but, on the contrary, a distinct intention to disfigure and deform, or even to deface them past all recognition. It is derived from the tissues of the part in which it first grows, yet does not of necessity reproduce them, or, if it does so, often reproduces them in a dis- orderly fashion ; or, reproducing them in a perfect form and orderly, separates them by the peculiarity of its growth from the parts in the midst of which they lie, and to which they might apparently be useful. Certain of the great groups of tumors present characters more remarkable than these; for they may be disseminated in tissues and organs remote from that in which the primary tumor grew, and not resembling it in structure or in function. The property common to hypertrophies and tumors is impulse to production. But in the hypertrophy the impulse is limited, purposive, orderly, even desirable; in the tumor it is practically without limit, useless, ill-regulated, disastrous. Yet, great as are the differences between the extreme instances of hypertrophy and tumor, specimens may be found of which it is difficult or impossible to decide to which category they shall be considered to belong. Of these, the growths which have been called by Paget1 “ continuous out- growths,” are examples. Uninterruptedly continuous with some one of the natural tissues, and formed of similar elements, it is uncertain whether they spring from a limited area of the part in which they grow, or are due to a general overgrowth of all its elements. Enlarging the tissue they affect, they yet tend rather to distort than to preserve its natural shape. Sometimes attaining an enormous bulk, they are, nevertheless, for the most part limited in growth. They are thus hypertrophies which may develop some of the distinctive properties of tumors proper; or they are tumors proper whose powers are limited by the conditions which influence hypertrophies. 1 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 22. London, 1853.