REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. 881 of the disease and, when admitted to the hospital, “ on the ninth day from the commencement of his symptoms,” “ there was complete loss of motion and sensation. It was also remarkable how entirely the functions of the brain were undisturbed throughout, contrasting strongly in this particular with a large proportion of the recorded cases of acute spinal meningitis.” These differences are easily explained by the extent of the injuries or by the other conditions which engender the disorder, and by the patient’s tempera- ment, the extent of the disease itself, and the actual presence of disease in the brain or its membranes. Treatment.—In all these cases, uninterrupted rest in bed is a remedial mea- sure of great importance. Ergot should be perseveringly administered in full doses, with a view to control the congestion of the spinal cord and its mem- branes which is present in almost all of them. Potassium iodide and the corrosive chloride of mercury should be given, together or separately, with a view to dispose of the inflammatory products. In cases tainted with syphilis, these remedies will often prove singularly useful, as I know from experience. Counter-irritation should be made over the spinal column with dry-cupping, setons, or the actual cautery. The latter especially has often been found to do much good in such cases. Progressive muscular atrophy requires the employment of the primary galvanic current to the spinal cord itself, from above downward, and of the faraclic current to each of the wasted muscles.1 Railway-injuries of tiie spine are, as a group, characterized by the coin- cident occurrence of sprains, wrenches, or twists of the vertebral column, stretching of the spinal membranes—particularly the theca—corresponding thereto, and profound concussion of the rachidian substance. Hence, in such cases there may coincidently appear inflammation of the vertebral joints, inflammation of the spinal membranes, and inflammation of the rachidian substance. Moreover, in these cases there is always peculiar difficulty experienced in determining the full extent of the damage—difficulty which is often increased very much by the absence of all external evidence of physical injury, by the obscurity and insidious character of the early symptoms, by the slowly progressive development of the secondary organic lesions, as well as of the functional derangements produced by them, and by the uncertainty whjch surrounds the ultimate issue. They therefore constitute a class of injuries which often severely tax the surgeon’s diagnostic skill and therapeu- tic resources. The nature and peculiarities of railway-injuries of the spine can be most clearly shown by presenting an example:— Mrs. J. C. F., aged 31, and married, consulted me on March 11, 1881, in regard to the effects of injuries which she had received in a railway-collision, on Christmas-eve, something more than two and one-half months before. While seated in the rear por- tion of a railway car, she suddenly saw that a collision was inevitable, and sprang to her feet, and was therefore standing when the cars collided. She was terribly shaken up and wrenched in the loins, as well as thrown about, and felt stunned, cold, and faint. There was so much depression from “ shock” that a druggist administered ammonia to excite reaction. She was in perfect health when the accident occurred, but has not seen a well moment since that time. Next day, she felt lame and sore “ all over,” and had severe pain in the lumbar region, which was increased by motion, and pain in the left hip. The pain in the loins and left hip continuing eight days after the accident, she sought for relief at the Woman’s Dispensary, when tincture of iodine appears to have been applied to the painful hip, but without doing any good whatever. At this time she had a miscarriage, being, as she tliinks, about two months advanced in preg- nancy. March 11. She says that she has not been free from the pains above mentioned 1 See also what has already been said concerning the treatment of the acute and subacute- forms of traumatic spinal meningitis and myelitis. VOL. IV.—5G