INJURIES OF BONES. 70 nose. On the next day, the swelling having subsided, a fracture was discovered begin- ning near the zygomatic arch on the right side, and extending across the upper jaw to the left side in front of the molar teeth. The fractured portion was very freely movable. Plugging of the posterior nares was resorted to, but the patient persisted in pulling the tampons away, and the hemorrhage was finally arrested by means of astringent injec- tions. About the fourteenth day an abscess formed below the right eye, although the swelling and ecchymosis had almost wholly disappeared ; this continued to discharge for some weeks, but no dead bone could at any time be felt. Union of the fracture took place readily, and on January 1, when I gave up the wards to Dr. John Ashhurst, Jr., there only remained a condition of ptosis due to tearing of the muscles above the right eyeball. This was remedied by Dr. Ashhurst by operation, January 11, and on the 20th the man went out cured. Occasionally these injuries are productive of most ghastly deformity. Thus Malgaigne mentions a case seen by him a long time after the injury, which the patient had sustained, when a child, by the kick of a horse, comminuting the nasal, upper maxillary, and palate bones, and tearing and bruising the soft parts. The nasal bones were destroyed ; the anterior portion of the alveolar arch, and most, if not all, of the vault of the palate, had likewise disappeared. He had no nose nor mouth ; the two lips being fastened together by a thick and firm cicatrix, the chin was continued up to an oval opening, formed between the two ascending processes of the maxillary bones as high as the frontal. By this one opening the patient breathed, spoke, ate and drank ; when a piece of bread was put into it, the tongue was seen to come up, and to carry it down to the molar teeth, which performed their functions very well. Concerning the symptoms and diagnosis of these cases, there is very little to be said ; the nature of the injury is generally clear enough. As to the treatment, the indications are to restore the fragments to their place as nearly as this can be done, and to keep them so until union, which generally takes place very readily, has occurred. In compound fractures, no splinters should be removed by the surgeon; they may unite, and if they do not, they will be thrown off. By the older surgeons, very complex appliances were devised, with head-bands, curved steel bars, and plates to press against the fragments. But the improved resources of modern dentistry render such apparatus, for the most part, needless ; and in the great majority of cases the retention of the fragments can be effected by means of well-fitted vulcanite splints made to fit the dental arches. When these are arranged, a bandage is put on so as to restrain the movements of the jaws. In some cases, after the first day or two, there is no difficulty in the admin- istration of liquid food by the mouth, the patient learning to take it with- out deranging the fragments or the apparatus. But should there be any awkwardness in this, rectal alimentation may be resorted to. Fractures of the Hasal Bones.—The bones of the nose are so thick, at their upper part, and so well supported, that they are not often broken except in their lower portions. Sometimes the septum suffers also ; perhaps this is more generally the case than is suspected. It is not always easy to tell how far the injury consists also in separation of the cartilages from the edges of the bones; but this certainly does occur in some instances. The mucous membrane is often ruptured, and thus the fracture is rendered compound. I have seen the nose broken by a cricket-ball, by a blow with the fist, by a blow received in boxing with the gloves, by a fall from a horse; the vio- lence is always great and direct. Oftentimes it falls a little to one side or the other, so as to drive the nose crooked ; and if this deformity is not corrected, it is very disfiguring.