MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 892 figures a case where there was one tumor in the lumbar region and another in the sacral.1 Condition of the Bone.—An examination of the vertebra at the site of the spina bifida will show that the spinous process is absent, and that the corres- ponding lamirue are also entirely absent, or more or less defective. The re- mainder of the bone is usually perfect and well developed. The osseous defect is rarely limited to one vertebra. It usually involves two or three, or more. In some few instances, in monsters, all the vertebra; have been found involved —a condition not compatible with existence. Follin and Duplay2 cite some instances where the defect in the bone extended as a cleft through the entire body of the atfected vertebra; and Bryant8 has reported the case of a woman, aged 25, who died from accident, and who presented an anterior spina bifida. Dr. John Ogle, has recorded a remarkable case of spina bifida opposite the upper lumbar vertebrae, where the body of the second lumbar vertebra was deficient, and was so pushed backward that the first and third vertebrae came almost in contact. The defect was associated with a very marked and abrupt cur- vature of the spine backwards at the scat of the spina bifida.4 * The Tumor.—The tumor varies greatly in size, and may range from a pro- trusion the size of a walnut to a mass larger than an infant’s head. Broca ex- hibited a case in an adult man, where the circumference of the tumor was 45 centimetres (17.5 inches). The usual size of the tumor at birth is from that of a bantam’s egg to that of a small orange. According to Follin and Duplay, there maybe no tumor at all, but merely a cord iform or oval patch.on the skin, asso- ciated with no elevation of any kind. It is asserted that this condition may occur with division of many vertebrae. The tumor is usually round, or oval, with its greatest axis longitudinal, and is of regular outline. The wall of the sac is thin and ultimately adherent to the skin or its representative. In cases that have existed for some years, the sac wall may become greatly thickened, and may present some calcareous change. In certain large tumors the outline of the mass may be bossy and irregular, probably from unequal resistance of the envelopes. The tumor may be sessile, but it is usually pedunculated. The size of the pedicle depends upon the size of the hole in the vertebral canal. In process of time the pedicle tends to become lengthened, a condition that depends much upon the weight of the tumor, the size of the opening into the spinal canal, and the maintenance of the vertical position.6 The skin covering the spina bifida is rarely normal. It is usually thinned and deficient, often shining and purple, and not unfrequently inflamed. In other cases ihe skin may be hard and coriaceous; it may he hairy, or in a condition of ichthyosis. Sometimes it is found to be hypertrophied, although more commonly it is deficient, and may he entirely absent. In the latter case, the spinal dura mater is exposed as a bluish-red and vascular membrane. The defective skin, moreover, maybe represented by a scanty fibrous material, not unlike cicatri- cial tissue, or the integuments may be hypertrophied at the periphery of the tumor and atrophied at its centre. The deficiency in the integuments may depend upon congenital defect in those parts, or may be due to a wasting of the coverings of the tumor, consequent upon increasing pressure from within. In many cases the coverings of the spina bifida are curiously in- flamed and appear very vascular and rugose; or they may be sloughing, or 1 Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. i. page 256. 2 Traits de Path. Externe, tome iii. p. 709. 3 Medical Gazette, 1838. 4 Path. Soc. Trans., vol. ii. page 299. 1860. 6 In a case recorded in the Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., July, 1862, page 456, the pedicle is said to have been “about a foot in length.”