OPEEATION OF EXCISION IN GENERAL. 453 instruments will be unnecessary ; the great advantage of the Butcher's saw is that its blade can be so reversed as to cut from below upwards, and in doing this care must be taken that the teeth of the saw point backwards instead of forwards; the obvious reason for this is that in sawing downwards, the force of the arm is applied in pxishing, but in sawing upwards, in pulling, and the blade of the instrument must be arranged accordingly. When the chain-saw is used, it may be simply slipped over the part to be removed, after disarticu- lating, or, in operations on the continuity of the long bones, may be adjusted by detaching one of the handles and tying the chain to a strong curved needle, which can be guided around the bone, or by employing an ingenious conductor devised for the purpose by the late Dr. Gurdon Buck, of New York. General Rules for Excision.-—The particular operative procedures which are required for excision or resection in the different regions of the body, vary of course with the locality, and with the special parts which are to be removed. It may be said, however, in general terms, that the external in- cisions, while not needlessly large, should be sufficiently free to allow fair exposure of the bones, and that they should lie, as much as possible, in the lines of the intermuscular spaces, so as to avoid unnecessary destruction of tissue. It is well, if convenient, though it is by no means essential, to make the incisions include the openings of any sinuses that may be present; they should always be so placed as to avoid any risk of injuring the principal bloodvessels and nerves. The periosteum should, for reasons already given, be preserved, when it is practicable to do so, and, as a rule, the amount of bone removed should be as small as may be consistent with the complete extirpation of the diseased structure. A good plan, in excising joints, is to take away only a thin layer of bone with the saw, and then to attack any remaining patches of caries or necrosis with the gouge, osteotrite, or trephine. The line of epiphyseal junction should not be encroached upon in operations upon children, lest the subsequent growth of the limb should be interfered with; and even in cases of adults it is important to avoid laying open the medullary canal, implication of which greatly increases the risk of destructive osteomyelitis—an affection which, as is well known, is often followed by pyiemia and death. Care must be taken, in all excisions, not to mistake bone which is merely inflamed and softened (in a condition of rnedullization) for that which is actually carious, nor bone which, as the result of inflammation, is simply thickened and roughened, for that which is necrosed. No matter how much altered in appearance the skin may be—even if it is riddled with sinuses—it and the superficial fascia should be preserved entire; the flaps, though they may at first seem redundant, will ultimately shrink and resume their natural condition. The degenerated synovial lining of the articulation may, however, advantageously be cutaway with the knife-bladed forceps; and Volkmann, of Halle, even goes so far as to recommend complete “extirpation” of the joint capsule. I am not in the habit of employing any tourniquet, or other means of controlling the circulation, during ordinary excisions, believing it safer to go slowly, and tie, if necessary, each bleeding vessel as it is cut. There are, however, no large arteries divided during the operation, and it not un- frequently happens that, when the incision is completed, no ligatures are required. The only case in which I have ever seen fatal hemorrhage after a joint-excision, was one at the Children’s Hospital, in which my colleague, the late Dr. 11. I jenox Hodge, used the Esmarch bandage—then a surgical novelty—in a case of excision of the knee. The operation, in which I assisted Dr. Hodge, presented no complication, and the wound appeared per-