346 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. those parts in which there is the greatest amount of growth, and therefore most vascularity, viz., in the following order:— 1. Lower end of femur. 2. Upper end of tibia. 3. Upper end of ulna, lower ends of humerus and of tibia. 4. Upper end of femur. 5. Upper end of humerus. The local manifestation begins with hypersemia of the parts within the bone, namely, if the site of disease be at a joint-end, hypersemia of the subdi- vided medulla and of the eancelli; then inflammatory products, solid and fluid, are rapidly poured out, and extravasation in larger blotches or smaller specks takes place. A little away from the chief focus of disease, where the action is a little less turbulent, granulations are thrown across the medullary cavity, thus cutting off the infla mmation and its morbid products from the neighbor- ing healthy parts. If the disease remain within the same limits, these granu- lations become further developed into a coarse, fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous structure, which in some cases is ultimately ossified. If the disease spread further along the central cavity, the granulations rapidly dissolve away. Whatever their fate may be, the course of the disease at its point of chief action is not thereby affected. The medulla, under the influence of inflamma- tion, loses its consistency, and rapidly breaks down into liquid oil, with which the inflammatory fluids and the extravasated blood intermingle. All this new material, being inclosed in a bony case with unyielding walls, pro- duces very considerable tension or pressure inside the cavity. But the action is not confined to the contents of the medullary canal. It either simultaneously falls on, or very soon spreads to, the bone itself and the periosteum.1 Hence, in all cases we find both these structures greatly changed; the bone is softened and red, and bleeds if cut; the Haversian canals are enlarged, and contain, besides the dilated vessels, inflammatory exudations, here and there extravasations, and oil; while the periosteum is very hyper- semic, softened, and separated from the subjacent bone by an effusion of blood- stained serum, by extravasations, and (save in diffuse cases), at the confines of the disease, by granulations. Even at this early stage all these may be mixed with blotches and drops of oil—dissolved medulla—which have been forced out of the cavity by the intraosseous pressure above alluded to. In the mean time, the parts surrounding the affected structures also par- ticipate in the inflammation, sometimes sooner,sometimes later, according to the more or less phlebitic nature of the case. The deep veins leading from the inner or from the outer parts of the bone are engorged, and either by becoming themselves inflamed, or from absorption of pus, or from both causes, permit the formation of thromboses, which often extend to a consider- able distance from the focus of disease, and involve veins having no direct connection with the bones. Hence, extravasations and blood-stained serous exudations occur in the track of vessels, chiefly in the intermuscular spaces; and in these, beginning with the deeper ones, the tissues tend to suppuration, and, if the disease persist, do actually suppurate. Thus this stage presents, supposing a transverse section to be made through a limb thus diseased, the following appearances from the centre outward: The interior of a bone (cancellous structure), which is deeply red from hyper- iemia and blotched with extravasations, and from the cavities of which flows ' In describing these pathological changes I am accustomed to teach that the outer and inner membranes of a bone are in direct continuity one with another by means of the Haversian lining- membranes and canalicular fibrillae; that there is complete reciprocity of action between those two structures, retarded only a little by the greater or lesser thickness ot the bone, that is, by their greater distance one from the other.