269 SYNOVITIS. over, the accumulated fluid presses the patella a little way forwards, away from the femoral condyles, so that when the surgeon presses it sharply back, it knocks against the deeper bone very decidedly, and at the same time the swellings at the side become still more prominent, by displacement of a wave of fluid from the front; fluctuation is thus absolutely visible. Also, when any consider- able amount of hypersecretion is in the joint, it protrudes into the popliteal space, which thus becomes shallow or even obliterated. An inflammation of the bursa patellae causes a semi-globular or conical prominence in front of and concealing that bone. It can hardly be mistaken for swelling of the joint itself, and another bursa, situated under the ligamentum patellae (occa- sionally communicating with the knee), produces very localized pain, and a swelling which resembles enlargement of the tubercle of the tibia. The special seat of pain, in the case of this joint, is a spot in front of the inner condyle, a little inside the edge of the patella. yln/A.—The ankle-joint is not unfrequently the seat of acute synovitis, but rarely of a severe character ; the disease either becomes chronic, or quickly disappears. The swelling is chiefly in front of the malleoli, more especially in front of the outer malleolus. A less degree of enlargement is observed behind, but the extensor tendons are pushed a little forward, so that the whole tume- faction stretches from behind one ankle bone around the limb to the back of the other. This characteristic serves to distinguish the affection from the effu- sion into tendinous sheaths, which so frequently follows sprains or exposure to cold. In synovitis, the swelling runs like an anklet around the limb; in the tendinous affection, it runs lengthwise on the leg, and encroaches somewhat on the instep. The constitutional symptoms of simple synovitis are very slight. If the attack be traumatic, and be accompanied by bruising, or if the pain be very severe, some slight pyrexia is usually present, but it generally subsides rapidly. Continuance of pyrexia indicates that the disease is assuming a more or less purulent character, but even then the thermometer is very little over 100° F. A higher temperature, 101.5° to 102.5° F., marks a more severe condition; it may be suppurative synovitis, or perhaps rheumatism. The former is rarely grafted upon the simple form of the disease, and is preceded, as a very general rule, by more severe pain, and more especially by rigors. Symptoms of Dry Synovitis.—The symptom of dry synovitis, which, by its prominence, masks all others, is pain. This disease rarely attacks any other joint than the knee, and, although it is not at all like the joint inflammation of acute rheumatism, it has very marked preference for persons of a rheumatic constitution. rlhe commencement is gradual, the patient suffering from only the ordinary, not very severe pain of an ordinary synovitis; the fluctuating swelling, already described, is however but slightly marked. After a few days this pain, instead of decreasing, becomes more severe ; probably a sleep- less night of considerable suffering is the first intimation of some more violent attack. Probably the surgeon, having been told of this pain, will expect to find a greatly swollen joint with signs of impending suppuration, and will be somewhat surprised to see but very little enlargement, no redness, and no appearance of increased fluid in the synovial sac. Fven the appearance of swelling which Ire observes, is not as great as it looks, as may be verified on measurement, but in this form of disease, wasting of the muscles above, is extremely rapid—more so than m the serous variety—and this causes the joint to look larger than it really is. The form of the swelling is very different from that which has been described above; it is not so round,