294 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. One point which I have left to the last, hut which is of much importance pathologically and practically, is the singular fact that all these joint-affec- tions which occur in connection with fevers, are in certain epidemics com- paratively frequent, in others extremely rare. There is at present no clue to the interpretation of this peculiarity, nor will any be found until the condi- tions of bodily temperature, dates of eruption, periods of convalescence, atmos- pheric conditions, etc., in such epidemics, ai’e carefully noted and compared. The knowledge of the fact cannot, however, be otherwise than useful to the practitioner who encounters one such event, in his interpretation of succeeding ones. Treatment of Synovitis from Absorption.—Since the joint-affections of pyaemia, whether from wound or parturition, are but local accidents of a systemic condition, the topical management of the articulations can he merely ancillary to the general treatment of pyaemia. I am very far from considering that pyaemia is a hopeless condition, as if the patient had re- ceived an irremovable dose of some necessarily fatal poison. On the con- trary, if the clinical histories and the temperature charts of a number of cases be studied, the opposite conclusion is almost inevitable. We find in the beginning a rigor, or succession of rigors, followed by a rise of tempera- ture ; after a certain number of hours the thermometer falls, then follows another rigor, and another period of pyrexia, and so on alternately. In cases in which the contagium is not very powerful, or in which the patient is of a strong constitution, the intervals between the fits of rigors are fairly pro- longed, and the temperature becomes almost normal before each succeeding attack. Where the opposite conditions obtain, the rigors succeed each other very rapidly, and the thermometer never sinks much. In the worst cases, the initial shivering fit is followed by a pyrexia which never much abates, and if rigors recur, they are ill-developed or abortive. The first of these clinical conditions evidences an alternate absorption and elimination of a morbid material—a poisoning by reiterated doses ; the second, a like series of events, but, the dose being either stronger or more rapidly absorbed, is not so fully excreted previous to the reception of a fresh instalment. In the third set of cases, the poisoning is more potent and continuous. Hence it is to be concluded that the system has great power of getting rid of the con- tagium, but that it may succumb to persistent poisoning, either continuous or remittent. These considerations suggest two methods of treatment: (1) to aid the elimination or destruction of the poison already absorbed, and so to fortify the system that it may carry out these processes to a successful issue; (2) to annul or weaken the local source where the poison is formed and whence it is absorbed. These two must in most cases be combined. In puerperal pyaemia, the source of poisoning is some sepsis within the genital tract, and there is no doubt that, if either by plentiful aseptic irrigations, or by removal of putrefying placenta and clots, or more certainly by both means combined, the source of putrefactive poison can be destroyed, the patient who has not already absorbed too much, may be saved.1 A wound which has got into such a state as to set up systemic poisoning, must be treated on the same principles, the mechanism being modified to suit the situation of the poison. Thus, it should be opened up so as to expose all its depths and crevices as completely as possible, and these must all be thoroughly washed and purified with carbolic acid, boro-glyceride, or some 1 In my work on joint-diseases, a striking example of this mode of treatment is recorded; and Dr. Matthews Duncan has published very similar cases.