88 INJURIES OF BONES. gaigne recommends an instrument like a truss, having a spring carrying two pads, one to be applied over any projecting fragment, the other at the back, and mentions a case in which he employed this apparatus with success. Fractures of the Sternum.—From the spongy structure and exposed situation of this bone, one might expect that it would be very readily broken. Yet such is not the case ; it is not often fractured, and very rarely by direct violence. When this does happen, other bones in the neighbor- hood are apt also to be involved. A good many instances, however, are upon record in which this bone has given way to indirect force, and to muscular action. A longitudinal fracture of the sternum, produced in a mason who was buried under some heavy stones, was recorded by Barrau, and is quoted by Malgaigne and Gurlt; it is the only undoubted case of the kind, as far as is known. Gurlt quotes two instances of partial fracture of this bone, the pos- terior surface alone having suffered; hemorrhage had taken place into the mediastinum in each. One, seen by Senator, was from the kick of a horse; the other, by Brotherston, from a fall of about ten feet upon the head. The following curious case is mentioned by Malgaigne:— “A man of sixty-three was knocked down by a dray, the wheel of which went up on the left side of the chest, but not getting over the trunk, passed off on to the left arm, which, however, was uninjured. The next day the man came to the hospital; a quite notable swelling occupied the upper sternal region ; and the first piece of this bone, with the cartilage of the second rib on each side, made so marked a prominence in front that I thought I had to deal with a luxation, or with a transverse fracture with overlapping. I tried various manoeuvres to accomplish reduction, but in vain ; effusion occurred in the pleura; an abscess formed above the fracture, and the patient succumbed on the thirty-third day. At the autopsy, fractures were found in the semi-ossified cartilage of the first rib on the left side, as well as in the second, third, and fifth ribs of the same side ; these had not been suspected at all. The sternum was broken transversely at the level of the third intercostal space, the upper fragment being slightly inclined backward; this fracture also had escaped notice. Lastly, a fracture, situated above and to the left, detached from the bone, as if with a knife, a sort of scale, the base of which reached from the fourchette to the level of the second costal cartilage, comprising all the left sterno-clavicular articulation, and the cutting edge of which was at the anterior face of the bone; the abscess had formed at the seat of this fracture.” Malgaigne quotes from Duverney a case in which a ten-pin player, who bent forward to watch his ball, fell, striking a large stone; he was taken up dead, with a fracture of the sternum. I must say that this account is not full enough to be satisfactory, as some other lesion must have been pre- sent. Gibson1 says that, in 1839, he saw in the museum of the London Uni- versity a heart, the right ventricle of which had been lacerated by a fractured sternum ; and he cites a like case from Sanson. A number of instances are on record in which fracture of the sternum would seem to have been caused by the impact of the chin, the vertebrce giving way and allowing the head to be forced forward and downward. Four such cases were observed by Hodgen;2 in three of them the patients had fallen backward, striking on the shoulders. Bivington3 mentions a case in which— “ An acrobat, *t. 30, in turning a double somersault, fell about ten feet on to the back of his head. He came down on some tan, and his head was violently flexed on to his chest. The injury caused a separation between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, 1 Op. cit., p. 253. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, Am. ed., vol. i. p. 752. 3 British Medical Journal, January 31, 1874.