TUMORS. 5t>6 differ in appearance or in structure from other fatty growths. Their sensi- bility has been attributed to their containing nerve-fibres, but is much more probably due to pressure upon a nervous twig. With removal of the tumor, the distress which it occasions ceases. Appearance after Removal.—The appearance of a typical fatty tumor, after removal, is that of a lobed mass of soft and yellow fat, inclosed in a thin, firm, fibrous capsule, from which septa pass into the interior of the growth, separating and confining its lobes. But, as the clinical characters vary, so may the appearance of the tumor. The firmer growths are composed of a tougher adipose tissue, in the form of numerous tiny pellets, and of a large quantity of fibrous tissue. Many of the lipomas are not separate, encapsuled tumors, but continuous outgrowths of adipose tissue, whose boundaries are indistin- guishable. In fact, a certain limited area of the patient’s tissues has become obese, and if the condition were more extensive, and affected the whole body, it would be regarded merely as excessive corpulence. The microscopic cha- racters of lipoma resemble those of normal adipose tissue, but the fat-contain- ing cells are generally of larger size. (Plate XVIII. Fig. 1.) Metamorphoses and Combinations.—Fatty tumors are not liable to many degenerations, nor do they tend to become organized. Occasionally they soften and become in great part fluid by mucous degeneration; or mucous cysts are formed within them. This transformation of adipose to mucous tissue may be regarded as a retrograde step, in which the perfectly-developed tissue resumes its immature condition. Calcification of lipomas has been described, but the calcification is probably always of the fibrous septa of the tumor, or of masses of fibrous tissue included in it. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital are several examples of these calcified lipomas, two of which contain central masses of calcified material, while in two others the fibrous septa of the tumor have undergone calcareous transformation. The mingling of fatty with other tissues is not very rare. Thus, fibrous tissue is invariably present in a fatty tumor, and in the firmer sorts is often present in almost equal quantity with fat. It is probable that some of the tumors which are partly fatty, partly mucous, are rather composite tumors than due to the metamorphosis of a perfectly developed fat. A few rare examples of fatty tumor contain an undue proportion of vessels, and are almost ntevoid. The term lipoma telangeiectodes has been applied to them, but it is an unwieldy and unnecessary term. Such tumors appear to be in reality degenerated mevi. I have seen two such beneath the muscles over the ribs of young subjects, and a third diffused among the normal structures of the sole of the foot of a little girl, in whom it was the seat of extreme pain, which necessitated its removal by a troublesome dissection. Some of the congenital fatty tumors contain tissues which certainly would not have been expected in them. Thus, bone has been found in one or two instances; and a small rounded tumor removed by Mr. Smith from an infant’s perineum, where it sat behind and closely resembled the scrotum in size and shape, and in the wrinkling of its surface, contained a long slender stalk of hyaline cartilage. The tumors which are large and pendulous are liable to inflammation and ulceration. Over some of them the skin sloughs in large areas, leaving foul ulcers of forbidding aspect, which may even lie the source of troublesome hemorrhage. Fatty tumors are, however, not usually very vascular. Treatment.—The treatment orf fatty tumors is generally very simple. A solitary tumor, if it be growing, should be removed. If it be lobed and not