INJURIES OF BONES. 12 ice and snow, falls upon it are perhaps more apt to result in fracture of bones; but on the other hand, in milder weather, out-door occupations are more ex- tensively carried on, whether in the way of work or of sport, and a great many accidents occur to those engaged in them. Something may now he said of the local predisposing causes of fracture. The exposed situations of certain bones, and of certain portions of those bones, render them especially liable to breakage. Tables are given by sys- tematic authors, derived mainly from hospital records, showing with more or less accuracy the relative distribution of fractures over the skeleton, from a comparison of large numbers of cases. Such tables, as far as I have been able to find and compare them, agree in sustaining the following general statement of the comparative liability to fracture of the different portions of the skeleton: The greatest number of fractures occur in the hones of the leg; then follow the thigh, the arm, the forearm, the clavicle, the ribs, the facial bones (including of course the lower jaw), and the patella. A more detailed exhibit would scarcely be of practical value here, but can be found in the writings of Malgaigne, Gurlt, Norris, and others, by those who may be interested in the matter. Inflammation of a bone has been assigned as a cause of such weakening of its texture as to render it apt to give way. Nicod’s two cases, quoted by Malgaigne,1 * seem to bear this explanation; in each the patient had had pains for about a month in the humerus, which broke under very slight stress. Caries and necrosis, by depriving a bone of a portion of its thickness, may lead to the snapping of the remainder. Tubercle of bone may so alter it as to make it unequal to the resisting of fracturing forces; and in a very few instances the same result has been re- corded of cystic or hydatid tumors. For details of five such cases, the reader is referred to GurltJ With regard to the development and natural history of sarcomata of the long bones, by which they have sometimes been similarly affected, much information may he found in a paper by Dr. S. W. Gross.3 The central sarcomata would seem to be those most apt to weaken the bony structures so as to predispose them to fracture. Spontaneous Fractures.—Spontaneous fractures, so called, are such as oc- cur without any apparently adequate cause. Thus Erichsen4 says that he knew a gentleman a little over fifty years of age, seemingly in perfect health, whose thigh gave way with a loud snap as he turned in bed. Gross5 mentions the case of a gentleman aged 54, who broke his femur in pulling off’ a boot. Other like instances are on record. In a larger class of cases, there is evidence more or less clear of a precedent diseased condition of the hones; and to designate these, Prof. Broca6 sug- gested “ pathological” as a more accurate term. Thus there may have been previous complaint of pain at or near the seat of fracture ; and in some cases malignant disease has been present at the time, as in those recorded by Salter and S. Cooper.7 Sometimes there is a local development of the disease in the bone, previous to its giving way, as in the case quoted from Petit by Malgaigne ;8 or again, the fracture is the first sign of the bone becoming 1 Op. cit., tome i. p. 23 ; Translation, p. 34. 8 Op. cit., S. 193. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July and October, 1879. 4 Science and Art of Surgery, 1873 (Am. ed.), vol. i. p. 303. 5 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 899. 6 Gaz. des Hopitaux, 15 Avril, 1876 ; Med. Times and Gazette, May 13, 1876. 7 Salter, Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xv.; Cooper, ibid. vol. xvii. 8 Op. cit., tome i. p. 13 ; Translation, p. 26.