479 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. acter of the swelling, and the degree to which passive motion could be carried, rendered it probable that the affection bad begun in the synovial membrane and had thence spread to the ligamentous and cartilaginous structures, and that it was, in tact, an exam- ple of the condition described by Barwell as strumous, and by Athol Johnstone as scrofulous synovitis, and which 1 have myself ventured to call gelatinous arthritis. No benefit having resulted from careful treatment by rest and moderate extension in the hands of the gentleman who bad bad charge of the case before it came under my care, and being fully satisfied that the disease had progressed too far to admit of recovery without operative interference, I determined to resort to excision, and accordingly, on January 27,1870, the patient having been placed under the influence of ether, I opened the joint by a single longitudinal incision on its inner and posterior side, and, turning out the bones, removed with Butcher’s saw their articulating extremities, taking a mere shaving from the head of the radius, which was not diseased. I then clipped away the disorganized soft tissues, closed the wound with the lead suture, and placed the arm at rest on a well-padded internal angular splint. The accompanying illustrations (Figs. 703 and 704) show the condition of the articu- lating surfaces of the humerus and ulna. The articular cartilage has disappeared from the radial head (capitellum) of the former, and from the greater sigmoid cavity of the latter bone, and at these spots the osseous tissue is seen to be exposed and carious. For several months after the operation the patient’s condition was satisfactory, and there appeared to be every prospect of the case terminating successfully; but, during the month of May, he underwent a severe attack of traumatic erysipelas, and shortly after convalescing from this affection became wildly delirious, with fever, intense head- ache, screaming, and the presence of a well-marked tache cerebrale, and died on June 7, nearly nineteen weeks after the operation. A post-mortem examination showed, as was expected, that the cause of death was tuberculous meningitis. In the following case the operation gave the patient a very useful arm, though anchylosis occurred as regards flexiou and extension. Had the patient been more persevering in exercising the limb, or had I ventured, as I have in more recent cases, to abandon the splint at an earlier period, the result would doubtless have been still more satisfactory :— Suppurative Arthritis of Right Elbow resulting from Injury; Excision; Recovery. —Josephine K., aged seven years, was admitted to the Children’s Hospital on October 16, 1870, suffering from arthritis of the right elbow, the result of an injury received some six months previously. The joint was painful and tender, hot, and swollen, par- ticularly at its radial side. After a fair trial of the effect of rest, with the administra- tion of tonics and the topical use of soothing applications, excision was resolved upon, and on December 19, 1870, the patient having been etherized, the operation was per- formed, the joint being laid open by a single longitudinal incision, and the articulating Fig. 703. Fig. 704. Lower end of humerus removed by excision of elbow. Upper end of ulna removed by excision of elbow.