MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 898 birth, the tumors were simply kept covered up with cotton-wool smeared with vaseline, and some slight pressure was maintained over the part by means of a bandage. The history and progress of the two cases are so similar that they may be treated as one. In time the tumor increased in size and in tense- ness, the child became restless and convulsed, and the undue tension in the cyst appeared to be the cause of these fresh symptoms. The tumor was then tapped as far from the middle line as possible, with the finest trocar, and enough fluid (about 1J drachms) let out to relieve the tension. The wool was then reapplied, and the pressure of the bandage again maintained. Im- mediate relief followed. In the child aged nine months I have thus punc- tured the cyst, I dare say, a dozen times, but the necessity for such punctures has become less and less frequent, and the operation has not been performed for the last three months. The tumor is now apparently stationary. The child is still—as it always has been—partially paralyzed in its lower limbs; but it has had no convulsions for months, and it is in fair health. As far as I can judge, there is in this case a large defect in the bone, and the cord is in the sac. But what operation can be done—as far as our present knowledge goes—to close this defect and restore the cord to its proper place ? To ligature or to excise the mass would probably be to ligature or excise the cord or some part of it, and I can hardly believe that iodine injection could loosen any adhesions that may exist between the cord and the sac, restore the cord to its proper canal, and close the defect in the bone. In the child aged six months, the tumor is increasing, but is kept within bounds by fre- quent tapping—sometimes once a week, or once a fortnight—and the child appears, apart from the tumor, to be well. I think, then, that in certain cases, the treatment by puncture and gentle pressure may be advised, not, perhaps, so much as a means of cure, but as a measure for prolonging life and rendering: the existence of the patient less distressing than it might be. I can, however, well believe that it may in some cases lead to a cure, although a paraplegia or other gross nerve-lesion may persist. It would appear that the smallest possible puncture is the best, and that it should always be made, when available, through healthy skin. The less fluid drawn off at each operation the better. It is merely required to lessen the tension. The sub- sequent pressure should be slight and evenly applied. I believe that this treatment originated with Sir Astley Cooper. That surgeon at least reported two cases where he had adopted this measure and with very good success.1 The practice of simple puncture, with evacuation of the entire amount of the contained fluid, is strongly to be condemned. It would appear to have led in most cases to severe and fatal convulsions, and in certain instances to almost sudden death. It must be remembered that puncture under any cir- cumstances may be followed by inflammation of the sac. (2) Injection.—This mode of treatment has so far been the most successful that has been made use of in this deformity. Many fluids have been used for injection, but the only one that has proved of any practical use is iodine. The tumors best suited for this method of treatment are those that present the condition most favorable for spontaneous cure, and it is in such cases that successful results have, for the most part, been obtained. When there is a free communication between the sac and the spinal canal, and when the cord or the large nerves enter into the protrusion, the success of the operation, and indeed its very advisability, are matters of considerable doubt. There are many who maintain that the treatment by injection is not justifiable when the hole leading from the sac to the cavity of the spinal membranes is 1 Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. ii. page 324. Bryant, in his “Surgery,” 2d ed., vol. i. page 257, gives an account and a drawing of a case cured by repeated puncture with a needle.