9G INJURIES OF BONES. 8 Op. cit., p. 830. 4 Loc. cit., vol. xix. p. 262. careful and thorough exploration ma}T fail to ascertain the full extent of the injury. Malgaigne quotes from Lyon a case in which “seven or eight frac- tures were discovered by dissection, although no crepitation had been per- ceptible during life, from any movement whatever of the pelvis.” I myself know of an instance in which a fracture of the horizontal ramus of the pubis on each side, of the ascending ramus of the ischium on each side, and of the sacrum vertically, with much comminution of its lower extremity and partial separation of the right sacro-iliac symphysis, entirely escaped detection during life. The urethra was ruptured across, and this lesion caused the patient’s death a day or two after the accident. The gravity of fractures of the pelvis is due to the complications apt to attend them, rather than to the injury inflicted on the bone. Several cases have been mentioned in which death was the result of rupture of the bladder or urethra. It is not always easy to explain how the bladder is in- volved, as in some instances the fracture of the pubis is so far from the median line that the fragments can scarcely be supposed to have lacerated it, unless greatly distended, and still more difficult is it to understand in what way the urethra is torn across. Yet very possibly the fracturing force may greatly displace the fragments, which subsequently are restored to their natural posi- tion, or nearly so, by the elasticity of the bony structure ; or the urethra may be subjected to violent stress between a foreign body below and the pubic arch above—a supposition rendered more likely by the contused and bruised condition of the tissues of the perineum in some of these cases. Swan1 relates several interesting cases of fracture of the pelvis, in one of which two inches of the urethra were found at the autopsy to have been torn away. The patient had fallen from a horse, breaking the right pubis through its body and ramus, and separating it at the symphysis. In another case, the patient having been run over by a loaded wagon, the fracture involved the arch of the pubis, several other portions of the ischium and pubis, the right acetabulum, and the right sacro-iliac symphysis. The bladder had a large rent in its anterior part, and the urethra was torn completely through. Earle2 records a very curious case, in which, by a fall from a carriage, “the symphysis pubis was separated to the extent of three inches, and the sacro- iliac symphysis on the left side was nearly separated and gaped to the extent of more than an inch. The prostate gland had been torn away from the bladder, leaving a large aperture communicating directly with the cavity of that viscus. The urethra still retained its connection with the ligament on the right side of the pubis, and the prostate gland hung loose in a cavity filled with coagulum. An extensive laceration communicated with the rectum.” Fragments of the fractured pubis have been known to make their way into the bladder. Tillaux3 saw such a case, and quotes one from Lenoir, in which the bit of bone became the nucleus of a stone. He mentions also that Nelaton once extracted, through the vagina, a fragment which had wounded the blad- der. By mere pressure, a displaced fragment may obstruct the passage of a catheter. The great vessels are not often wounded in cases of fracture of the pelvis, although it would seem as if they readily might be. Earle4 reports a case, in which, by a fall from a third story window, the left os innominatum was separated at the symphysis pubis and sacro-iliac junction, and “ Avas forced upward to a considerable extent. The common iliac vein on that side had been torn through, and the pelvis was filled with blood.” The patient, who ■ Mrd.-Chir. Trans., vol. xii. 8 Ibid., vol. xix. p. 257.