SPONDYLITIS DEFORMANS. 915 portions of the column may become converted into a solid, bony mass. The lateral osteophytes just alluded to may attain considerable size, and are often singularly symmetrical on the two sides. In addition to these outgrowths, or independent of them, irregular, bony masses may form in front of the verte- brae, apparently in the substance of the anterior common ligament, and may also serve to bind contiguous bones together. Such a bond is more often effected by the locking of the osteophytic processes than by their actual fusion, although the latter condition is to be met with. With regard to the articular processes, they become denuded of cartilage; the bone, thereby exposed, becomes more or less ebumated; osseous masses form about the rim of the bone; and the process may end in true bony anchy- losis, or in a firm locking of the joint by the development of the osteopliytic masses. Dr. Hilton Fagge1 records a case of rigid cyphosis in a man aged 34, where there was complete bony anchylosis of the articular processes in the dorsal region, together with firm union of the corresponding lamime and spines by means of coarse, new bone. The bodies in this case were free from any osteophytic growth, but were so rarefied and wasted that the spine was fractured after death by the simple act of placing the body in the coffin. Bouvier and Bouland, speaking of anchylosed cyphosis, allude to the occur- rence of this fusion of the lamina} and spinous processes, but insist, at the same time, upon its extreme rarity.2 In some instances the costo-vertebral joints are affected, and the ribs become firmly anchylosed to the spine. As a result of the above-mentioned changes, the column becomes arched posteriorly, and a more or less extensive cyphosis is developed. This curve is generally quite regular, and its extent will, of course, depend upon the extent of the disease. I have met with two or three instances, in specimens obtained from the dissecting-room, where the cyphosis was associated with a certain amount of lateral deviation, the lateral curve being, like that in the antero-posterior direction, quite rigid. The fixity of the column in its false position is a very marked feature of the disease. The changes observed in the bones themselves are all usually most marked about the summit or greatest concavity of the curve. As a result of the curvature, of the bone changes, of the absorption of the intervertebral disks, etc., the entire column becomes diminished in height; and, as a result of its rigid condition, the muscles about the back atrophy, and often become very shrunken. The bony masses that are developed about the affected district may press upon the nerves, as they issue from the interverte- bral foramina, and lead to a limited paralysis; and, according to Senator,3 the spinal deformity may be of such a character as to cause compression or irritation of the cord with its attendant consequences. Spondylitis deformans in the upper cervical region is attended with like changes in the atlo-occipital and atlo-axoid joints. The articular cartilages and the intervertebral disks may become absorbed, osteophytic deposits form about the rim of the affected joint-cavities, and a rigid anchylosis, that may depend upon fusion of the bones involved, is the common and the final result. In some cases, where the axis is conspicuously affected, the odontoid process may be found irregular in outline and greatly enlarged. Ho curve is formed when the disease attacks this region, but the joints become fixed, and the movements of the head being thus more or less restricted, a constrained position is assumed. Lastly, at least one case has been put on record of de- generation of the cord following disease in this portion of the spine.4 1 Trans. Path. Society, vol. xxviii. p. 201. London, 1877. 2 Loo. cit. 3 Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Medicine, vol. xvi. 1877. 4 E. Rotter. Deutsches Archiv f. klin. Med., Bd. xiii. S. 403. 1874.