98 INJURIES OF BONES. will be evident. Flexion of the thighs on the trunk, as well as of the body forward, will be indicated in any such case. A few words may finally be said as to the prognosis in fractures of the pelvis. In simple, uncomplicated cases, there may be no grave symptoms from first to last, and entire recovery may take place. When the bladder or urethra has sustained injury, the risk is greatly increased; and the more so the nearer the lesion is to the cavity of the peritoneum. Complete rupture of the urethra has always, as far as I know, proved fatal. Peritonitis constitutes a very serious complication, but, as in one of my cases above mentioned, may yield to treatment. The other concomitant injuries referred to have always hitherto resulted in death. In non-fatal cases there has sometimes been permanent lameness, but not very great, nor involving serious disability. Occasionally, when recovery takes place from fracture of the pelvis, un- pleasant after-effects manifest themselves. Thus, in the Pennsylvania Hos- pital Museum, there is a specimen,1 taken from a man who had been crushed by a moving car, and who was discharged cured, to be readmitted eighteen months afterward ; he was then “ suffering from severe sciatic pain, but was able to walk with canes, sitting down, however, only with difficulty. An examination rendered it probable that there was a large amount of callus pressing upon the sciatic nerve, with, perhaps, a fracture of the femur. An operation was performed for removing the head of the femur. Subsequent to the operation, suppurative fever or pyaemia supervened, and death followed on the ninth day.” The specimen shows “that the pelvis had sustained a fracture, separating the pubic portion of the bone from the ilium, passing from about the sciatic notch posteriorly to the acetabulum. This is firmly united, but along the line of the fracture, extending forward into the acetabu- lum, and posteriorly covering more than half the sciatic nerve, are abundant, firm, but porous exostoses. From the spine of the ischium is a hook-like projection, partially surrounding the track of the sciatic nerve. At the junc- tion of the ilium and the ramus of the pubis is a groove measuring nearly an inch in depth, which carried the tendons of the iliacus and psoas muscles. The head of the femur cannot be replaced in its socket, and, at the time of the operation, was found resting in the sciatic region.” Fractures of the Clavicle. The clavicle, by its articulation with the sternum, affords the upper extrem- ity its only fixed connection with the skeleton of the trunk. Its outer end has a seemingly large, but really quite limited range of motion, and is fast- ened to the scapula, not only by the small acromio-clavicular joint, but by the wide and strong coraco-clavicular ligament. At its sternal end this bone is thickest; thence to near the middle it is rounded ; here it is flattened below, and turns upward ; toward the outer end it becomes very broad and flat, curving forward. The degree of curve varies in different bones, as does also the irregularity of shape just noted, and the size and thickness of the whole bone. Besides the double curve, there is a more or less marked double twist in the clavicle. As to its muscular attachments, this bone is mainly, indeed almost wholly, an intermediate bone; being placed between the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid and the costo-clavicular ligament, the latter being really 1 No. 111616, Catalogue (Supplement), p. 22.