830 INJURIES OF THE BACK. On the 14th, at 6 P. M., he was admitted to the hospital, with complete motor and sensory paralysis of the entire body, below the third rib in front and the fourth rib behind. The decubitus was dorsal, with head and neck thrust forward. The respira- tion was purely abdominal (diaphragmatic). The penis was strongly erected. Neither urine nor feces had been passed since the accident. On the 15th, A. M., a red spot, nearly two hands’ size, was observed upon the left nates, and vesication in the fissure near the extremity of the coccyx. In the evening, marked increase of temperature all over the surface of the body was found, and a pur- plish spot, the commencement of a slough, low down in the cleft of the nates. On the 16th, A. M. A purple spot commencing over the third or fourth lumbar vertebra ; some haematuria ; and considerable tympanites. 7\ P. M. Great dyspnoea ; bronchial tubes and trachea filled with secretion. On the 17th. The incipient bed-sores no further developed ; patient delirious at times through the day. 7 P. M. Entire anaesthesia and paralysis of both arms—they were not paralyzed early in the afternoon ; great tympanites ; urine high-colored ; priapism always induced by passing the catheter ; was conscious and sane. 9 P. M. Comatose and insensible ; eyes suffused ; convulsive movement of lower jaw ; body still hot; pulse full and strong. Ilf P. M. Died quietly, comatose, and without general convulsions, four days plus four and three-fourth hours after the accident. Autopsy Body of seventh cervical vertebra fractured transversely and completely ; ligamenta subflava completely disrupted; the vertebra dislocated; spinal cord not lacerated ; brain moderately con- gested. Pathological condition of the cord not described.1 The ascending and deep- ening character of the paralysis, however, denotes, under the circumstances, that there was ascending myelitis. In a case related on page 796 (supra) the initial symptoms of neuropathic sphacelus simultaneously occurred at several different points in the lower extremities, in less than twenty-four hours after the spinal lesion :— The patient was a derrick-man, aged 41, admitted to Bellevue Hospital, in Dr. Stephen Smith’s service, two hours after he had sustained a fracture of the tenth dorsal vertebra, with complete paraplegia, in consequence of being thrown from a cart and striking his back upon the stony street. Next morning it was observed that sloughs had commenced to form upon the heel and upon the ball of the great toe of his left foot, and over the external malleolus of his right ankle, without any apparent cause; several hours afterwards, death ensued in consequence of compression of the spinal cord by extravasated blood. In a case recorded by Dr. L. Buchner, of Darmstadt, in which a man, aged 46, had sustained complete diastasis of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae by falling from a height, and in which death supervened sixty hours after the accident, a well-marked bed-sore of spinal origin was already visible. (Gurlt.) It has been claimed by many that anaesthesia is an essential factor in the causation of bed-sores having a spinal origin. This view, however, is nega- tived by the case of a young woman, aged 22, related by Professor Ilammond, which i have presented on page 826 ; for, in that case, a large sacral eschar appeared, although the patient had never been confined wholly to bed, and had never been entirely unable to walk; and, therefore, of course, had never had complete paraplegia, nor anything like profound anaesthesia. This view is also negatived by an example of vertebral fracture reported by Jeffreys :—2 The patient was a man, who was injured by a fall of twenty-five feet from a ladder. There was much shock, with a cold skin, and a barely perceptible pulse. All the parts below the fracture were deprived of sensibility and voluntary motion. Next day there was persistent priapism; “then supervened phlyctenae in the region of the sacrum ;” and, on the same day, “the patient recovered his sensibility.” Death, however, 1 New York Journal of Medicine, January, 1859, pp. 85-87. * London Medical Journal, July, 1826.