DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 410 To bend a straight knee, is an easier and simpler operation than to gain good position in the opposite direction, and it is not attended with the danger of subluxation. The most convenient method I find to be this: Place the patient on a narrow couch, or, if such be inaccessible, on the side of his bed, so that the part to he treated may be next the edge. Choose a block or stool of such height that when the operator’s foot rests upon it, his knee shall be on a level with the surface of the couch or bed. When the patient is thoroughly anaesthetized, his thigh is abducted at the hip and is laid across the operator’s knee, resting upon it as upon a support, with the part just above the popliteal space. By grasping the leg a little above the malleoli, the surgeon has now ample leverage, and by successive small but quick jerks may bend the joint with facility, unless the anchylosis be very firm. The advantage which the operator gains by using his knee as a support is, that it acts as a gauge of the power he is employing, and prevents its becoming excessive, while his position is mechanically favorable. To straighten a bent knee, the patient may be placed in one of two positions: (1) he may he on his back upon a sufficiently firm couch or mattress, and a cer- tain convenience is obtained if this be only just wide enough for the patient to lie safely—for instance, unless ample manual aid be forthcoming, it may be advisable to secure, with a broad strap, the patient’s thigh to the bed ; or (2) the patient, when etherized, may be turned over on his face. This posture gives to the surgeon certain mechanical advantages, as the front of the thigh, upon which the counteracting force falls, is supported by the mattress. The objec- tion to this posture is that much more difficulty is experienced in accurately noting the effect produced; hence I greatly prefer the former posture. In either case, the thigh being well fixed by bands or otherwise, the operator first bends the knee still further, and then by a number of short, sharp jerks impels it in the direction of extension. Two points have in the mean time to be watched, viz., that the tuberosity of the tibia really follows the for- ward movement, and that neither rotation nor lateral movement of the leg or of the thigh is produced. Moreover, I would point out that it is often wise to abstain from pushing a first operation too far. These points will be further considered immediately. After a certain amount of rectification, according to the case, has been gained, further advance is often prohibited by a peculiar, elastic, yet invin- cible, resistance ; and, on placing his hand on the popliteal space, the surgeon will feel the hamstrings, and probably also the fascia, very tense. Nothing further can be effected till these are divided. For division of the hamstrings, the punctures should never be made in the popliteal space, but at the sides of the limb, on the outer side of the outer, and the inner side of the inner tendons. The subcutaneous passage should be pretty long, and the section made towards the skin as near the tibial insertion as possible. In performing this operation on the biceps tendon, the fingers of the left hand should be well pressed in, close to that part, so as to separate it from the external popliteal nerve. Often a band of fascia running obliquely down the popliteal space must also be divided. Cautions.—If the patella be inseparably fixed to the femur, the propriety of interference is more than doubtful, unless the deformity be very considerable. Mobility of the tibia on the femur, the patella being fixed, is nearly always disadvantageous, since the patient has very little control over the lower leg in the direction of extension ; whence it becomes a very unreliable support. If the flexion be such as to make the limb a mere encumbrance, an attempt to straighten it may be made, the patient understanding that he will have to wear an instrument for probably some years. But before undertaking such an operation, the position in which the patella is fixed must be ascertained; this