FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, COSTAL CARTILAGES, AND STERNUM. 83 already been made of two cases of “willow fracture” of the ribs from gun- shot, noticed during the late war. Direct violence may affect only a limited area, and one rib only may be broken; or it may crush a large portion of the chest-wall. Indirect violence generally acts in the latter way. Blows with the fist or with weapons, falls against resisting objects, etc., are the chief direct causes of fracture in this region. Of indirect causes, one of the most frequent is the passage of a wheel over the chest; the caving in of earth, crushing under heavy falling bodies, and the pressure of crowds, have also been noted. Double fractures are not unfrequent. An important difference obtains between the effects of these two forms of violence. Direct force is apt to drive the broken ends inward, so that the inner wall of the bone or bones gives way first, and is more extensively splintered; and, hence, injury to the pleura or lung is more apt to ensue, either as a primary or secondary effect. By indirect violence, on the other hand, the arch of the thoracic wall is bowed outward, and the fragments are caused to project. For an obvious reason, when the ribs are broken by direct force, the line of separation is apt to be less oblique than when the fracture is due to indirect violence. Fractures of the ribs by forces acting from without, are much more com- mon in men than in women, the habits and occupations of the former involving more exposure to such causes of injury. Muscular action has been observed as a cause of fracture of the ribs in a large number of instances. It is not easy to understand the mechanism of such lesions, unless we suppose that they are the result of a sudden pull by the extra-thoracic muscles, as by the serratus magnus (its lower part), the shoulders being fixed. Coughing has been the action to which these accidents have been most frequently due; the portion of the chest involved has been near or below the middle, and, whether from coincidence or not, almost always the left side. Thus Despres1 has recorded the case of a woman, aged 53, who broke “the eleventh left rib, four fingers’ breadths from its junction with the car- tilage,” in a fit of coughing. Doit2 reported a fracture of the sixth left rib in its anterior third, produced in the same way, the patient being a man, aged 59. Malgaigne mentions a case observed at the Hopital Necker, in which “ there took place in less than one month three successive fractures, affecting first the tenth, then the ninth, and, lastly, the eleventh rib.” One case is related by Castella,3 in which a fracture of the ninth rib on the left side, was caused by sneezing. Gurlt quotes from Groninger a case in which the seventh and eighth ribs gave way in a robust man of 45, as he made a great effort to save himself from falling. Xancrcde4 records the case of a robust Englishman, aged 44, who sustained a fracture of the second rib on the right side, in an effort to straighten a scythe-blade. Fractures of the ribs are rarely either compound or comminuted ; they are very generally complicated with pleurisy, although this may be of very limited extent. The chief symptoms of fracture of a rib are pain and difficulty of breathing, which are combined so as to constitute what is known as “a stitch in the side.” The respiration is apt to be largely abdominal; as a rule, the patient can lie indifferently on either side. Cough, slight and suppressed, but con- stant, and troublesome from the pain caused by it, is very generally present; 1 Gazette des Hopitaux, 2S FGv. 1882. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, May 6, 1882, from L’Union Medicate, 29 Avril. 3 Ibid., Jan. 25, 1852, from Gaz. des Hopitaux, 18(31. 4 I’kiladelphia Med. Times, May 23, 1874.