744 INJURIES OF THE BACK. dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and dyspnoea. The displacement was reduced by extension and pressure. In six weeks the man recovered. (Ashhurst.) Crowfoot reports1 the case of a coachman, aged 42, who in driving under an arch struck the back of his neck against a beam. There was displacement forward of the ninth dorsal vertebra, and of the tenth, backward, with paralysis. He was treated by continuous extension with success, and resumed his occupation in one year; slight deformity, however, remained. (Ashhurst.) After reduction, should the displacement reappear, and particularly if the dislocated bone should manifest a disposition to slip out of place again, it will be advisable to make the extension continuous, which may be done in several different ways; but, probably, with the least amount of trouble, by raising the head of the bedstead upon blocks so as to make of the bed itself an inclined plane sloping downward to the foot, when, by attaching with a suitable band the upper part of the patient’s body to the head of the bedstead, the desired result would be obtained. Continuous extension might also be advantageously employed in cases where attempts at immediate reduction had failed, with a reasonable hope that, under its influence aided by the patient’s posture in bed, the luxated bone would be induced to slip into place again. To sum up this branch of the treatment—the surgeon should seek to restore the displaced vertebra to its normal position by some one of, or, should the occasion recpiire, by all the means of effecting reduction which have just been pointed out, that is, by arranging the patient’s posture in bed, upon the back or upon the belly, according to the case ; by making extension and counter- extension, under amesthetics, with the help of skilled assistants; or by making continuous extension, which the surgeon can generally accomplish without skilled help. Having fulfilled the first therapeutical indication, the surgeon must at once take care that the paralyzed bladder does not become over-filled with urine; for, should this occur, much harm would ensue. To this end, catheterization must he cautiously practised at least twice a day, with a soft instrument; and, at each time, the surgeon should cautiously compress the paralyzed blad- der with his own hand, applied to the abdominal walls of the patient, in order to secure a complete evacuation of the viscus; for any urine that might he allowed to remain in it would, by undergoing decomposition, cause unneces- sary mischief. Vesical and even renal inflammation may readily ensue in these cases. But this subject will be found to be more fully discussed under the head of Disorders of the Urinary Organs arising from Lesions of the Spinal Cord. The surgeon must also take care that the patient is provided with such a bed as will least favor the occurrence of bed-sores; the best is a water-bed, the next best a good hair mattress. The surgeon must at every visit examine the private parts and buttocks of the patient, in order to see, for himself, that they are kept dry and clean, and are not inflamed, and that no gangrenous bleb nor eschar is forming. Motions of the bowels, when needed, should be procured by enemata rather than by purgatives. Immediately after a motion, the parts should be completely freed from feces by carefully wiping them, and then they should he cleansed by applying a spirit-lotion containing two per cent, of carbolic acid. This topic, however, will be more fully discussed under the head of Sacral Eschars and Acute Bed-Sores arising from Lesions of the Spinal Cord. The occurrence of consecutive meningitis and myelitis must also be obvi- ated as much as possible. I have already shown by a brief mention of seven 1 Trans. Prov. Med. and Surg. Assoc., 1853.