INJURIES OF BONES. 256 has reported a ease of compound comminuted fracture of the astragalus, the malleoli being unbroken ; recovery took place with a movable joint. In a case seen by Bryant,1 a compound, complicated fracture of the head of the bone was produced by a fall from a height of some ten or twelve feet, the patient alighting on his feet. The head of the bone was removed, and the body of it restored to its normal position. Recovery ensued “ with some use of the limb.” The symptoms of fracture of the astragalus are only obscure when there has been great violence, and swelling occurs rapidly. If there is luxation of either portion, the deformity will call attention to it, when crepitus will probably be readily detected. When the bone retains its place, there will be tenderness on pressure across it, and crepitus may be perceptible. Walk- ing, or standing on the injured foot, will be impossible. Swelling and ecchy- mosis will almost certainly come on ; but a patient in my wards at the Episcopal Hospital, in 1882, presented neither of these symptoms, although the line of fracture could easily be felt, and crepitus was distinct. The treatment in uncomplicated cases consists simply in keeping the foot at rest and preventing or allaying inflammation. When there is luxation, it may be a question whether the fragment should be removed or left to itself, if reduction is found to be impossible. In Norris’s case one fragment was excised, and the other was allowed to remain; it became carious and loose, and was removed, but the adjoining bones also became carious, and at length amputation of the leg was performed, with a fatal result. In deciding the question of operation, the patient’s age, habits, and constitution must be taken into account, the prospects of a young and sound person, who has never been debilitated by excesses or hardships, being much better than those of an old, or dissipated, or broken-down subject. When the fracture is merely compound, the surgeon should be guided by general principles. So great a probability of permanent stiffening of the ankle exists in all these cases, that a very guarded prognosis should be given. Fracture of the os calcis was formerly supposed to be always the result of muscular action ; but it is now known to have occurred in a number of instances by crushing. I believe that the two causes are apt to be combined, the tension of the muscles of the calf acting strongly upon the posterior portion of the bone, and exerting a leverage which must aid in overcoming the resistance of its tissue to force applied from without. On examination of a vertical, antero- posterior section of a well-developed calcaneum, it will be seen that the arrangement of the cancellous structure is principally in radiating lines from the upper articular surfaces; and that although this is admirably adapted to meet the stress ordinarily sustained, it makes the bone, crushing being once begun, very liable to be rent apart. The accident which has most frequently given rise to this injury is a fall from a height, the patient alighting on the heel. Lawrence2 saw a case in which the patient had jumped from a stage-coach, and fractured the posterior part of the bone; the fragment was drawn upward by the muscles of the calf, but, upon pulling it into place, crepitus could be readily elicited. The case did well, although the patient halted somewhat in walking. Costance3 met with a case in which a woman, aged fifty, had her heel crushed under an overturned coach, and the fractured portion of the calca- 1 Lancet, June 2, 1883. 2 Lancet, May 29, 1830. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Nov. 1829 ; from Midland Med. and Surg. Reporter, May, 1829.