REPAIR OP FRACTURES. 39 and that all have really had right upon their side, inasmuch as new bone in fact builds itself up out of the most different materials. Unquestionably, when the case runs a very favorable course, that path is chosen in which the new formation can be most con- veniently effected, and it is by far the most convenient way when the periosteum pro- duces a very large portion of the whole. This takes place in the following manner: the periosteum grows dense toward the edges of the fracture, and there gradually swells up, the swelling being of such a nature that separate layers or strata can afterward be pretty clearly distinguished in it. These continually become thicker and more numer- ous, in consequence of the constant proliferation of the innermost parts of the perios- teum, and of the formation, by means of a multiplication of their cellular elements, of new layers, which accumulate between the bone and the relatively still normal parts of the periosteum. These layers may become cartilage, but it is not necessary, nor yet the rule. For we find that, in the greater number of favorable cases of fracture, where cartilage is produced, not the whole mass of the periosteal callus is produced from car- tilage, but a greater or less portion of it is always formed out of connective tissue. The layers of cartilage generally lie next to the bone, whilst the further we proceed outward, the less does the formation out of cartilage, and the more a direct transformation of connective tissue, prevail. “ The formation of bone is, however, by no means restricted to the limits of the perios- teum—very commonly it extends beyond them in an outward direction, and often penetrates, in the form of spicula, nodules, and protuberances, to a very considerable depth into the neighboring soft parts. It is self-evident that in these cases we have by no means to deal with any proliferation of the periosteum in an outward direction, but that an ossifiable tissue arises out of the interstitial connective tissue of the neighboring parts. Of this it is very easy to convince one’s self, because osseous spicula are found shooting up in the interstitial tissues of the neighboring muscles. In the preparation from the fractured ribs [previously shown], places are still to be found in the external parts, where fat has been included in the ossification. It cannot be said, therefore, that the formation of callus around fractured parts is altogether a periosteal formation.” Virchow then goes on to speak of a different mode of development of callus, “ that, namely, which takes place in the midst of the bone from the medullary tissue.” “ At the moment when the bone in a case of fracture is shivered, a number of little medullary spaces are naturally opened. In the neighborhood of these, the still closed medullary spaces are seen nearly invariably, when matters take a regular course, to become filled with callus, new lamellte of bone attaching themselves to the internal surface of the osseous trabeculae which bound the spaces, just as in the ordinary growth of bone in thickness, the originally pumice-stone-like layers become compact by the deposition of concentric lamellae. In this manner it happens, that after some time a larger or smaller new layer of bone is found, filling up the end of the medullary canal of each fragment so as to occasion its occlusion. This is a kind of new formation which has nothing in common with the former one, as far as their starting-points are con- cerned, but has its origin in quite another tissue, and is altogether different in its pal- pable result, inasmuch as it produces, within the confines of the old bone, a condensation of that portion of the marrow which lies in the immediate vicinity of the fracture. Even in cases where the ends of the bones perfectly coincide, an internal formation of bone such as I have described takes place in the medullary canal of each fragment, producing its occlusion. “ These two kinds are the usual and normal ones. Around the two fractured ends, the swelling takes place ; in the interior, the condensation. Gradually—in proportion as the extravasated blood is absorbed—the new masses of tissue which have been de- veloped between the broken ends draw nearer to one another, and round about the fracture there forms a bridge- or capsule-like communication by means of the ossifica- tion of the soft parts. There is, therefore, but little reason to ask whether the callus proceeds from free exuded or extravasated matter. No doubt an extravasation takes place in the first instance into the space between the fractured ends, but the extrava- sated blood is generally pretty completely reabsorbed, and it contributes comparatively but very little to the real formation of the subsequent uniting media.”