433 TUMORS OF JOINTS. Those enchondromata which spring from the pelvis and scapula are, above all others, prone to recurrence and general dissemination. Osteoid chondromata} are formed of tissue analogous to fibro-cartilage, not, as those just mentioned, of a hyaline variety. They have a special predilection for the ends of long bones, chiefly for the lower end of the femur or upper end of the tibia. From their seat of origin they encroach more and more on the shaft of the bone, while the older parts, growing likewise in circumference, are larger than the newer portions; they occupy not one side only, but the whole circumference of the bone. Thus, instead of forming, like simple enchondroma, a more or less round, nodulated lump, projecting on one aspect of the bone, they seem like a conical enlargement of the whole part, the thick end of the cone being always towards the joint, whose cartilage, how- ever, remains intact; they are less hard than enchondromata, and are smooth on the surface. At first, and while still small, they appear like mere hypertrophies of the bone itself; but they grow rather rapidly, and then become less hard than bone-substance, being at first within the periosteum, which forms their cap- sule or wall. Afterwards, that tissue is either absorbed and ruptured, after which the rate of growth increases, and the tumor, if left alone, goes on increasing as long as the patient lives, sometimes attaining an enormous size.2 Very occasionally the tumor remains sufficiently soft to be cut with the knife, but it more usually ossifies pretty quickly. Sections of the softer parts have a fibrous appearance, but cartilage-cells, sometimes arranged in rows, may be detected with the microscope. Vessels permeate the structure, and the ossification is in needles and plates, so that, when the soft parts are removed by maceration, the bony parts left behind are somewhat similar to the archi- tecture of a wasp’s nest. The shell and tracing of the original bone may, as a rule, be found passing through the mass. Thq prognosis of chondroma is not always favorable. The only treatment, am- putation, should be performed above the bone from which the growth springs, and so that no part near the tumor forms the flap. Thus, exarticulation at the hip is necessary if the growth spring from the lower end of the femur; or in the lower third of the thigh if it arise from the tibia. Even under these circumstances, secondary growths sometimes occur in the lungs or liver. Sarcoma and Carcinoma.—Sarcoma of bone has its favorite seat on the jaw. One form of epulis is well known as a giant-celled, or, as it is sometimes called, a myeloid sarcoma, a term which must not be taken as coincident with Paget’s myeloid tumor.3 It had better be confessed at once that our knowledge of many sarcomatous tumors is as yet in a very unsatisfactory state, especially in regard to the malignancy or benignancy of different forms of growth. Nor does it at present appear that their anatomical characteristics correspond in any close manner with their clinical course. Indeed, one of the chief authorities on the histology of tumors reverts to naked-eye appearances:— “We must mention one more peculiarity of sarcomata, namely, that they are some- times so white, and at the same time so soft, as to have the greatest resemblance to brain-substance. These medullary (encephalon!) sarcomata possess the malignant qualities of sarcomata in the very highest degree; they may still have any of the histo- logical structures previously referred to.”4 1 Virchow, Die krankhafte Gleschwulste, Bd. i. S. 597. 8 Volkmann refers to a preparation in the museum at Halle, in which the tumor was almost a yanl in diameter (fast eine Elle im Durchmesser). Pitha u. Billroth, Chirurgie, Bd. ii. Abth. 11, 3 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, p. 544. 4 Billroth, Lectures on Surgery, Sydenham Society’s Translation, vol. ii. p. 415. VOL. IV.—28