521 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. which excision would be likely to prove successful, the prudent surgeon will usually decline an operation, and content himself with straightening the limb either by gradual or immediate extension, then placing it at rest in a suitable splint, and simply aiding nature to complete the cure by anchylo- sis. But in the intermediate cases (and, as already remarked, these consti- tute a large proportion of those which come under the care of the hospital surgeon), when the disease has already lasted many months or even several years, and when from careful examination of the joint the surgeon is satisfied that its functions are permanently abolished, an operation may often be pro- perly recommended as a means both of preventing suffering and of restoring the patient to active life more promptly than can be done by any other mode of treatment. Even more worthy of consideration than the duration of the disease, is the stage to which it has advanced; and it is here to be remembered that the course of these joint-affections varies much in different cases. No operation is, as a rule, justifiable as long as the disease is limited to the synovial mem- brane, no matter how long the patient may have been affected ; no prudent surgeon would recommend either excision or amputation in a case of mere hydrarthrosis. Nor even in a case in which all the tissues of the joint are evidently implicated should an operation be hastily recommended, as long as the integrity of the parts is maintained, and a hope remains that by subdu- ing the inflammation the usefulness of the articulation may be preserved. But when the relaxed condition of the joint, and the occurrence of consecu- tive dislocation, show that the crucial ligaments and semilunar cartilages have disappeared ; when the limb is contracted and helpless, and the patient gives a history of repeated relapses from comparatively slight injuries ; or, on the other hand, when the doughy, semi-elastic character of the swelling- shows the existence of gelatinous arthritis (the typical “ white swelling” of the older writers), an operation may be properly resorted to even though the limb be at the time in a quiet condition. When in addition the joint is in a state of suppuration, and still more if there be caries of the articular surfaces, an operation may be considered (other things being favorable) as almost im- perative. In saying this I am not ignoring the fact that Mr. Ha ward and other British surgeons have applied mineral acids, and Mr. Fitzpatrick, of Dublin, the potassa cum calce, to the interior of diseased knee-joints, and have recom- mended these modes of treatment as substitutes for excision, as has Mr. Wright the laying open of the joint and scraping away the diseased struc- tures. But the results of these methods have not been uniformly favorable, and excision has been found so satisfactory in my own hands that I have not felt tempted to abandon a tried and proved operation, for a procedure which at least has not as yet been shown to be an improvement. It may be observed that in cases of gelatinous arthritis, an operation may be properly recommended at a comparatively early period; the reason for this is that in the gelatinous form of the disease there is commonly no ten- dency to a spontaneous recovery, and though in private practice, among the more wealthy classes, such a case may occasionally be brought to a favorable termination, in the class of patients met with in hospitals, a recovery with- out operation may practically be considered as out of the question. The answer to the second question has of necessity been to a great degree anticipated in considering the first. The choice between excision and ampu- tation must largely depend on the surgeon’s belief as to the relative gravity of the two operations, and upon this point I have no hesitation in saying that I regard excision as a much more serious operation than the other. This is not a question to be decided by statistics (though I believe that if the com-