578 TUMORS. produced by this condition has been termed Leontiasis.1 The lamellar arrange- ment of the ivory exostoses has already been alluded to. Occasionally, between the lamellae, a thin layer of cancellous tissue is interposed. The minute characters of the cancellous tumors resemble those of normal cancellous bone, but the tissue is not as perfect, nor as delicately formed. The lacunae are less regularly disposed, and the canaliculi are not as numerous or as long as in the normal bone. The same thing may be said of the lacunae and canaliculi of the compact bone-tumors. In these growths Haversian canals are present, but there is not the same evident arrangement of Haversian systems as in the normal bone. The ivory exostoses I have never examined; they are said to contain no bloodvessels. Metamorphoses and Combinations.—Osseous tumors are scarcely subject to transformation of their structure. Decalcification, though not impossible, seems practically seldom or never to occur. But combinations of bone with other tissues are observed, although not frequently. The large medullary spaces of some of the wide-meshed cancellous tumors are filled with embry- onic or coarse fibrous tissue. Some of them are unquestionably ossifying sarcomas and ossifying fibromas. The embryonic tissue which is found in many of them does not differ in any respect, except in quantity, from the cell-tissue which naturally exists in the medullary spaces of bone under various conditions. Such tumors may therefore fairly be regarded as true osteomas, which contain a much larger quantity of marrow than is usual. Over osseous tumors which are subjected to friction, adventitious bursae sometimes form, and these, like bursae in other situations, may inflame and ulcerate. Other- wise, osseous tumors rarely cause inflammation or ulceration of the tissues covering them. But an osseous tumor or outgrowth will sometimes become carious or necrosed, and, being cast out, a spontaneous cure may result. This fortunate occurrence appears to be more common as a termination of large bony tumors of the bones of the head and face, than of those of other parts. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The symptoms of an osseous tumor, like those of a chondroma, are usually very decided. The situation, fixity, and extreme hardness of the tumor, and its slow and painless growth are, in most instances, unmistakable characters of osteoma. Occurrence during youth is also a clin- ical character of importance. And even the shape of the tumor, although subject to great variation, is often characteristic; for pedicled growths and hooklike projections are not forms assumed by other tumors growing from bones. Multiplicity of exostoses is by no means unusual. A large num- ber of bony tumors may grow from the ribs, femur, tibia, fibula, humerus, radius, ulna, clavicle, scapula, and lower jaw. These multiple tumors affect similar situations on each bone to those affected by the single growths. Several of them may be found towards the extremity of each long bone. They are for the most part symmetrical, occur in children, and not rarely in the children of parents who exhibit a similar condition of the bones. These multiple tumors seldom attain a large size, but one or two of them may grow out of all proportion to the rest, or may continue to increase in size after the others have reached what appears to be the limit of their growth. The diagnosis of an osseous tumor is generally easy. The characters by which it may be distinguished from a chondroma were considered in the preceding section, and there is no other innocent tumor growing from bone or cartilage for which it is liable to be mistaken. It is, in some instances, however, difficult to decide between an osteoma and aii ossifying sarcoma. 1 Virchow, Krankliaften Geschwiilste, Bd. ii. S. 23.