348 DISEASES OF TIIE JOINTS. not die. On the contrary, it not only continues to live, but may again become attached to the shaft, though in an abnormal, and perhaps very deforming position. Such was the case with the patient from whom the preparation here depicted was taken. With great difficulty I steered her through all the dangers of acute os- teo-myelitis; but she could and would bear no appliance to the limb. The epiphyses were completely separ- ated, and when she had sufficiently recovered I advised amputation. This was refused for a long time; when accepted, the epiphyses were reunited, but in very bad position. The shaft of the femur was extensively diseased, and suppuration was wearing out the patient’s small amount of strength. This disease has certain relation- ships with erysipelatous phlebitis, and particularly must it be pointed out that the malady is sometimes multiple; indeed, an instance is mentioned1 in which every important epiphysis of the body was separated. In this, as in certain other cases of multiple dis- ease, the primary attack preceded, by a considerable interval, the others, which appear to have been pyaemic. In some other cases the different at- tacks have been almost simultaneous (phlebitic). The general or systemic condition has been, till now, left un- mentioned, that the local pathology might be more succinctly given; but before passing on to consider the articular phenomena, it must be noted that the sharp pains and the rigors which usher in the attack, are succeeded by strongly marked pyrexia, the temperature reaching 104° or 105° F. or occasionally even more. Very soon the fever assumes a typhoid character, increasing and deepening if the disease is to end fatally. It is singular that the joint-affections contemporaneous with and in close proximity to such tumultuous disease, should often be of a very mild nature. Herein we must make a distinction—quite overlooked by Chassaignac2, by Klose, and by Paul—that in many cases, especially in those which have been caused by injury or by some definite exposure, an articular affection may pre- cede, or at least be cotemporary with the bone disease, and yet be in no way dependent upon it. Such simultaneous disease may even improve and almost disappear, while the osteitis is in progress and approaching its culmination. Moreover, these same writers insist too strongly on the constant severity of the secondary, the dependent joint-disease, which may be, it is true, a severe suppurative synovitis, with or without pysemic affection of distant joints, but is more commonly a simple sero-synovitis, due to extension of in- Fig. 648. Acute osteitis ; separation of epiphyses. 1 Demme, Wiener Medizinal-Halle, 1864. 5 Gazette Medicale, 1854, Nos. 33, 35, 36, 37.