496 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. of twenty months’ duration, several sinuses opening on the outer, and one on the inner side of the thigh ; there was partial anchylosis, the limb being very much shortened and everted; the patient had been unable to walk from the beginning of his malady, and yet was in fairly good general health. On September 23, I operated by Heyfelder’s method, finding the head of the bone spontaneously separated, and a considerable for- mation of new bone from the periosteum around the neck. The femoral medulla was very soft and diffluent, but red—not purulent. The bone-section was made below the trochanters, the periosteum being preserved, and then the edge of the acetabulum, which was carious, was freely gouged and scraped. No ligatures were required, but there was rather free capillary oozing, which continued in slight amount through the next day. There was a moderate degree of traumatic fever, the thermometer on the evening of the second day marking 102° Fahr. The wound united solidly by adhesion almost throughout its entire length, and convalescence proceeded rapidly. In three weeks, the patient could draw up his limb by his own efforts, and in two months from the day of operation began to walk with crutches. On February 1, 1876, I find a note that he could walk with one cane, and on March 1, that he could walk a little without a cane, wearing a high-soled shoe. In June he was sent to the Children’s Sea-shore House, at Atlantic City, whence he returned in August, walking readily without any assistance, and with the wound and all sinuses healed except at one point. The photograph from which Fig. 722 is copied, was taken September 13, 1876, ten days less than a year from the date of excision. In the following case, as in that of T. M., the patient may he said to have recovered from the operation, only to die some months later from visceral disease:— Excision for Ifip-Disease of long standing ; Recovery from Operation; Subsequent Death from Visceral Complications R. S., a young Irishman, twenty years of age, a cabinet-maker by trade, was admitted to the Episcopal Hospital on January 3, 1876, suffering from hip-disease of between four and five years’ duration. For two years he had been incapacitated from work, but fibrous anchylosis in a good position was occurring, when an over-zealous surgeon in another hospital thought to restore mo- tion to the part by breaking up the existing adhesions. This attempt was productive of no benefit whatever, but on the con- trary, resulted in the formation of a large abscess, which opened spontaneously a few days after the patient came under my care. For several weeks, under careful treatment, there seemed to be some improvement, but this did not con- tinue, and the patient then failed so rapidly that by the middle of March it was evident that unless the disease could be arrested by an operation, the case would ere long ter- minate fatally. On March 15, therefore, I excised the hip in the usual way, and the patient again began to improve. In May, I find a note that the wound was cicatrizing, and the discharge steadily lessening; in June, the patient sat up, and in July, began to walk with crutches; but it was now observed that his legs were becoming cedema- tous, and that his urine contained albumen. He went home, by his own request, shortly after this time, and I believe died some months subsequently, doubtless from amyloid disease of the liver and kidneys. In the following case, both the age and constitutional condition of the patient, and the long duration of the disease, rendered the prognosis more than ordinarily grave, and yet the operation succeeded in giving the patient an excellent limb, and several years of useful activity :— Excision of the Hip-Joint for Hip-Disease of eight years' duration; Recovery with useful Limb.—D., twenty-one years of age, applied to me at the University Hospital, in December, 1878, suffering from hip-disease of the right side, of eight years’ standing. He walked with difficulty, with crutches, and was weakened by the continual discharge Fig. 722. excision.